MIND AND BODY

Vol. 36	February, 1930	No.	384

PUBLISHED BY lOND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pint, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the poetoffice at New Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

»  - ■	—— -------- -------

Qriginal articles and reprint§

—	—	- — -	I

WHAT INDIVIDUALS INTERESTED IN PHYSICAL GUIDANCE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THE HEART

Joseph B. Wolffe, M. D., Temple University

There are a few things that every intelligent person should know about the heart. This is particularly true of the individual engaged in physical guidance, since our public schools, hospitals, and social agencies are great factors in the field of preventive medicine. In this article an attempt is made to present in simple language a brief yet comprehensive discussion of preventable heart conditions which are met with in early life.

Why Do We Speak So Much Of Heart Disease?

Because it claims, at present, the greatest number of invalids and deaths.

What Should One Know About The Heart?

(1) That it is one of the sturdiest organs of the body. It works constantly, day in and day out, year in and year out, whether we wake or sleep. (2) That heart disease does not de-

Digitized by Google
330

velop over night nor come like a bolt from a clear sky. Nature gives plenty of warning and in most instances the type of warning that can easily be recognized. (3) That there are two types of heart affections from which an individual may suffer. One is a functional derangement of the heart, such as beating too fast, too slow, or irregularly, but not due to some actual damage of the heart structure. The other is a structural damage of some part of the heart and is spoken of as organic heart disease.

When Should Heart Disease Be Suspected?

When a child complains of aches and pains in the joints, a thorough physical examination is warranted. If there is pain over the heart during exercise or rest; if one becomes unduly short of breath upon effort; if one notices a marked swelling of the thyroid gland (the gland in the front portion of the neck); if one coughs following exertion, or if he is unduly fatigued upon moderate exercise or turns blue at any time; if a child appears nervous and has twitchings or purposeless movements;—warning should be taken and a physical examination advised.

What Are The Causes Of Heart Disease?

The etiology, or causes of heart disease, may be divided into the following ten groups:

(1)	Unknown. There are numerous individuals who show definite evidence of heart disease, the cause of which cannot be ascertained. The further we advance in the study of the heart, the fewer cases we shall have to classify in this group.

(2)	Rheumatic Infection. This is a disease caused by a specific micro-organism, generally accepted as being a streptococcus, with definite cultural characteristics. There are numerous different manifestations of this infection, depending upon the particular part of the body most affected. Just as an infection may occur in the eye, finger, appendix, etc., so do these germs affect certain tissues. In some cases the micro-organisms will lodge in the joints and produce a condition spoken of as

(a)	Polyarthritis or Rheumatic Fever. In a great many children rheumatic infection, or its toxin, will affect, the nervous system, resulting in twitchings and purposeless movements. This is generally known as

(b)	St. Vitus Dance or Chorea. A large percentage of children suffering from rheumatic infection only complain of mild aches and pains in the arms, legs, or feet which is frequently overlooked and even when noticed is dismissed by optimistic mothers as

(c)	Growing Pains. A point to bear in mind is that mild symptoms may indicate more serious trouble than is sometimes

{>resent when the disease shows itself in sudden and more acute orm.

(d) Tonsilitis and (e) Pharyngitis. There are still other forms of rheumatic infection. The same germ may cause an infection of the tonsils, while in other cases it results in a sore

Digitized by LjOOQle
331

throat due to an inflammation of the pharynx. We should therefore realize that a patient may suffer from sore throat of rheumatic origin, even after the tonsils have been successfully removed.

(f) Rheumatic Skin Disease (	nodosum) And

(g) Rheumatic Lung Infections. These are also occasionally seen. Many cases remain unrecognized because the organisms affect the heart without producing any marked discomfort. Rheumatic infection is notorious as a forerunner of heart disease no matter what form it primarily assumes. Whether it is ushered in as rheumatic fever, tonsilitis, growing pains, St. Vitus Dance, or skin disease, it leads to cardiac damage in most instances.

It is very important to keep in mind the fact that as long as the infection is active, that is, as long as the germs or toxins exert their deleterious effect upon the heart, it is impossible to foretell with" certainty how far-reaching the disease will be and how much damage it will cause.

A physician took his seven year old child to one of his colleagues for examination, after the child had made a so-called uneventful recovery from scarlet fever. The father told his colleague that the child appeared pale, dark under the eyes, irritable, and extremely finicky about his food. Upon superficial examination his father heard a faint murmur (noise) while listening to the heart. His colleague assured him that it was of no importance, since the child was quite playful and anxious to attend school.

The youngster was fed on tonics for quite some time and two years later was examined by the same physician. This time a loud noisy murmur replaced the faint one which had been heard only two years before. The heart was quite enlarged. In horror the physician admitted his mistake and only then realized that he did not pay any attention to a low grade infection, apparently insignificant, which threatened the child’s life and left the heart in a crippled state.

(3)	Syphilis. Syphilis is a frequent cause of heart disease. The spirocheta pallida, which is the germ of syphilis, will frequently affect the cardio-vascular system, particularly the aorta. Such heart affections are rarely seen before the age of thirty.

(4)	Bacterial Infections. Bacteria other than the rheumatic streptococcus may cause a great many heart lesions. Particularly is this true of organisms known as streptococcus viridans, influenza bacillus, pneumococci, etc.

(5)	Hypo- Or Hyperthyroidism. The thyroid gland is one of the most important in the entire system of endocrine glands (glands of internal secretion). Either the over-activity or under-activity of this gland will occasionally bring about definite cardiac changes.

(6)	Toxic. This etiologic diagnosis includes those cases with abnormal cardiac function or structural cardiac diseases

Digitized by
332

which are due to toxins, or poisons such as diphtheria toxin, or mineral poisoning, as phosphorous, or vegetable toxins, as in mushroom poisoning.

Before mentioning five more causes of heart disease, I should like to point out an essential fact concerning individuals whose heart condition is caused by the above mentioned etiologic factors, namely rheumatic infection, bacterial infection, syphilis, hypo- or hyperthyroidism and toxemia. Before a clear evaluation of an individual heart condition can be made, this question must always be answered: "Is the etiologic factor still exercising its damaging influence or is the individual only suffering from the after effects of an infection or poison? Would a person be as alarmed were he told that his home has been on fire and a certain amount of damage caused, as compared to his anxiety were he told that the fire was still going on, no matter how small?

In order to convey the true status of an individual in cases of heart disease caused by an over active thyroid gland, rheumatic infection, or any one of the causes mentioned above, it is extremely important to know, whenever possible, whether the offending factor— (as the over-active thyroid gland, syphilitic germ, or rheumatic germ)—is still active, or has been removed. For instance, the over-activity of the thyroid gland might have been cured by means of medication, x-ray, or surgery; the syphilitic germ might have been destroyed by means of specific medication. In such cases we may speak of the etiologic process as arrested. In other words, the fire is put out, and we have to contend only with a certain amount of cardiac damage. To return to our analogy, we must either replace or learn to do without the damaged articles after the fire is over.

(.7) Neurosis or nervous heart. A large group of individuals show no evidence of structural heart disease but at the same time are worried about their hearts, because of breathlessness and undue fatigue upon exertion, heart consciousness or palpitaton, or fainting spells. Some complain of cold hands and feet (literally speaking) and attacks of tachycardia (rapid heart beating). The physician upon examination finds the heart to be normal in size, shape, and position. An accidental murmur may be found which is not due to organic heart disease. Usually such patients present quite a few signs of constitutional neuropathic stigma,— (signs of a subnormal nervous system).

(8)	General Systemic Disease. This group includes diseases such as arterio-sclerosis, hypertension (high blood pressure), diabetes, long standing anemias (lack of blood), etcetera.

(9)	Trauma. This is a heart injury due to blows or severe crushing. Some believe that traumatic heart disease may occur as a result of a great strain. So far, however, I may say that I have not seen a healthy heart harmed by excessive strain. The
333

shortness of breath and exhaustion which occurs due to over-exertion seems to be nature’s way of protecting the individual against real damage.

(10) Congenital Defects. Some individuals are bom with certain heart defects. These may be very mild and innocent lesions. Individuals either outgrow them, that is, nature corrects the abnormalities in time, or they go through life with the defects —some dying after three score and ten from some other disease.

In a good many individuals of this group, cyanosis or blueness appears on the least provocation. People frequently refer to these individuals as having been blue babies, because they were bom cyanosed or blue.

It is extremely important to have a working knowledge of the structural defects which so often remain as after effects following either an infection or toxic disease. A majority of individuals survive these infections; but unfortunately frequently retain a slight defect. It is, therefore, important to know how to manage such cases.

How do some of these infections come about? They come about by permitting diseased teeth or tonsils to remain unattended, neglecting nasal colds, exposure to wet and cold, overstrain—both mental and physical,—incomplete convalescence after illness.

What Part of the Heart May be Affected?

Any part of the heart may suffer, but the pericardium (cover of the heart) is frequently damaged by rheumatic infection and in a good many cases adhesions or bands between the outer and inner layer of the pericardium (the epicardium and pericardium) or between the pericardium and surrounding structure may remain.

The heart muscle is very frequently affected and with it often the endocardium (lining of the heart). In these cases the valves of the heart may become distorted due to scarring.

The normal function of the heart is impaired in each instance in proportion to the extent and type of distortion. In some instances the aortic mitral, tricuspid or pulmonic valves are so damaged that they cannot close properly, and this condition is referred to as insufficiency of either the aortic or whatever valve may be involved.

This is one of the most common after-effects of rheumatic infection, some types of which are falsely called “leaking hearts”. This term is extremely misleading and has caused much undue worry. Many a person casts an awesome, frightened look upon a child who is diagnosed as having a so-called “leaking heart”. No person could live more than a few minutes were his heart really to leak. According to the term, one would think there was an actual hole or crack in the heart through which the blood escapes. In reality the condition referred to as a leaking heart is nothing
334

Figure I

MITRAL REGURGITATION

Diagramatic representation, showing the ventricles in systole (state of contraction), with the mitral valve insufficiently closed and a slight amount of blood from the left ventricle flowing back into the left auricle.

(Note that the tricuspid valve is completely closed while the mitral valve is insufficiently closed.)

Figure III

MITRAL STENOSIS

Diagramatic representation, showing the narrowing of the mitral orifice due to scarring of the mitral valve. The blood from the left auricle has difficulty in entering the left ventricle.

(Note difference between the tricuspid and mitral valves; the former is open, while the latter opens only slightly.

Figure II AORTIC REGURGITATION

Diagramatic representation, showing the ventricles in diastole (state of relaxation), with the aortic valve insufficiently closed, permitting a back-flow of blood from the aorta into the left ventricle.



Figure IV AORTIC STENOSIS

Diagramatic representation, showing the narrowing of the aortic orifice, due to scarring of the aortic cusps. The blood from the left ventricle has difficulty in entering the aorta and thence to the general circulation. (Note difference between the opening of the pulmonary and aortic valves.)

Digitized by Google
335

more or less than a regurgitation or slight flowing back of some blood from one chamber of the heart to the other. We would not think that a cow's stomach was leaking just because the cud was returned from the stomach to the mouth. No blood ever escapes, in such cases, from the closed system of channels made up by the heart and blood vessels. (See figure 1, showing a diagramatic representation of the ventricles in systole (ie. in a state of contraction) with the mitral valve insufficiently closed and a slight amount of blood from the left ventricle going back into the left auricle.)

Similar difficulty exists in aortic regurgitation. (See figure II, showing a diagramatical representation of the ventricles in diastole ( i. e., ventricles in a state of relaxation) with aortic valve insufficiently closed permitting a backflow of blood from the aorta into the left ventricle.)

In a great many cases the scar tissue contracts and narrows the valvular orifice, thereby hindering the normal flow of blood. For instance, in cases of narrowing of the mitral valve spoken of as mitral stenosis, the blood has difficulty in flowing from the left auricle to the ventricle. (See figure III., showing narrowing of mitral orifice due to scarring of mitral valve. The blood from the left auricle has difficulty in entering the left ventricle.)

Similar difficulty occurs in aortic stenosis. (See figure IV, showing narrowing of the aortic orifice, due to scarring of the aortic cusps. The blood from the left ventricle has difficulty in entering the aorta and thence to the general circulation. Note the difference between the opening of the pulmonary and aortic valves.) One can easily imagine how much more the muscle of an affected chamber would have to work in order to overcome an obstacle dav in and day out, with each heart beat, in its effort to propel the blood to give the body as adequate a blood supply as possible.

In all instances, therefore, stenosis of a valve is much more serious than the regurgitation and needs more thorough supervision.

In every instance, the heart accomodates itself to the abnormality. The heart muscle hypertrophies (enlarges) and keeps up the good work. Consequently a heart that is doing adequate work in spite of a defect is spoken of as a compensating heart. Of course, should the individual abuse himself, that is, waste the energy of his heart and forget that his pump at best is trying to overcome a handicap, the heart will hypertrophy (the muscle become thicker) until it reaches its limit, and then will commence to fail. The heart will stretch and, of course, the circulation will then become impaired and the individual’s capacity for effort will be cut down.

This, therefore, calls for a classification of cases according to their functional capacity for work. The one which I will give here has been adopted by the American Heart Association and is used by all leading heart clinics.

Digitized by v^ooQle
336

CLASS I. Patients with organic heart disease who are able to carry on ordinary physical activity without discomfort.

As a matter of fact if it were not for the school physician or family physician they would not know that there is anything wrong with them. Such individuals should be encouraged to do the normal amount of physical work, according to age and physical development. It is nevertheless advisable not to allow them to take part in strenuous competitive athletics, such as school or professional teams.

CLASS II. Patients with organic heart disease who are unable to carry on ordinary physical activity without discomfort.

(a)	Activity slightly limited. When a child complains of shortness of breath or palpitation upon climbing a few flights of stairs, or develops undue fatigue. These children should be allowed mild calisthenics,—to walk to and from school, to take part in mild games, short periods of social dancing and climb about two flights of stairs between school sessions. They should be encouraged to rest for one or two hours in the afternoon.

(b)	Individuals whose physical capacity is still more diminished. Members of this unfortunate group become short of breath even when walking a block or two on level ground. Attending school in itself is quite sufficient for this group, without any additional physical strain. The segregation of such children in special classes is very advisable. It is most urgent that their daily routine be interrupted by a two hour rest period.

CLASS III. Patients who have organic heart disease and heart failure even at rest.

These are unable to carry on any physical activity without developing fatigue, palpitation, shortness of breath, etc. Of course, these cases are confined to bed.

CLASS IV. Possible heart disease. Patients are so classified who either show signs or complain of abnormal sensation referrable to the heart, but in whom the diagnosis of heart disease is uncertain. They can do their general routine work, but must be kept under observation.

CLASS V. Potential Heart Disease. Patients who suffer from or have apparently recovered from one of the diseases known to be fore-runners of heart disease. These can be allowed the same amount of activity as Class II a.

It is very important that all cardiacs be re-examined every six months in order to reclassify them as warranted.

Why should they be re-examined? They should be reexamined because the heart, being a rather silent organ, may undergo changes in the course of six months or a year without the individual being at all conscious of it. As we explained before, the heart muscle will hypertrophy (thicken or enlarge) in order to
337

Figure 5

X-ray plate showing an average size heart of a girl 16 years old.

Figure 6

X-ray plate showing an enlarged heart.

Figure 7

X-ray plate showing a greatly enlarged heart.

Digitized by v^ooQle
338

compensate for an existing defect. This process occurs so slowly that the individual is not aware of it and in spite of carrying on such activities that actually strain the heart, he continues feeling perfectly well and considers himself in perfect health. Figure V is an x-ray plate showing an average size heart of a girl sixteen years old. Figures VI and VII illustrate to what extent the heart may enlarge.

A child who has recovered from scarlet fever or diphtheria and has been fortunate to escape without apparent heart damage, should be looked upon as a potential heart case and watched carefully by a physician for at least three or six months in order to recognize heart disease in its incipiency and properly treat conditions as they arise.

Is there such a thing as sudden death due to heart disease in a child? In the accepted use of the word ‘sudden’ we can definitely say “no”. If a child is well enough to attend school there is slim chance of his being suddenly stricken. The exceptions are so extremely rare that one can say that no child ever died of heart disease suddenly who had not been suffering for some time. As far as the heart is concerned, nature gives plenty of warning.

How can heart disease be prevented?

1.	By preventing communicable diseases as much as possible.

2.	By subjecting members of such families who give a history of heart disease, rheumatic fever, St. Vitus Dance, syphilis, etc., to periodic physical examinations.

3.	By educating the public to the necessity of periodic health examinations.

4.	By early recognition of heart disease.

We have more and more young adults to-day who owe their lives to a conscientious school physician, nurse, or teacher because they were the ones who have urged timely medical attention.

. If there are any children suffering from heart disease who are attending school, they should be handled a great deal more carefully and more individual attention should be paid them than the normally healthy pupil. Suitable games should be planned for them and their interests should be aroused in sedentary pastimes such as painting, building, crocheting, and the like. Close contact should be maintained with the parent and physician or clinic concerning the physical condition of the child in question.

While careful exercise is of great value, violent sports on the other hand, should be decidedly condemned for a child who is below par.

The person in charge of physical guidance is the one to wisely combine study with periods of rest. All the knowledge in the world, without good health to enjoy it, would be of no use to a

Digitized by CjOOQle
339

child. A child with heart disease should be allowed to lag behind a little. He should not be urged to go to summer school, but should take a proper vacation, carefully guided in his play and restrained in any tendency to over-activity.

I	think I shall never forget a little incident that occurred in one of our convalescent homes. Concerning a mother to whom I was explaining the various means by which she should guard her child’s heart, I was particularly impressed with her lack of concern and concluded that this was one of her off hours until she awoke with a start because she suddenly noticed a runner in her stocking, and immediately attended to it (most probably in vain). This mother understood the consequences of a runner, but she couldn’t be impressed with the importance of attending early to a heart condition.

We are particularly anxious for persons interested in physical guidance to Know more about heart disease because of the frequency with which they come in contact with children and parents. Too many times do we hear people exclaim "Oh, if I had known!” It is only with proper team work that we can aid in greatly diminishing and probably some day wiping out heart disease.

Editor's Note: For a long time there have been requests from physical educators for an article which would aid them in understanding the many cardiac cases with which they constantly come in contact. We believe the article, written by Dr. Wolffe especially for Mind and Body, provides in simple language the information which will be most helpful. The author is well equipped to write on this subject because of long experience in cardiac clinics and convalescing sanatar-iums, as well as instructor in Cardiology in the graduate department of Teachers College, Temple University.

ANCIENT PATHWAYS TO HEALTH*

J. Arthur Buchanan, M. D., M. S., Brooklyn

Surely the first ova was penetrated by the first spermatozoon some place along the earth’s shores. The product of this union was a foetus, whose umbilical stalk was hitched to the mud. The foetus, in its foetal membranes, floated about in the slime near the shore. After a sufficient length of time the restraining membranes were broken, and the new being wallowed about in the

•The history of Health and the Art of Preserving It, by James Mackenzie, Printed and Sold by William Gordon, Bookseller in the Parliament Close, Edinburgh, 1769. This book is to be found at the Library of the Kings County Medical Society, and was formerly in the library of Asa Chamberlain, who purchased it in 1831.

Digitized by LjOOQle
340

mud; ate diatoms, algae, and minute fishes, and drank the dirty water for liquids. It was troubled by the difficulty of nourishing a hungry body. After some months of this life the new being, man, found himself able to support himself on his legs, and moved ashore. The struggle for feeding the demanding body was more difficult. Perhaps the first ones ashore died, but time brought in more. Those, who existed from babyhood to manhood, were constantly confronted with the problem of food.

James Mackenzie in 1759 occupied himself for the glory of' God and man in making excursions into the writings of all the ancient philosophers, physicians, and writers, to see how the food problem had been handled. To express my appreciation of the earnest work of Dr. Mackenzie and for the pleasure of those interested in certain phases of restoring and maintaining health, I make this review of his “History of Health and the Art of Preserving It.”

Dr. Mackenzie was a deeply religious man, and started his treatise with a praise to a God, who he thought created all the things that have given man so much trouble and thought. The first human beings on the earth’s surface, he thought, lived on the crude products of the land. It evidently was their experience, that while the crude products were good for animals, they did not agree with them, and, of course, they ate poisonous herbs, which stimulated their consciousness as to the good and bad. The first research in connection with the types of foods best suited to man began early.

The Dietetics of Moses

Moses, who lived about 2433 B. C., is the earliest known writer on food. His advice was for the Jews, and the first order of foods according to him were fruits, seeds, herbs, bread, milk, fish, flesh, wine, ale, to which were added later butter, honey, olive oil, and cheese. In the early days the mystery of food not only involved health but it was concerned with morals. It was maintained by some that the sons of violence before the deluge were given to eating rich food and taking strong drink. It would be rather difficult to determine that point. One gathers from the writings of Moses that only vegetable food was eaten before the flood. All the earlier authors agree that primitive man did not eat meat. Animal flesh was first recommended by Moses.

Among the earliest improvements of the dietary wine received high encomium by Moses. He called attention to its overuse, as well as overeating, as did Solomon. Homer also declared against drinking wine to excess.

Diet of the Early Greeks

In the Homeric period the diet of the Greeks consisted of roasted meat, especially beef, milk, cheese, honey, wine, and bread from wheat flour. The Greeks seem to have been among the very first to start to till the land in order to cultivate food
341

for human consumption. Hesiod ascribes these inventions to Ceres, who invented the plough, the grinding of com, and making of bread. She and Jupiter were to be prayed to before entering upon the season of tilling. It seems that the management and use of flocks and herds was first instituted in Greece at about the same time as tilling of the soil.

Classification of Health Factors

The early writers grouped the subjects under a series of headings, which Galen later called the “Non-Naturals.” The study consisted of aliment, air, exercise and rest, sleep and wakefulness; repletion and evacuation; and passions and affections of the mind. Of the six headings, aliment is the only one mentioned prior to Pythagoras, who flourished about 530 before Christ. Pythagoras joined exercise with aliment to preserve health. There is some doubt on this subject, as perhaps these suggestions were made by Herodicus. Herodicus was a preceptor of Hippocrates, and was a leader in temperance, and taught the elderly to be very careful in their exercise and diet. Plato thought that this was quite unessential, and that the aged and infirm should be hurried out of the world.

The Health Hints of Hippocrates

Medical thought was first correlated by Hippocrates, but as he flourished within 430 years of the Christian era, there is every reason to believe that much had been accomplished in the study of diet long before his time. Indeed, he states that the medical art was highly cultivated at the time of his entrance into the field.

Hippocrates affirms that in the beginning man made use of the same food with the beasts; and that it brought upon him by its indigestibility many distempers, which stimulated him, in length of time, to find a different diet, better adapted to his constitution. Mackenzie-opines that, “It is amazing, that the Greek and Latin writers, who admit the longevity of the primeval generations, should, at the same time, appoint no better food for them than that of the beasts, viz., the spontaneous and crude productions of the earth; which according to Hippocrates, and in deed, according to common sense, must have rather shortened, than lengthened their lives.” There is considerable propaganda in this modern age to induce people to eat a great variety of coarse foods of all types.

Hippocrates in his methods of preserving and restoring health first studied air. He took into consideration the qualities of the air, whether it was hot or cold, gross or fine, moist or dry, and how it varied with regard to these qualities, and recommended that observations be made in connection with his ideas. When changes in health occurred in connection with changes in the air, the air was to be restored to an agreeable state. He observed that north winds, although stimulating to the body, were attended with sore throats, pains in the breasts, costiveness,

Digitized by LjOOQle
342

strangury, and coughs. The south winds led to enervation. He thought that the diet should be changed with the seasons, but did not state specifically what changes should be made. He also observed tnat sudden changes in temperature from hot to cold or the reverse were attended with serious disturbances.

Hippocrates comes first among the great writers on food in relation to health. He stated that man observed that what agreed with the well did not agree with the sick, and, therefore, the search for things to agree with one, and to preserve and promote the other, was begun. He was of the opinion that the coarse aliment which man at first ate led to unpleasant reactions occurring from the indigestibility of the food. This stimulated primitive man to study the proper methods of preparing food, as making bread from grain, and cooking and dressing vegetables in a manner that would render them more wholesome. This study, he thought, was made obviously necessary by the experience of the sick, who found that they could not eat the same diet as those in full health. He felt that to understand the subject, one must know the natural qualities of every sort of food, and also what new qualities it received from art in the various ways of dressing.

He evidently was aware of food idiosyncrasies, as he advised suiting the diet to the individual. He had observed that cheese disagreed with some persons, although he did not say in what way. He felt that heavy eating should be combined with more exercise than when eating lightly. He was as averse to overeating as to starving. Starvation was a question to be decided by the sensations of the individual. He recommended three meals to some, two to others, but was quite aware of the physical sensations resulting from going too long without food. In other instances, he recommended one meal a day. If a person had gone long without food, a lighter meal than usual was given, preferably of liquid foods. The young were taught to eat more food than the aged. The most conducive foods to health in his opinion at all ages were bread, flesh, fish, and wine. They were not to be taken in excess.

As to particular foods he said coarse or brown bread kept the body open, but contained little nourishment. White pure bread, and separated from bran, nourished more, but opened less. Leavened or fermented bread was believed too light in digestion, and passed easily through the body, but unfermented bread did not go off so easily, though it nourished more, when the stomach could conquer it. He felt that bread baked today (provided it be not eaten hot from the oven) was generally preferable to that baked yesterday. He thought that old flour made bad bread, and that it was a matter of great moment to man’s health whether the common bread were white or brown, well or ill-baked.

Concerning the flesh of animals, he considered, that those in the vigor of their age were best, and that animals intended for

Digitized by LjOOQle
343

food should not be used for any hard labor, as it made the flesh tough. The flesh of granivorous birds was not so moist or oily, as that of ducks, and other fowls which frequented the water. Mutton was considered good both for the delicate and the robust; but beef and pork fit only for the robust, who used exercise. Pork was too strong for the weak and sedentary. Fish, living in stagnant waters, were stated to be hard to digest, but those living near the seashore, were easy to digest. Boiled fish was considered easier to digest than roasted.

He thought that bitter things bound and dried up the body; while acid things made people thin, and griped the stomach; salt things promoted stools and urine, and fat and sweet things bred moisture and phlegm.

Milk was believed hurtful to those who were feverish, or afflicted with a headache; to the bowels of those who were subject to flatulency or grumbling; and to those who complained of thirst. It was thought bad also for such as voided bile, or a considerable quantity of blood by stool, but good for the consumptive and emaciated, provided they had not a pretty sharp fever, or any of the above-mentioned complaints at the same time.

Onions, leeks, radishes, were considered hot and acrimonious. Mustard, and cresses were supposed to occasion dysury. Celery was dirutic. Aromatic and odorous herbs were considered heating. The colewort species was supposed to resolve the bile. Lettuce was cooling and relaxing. Cucumbers were classified as cold, crude, and hard to digest. Ripe pears were believed opening to the belly, while unripe ones bound it up. Apples, of the acid kind, were thought to be more easily digested than the sweet and luscious, while all sorts of pulse were considered windy, regardless of how they were prepared.

His ideas on honey were definite. Honey taken alone promoted urine, purged too much, and rather weakened than strengthened, but mixed with other things nourished well, and produced a good color.

He thought that pure unmixed wine, drank too freely, weakened a man, which was plain to be seen by his actions. Sweet wines hurt the head less, and promoted stools more than strong or dry wines; but that they excited flatulency in the intestines, and swelled the bowels; nor did they agree with bilious habits of the body, because they increased thirst. They were also supposed to promote expectoration more, and urine less, than dry white wines. He thought that black wine was good for loose bowels. If the wine were diluted with water it was believed to be more friendly to the head, breast and urinary passages, but wine alone, or mixed with very little water was supposed to agree best with the stomach and bowels. He thought that hunger was abated by a glass of wine.

Waters, he thought, were best from springs in high places, and rising grounds, and still better, if their aspect was towards

Digitized by v^ooQle
344

the rising sun, for such were generally limpid, light, and of good flavor. Rain water, if collected in clean vessels, was designated as sweet and limpid, because that part of the water attracted by the sun, which produces rain, was the finest and lightest of the whole. He had observed that rain water was apt to grow putrid by having a great many foreign particles mingled with it; to prevent which, it was proper to boil and strain before using.

All waters, which were produced from dissolved ice or snow, he considered bad, because the lightest and most subtile parts of the water flew off in freezing, leaving the grossest and heaviest behind. He did not, therefore, approve of such water for any use.

Turbid water from ice and snow was forbidden in winter, while in summer standing water that was ill-colored and stinking was considered unwholesome, as it occasioned various distempers.

He thought that the healthy and strong could drink such water as came in their way, but that they who drank water for recovery of health ought to be careful in the choice they made. The lightest, purest, and softest waters were most fit for those who were apt to be costive; whereas the hardest waters did most service to those whose bowels were too moist and phlegmatic. He observed that hot temperaments received benefit from (kinking water, and that water drinkers usually had keen appetites.

Hippocrates mentions spring waters, but he had little experience with their uses, so that he gave them no great character.

Cold water for common drinking. He could ascribe no virtue to it, but thought that sometimes it was useful in acute distempers; that it neither eased a cold nor promoted expectoration in inflammations of the lungs, but caused an irksome weight and fluctuation in the stomach. He thought that it did not quench thirst, in fact, increased it. He found it also, in some constitutions, to increase the bile, to impair the strength, and to distend the bowels. As it was cold and crude, it passed off slowly, thereby promoting neither stool nor urine. Even in fevers, if given when the feet were cold, mischief was done. Nevertheless, in complaints of great weight in the head, or when the understanding was disordered he felt that either water must be given alone, or with a small dose of white wine, for in that mixture, less hurt to the head and understanding would accrue.

On bathing. This was something Hippocrates thought should be done with caution, as it was possible of causing harm. When taken it should be done while the body was rubbed by an assistant.

On sleep and wakefulness. His ideas were succinct. He says that, “Nature directs us to accustom ourselves to wake in the day and sleep in the night, and he who acts contrary to this order will suffer for such folly.” If the sleep were disturbed by dreams that coincided with the actions of the day, they denoted health, but if such did not attain, the body was ill.

Digitized by LjOOQie
345

Evacuation. To preserve a good state of health, a man should void by stool every day the dregs df what he had digested the day before. He opined that those who were in a good state of health were hurt by using physics. He thought that while moderate commerce with the opposite sex was of service to those who were loaded with phlegm, it commonly bound the belly.

Exercise and Rest. The complaints which arose from immoderate labors were cured by rest; and those which proceeded from sloth were removed by exercise. Universally speaking, moderate exercise was considered to give strength to the body and vigor to the senses. Exercise was believed to be whole-somest and best when taken before the meals.

Post Hippocratic To Galenic Period

Polybus, son-in-law of Hippocrates, who lived about 410 B.

C., has been credited with having written a short tract concerning wholesome diet. He advised those who were in circumstances to do so to live as they pleased; to eat heartily in winter of bread and roast flesh, but to drink sparingly, and to let their wine unmixed and good, in order to keep themselves warm and free from a load of bad humors in that cold and damp season. In summer, for contrary reasons, he recommended a cool diet, consisting chiefly of vegetables and a great deal of diluted liquors. In the spring and autumn he advocated a middle regimen.

The only valuable writers in this period were Celsus and Plutarch. Their ideas were chiefly dietetic.

Celsus advised delicate people to dwell in well-lighted, cheerful houses, which were airy in summer, and enjoyed the sunshine in winter. He also advised against using the mind too soon after meals. He advised business men to exercise some before eating. The exercise which he recommends consisted of reading aloud, walking, or playing at ball of some sort. To reduce obesity he recommended warm bathing, strong exercise, hard beds, little sleep, proper evacuations, acids, and one meal in a day. People subject to colics were warned against drinking anything cold. He advised the healthy to stay away from doctors, to take diversion by having a town and a country house. He advised eating all foods in vogue; rest and exercise alternately; indulge and abstain alternately in order to keep the body balanced. He recommended moderation with women.

Plutarch observed that thin people were generally more healthy than fat. He was an advocate of temperance in all things. He also advised people to make inquiries among their friends to see if knowledge could be obtained as to how their illness arrived. He advocated against people taking strong purges as was the practice among people to get rid of their ill health. He thought this a cause of producing ill health.

The early Egyptians made some progress in the rules of health, and then seem to have been satisfied as laws of manage-

Digitized by
346

ment were set up, and if a physician varied the standards and the patient died he was in danger of losing his life. The Egyptians had the habit of causing themselves to vomit and purge thrice every month, because they felt that their health was chiefly injured by their aliment.

Galenic Period To 1700

Many of the ideas of Galen were copied from Hippocrates, and his writings in turn were copied for centuries. He evidently considered the best diet that eaten by Telephus, the grammarian, who lived almost one hundred years. His breakfast was pure honey from the comb, mixed well with gruel. He dined always on salad, or some fish or fowl, and for supper he only ate a little bread, with a glass of wine and water. In the time of Galen there was discussion about the value of the milk diet. He thought that this should be tried by the individual, and its results determined by experience. He recommended healthy asses’ or goats’ milk. He also advocated that exercise should be suited to the individual, and taken discriminately.

Porphyry of Tyre, who lived in the middle of the third century, was a violent advocate of the diet of the most primitive peoples, and was deadly opposed to the use of animal foods.

Hieronimus Cardanus, about 1500, of Milan, seems to have been the first to recognize that persons with ancestors who had lived to a ripe old age were likely to do the same themselves.

Oribasius is the first of the Greek physicians who recommended horseback riding as a means of preserving and recovering health. He thought that it strengthened the stomach, cleared the organs, and made all the senses more acute.

Platina Cremonensis published a treatise in 1529, in which he advised people to chew their food well, and said, “How is it possible that those who swallow their meat whole should escape crudities and eructations.”

Oddi de Oddis published, in 1570, an article in which he raised the question of which meal should be the largest, and recommended that the supper be fullest, and dinner the lightest meal.

Martin of Leipsic, in 1615, seems to have been the originator of the idea that a change occurred in the body every seven years. He was one of the first to advocate cleanliness in person, clothes, houses, and furniture.

Lewis Comaro, a noble Venetian, was an advocate of sobriety, and recommended as the best diet to consist regularly of twelve ounces of solid food, daily, including bread, yolks of eggs, flesh, fish, and fourteen ounces of liquids.

1700 To Dr. Mackenzie

In 1708, Dr. Wainright brought up the subject of air in relation to health, and stimulated interest in ventilation of houses. This subject was taken up by most of the writers after that period.

Digitized by LjOOQle
347

In 1744, Dr. Barnard Lynche first called attention to the ill effects of smoking immediately after eating. Dr. Mead in 1751 recommended drinking’ a draught of cold water with some lemon juice to relieve the distress of an overloaded stomach. He also advised older people not to exercise, and was opposed to the use of sauces for increasing the tastes of food.

Dr. Mackenzie thought the object of all studies concerning health could be divided into three classes. (1). To secure or maintain the health which a man enjoys. (2). To prevent approaching distempers. (3). To prolong life.

Mackenzie’s dissertation on digestion contains the statement that the food “was conveyed down the gullet, where it is farther mollified and lubricated by a viscid unctious humor, distilled from the glands of that canal.” This is quite remarkable because he knew the anatomy of the rest of the tract quite well, including the absorption from the intestines, and the channel of transit through the thoracic duct.

He felt that people should eat only when hungry, and not at fixed intervals as was at that time the custom. As a method of finding out the proper foods for the individual to eat, he recommended that, “Let him observe what agrees with his constitution and what does not, and let his experience and reason direct him to use the one and avoid the other.” He said that people should stop eating when they had a desire for still more food. The test for sufficient food is whether a man can go about his ordinary business or walk with pleasure after a full meal.

Bread made of good wheat flour properly fermented and baked he considered the most important element of the diet. He felt that water was the best drink. Tea and coffee he left to the individual’s experience. He stated that a person in health should not take cathartics, as their health was impaired thereby.

In order to promote longevity he advised that it was (1) good to be descended at least from one side from long-lived parents; (2) to be calm, contented, and of cheerful disposition; (3) to have a just symmetry, or proper conformation of parts; a full chest, well-formed joints and limbs, with a neck and head large rather than small in proportion to the size of the body; (4) to have a firm and compact system of vessels; not too fat; veins large, and prominent, a voice somewhat deep, and skin not too white and smooth; and (5) to be a long and sound sleeper.

The book closes with a description of the introduction of blood transfusion into England, and the course of events in the early stages.

Comment

A perusal of this book makes it obvious to anyone that many of the things in relation to health that are considered modem in their inception are really very old. In many particulars no advance has been made. In order to accomplish the aims of the seekers after health, it is necessary for doctors to get all bacteria

Digitized by LjOOQle
348

under control either by prevention or a method of killing them after entrance into the body, as the invasion of the body by protoplasmic substances is of vastly greater importance in the causation of disease than any of the mythical explanations of past ages and even of the present day.

ON DENTAL DISEASES

By C. Bowdler Henry, England

(We are indebted to the New Health Society for permission to publish this

article.) England*

Part I.

The tenet that “prevention is better than cure” applies more forcibly to diseases of the teeth than to almost any other human ailment. To be effective, however, prevention in the first place must be instituted very early in life, as early indeed as the suckling infant. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that no cme, no technical device or operation, which the dental surgeon has yet devised, can approximate to the perfection of Nature. The ideal, which we should strive to develop and maintain in each individual of the community, is that of a normal set of teeth, each one healthy and unblemished, all placed in a normal relationship to one another and supported by healthy gum and bone.

Dental Decay.

In 1919, when the Dentists' Act of 1921 was being framed, the Departmental Committee in their report stated:- “The evidence before the Committee as to the condition of the teeth of the masses of the people presents a picture of almost hopeless neglect.” The reports of some of the Medical Officers of Health are appalling. For example: In London 81% of school children required dental treatment; for Birmingham the figure was 95% and for Shropshire, for children aged five years, the figure was 95%; and those over 12 years, 96%.

New Methods.

Some years ago an eminent American surgeon said that the next great step in preventive medicine must come from dentistry, and unquestionably, in the interval that has elapsed since that challenge was issued, great strides have been made. As Dr. A.

D.	Black (Journal of National Dental Association, America) has put it, this “great step” can be best achieved, not by the fresh discoveries of research, but by the application of the knowledge which we already have.

•From Physical Education Bulletin, England.

Digitized by CjOOQle
349

Every day research in one field or another of dental science gives us a new clue to the best methods of dealing with dental disease, once it has arisen, and some new modification of treatment or some new appliance, cunningly devised, is put into hands of the dental surgeon to aid him in his work of curative treatment.

How often do we read in the newspapers, after an exhibition of dental instruments and sundries, some such astonishing headlines as “Painless dentistry at last—terrors of the dental drill abolished,” or “Pyorrhoea, the curse of humanity, can be cured.” But even supposing these assertions to be true—which they often are not what folly to panegyrize the invention of a crutch to support a limb, damaged irreparably, not by accident, be it observed, but for the most part by the failure to apply those measures of prevention which we already possess.

The Carious Cavity.

We know, and dental surgeons have proclaimed for years, that “A clean tooth will not decay.” Dental decay is never seen upon those smoother surfaces of a tooth which are exposed to tne cleaning action of the lips and tongue and the tooth brush, and no doubt, were it possible to ensure that the many and complicated surfaces of the teeth were always as clean as the front surfaces of, say, the lower incisor teeth, dental decay would be a disease of the past, even with our present-day tooth-destroying diet.

In 1890, Dr. Miller showed conclusively that dental decay was brought about through the agency of stagnation of the sugary and starchy foods in the various crannies around the teeth. Wherever these foods stagnate iu the mouth, fermentation quickly sets in. The acid which is formed dissolves its way into the tooth in exactly the same way as acid dissolves chalk. A carious cavity may not be formed at once, but the surface of the hard protecting substance, which we call enamel, is damaged. Its surface, formerly smooth, is eroded and roughened, and the stagnation of food upon it is facilitated. Further fermentation and acid formation with resultant destruction take place, until a cavity is produced.

This is the beginning of the end. Decay proceeds rapidly under cover of the enamel, spreading out in all directions—the “nerve,” technically and more correctly described as the “pulp”— the little vascular, exquisitively sensitive organ inside the tooth which is nourished by it, becomes infected and forthwith dies. Its decomposition is followed by putrefaction, and the poisons which are formed escape partly into the mouth, whence they are carried down with the saliva and food into the bowel; but, more seriously still, the remainder penetrate through the fang into the bone around the tooth and thence directly into the blood stream, by which they are carried to all the vital tissues of the body.

Digitized by t^ooQle
350

Germs in the Bone.

In these circumstances, the best that can happen is that an acute abscess should form, necessitating attention to or even the removal of the offending tooth. Even then the hostile germs, which have gained entrance into the bone, are not eliminated, as is liquid from a barrel by the withdrawal of the cork. It depends upon the health of the individual at the time, and subsequently, whether these germs are removed from the bone. If the defensive mechanism of the body is good, the residual germs are destroyed, once their source, the infected tooth, has been removed. If weak, then these germs may linger in the bone for years, still producing poisons, which now have no escape, save, from the patient’s point of view, the worst possible—that is, directly into the blood stream.

Bacteriological examination of the jaw bone, from which septic teeth have been removed, even ten years previously, has revealed the presence of these harmful germs. But what a catastrophe! What a tale of preventible woe! True, if a cavity in the tooth be discovered early enough, the decay can bere-moved and the hole filled in with stepping material. The earlier the better. Everyone, therefore, should visit his dental surgeon regularly, in order that the teeth may be examined. Small cavities in out-of-the-way places are perceptible only upon close scrutiny, even by the trained eye, and in the early stages cause no twinges of pain. And it is in these same out of-the-way-places that the stagnation and cavity formation are most prone to occur. Filling.

The smaller the hole, and the more skilfully the operation of filling is performed, the more effectively is the tooth restored to its normal functional state; but no one, least of all the dental surgeon, would assert that a tooth, once it has been affected by decay, however beautifully it be filled, is so valuable to the individual as a healthy unblemished tooth, and the vast majority are but lame horses.

There is no magic in a filling. For the most part, the stopping of a tooth is in no way dissimilar from the removal of the affected pulp of a bruised apple and the insertion into the resultant cavity of, say, wax. The contour of the apple may be restored, and even its colour simulated, but that will not prevent its becoming bruised in another part, adjacent even to the wax filling. Just so with a tooth. The ideal filling, which, when inserted into a tooth, will diffuse through its ivory body some protective substance to render the tooth immune to further decay, has still to be invented.

It should be observed that in what I have written I am not condemning the practice of filling teeth. Far from it. In the conditions prevailing to-day the dental surgeon, upon finding a decayed hole in a tooth, has no alternative, if the tooth is to be saved from utter destruction. In this present article, what I hope to demonstrate is that, without waiting for the invention of magical fillings or any other protective device, if only the

Digitized by Google
351

general public could be taught to apply the knowledge which is already available, a great deal of human suffering could be avoided—not merely as to dental aches and pains, but more particularly as to the prevention or alleviation of the common bodily ills which diseased teeth are known either to provoke or aggravate.

Furthermore, the individual and national expenditure upon skilled dental treatment, which after all in this respect is a luxury, necessitated greatly by ignorance and carelessness, would be saved, and the dental surgeon would be relieved proportionately of the more trying and nerveracking portion of present-day practice.

Pyhorrhoea.

What has been said in reference to dental decay applies with even greater force to pyorrhoea, for the reason that this disease creeps into a mouth so surreptitiously that it may have become deeply seated and have been in progress for many years before the average individual detects anything abnormal. Pyorrhoea is a chronic disease, which manifests itself by a progressive destruction of the bone supporting the teeth. It is not a disease of the teeth themselves. If the jaw bone be likened to a piece of wood and the teeth to so many nails driven half-way into it, then pyorrhoea may be compared to a pest, which gets in by the side of the nail and gradually rots the wood around it until the nail becomes loose and falls out.

That teeth affected by pyorrhoea ultimately fall out is unimportant. The loss of a tooth or of a whole set of teeth is insignificant compared with the damage to the general health which is done during the process of loosening. The pity is that teeth so affected are not lost earlier. Unlike dental decay, which sooner or later gives rise to premonitory twinges of pain, pyorrhoea is entirely painless. In the last stages only, when an abscess may form under the affected tooth, is any real discomfort felt. To the uninstructed eye the gums may appear normal in color and outline, and there is even a subtle form of this disease, by no means rare, wherein the skilled eye of the dental surgeon may detect nothing wrong. Yet an X-ray photograph of the bone may show considerable destruction around the roots of the teeth.

If this disease alone is to be checked, it is essential that every member of society, frotn infancy upward, should go at least once a year to his dental surgeon for examination and advice. The prevailing factors, which bring about the onset both of decay and of pyorrhoea, are much the same. Any factor, which tends to lower the resistance of the teeth or the gum on the one hand, or on the other tends to promote the stagnation of food in the mouth, favors the onset of these diseases. Some of these factors are hereditary and are counteracted with great difficulty. One such is the proportionately diminishing size of our jaws, which is not accompanied by a proportionate reduction in the size or number of the teeth. The result of this is an inherent

Digitized by U^ooQle
352

tendency in all of us to have crowded or irregular teeth, which are more difficult to keep clean than a perfectly regular set.

Mouth Breathing.

This is a habit acquired usually as a result of nasal obstruction, the most common cause of which is adenoids. If the adenoids become enlarged early in infancy and persist for more than a few weeks, the evil resulting from them in the dental health of the individual will remain throughout life. Normally, the upper jaw is slowly developed in size from birth until adult life is reached, in order to accommodate the increasing number and size of the teeth, which ultimately form the full complement of the adult set. The most active growth takes place between birth and the age of fifteen.

As the average person’s jaw is racially too small for the teeth it has to support, it will readily be understood that any interference with its fullest development will lead to still further lack of accommodation for the teeth in their proper alignment. The teeth are cramped in the bone, where they are being developed, and erupt into faulty positions. The ultimate result is a set of crowded, tilted, and irregular teeth, difficult to keep clean artificially, and meeting their fellows of the opposite jaw so faultily as to derive little of the natural cleansing of mastication. The individual’s ability, too, to chew his food is also considerably impaired.

Unless artificial means of expansion are resorted to, the jaw once under-developed remains so, and never picks up the growth which has been lost. The upper jaw is developed from the front backwards. The effects, therefore, of adenoids in early life can be seen in an under-development of the front portion of the mouth, with crowding and over-lapping of the incisor teeth. The habit of mouth-breathing, if continued, leads to a pinching of the palate by the cheeks, and the side teeth are unable to come through in proper alignment. The growth of the upper jaw, therefore, controls the arrangement of the teeth.

It is folly to suppose that irregularities of the teeth will right themselves. Clinical experience shows that they do not, and further, that owing to the pressure of other teeth trying to erupt, slight irregularities in childhood become worse in adolescence, and gross even, when maturity is reached. The importance of early treatment of irregular teeth cannot be over-estimated. The earlier it is performed the more easily and the more effectively can it be accomplished.

Adenoids may disappear spontaneously, or they may be removed in operation, but in either case the child, having lost the function of nasal respiration, may be left with a habit of breathing in and out through the mouth. In the daytime children should be drilled to keep their lips closed, when at rest, and at night it should be the duty of every mother and guardian to visit the sleeping child, and if necessary, gently close his mouth and prop the clothing under the chin.

Digitized by v^ooQie
353

The direct harm of mouth-breathing to the teeth is the hindrance of the normal flushing of the mouth by the constant flow of saliva. Solutions of sugary foods, not washed away by the saliva, remain hanging between the teeth. Fermentation and acid formation take place, leading to an increase in the incidence of decay.

The gums also are affected by mouth-breathing. Around the front teeth, for example, the festooned margin of the gum upon close inspection is seen to be slightly pinker. It may even be red and congested, and the triangular portions between the teeth may be swollen. If dried with a dab of the handkerchief this portion of the gum, instead of presenting the fine, velvety surface of health, will be seen to be shiny.

In a still later stage, pressure with the finger, or brushing with the tooth brush, causes a slight amount of blood, and perhaps a little yellow pus, to exude between the gum and the tooth. This condition of the gums represents a slight chronic inflammation, and its presence always denotes mouth-breathing. Also, it is a danger signal, for it constitutes the first stage of pyorrhoea, to which persistence in mouth-breathing invariably leads.

(To be concluded.)

A PLAN FOR HEALTH ORGANIZATION IN THE HIGH

SCHOOL

Dr. Henry S. Curtis, Director of Hygiene and Physical Education for the state

of Missouri.

The American Child Health Association has recently completed a study of Health Teaching and Organization in the high schools of America. In making this study it offered a prize of $1000 for the best program and lesser prizes for others. Its final study was based on the program sent in by fifty-three different high schools.

As the outcome of this study, it is specifically recommended as fundamental to securing adequate results that the high school name a Health Director or a Counselor to be the laison officer for all departments having to do with health. The duty of this person to be the co-ordination of the work in physical education, nurse, service, health teaching, domestic economy and other subjects so as to give a rounded program to the student.

This health director would have charge also of all reports on physical examinations which he would follow up so far as possible so as to secure the removal of physical defects. All absences on account of illness would come to him or her for study and approval. He would have certain office hours at which he might be consulted on any health problem. It would be his duty also to study health conditions in and about the school and devise ways of improving conditions.

Digitized by Google
354

This health director would be given a staff or cabinet, consisting of, in general, the nurse, the dean of women, the physical director, the domestic economy teacher and anyone else who might be specially interested in health. In the different schools reporting, this health director was often a nurse and about as often the physical director. Sometimes it was the science teacher and sometimes the dean of women, or the home economics teacher.

Some of the health studies which such a Counselor might well make with a view to improving the health of the students would be to find out from the student body the following facts:

How many hours do you study at home? Work? Sleep?

What recreation do you take other than physical?

How many times do you go to the movies each week,?

What exercise do you take outside of school?

When did you last go to the dentist?

How many times were you absent from school on account of sickness last term?

How much milk do you drink each day?

This material would put into the hands of the teacher of health just the facts that she would need in order to give the right emphasis to her health teaching.

PROGRESS IN THE PREVENTION OF DEAFNESS

Through The Use Of The Audiometer In The Public Schools*

By Horace Newhart, M. D., Minneapolis

Three years ago at the Dallas session of the American Medical Association, Dr. E. P. Fowler with Dr. Harvey Fletcher and I presented before this section two papers dealing with the use of the audiometer in the detection of loss of hearing among school children. The widespread prevalence of potential deafness among this group was pointed out and the need for an accurate periodic examination of the hearing acuity of all school children was emphasized. With generous understanding, the section, to encourage an important step in school hygiene, adopted a resolution favoring the periodic testing of the ears of all school children by methods sufficiently delicate to detect even slight loss of hearing. The resolution was at once endorsed by the House of Delegates, and it has since been adopted by all of the national bodies of otolaryngologists and by other national, state and local organizations.

The movement to secure the periodic testing of the hearing acuity of school children by accurate means, as a first step

♦Read before the Section on Laryngology, Otology and Rhinology at the Eightieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Portland, Ore* July 12, 1929.

Digitized by Google
355

in a comprehensive effort to prevent deafness, was largely instigated by the deafened persons themselves, represented by their national organization, the American Federation of Organizations for the Hard of Hearing, founded by the past president of the American Medical Association, Dr. Wendell C. Philips. It received its greatest impulse through the development of the audiometer, especially the 4-A or multiple telephone audiometer, a product of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Because of its greater accuracy, delicacy, practicability, speed and economy of application, this instrument has proved itself immeasurably superior to older methods for testing acuity in large groups.

Three years after the initiation of the movement/, to determine as far as possible the extent and effectiveness of the use of the 4-A audiometer, to learn how greatly it is valued by those having had experience with it and with the further object of ascertaining how its usefulness might be increased, I recently sent out questionnaires (with apologies) to all known users of the 4-A instrument in public schools. Eighty-one inquiries were sent out. Thirty-four replies containing data useful for my purpose were received. Many courteously acknowledged the receipt of the questionnaire but reported having had insufficient experience to give helpful information.

Twenty cities, each of more than 100,000 population five cities of from 50,000 to 100,000 inhabitants, and nine cities of less than 50,000 population, in all, thirty-four cities having an aggregate population of 6,835,685, with a total school enrolment of 887,012, reported that during the school year 1928-1929, 225,2^3 pupils had been tested. Many important cities have not been included; likewise, private schools and universities in which extensive work has been carried on have been left out. At a conservative estimate, since the beginning of the movement not less than 400,000 children have been tested with the audiometer. This is a record of real progress and achievement, in view of the short time that has elapsed since the idea was first introduced and in view of the fact that there has always been marked indifference and no little skepticism toward efforts at prevention of deafness. It is of interest that eleven of the thirty-four cities which have reported are in Massachusetts. This is the result of the activities of an able committee of the American Federation of Organizations for the Hard of Hearing, formed to study the deaf child, whose chairman is Mrs. Anne C. Norris of Boston.

Already thousands of children, many with unsuspected and therefore neglected loss of hearing, have been discovered and corrective measures instituted. Many hundreds have been given the advantage of instruction in lip reading and of closer supervision by the teacher. Others who were backward in their classes and looked on as stupid, after having had their handicap due to deafness revealed, have been given proper treatment greatly to their advantage. The direction of public attention

Digitized by loiOOQle
356

to the need for a periodic hearing test and the possibilities of prevention of deafness are among the valuable results of these activities.

The most striking feature revealed by the data is the apparently wide variation in the incidence of loss of hearing reported from different communities. These seeming discrepancies are readily accounted for by definite climatic and seasonal variations affecting the upper respiratory tract, by differences in the age of those tested, by the handicap of language especially among younger children of foreign parentage, by variations in intelligence, and by the prevailing economic and hygienic conditions in the home. Likewise, the experience of those conducting the tests, the frequency with which they check their apparatus, which is nearly ideal in its reliability, and especially the amount of noise existing in the room at the time of making the tests are all factors in causing observable but negligible variations in the results. The one purpose of these examinations is to disclose persons with a loss of hearing that may be progressive if the underlying pathologic conditions are not promptly removed.

Many of these discrepancies will be eliminated through a greater experience, by a standardization of the technic in making the tests, and by greater uniformity in checking, tabulating and interpreting the results. This demands the skill, framing and experience of the otologist.

In several of the larger cities an otologist directs this work. Seven communities maintain a diagnostic school clinic for diseases of the ear. In two of these, therapeutic work is attempted. Eighteen reporters acknowledge difficulty in seeming an ideally quiet testing room.

Critics have raised the objection that the 4-A and the 3-A audiometers are not instruments of precision. It has never been claimed for them that they are of absolute scientific accuracy. If they were, their employment would necessitate the use of a sound-proof room. They were devised specifically for the purpose of detecting appreciable loss of hearing in a practical way among large groups and are of sufficient delicacy to disclose a loss which in the majority of cases would be unrecognized by the older methods. For finer clinical work and research there are other instruments.

With but three exceptions, the statements of persons with a very limited experience, the reporters uniformly expressed great enthusiasm for and appreciation of the advantage of this method of testing acuity of hearing. It has its definite limitations, however, chief of which is the fact that the 4-A audiometer cannot be used to test children who are too young to write to dictation. The 3-A or 5-A instrument, which is used to test individually pupils from 6 years of age and upward, has as yet been used only in a limited way.

In Minneapolis during 1928-1929, efforts were concentrated on this younger group. Tests were made on 17,605 children, of whom only 963, or 5.41 per cent, showed loss of hearing

Digitized by v^ooQle
357

equivalent to six sensation units or more. This indicates a smaller incidence of loss of hearing among these younger children than was found among the older groups. (The figures are 6.13 and 5.41 per cent, respectively.)

To obtain further clinical information, the questionnaire or history as originally given on the chart written by the pupil was supplemented by the addition of the four following questions:

Have you had your tonsils and adenoids removed?

Is any member of your family hard of hearing?

Have you had a mastoid operation?

Have you a cold now?

The last question was regarded in many ways as the most important. The advantage of possessing this added knowledge to those in charge of the health of the school child is obvious.

During the past three years there have been made in the Minneapolis public schools more than 67,000 tests of hearing, the results of which have been highly satisfactory.

The one discouraging feature in the work has been the lack of understanding and therefore the lack of cooperation on the part of many of the medical men to whom those children showing defects in hearing are taken by their parents. Their examinations are often too superficial and they frequently fail to report the physical observations. Unfortunately there exists a deep-seated, widespread fallacy, the inheritance of the past, that little or nothing can be done to prevent deafness. There is a decided need for wider dissemination of information. Textbooks need revision, and lectures to undergraduates in medicine need to be expanded to include the latest knowledge regarding prevention of deafness and conservation of hearing.

The periodic testing of the hearing acuity is only the initial step in any effort toward prevention of deafness. To make it effective there is required the consistent and constant medical follow-up of all patients found to have an appreciable loss before it becomes a handicap. This is distinctly a problem in preventive medicine and for its solution the public looks with confidence to the medical man, especially to the otolaryngologist.

Owing to obstacles inherent in the problem, particularly the inaccessibility of the ear for purpose of research, examination and treatment, specific efforts toward preventing deafness and conserving the hearing have yielded only meager results. Compared with what has been done in other fields, such as the prevention of blindness, tuberculosis and cancer, the record of accomplishment in this problem is not one which can be pointed to with great pride. To me it would seem that the time is now ripe for otolaryngologists to atone for their past record of seeming indifference and partial failure by putting forth larger efforts toward the prevention of deafness through the utilization of the knowledge which they now possess and are rapidly increasing.

All the national otologic societies have committees, variously named, on the problems of the hard of hearing, such as the Committee on the Adult Deaf and the Hard of Hearing Child of

Digitized by t^oosle
358

this section, and the Committee on the Hard of Hearing of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaiyngology. The sum total of their activities would be greatly increased could their efforts be defined and coordinated, the methods of procedure in attacking the problems standardized and a vigorous, well organized campaign of education inaugurated.

In my opinion, this could be best accomplished through a national intersociety committee, composed of a few deeply interested men representing each of the four national societies composed of otolaryngologists, as well as the American Federation of- Organizations for the Hard of Hearing, the National Research Council, the National Educational Association, the American Public Health Association, the American Child Health Association, the National Parent-Teacher Association and the American Association of School Physicians.

From my study of the situation, I feel justified in suggesting that it would be rendering a distinctive public service if at this time the American Medical Association, the perfection of its organization and its fine record for leadership in promoting health measures was to take the initiative in the formation of such a committee through its Section on Laryngology, Otology and Rhinology by instructing its chairman to appoint a committee of interested members, not to exceed three, to invite the other organizations mentioned to participate in the formation of a national committee on the prevention of deafness.

CONCLUSIONS

1.	The periodic testing of the hearing acuity of school children with the audiometer, by revealing the early loss of hearing, is at the present time the most effective means of initiating measures for the prevention of deafness and the conservation of hearing among school children.

2.	The greatest need of the movement, now well under way, is the interest, active cooperation and leadership of the physician, especially the otolaryngologist.

3.	The movement would be greatly expedited by the inauguration of a well directed campaign of publicity calling attention to the value of periodic hearing tests and to the possibilities of the prevention of deafness.

THE HOUSE PLAN

The news account from Harvard which said that sports and athletics at that institution were to be financially endowed in order to be free from the necessity of rolling up gate receipts was subsequently denied. But any one with an ear to the ground in intercollegiate circles knows that there is something stirring at Cambridge which may meet with wide support elsewhere, and which may result in quite an opposite reaction. W. J. Bingham, Director of Athletics at Harvard, has built his adminis-

Digitized by v^ooQie
359

tration along the lines of giving sports and recreation to all of the undergraduates. Great strides nave been made by Bingham, as is evidenced by the tremendous intramural sports program which is far more alive at Harvard than in miost institutions which could be named.

Perhaps the announcement of the sports endowment was premature and may yet be carried out, as it is at Harvard that the House Plan has many of its warmest and most capable supporters. If applied to sports either at Harvard or some other college there would be a great drop in gate receipts. As outlined by some of its advocates the plan contemplates intramural competition between divisions of a university. Such competition has reached a high point of interest in English universities. Intramural athletics as known in American universities are confined largely to interclass contests or interfratemity meetings. Rightly or wrongly the players in such contests are generally considered those unable to make a varsity team.

Possibly if the House Plan were applied to sports there would be only one big game of the season, that with the traditional rival. Early season athletics would be confined to contests between the various units and, of course, little if any gate receipt money would accrue as admission would doubtless be free to the undergraduates, and the game of little interest to an alumnus Or an outsider educated to the type of football and other athletic competition which has caused the cry of over emphasis to be raised.

It hardly can be denied that sports occupy a disproportionate amount of time in many of our American universities. And many a snowhaired professor has winked an eye at the bad marks of an athlete in order that he might be eligible to play in a big football game. Under the House Plan there would be no varsity team or varsity squad but merely a vast undergraduate body of students all attending school to gain an education. When the big game came along these boys would get together and decide upon a “side” which would bear the colors of the university against the traditional rival. Thus there would be no “varsity” until the eve of the big game and it would cease to exist immediately after.

Whether such a sports plan can be carried out successfully in the United States, where competition has become the spice of life, remains to be seen. There is not the slightest doubt, however, that the putting into practice of such a plan would command the attention of every person even remotely concerned with sports and games. A lot of schools have no traditional rival, or have several rivals of equal rank, which might result in a jolly scramble for a worthy opponent among those who have no storied halls.—Reprint from Sportsmanship, publication of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood.

Digitized by LjOOQle
360

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PHYSICAL TRAINING AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Physical Education* a Designation More Comprehensive than Physical Training Whereas Physical Training Emphasizes the Idea of Training, Physical Education Emphasizes the Idea of Education Through the Medium of the Physical

By James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service

In physical training, physical development of the individual is the aim, whereas in physical education the aim is the education of the individual through physical activities. Education is the end, and physical activities are the means.

In an address on Education of the Physical vs. Education through the Physical, the same idea has been expressed by Dr. Jesse F. Williams, of Columbia University. We must get the conception that physical education is education; that we are teachers not acrobats; that we are training for health, neuromuscular skills, sportsmanship, personality, and not developing weight lifters, high jumpers and parallel-bar champions.

Like all subjects in the school curriculum, physical education has gone through a series of stresses and strains. Since 1900 we have moved away from the old strict formal and military type of physical training over into those types leading to physical education. In the past 30 years there have been five trends or stresses in physical education: 1, the athletic and sports; 2, the informal and intra-mural; 3, the health; 4, the recreational; 5, the educational.

Physical Education is Education

At last we have come to realize that our profession is that of education; that our aims are the seven cardinal principles of general education—namely, to train for health, for worthy home membership, for the tools of learning, for vocational efficiency, for the wise use of leisure, for worthy citizenship, and for ethical character.

Up through the different stages of growth and development in concepts of the aims and place of physical education, we have arrived at the right solution. The old military aim that physical exercises and training were simply a means for making the citizen physically fit to become the fighting soldier is rapidly disappearing over the world. Back of all the old systems lurked this military aim. Physical activity was simply a means to an end, and that end was the making of a fit soldier.

Then during the middle of the last century we had the fads and thrills of physical culture. For 50 years we were dominated with leaders and their cults, their fads and fancies. It was the period of training for big muscles. The weight lifter, with big chest and bulging biceps, was the ideal. Emphasis was put upon

Digitized by Google
361

the physique. It was the period also of frills in the field of rhythmics.

The third period we have just passed through is the period of physical training. We were not training the military nor the strong-armed man, but we were training the gymnast and acrobat. Activities were ends in themselves. Achievement as a skilled gymnast was the ideal.

Physical Activities, a Means to an End

To-day the complete reverse is true. The very opposite is the ideal. Physical activities are not ends in themselves but merely means for education. Rhythmics, gymnastics, games, sports, and athletics are the means to train for health, character, sportsmanship, personality, and good citizenship.

The sooner we get the conception that physical education is part of education—that our real profession is not physical education but rather education—our growth and influence will become broader and more significant. Physical education in the next 10 years is to make greater strides because of this new emphasis, and it will be the final emphasis. We have found our place at last. Education is like religion, one of the immutable institutions of human life. Governments may come and go, armies may fight and die, kings may rule and totter, but religion and education stay on forever.

Recent Strides in Physical Education

In the last 10 years, because of the cooperation of the general educator, there has been a great impetus to physical education. Previous to 1918 only 11 States had State compulsory physical education laws. To-day 35 States have compulsory physical education laws. Previous to 1918 only 4 States had State directors; to-day 20 States, representing 60 per cent of the population of the country, have state Directors. Ten years ago there were less than 10,000 physical education teachers in the public-school systems of the country; to-day there are approximately 2,000, teachers devoting their time to physical education. Schools are building ample and adequate indoor and outdoor facilities. Few new junior and senior high schools are built without large gymnasiums and fine big athletic fields. Advances in physical education in the last 10 years have been rapid and startling. It has been estimated that in layout and equipment alone more than $250,-000,000 was spent last year, besides approximately $60,000,000 for instruction in physical education. Not only has there been a great increase in facilities, but an increase in time allotment for this subject. In many junior high schools a daily 60-minute period is assigned to physical education, more than to any other subject. Besides adequate facilities and time allotment, credit is given to this subject, in some cases on a par with the academic subjects, for college entrance requirement.

We have a great opportunity in education. We must grasp it and make the most of it, and in so doing we will raise the

Digitized by l^.OOQLe
362

standing and the prestige of our teaching profession. However, this evokes a challenge from the general educator. We must produce programs that are educational. Our activities must not be activities for their own sake. Exercise must help health. Sports must beget sportsmanship. Gymnastics must develop neuro-muscular skills. Play must develop play habits for the wise use of leisure time. Activities are not ends in themselves. They are means by which we can train and develop man power.

Our profession is that of education; we must become educators.—From School Life.

DECLINE OF THE RICE-EATING RACES

The downfall and retrogression of Asian races is largely ascribed to their rice diet by Mr. Matsumura, writing in the Jitsugyono Nihon (Tokyo, Japan). The retrogression of India, great in olden days and famous for her culture, is entirely due to the rice diet of her people, he declares. He points to the Hindu race as the model of a decadent civilization. Lack of proper amount and variety of vitamins in the food, needed for the proper growth of brain power, have brought about this deplorable result. He goes on:

“China was once the forerunner of civilization, but now she has dropt from the first line of progress. Is this not the result of her rice diet? The people of Java have also retrograded because of this diet. The tens of millions of bushels of rice that they produce annually are not enough for their needs, and they are now importing no small amount. The people of the Orient and of the South Sea feeding on rice can not keep step in the march of civilization with Europeans and Americans. This has been noted by the Occidentals. Therefore they fear Orientals no longer."

Mr. Matsumura goes on to discuss the effect of food on the appearance of various races. He says:

“The color of human skin has long been supposed to be the result of climatic conditions. The white people turn black under the African sun, but when they return home to Europe or America, their skin resumes its original white color. When, however, Europeans or Americans stay in Japan and eat rice for a long time, their skins acquire a yellow tinge. The climatic conditions of Japan are not so different from those of Europe and America. There is no doubt that diet has a great deal to do with the color of human bodies."

Mr. Matsumura declares that the color and physique of Americans and Europeans are so far superior to those of the Orientals and South Sea Islanders that there is no comparison between them. The superiority of brain power of Europeans

♦From Literary Digest.

Digitized by

Google
363

and Americans, too, is made apparent in their inventions and in their ability as investigators. He proceeds:

“Our own ancestors, it would seem, had large physique and superior brain power at one time. But as in India and China, with the introduction of Buddhism, they lost the habit of eating meat. And from the lack of needed vitamins they suffered deterioration of body and brain. The reason why the Japanese have to-day brain power so far superior to the Chinese and the Hindus is because of the seas that surround them on all sides. They have enjoyed the opportunity of catching fish and gathering shell food.”

The writer points out that animals may also suffer deterioration through diet. Several generations ago, he tells us, a number of silver foxes were brought over to Karafuto Island, Japan, from Prince Edward’s Island. To-day, their posterity have greatly deteriorated. Domestic animals have been affected in the same way—sheep, cows, horses, pigs, imported into Japan all have gone backward. There is one reason in all cases,—poor food. As a striking instance of the effect of food in weakening the resistance of the human body against disease, he cites the case of an African tribe whose diet was made up almost entirely of bananas. The whole tribe was wiped out by venereal disease brought by the British, because of the lack of resistance in their physical makeup. Mr. Matsumura pays a high tribute to the United States. After telling how America has devoted herself to ascertaining the needs of the country, and how she is to-day centering her efforts on the work of producing young men and young women of sturdy physique and brain power, he declares: “I know of no other country but America which bases its national policy on the golden precept. “Health First.”

Just what will happen on the day when polished rice is conclusively proved to be unfit as the principal food for the full and best development of humans? Mr. Matsumura glories over the

fields. The water that is now being used for the cultivation of rice will be harnessed, he predicts, to produce the best and cheapest industrial, power on earth.

As in the Motherland, New Zealand adopts practically the same policy with regard to school training: a little ordinary free standing work and games comrpise the P. T. curriculum and the rest is left to the playing fields, river or swimming bath.

The school fields are in most cases ample, the boys are keen and vigorous and an excellent sporting spirit prevails. Rugby football is, of course, the game, although Soccer is rapidly making

ippy day when millions of Japan’s “mud-turtle toil” in their paddy

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN NEW ZEALAND

By F. C. Veraey

Digitized by L^OOQle
364

headway in many junior schools. Cricket also is gaining favor. With its many inland waterways, its lakes and creeks, and its close proximity to the sea, New Zealand offers unrivalled opportunities for swimming instruction. Swimming is not compulsory but is taken up by most children enthusiastically with the natural result that some of the best swimmers in the world are produced. Taking everything into consideration the youth of New Zealand are well catered for in all branches of sports and games and the resultant fine specimens of manhood testify to the admirable methods employed.

With regard to the High Schools the same principles apply, although in this branch of education much stress is laid upon rifle shooting which is compulsory under the Compulsory Service Act. In the larger towns increased facilities are evident; boys from the High Schools are now learning Ju Jitsu under skilled instructors, whilst at the same time they continue with the more serious Swedish exercises. Boxing is also encouraged.

The competitions show that there are some very fine athletes among our youths at the High School. Each school conducts its Annual Sports Meeting and most include swimming galas. Life-saving is also taught extensively and there is an annual competition between the schools in this branch of the work. Owing to better chances of coaching and improved facilities the boys in the towns show up to better advantage in the various competitions than the country boys. On the other hand the standard of the country child is not low; thus in Dunedin we have a boy of 12 years of age who has covered the quarter-mile in 5 min. 42 seconds, while boys of 16 years of age have accomplished the 100 yards in 59 4-5 secs. The Maori children join in and generally do as well as the whites. Rugby is their particular game.

After leaving school good facilities exist for both young men and women. Public playing fields are plentiful and the work of the schools is carried on vigorously by the youth of the country to whom physical fitness is of considerable importance. The big cities and towns have, of course, an advantage over the more thinly populated country districts. A few public gymnasia exist and are well used. Every type and every system of gymnastics is used and recently there has been a definite advance in the demand for boxing. Swimming and Rugby Football are, however, by far the most popular types of activity.

Digitized by {^.ooQLe
365

PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION

A Course given at the University of Hawaii, January to June 1929, involving the presentation and discussion of the fundamentals underlying physical education, health education and recreation.

(Continued from last month)

By William A. Stecher, Instructor in charge.

(PROJECTS Continued)

4.	A SHOW AT THE HOME FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN

A simple physical education project for a Boys, Club or a Recreation Center group ranging in age from 10 to 15 years.

Introduction: An invitation had been received to inspect the Home for Crippled Children. After accepting the same, the boys decided that after the inspection they would stage a performance for the benefit of the inmates of the Home.

At a subsequent meeting three committees were chosen as follows: (1) a program committee; (2) costumes; (3) property and transportation committee.

Procedure: With the help of the teacher the program com mittee selected the following activities:

1.	A Marching Drill, for 16 boys

2.	A Drill with Groupings, for 12 boys

3.	Antagonistics, Wrestling for the Wand, for 8 boys

4.	A Game, Broncho Tag, for 16 boys.

5.	Playground Stunts, for 12 boys

6.	A Game, Fox and Chickens, for 14 boys

7.	Passball Relay Race, for 16 boys

The following announcement was thereupon posted where every boy could see it.

1.	The best performers will be selected for each act listed in the selected program of activities. The activities are described in “Games and Dances” on the pages indicated. Get busy at once and practice. If you can improve on the stunts described, mention this to the teacher. If you can think of some new stunts, write a description of them on a slip of paper and hand this to the teacher.

2.	Where to find the selected activities: Act 1, page 302; Act 2, page 311; Act 3, page 70; Act 4, page 110; Act 5, page 382; Act 6, page 53; Act 7, page 128.

3.	The selection of performers will be made in four weeks.

4.	As soon as the members of each group are selected they are to elect a captain whose business it shall be to see that the performance of his group shall be of a high order.

Note: “Games and Dances” (fourth revised edition, is published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia, Pa.)

Digitized by LjOOQLe
366

5.	After four more weeks of practice a rehearsal shall be held in costume as a preparation for the presentation at the Home.

5.	PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN MANY COUNTRIES

A Project for Grades 7, 8 and 9

Introduction! A study of history revealed the fact that most nations had physical exercises that represented a part of their national life. At a meeting of the pupils it was decided to reproduce typical dances and drills of several nations at the yearly spring festival of the school.

The exhibition was arranged as follows:

1.	An Activities Committee of boys and girls was selected. Every pupil was requested to send to this committee suggestions relative to the activities and to the countries to be considered.

2.	A Program Committee was next appointed. With the help of the teacher this committee selected the best of the suggested activities, arranged them in order and stated where descriptions of them could be found.

3.	A Costumes Committee selected the correct costumes and saw to it that these were produced by the pupils during the school year.

4.	As soon as possible the participants for each drill or dance were chosen, who, under the direction of an elected captain studied their activity.

5.	The Program. The page numbers refer to “Games and Dances.”

1.	Norwegian—Mountain March, page 66

2.	French—Chimes of Dunkirk, page 29

3.	Spanish—Santiago, A Couple Dance, 155

4.	English—Bluff King Hal, A May-pole Dance, 198

5.	Scotch—Highland Schottische, 256

6.	Irish—Lilt, 200

7.	German—Come, Let us be Joyful, 121

8.	Swedish—Clap Dance, 87

9.	Roman—A Marching Drill (with Spears), 302

10.	Grecian—A Dance for Girls, 317

11.	American—An Aesthetic Dance, The Secret, 344

12.	American—A Balloon Dance, 361

6.	It was decided that the characteristic steps in each production were first to be learned. After these were mastered each part of the dance and drill was to be learned, and, finally, each part was to be practiced to the proper music.

7.	After the production of a group was fairly well learned it was to be shown to the other groups, inviting their criticism and suggestions for improvement.

Digitized by LjOOQle
367

8.	A final dress rehearsal was to be held shortly before the date set for the spring festival, during which the most expeditious entrances and exits were to be shown.

6.	A CIRCUS

A project for pupils 9 to 14 years of age.

A.	Situation

There is a circus in town. The circus parades through town. The teacher has the class take a vote to find out how many saw a circus (real, or motion picture, or pictures).

B.	Purpose

The teacher suggests going to see the circus. The class votes on having one. Each pupil wants to do something or be something in the circus.

C.	Planning

Some pupils offer to read up in books about a circus. Some went to see the real circus. Others saw the real parade. All in the class decide to report on what they think would be useful for their own circus.

D.	Teacher's Aims

1.	Rich and varied experiences for the pupils

2.	To develop initiative

3.	To give class chances for self expression

4.	To develop skill

5.	To train pupils to be original in thinking

6.	To assume responsibility

E.	Child’s aim—To make a circus

F.	** The Subject Matter

1.	English Spoken

a.	Discussion of things they saw at circus or parade

b.	Choosing of clerks, manager, ticket collector, lion tamer, etc.

c.	Careful pronunciation of words used

d.	Discussion on material to be used and how to obtain it.

e.	Clear enunciation practiced by all performers and advertisers.

2.	English Written

a.	The writing of signs, advertisements etc.

b.	Writing of the names of the animal or person each child is to represent

c.	Writing of letters and invitations to other pupils to see the circus

3.	Spelling—words learned

a.	Circus, sideshow, animals, bear, elephant, tiger, clown, tickets, etc.

Digitized by v^ooQle
368

4. Reading

a.	Reading so as to find out about the care and habits of animals found in the circus

b.	Telling stories about the circus

c.	Co ration—making circus books for the reading

ta .

d.	Reading in circus readers

5.	Number work

a.	The counting of tickets

b.	Fixing of the price of admission

c.	Numbering of seats and sections

d.	Counting of money collected

e.	Making change at window

f.	Finding out amount spent—profit and loss.

6.	Music.

a.	Borrowing school band for the parade and performances.

b.	Songs—The Zoo, Circus Day, the Circus, The Clown,

7.	Physical Exercises—games and stunts

a.	Marching by the whole class

b.	A dance for the Circus (for a girl and boy)

c.	Clown Stunts: leap frog, cart wheel, puppy dog walk, hand spring, somersault, wheelbarrow, logs, jumping rope, teeter, heel exercise—comical acts by two or three.

d.	Small bears and big bears to walk around on the ground (two pairs each)

e.	Lions roaring, scratching, clawing on ground

f.	Monkeys—tricks on iron bars.

g.	Horses—galloping, trotting, walking, marching, racing around the ring

h.	Camels—slow steps

i.	Elephants—lifting one paw at a time, waving trunk

from side to side

j.	Acrobats on trapeze—various simple stunts, jumping,

rolling etc.

k.	Innumerable animals of all sizes doing stunts.

8.	Hand Work

a.	Building of seats, drawing, painting of animals etc.

b.	Costumes for all the circus performers, animals etc.

c.	Free cutting of balloons, animals, color of all variety to be used.

d.	Posters

9.	Geography

a.	Homes of various animals

b.	Kind of climate suitable for each

c.	Food

etc.

Digitized by

Google
369

10.	Materials

a.	Blocks for seats

b.	Cardboard for making ticket office, animals, and actors for the show

c.	Paper dolls—cut out from fashion books for the spectators

d.	Wood for tent stands, cages, etc.

e.	Paper for tent, signs, costumes etc.

f.	Nails for nailing wheelbarrow on the cages.

g.	Spools

h.	Saw dust for the ring

i.	U. S. Flag

j.	Thread for the ropes and trapezes

k.	Crayons—paste, tacks, clay, (used for the bases for the animals to stand on.)

l.	Paint for cages.

11.	Results.

Good habits gained through project—cleanliness, neatness, politeness, cooperation, friendly attitude toward teachers, love for reading, interest in books, games and stunts learned, better knowledge of the animals, appreciation of animals.

ANNUAL FIELD DAY

A Project for a School

Annual Field Day:

Our School has one each May. The pupils are divided for comtetition into three groups (Grades 1, 2, 3, Grades 4, 6, 5, Grades 7,8). Classroom work is suspended at 12:30. Teachers and interested parents act as starters, judges and other officials. The events include the following: Potato races (15 yards), 25 yard dashes, gunny sack races, three-legged races, baseball throw for distance and accuracy, overhead farthrow, free-style farthrow, basketball goal throw, class relay races. Except for a few mixed relay races, girls compete with girls only and boys with boys.

Practice for the events begins as soon as the complete program is announced. Class room prizes of pictures, vases or cups are given by the Parent-Teachers Association.

(To be continued)

Digitized by
+

370

Gymnasium and playground

APPARATUS EXERCISES For Men, Women, Seniors and Juniors FOR THE 34th NATIONAL GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAN TURNERBUND To Be Held In Buffalo, N. Y., June 24th to 29th, 1930. Prepared by the National Technical Committee.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR MEN LOWER GRADE

ACTIVES Horizontal Bar

From a side stand under the bar, jump to hang with upper grip:

1.	Hip swing up to support frontways;

2.	Lower body backward and under-swing

3.	At the end of the next forward swing, half turn left around the left arm, taking upper grip with right hand (mixed grip);

4.	Knee-swing-up right outside of right hand;

5.	Change grip of right hand to under-grip, outside of right leg, to stride support between arms;

6.	Crotch circle forward and

7.	Immediately leg swing dismount over bar with one-quarter turn right to cross stand sideways.

Parallel Bar

From an outer cross stand frontways, grip on end of bars:

1.	Jump to support with swinging left leg forward under left hand (cut), and at once

2.	Cut-off right backward under right hand to stand.

3.	Jump to hand-hang-kipping position, and kip to straddle seat in front of hands;

4.	Grasp far forward and lower to upperarm-hang;

5.	Close legs, swing forward; high backward swing;

6.	Swing forward and kip to outer cross seat in front of left hand.

7.	With grip of the right hand on the right bar, the left arm is extended backward, rear vault, dismount right to cross stand sideways, regrasping with left hand. (Fencer’s rear vault.)

Digitized by L^ooQle
371

Long Horse

From a cross stand frontways with running start, straddle vault forward, support on neck to cross stand rearways.

INTERMEDIATE GRADE

Horizontal Bar

From a sidestand under the bar:

1.	Jump to hand hang with upper grip, free hip swing-up to free support, free hip swing over to long swing;

2.	At the end of the forward swing kip to support and

3.	Hip circle forward;

4.	Underswing and swing-rise to free support and

5.	Free hip-circle backward to sidestand frontways.

Parallel Bar

From outer cross stand frontways, grip on end of bars;

1.	Jump to support with swinging left leg forward under left hand (cut) swing right leg between bars to balance support;

2.	Drop backward to hand-hang kipping position and kip to support;

3.	Dip-swing forward with hand-jumping forward to straight arm support;

4.	Swing backward to upperarm stand;

5.	Roll forward (body straight) to upperarm hang and swing-rise at the end of the backward swing to support;

6.	Cut (leg swing without sliding) left leg forward under left hand on the forward swing, to outer cross seat in front of right hand;

7.	With grip of the left hand on the left bar, the right arm is extended backward, Fencer’s flank to front vault dismount, with regrasping of left hand. (A flank vault with an additional quarter turn.)

Long Horse

Fron a cross stand frontways with a running start, straddle vault forward with double support (first on croup then on neck) to a cross stand rearways.

UPPER GRADE

Horizontal Bar

From a sidestand:

1.	Jump to a hang with upper grip, Pendulum swing, free hip-swing up to free support; free hip-swing over to long swing and

2.	Giant-swing backward twice, and

3.	Tum-swing-rise with changing both hands to upper grip.

Digitized by boogie
372

Note:—After the second giant-swing grasp with the left hand over the right to cross-grip, and after the turnswing-rise change to upper grip.

4.	Free hip circle backward;

5.	Underswing with immediate hang-turn left, at the end of the forward swing change right hand to under grip;

6.	Swing-rise with changing hands to upper grip;

7.	Drop to hand hang lap position and kip to support;

8.	Hip circle forward and high front vault dismount to cross stand sideways.

Parallel Bar

From a cross stand frontways, grip on end of bars:

1.	Straddle vault mount forward (cut) over both bars to momentary balance support;

2.	Swing backward to handstand;

3.	Dip-swing forward with hand-jumping, straighten arms at the end of the forward swing;

4.	Swing backward, dip-swing forward again with handjumping and support-turn (Stuetzkehre) to straight arm support;

5.	Swing backward to upper arm stand;

6.	Roll forward to upper arm hang swinging;

7.	Roll backward to support;

8.	Drop to upper arm hang kip position and kip to support, swing backward with changing right hand to reversed-grip;

9.	Swing forward and double-rear vault dismount backward to cross stand sideways.

Note:—The body must be kept close to the right arm, which alone supports the body during the turning.

Long Horse

From a (toss stand frontways with a running start:

1.	Squat-vault with double support to cross stand rearways. Support first on croup then on neck.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR WOMEN

Parallel Bar Low

From a cross stand frontways at end of bar, grasp bars with outer grip:

1.	Fall backward to an inverted balance hang and with the swing backward straddle legs sideward and swing up to a straddle seat in front of hands (kip to straddle seat);

2.	Grasp forward with both hands and raise to an upper arm stand;

3.	With bent hips roll forward to an outer cross seat in front of right hand;

4.	Swing between the bars and at end of backward swing, squat mount right in rear of hand, the left leg swinging forward between bars.

Digitized by v^ooQle
373

5.	Swing left leg backward between bars and scissors turning left to a straddle seat in front of hands.

6.	Grasp forward close feet and intermediate swing; on end of backward swing front vault left with half turn; left (front to a rear vault) to a cross stand left sideways, left hand regrasping bar.

Side Horse

From a side stand frontways, grasp pommels outer grip:

1.	Jump to support and fore-swing left (feinting left) change right hand to inner grip;

2.	Return swing left to support frontways, circle right leg over croup and saddle with half turn left about the right arm, placing the left hand on croup to a momentary balance support over right arm;

3.	Continued with quarter turn about the right arm, releasing the left hand, swinging the. left leg backward under the left hand to a riding seat in the saddle.

4.	With upper grip of hands on front pommel swing both legs backward to support lying frontways;

5.	Release left hand to grip on left pommel, quarter turn left about the right arm, dropping legs to support frontways immediately.

6.	Leg swing right forward under right hand,

7.	Fore swing left (feint left) to balance support over left arm;

8.	Leg swing right backward under right hand. Return swing left to support frontways and immediately wolf vault dismount forward (squatting left leg, left knee sharply bent) through the saddle, with the right leg extended sideward to a sidestand, rearways.

Note:—Movements 2 and 3 are continuous.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR THE SENIORS

Parallel Bar Low

From an inner cross stand, grasp bars outer grip:

1.	Jump to support, swing forward and backward;

2.	At the end of the backward swing, leg swing right to momentary riding seat in rear of right hand, the left leg continues forward between bars and over the right bar to an outer cross seat in front of right hand (the right hand is released and the arm is extended backward):

3.	Half turn left the right leg swinging forward and between the bars, the right hand grasping the left bar upper grip (the left hand regrasps the other bar behind left thigh), to a momentary riding seat, swing left leg to the right and swing forward;

4.	Swing backward and scissors with half turn right to straddle seat in front of hands;

5.	Intermediate swing and rear vault, dismount left with quarter turn right to a side stand frontways.

Digitized by Google
374

Side Horse

Sidestand frontways, outer grip on pommels:

1.	Jump to support, fore swing left and return (feint left and return) ;

2.	Leg swing right forward under right hand and return;

3.	Leg swing left forward under left hand with quarter turn right to riding seat in saddle;

4.	Upper grip on right pommel, scissors backward with quarter turn left to stride support (right leg forward, left backward);

5.	Leg swing right backward under right hand to sidestand frontways at saddle;

6.	Flank vault left to sidestand rearways.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR JUNIORS

Horizontal Bar

From a sidestand under the bar:

1.	Jump to hang with upper grip;

2.	Underswing, knee-swing-up right forward (left) outside of hand;

3.	Leg-swing right backward under right hand to support frontways;

4.	Underswing and kip to support;

5.	Hip circle backward;

6.	Underswing to sidestand rearways.

Parallel Bar

From a cross stand frontways with a running start:

1.	Jump to upper arm hang, in middle of bar, swing forward and backward and swing-rise at the end of the backward swing to straddle seat in rear of hands;

2.	Raise to an upper arm stand;

3.	Roll forward with bent hips, to upper arm hang on the next forward swing;

4.	Kip to support;

5.	Swing forward, place left leg over left bar in front of left hand, swing right leg backward (between bars) both hands on right bar and circle the right leg with a whole turn right on left thigh.

6.	Regrasping bars with right and left hand. Continue the swing with the right leg and another one-half turn right immediately rear vault dismount left to cross stand sideways, right hand regrasps right bar.

Tumbling

With a running start, round off, (cartwheel with half turn), and roll backward with a push up to a momentary handstand. Lower to stand, roll backward to sitting and then lying position rearways, place hands near shoulders and snap-up to stand. A short run and hand spring forward to stand.

Digitized by Google
375

* i	-	'	. -i. ■ i

News, notes and comments

SOME IMPORTANT DATES.

February 22 to 27, 1930— Annual Convention of the Department

of Superintendence of the National Education Association—Atlantic City, N. J.

April 2-5, 1930	— National Convention, American Physic-

al Education Association, Boston, Mass.

June 28-July 4, 1930	—National Convention, National Educa-

tion Association—Columbus, O.

Physical Education conventions are to be held as follows: National Convention, Boston, Mass., April 1-5, 1930, Mid-West District Convention, Milwaukee, Wis., Spring, 1930, Southern District Convention, Birmingham, Ala., March 12-15, 1930.

The 34th national festival of the American Tumerbund will be held at Buffalo, N. Y. June 24 to 29, 1930.

This will be the greatest physical training demonstration of the year. Every teacher who can do so should attend this festival to see the inspiring work of great masses of men, women, boys and girls.

Dr. Vincent Retires as President of Rockefeller Foundation.—At a meeting of the trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation, November 13, Max Mason, Ph. D., formerly president of the University of Chicago, was elected president of the foundation to succeed George E. Vincent, Ph. D., who retired January 1, 1930, having reached the age limit. Dr. Vincent has been president of the foundation since May 15, 1917. Dr. Mason was assistant professor of mathematics at Yale, 1904-1908, and professor of mathematical physics at the University of Wisconsin from 1908 to 1925.

Rare Manuscript Presented to Congressional Library.—

A rare fourteenth century manuscript of the Chirurgia Magna, the medical work of Bruno of Longoburgo, Italy, has been presented to the library of Congress by Judge Nippert of Cincinnati. It comes to the library through the interest of Dr. Otto H. F. Vollbehr of Berlin, who has made a number of notable gifts to the library of Congress. Bruno, the author, while practicing in Padua in 1252 finished the Chirurgia Magna, which is a compilation made at the request of his friend, Andrew of Vincenza.

Digitized by L^ooQie
376

Bruno, like others of his time, experimented with anesthetics; he was among the first to speak of wounds as healing by first or second intention, and was one of the first to mention a third form of bleeding, the capillary.

Iodine.—The Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science is conducting an investigation in cooperation with the Mellon Institute of Pittsburgh to develop a practical means of retaining the antiseptic properties of iodine for local application in a vehicle which is less irritating than the present tincture of iodine.

Health Center Given To Milwaukee.—The trustees of the Matthew Keenan estate have given to the city of Milwaukee a site and $150,000 for a health center building, which will be erected at Thirty-Sixth Street and Auer Avenue to care for the health needs of the northwest part of the city. It will house clinics and health education activities, in addition to various divisions of the central health department. The late Matthew Keenan, who was engaged in business in Milwaukee, held many positions of trust in the community; he was a regent of the University of Wisconsin and trustee of the city library. Milwaukee has two district health centers. The southside center will be housed in the new Johnston Emergency Hospital which is being constructed at Grant Street and Windlake and Eighth avenues.

Increase in Life Expectancy.—During the last quarter of a century from ten to twelve years have been added to the average expectancy of life. This statement, which is often made, is usually misunderstood. It does not mean that ten years have been added to the expectancy of life at all ages, but simply that ten years have been added to the average expectancy, which is very different indeed. This increase in the average expectancy of life is due almost entirely to a greatly diminished mortality rate during the first few years of life, so that a much larger proportion of individuals live to adult age. In fact, there has been practically no increase in life expectancy of those 50 years of age or over.

Proposed Definition of Fruit Juices.—The food, drug, and insecticide administration of the U. S. Department of Agriculture has proposed tentative definitions of fruit juices, grape juice and orange juice. Criticism and suggestions regarding them are invited from all interested parties. Communications should be addressed to A. S. Mitchell, secretary, food standards committee, department of agriculture, Washington, D. C. not later than February 1. Fruit juices, according to the proposed definition, “are the clean, unfermented juices obtained from the first pressing of sound, mature, fresh fruits, or of their pulp, and correspond in name to the fruit from which they are obtained.”

Digitized by {^.ooQle
377

Forty-Eight Centenarians Among 90,000 Deceased.—

Among 90,192 persons who died in Illinois last year were only forty-eight who had reached the age of 100 years—approximately one in 2,000. The same number of centenarians died in Illinois in 1923, but in 1928 there were only thirty-seven centenarians who died. The state health department says that “seeing 90” is much more popular, as 1,195 were at least that age among those who died in the state last year, and 770 of these were women. Every person in the state, the commissioner said, who is old enough to read has one chance in 100 of reaching the age of 90; one chance in ten of living to be 80 years of age, and one chance in three of living to be 70 years of age. The first year of life is one of the most hazardous and 8,333 children less than 1 year old died dining 1928. These together with persons over 70 years of age (23,709) accounted for more than 35 per cent of the total mortality.

Malaria Seems to Be Increasing.—Studies made by the U. S. Public Health Service indicate that malaria in the last two years has increased in amount and in severity in the southern states. While the malaria rate has been steadily falling for years, the reduction was not great in 1925, was not at all apparent in 1926, and in the two following years there was an upward trend. In some states, the death rates are said to have risen sharply. A few circumscribed epidemics have occurred; severe forms of malaria have suddenly appeared here and there, and several deaths from acute malaria nave been reported. Most of the malaria control work has been done in cities, but malaria has always been heaviest in rural districts. Among the methods used in control work now is the distribution of paris green in the form of a dust as a larvicide. An outfit for dusting can be carried along with an outboard motor in a light motor car and can be set up by one man in a light row boat. The dust gun creates a cloud of

Earis green and hydrated lime which drifts in the wind and has een known to kill larvae at a distance of more than 600 feet. One person using this outfit and a few laborers with hand power knapsack dust guns can prevent the production of mosquitoes from all or nearly all of the producing areas in a county at cost within the reach of most communities.

Neuralgia and Myalgia Caused by Chilling During Sleep: Its Prevention.—Beyer, Munich, asserts that neuralgia and myalgia are most easily cntracted when the body is at rest, especially during sleep. The blood pressure, the pulse rate and the oxygen intake are considerably reduced during sleep. If a person is not sufficiently protected against drafts or cold or if a part of the body becomes uncovered, the chilling usually leads to neuralgia or myalgia. To prevent these conditions care should be taken that the sleeping room is well ventilated. Drafts are to

Digitized by t^iOOQle
378

be avoided. The authors points out that nightdresses often do not cover the body sufficiently. Especially during the colder seasons, the bedcovers as well as the nightdresses should be heavy enough to prevent chilling.

Blind Masseurs

Mr. J. Cohen has been seeking in Belgium the approval of eminent medical men in the four Belgian universities of a plan to establish in Belgium: (1) a central school, under the approval, authority and direction of the state and of competent members of the medical profession, for furnishing complete instruction in massage to blind persons—men and women judiciously selected; (2) an advanced diploma, the same for all of Belgium, to be delivered to the blind and to persons who can see, pupils of the school mentioned who have pursued the courses with profit and obtained grades of at least 50 at an examination officially organized, before a board composed of representatives of the various administrations concerned, and (3) an association of certificated blind mas-suers similar to the association existing at present in England, the

Eurpose of which is the supervision of its members—tbeir well-eing, and the defense of their general interests.

At present, the National Institute for the Blind Association of Certificated Blind Masseurs gives in England entire satisfaction to the medical profession and the general public, by assuring the training of blind masseurs who are competent and reliable.

It is to be hoped that the campaign undertaken by Mr. Cohen from altruistic motives will meet the approval of the public authorities. Such an institution would convert a number of blind persons into useful and independent citizens, and would diminish, at the same time, the financial and social burdens of the state and the communes.

Detroit's Standard for Swimming Pools.—Several years' experience in classifying swimming pools by their sanitary condition has led the Detroit department of health to adopt a new standard based on the bacterial analysis of the swimming pool water. The sanitary standard was based on the condition of the best operated pools, but it has become evident to the health department that this standard was unsatisfactory. Any method adopted should reflect the possible danger which the bather assumes when he uses the pool. It seems, therfore, that the use of B. coli as an index to pollution would be satisfactory, on the assumption that when a number of persons use the pool the water will become contaminated with these organisms. The department will therefore base the sanitary standing of any pool on two things: (1) the percentage of total bacterial counts which shall exceed 200 per cubic centimeter sample of water, and (2) the percentage of 10 cc. portions of water examined which are found

Digitized by Google
379

positive for B. coli. The method followed is to take the percentage of the number of samples showing total bacterial counts in excess of 200 and the percentage of the 10 cc. portions of water which are positive for B. coli in any series of samples and to average them arithmetically. The average figure will then be subtracted from 100 and the result will be called the sanitary rating of a particular pool for the period covered by the series of sam-

Eles. The average of the percentage of the samples showing total acterial counts above 200 and the percentage of the 10 cc. portions positive for B. coli should not exceed 10 per cent. A point adopted in order to eliminate the possibility of a swimming pool operator confusing the result obtained with a 100 per cent perfect grade is to move the decimal point from the resulting sanitary rating, thus making a perfect sanitary rating of 100 appear as 1,000. Detroit chooses to include as a satisfactory sanitary standard all pools thus rated as 900 or more.

Occurrence and Treatment of Tears in Adductor Muscles in Swimmers.—Blencke reports three cases in which breaststroke swimmers suffered tears in the adductor muscles on the medial side of the thigh. The first observation was made by the author on himself, and later he noticed this typical sport accident in two other swimmers. Such muscle tears can be traced to two factors: the legs are forced together vigorously against the resistance of the water and the body temperature is lowered. As the best therapy the author advises vibratory massage and the application of heat in the form of hot air or diathermy.

A National Campaign Against Rheumatism

A new association having for its object an organized campaign against rheumatic diseases has been inaugurated under the title of the National Association for Combating Rheumatism. At the first meeting, letters of approval were received from the chief medical officer of the ministry of health and from others. The crippling effect of rheumatic diseases on a large section of the community, and the important part played in producing sickness and suffering were emphasized. Those responsible for starting the campaign think that it is high time to make a concerted effort to deal with the problem in all its aspects. About one sixth of the total invalidity of the country can be charged to diseases commonly classed as ‘rheumatic”; they are responsible for the loss of three million weeks of labor and for the payment of about ten million dollars in sick benefit annually. At present there are treatment facilities for only a minority of sufferers. Since the causes of these conditions are still obscure, adequate facilities for research as well as for treatment should be provided. The association proposes to educate medical opinion on the early diagnosis and the importance of continuous treatment. The

Digitized by LjOOQle
380

public is to be told of the value of further research while efforts directed toward prevention are considered essential. A system of following up cases is to be organized, and efficient home treatment should be carried out. Bound up with this is advice about suitability of occupation, in which employers of labor might well be invited to interest themselves. Climatic and occupational factors are to be carefully studied, and research will not be confined to the laboratory. Cooperation is required between the laboratory worker, the clinician, the biochemist and the radiologist; social workers also should be interested in the campaign. It is hoped that a system of uniform reporting of results will be arrived at; this would certainly aid the collection of statistics and enable the value of various forms of treatment to be assessed. Another proposal is the establishment of treatment centers.

Creation of an Institute of Physical Education at the Universities of Nancy and Toulouse, France

A recent decree of the president of the republic gives official sanction to the decisions of the council of the University of Nancy and of that of the University of Toulouse, looking toward the creation of an institute of physical education. These will be the first institutions of the kind to be organized in a faculty of medicine. They will contain: (1) a center of instruction in physical education and its applications, designed, on the one hand, for physicians and students; on the other hand, for representatives of primary and secondary instruction; for leaders of societies of physical education and athletic associations; for candidates for the certificate showing qualifications for instruction in gymnastics (elementary and higher degrees). The instruction will be both theoretical and practical. It will comprise theoretical and technic courses and lectures and practical exercises; (2) a center of studies and scientific and esthetic researches in physical education. The institute will be administered under the authority of an administrative council, by a director, who will be the professor, the agrege or the charge de cours in physical education and sport at the faculty of medicine. The courses and the theoretical and technical lectures and the practical exercises will be divided into four sections: (1) instruction open only to physicians and students of medicine having at least four credits, who wish to improve their knowledge of physical education; (2) intruction designed for candidates for the certificate showing preparation for instruction in gymnastics (elementary and higher degrees); (3) instruction serving as postgraduate courses for the professors of physical education at the University of Nancy, ana (4) instruction designed for the leaders of societies of physical education and of athletic associations.

It appears that medical circles are being bombarded by new books and periodicals fully as much as teachers. The following

Digitized by t^ooQle
381

note was taken from a recent issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association:

The Quarterly Cumulative Index Medicus.— The curse of recent medicine is the gigantic, senseless proliferation and prolixity of its periodical literature. It has been the despair of librarians, the enslaver of indexers, the nightmare of classifiers, the bugbear of editors, and, even in Dr. Fletcher’s time, was the occasion of his celebrated witticism: “The whole world is in a conspiracy against medical bibliographers.”

A New Theory of the Peril of Surf Bathing

A hitherto unsuspected peril of surf bathing, which cost the lives of two brothers at Newquay, is suggested by the theory that water when churned up loses its buoyancy on account of the air bubbles. The supporters of this theory say that a surf bather, although a good swimmer, would be almost powerless when caught in an eddy or overcome by a large wave when in areated water. Dr. John S. Owens, consulting engineer, who is believed to be the first man to point out this loss of buoyancy in areated water, says in the press: “I believe that the reason why no one has been able to swim the rapids below Niagara Falls is that the water is churned up like surf. If you look into the rapids from above you will see that the water is full of air bubbles. There is very little difference between the specific gravity of the human body and water. If the density of the water is reduced, as it would be by the presence of air, the body would sink.”

Abuses in the Beauty Trade.—The division of legal medicine of the city health department in New York has since 1925 been investigating abuses in the beauty trade. Many beauty shops have been operating illegally and some physicians, the health commissioner says, have been discovered who advertise in beauty shops under a split fee arrangement. Nine varieties of lip stick which had been picked at random from the ninety odd varieties on the market were found to contain benzene, a poison irritating to the skin. There are said to be about 1,500 beauty parlors in the borough of Manhattan alone, about 150 of which could not be found at the address and about 500 of which were operating without a permit. The latter were made to comply with the law and a large number of cosmetics found to be poisonous were withdrawn from the market.

Roentgen Rays and Fractures.—Modern medicine is becoming more a science and less of an art. The refinements of the roentgen-ray technic are bringing the reduction of fractures to the scientific basis. Where modem transportation can make roentgen rays immediately available, exact diagnosis of the fracture is essential before efforts are made at reduction. Fluroscopic examination during the efforts at reduction is modem technic.

Digitized by LjOOQle
382

When fixation is applied, a check-up picture is necessary as a permanent tangible record. Failure to obtain and retain this visible record makes many a medicolegal tangle most serious.

During a recent meeting at Geneva, Switzerland, the directors of the International Y. M. C. A. decided to hold a convention of its members at Berlin, Germany, in August 1930. The meetings are to be held in the University for Physical Education.

The new sports director of France intends to organize district committees who are to encourage and manage sectional meets for boys from 14 to 18 years of age. Director Pathe wishes to have a representative of each city, of the teachers and of the physicians as members of the district committees.

Sportsdirector Henry Pathe has an item of 3 million Francs in the 1930 French budget. This sum is to be used to enlarge and equip school playgrounds. These grounds are to be at the disposal of physical education societies and sport clubs.

The societies grouped in Germany under the name “Native friends” own 241 buildings in different parts of the country that are used as vacation homes or as rest cottages when tramping. During the year 1928 these buildings were used by more than

50,000	people.

Beuthen, Germany has bought an omnibus accommodating 50 children that is used in connection with the outings of school children. A daily schedule permits several classes daily to use this conveyance to bring children out in the open air.

The German Medical Weekly contains an article by Dr. H. Runge, of Kiel in which he reports upon the effects of physical training upon menstruation of women entered in courses for physical education and sports. Approximately 85 per cent of those under observation were benefitted by the work, while 15 per cent had increased pains. The physician says that there is no need for an absolute prohibition of vigorous bodily exercise for all women; what is needed is a wise supervision of those who are not benefitted by exercise.

Dr. Eckhardt of Berlin has a report in a recent issue of "Advances in Health Education” relative to the value of physical training in Homes for crippled children. All institutions, says he, that have physical training have demonstrated the fact that this training first has increased the functions still retained by the inmates, and second has made it easier to train compensatory functions for those lost. Experiments have shown that training cripples for a manual trade, and also physical training, including appropriate sports have had a beneficial effect.

Digitized by t^ooQle
388

“Sporting Life, an English publication, states that an increased interest in tennis has caused such a demand for tennis raquets that the manufacture of sausages has decreased because manufacturers can no longer get sufficient sheep casings, these now being used for stringing raquets. It is further stated that the manufacturers of music strings are also experiencing trouble in finding sufficient first class material.

National Institute of Psychology Incorporated.—This organization has been incorporated in Washington by Dr. Hugh

S.	Cumming, surgeon general, U. S. Public Health Service; Knight Dunlap, Ph. D., Hopkins University, Baltimore, and Edwin E. Slosson, Ph. D., of Science Service. The object, the Washington Star says, is to found a national psychologic laboratory, similar in some of its functions to the bureau of standards, but not under federal control, to undertake programs of research too lengthy and complicated for other institutions. The institute desires to locate in Washington because of the exceptional facilities for research and the opportunities to cooperate with universities and other organizations. The active members include about fifty experimental psychologists. The financial plans are incomplete.

Poisoning from Polish Used on Table Silver.—This year a group of persons became seriously ill after dining in an upstate hotel and investigations showed that their illness was due to cyanide poisoning caused by “a silver dip” used to clean the table silver. Since then other cases have been traced to the use of the same silver dip. The state health department conducted a careful investigation which established that these illnesses were really due to cyanide in the silver polish. At a recent meeting of the state health council, over which the commissioner of health presided, a resolution was adopted requesting the health commissioner of New York City to draft regulations to prohibit the use of silver polish containing cyanide as well as to prohibit its manufacture there for use in other parts of the state.

Influenza Epidemic aand Longevity.—The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has constructed a table to show the effect the epidemic of influenza in 1918 would have on the longevity of the population if it persisted. The table, published in the Statistical	Bulletin,shows that	if the epidemic was a constant

situation white males might expect a mean length of life of 47.1 and white females of 50.2 years. The mortality such as existed in 1918 if continued over a series of years, it is said, would have represented a shortening of life by at least nine years as compared with conditions current at that time. The normal expectation of life in 1901 was 48.2 for white males and 51.1 years for white females.

Digitized by ^ooQle
384

► , , , ,, Health education notes

SICKNESS IN POVERTY

The impression prevails among practicing physicians that sickness is most common among those least able to afford it. Scientific and statistical confirmation of this belief is available in the latest report of the morbidity studies of the Public Health Service at Hagerstown, Md. Some 1,800 households visited in 1921 were classified according to economic status. The classification was checked by ten members of the research staff. Other members proceeded, during the following twenty-eight months, to make an inventory of all sickness occurring in these households. The illness rates, corrected for age, during this period were as follows: well-to-do, 991 per thousand; moderate, 1,068; and poor, 1,113. Analysis by age groups shows that these differences tend to disappear in adolescence and old age, being most marked in middle age. In early infancy the order of morbidity is reversed, the children of the wealthier parents suffering more sickness than those of the poor. A satisfactory explanation is not offered for this observation. From a study of the printed curves one gains the impression that it is a distinct advantage to be able to treat with proper respect and leisurely convalescence the acute disabilities of middle age, such as rheumatic, influenzal and respiratory infections. One aspect of the study gave quite definite results: “Those families which were definitely above the average of this community in economic condition had medical attention to a considerably greater extent than the remainder of the population.”

Building for Institute of Human Relations.—Yale University, New Haven, announces that construction of the building for the Institute of Human Relations was undertaken, September 30. A recent gift of $500,000 from the General Education Board, New York, makes a total of $2,000,000 available for the construction. A unique feature of the institute is to be a residential unit for the study of child development; other units will comprise a residential and treatment unit for the study of mental diseases, laboratories for psychologic investigations and facilities for research in sociology. The building will adjoin the Sterling Hall of Medicine. More than thirty rooms on the first floor will be for social science research. In the section on psychology, there will be shops, sound proof rooms, dark rooms, projecting rooms, optical rooms, and laboratories for the measurement of the reactions of the human brain. While therapy will be included, it will not be the primary purpose of the department of mental hygiene and psychiatry. Its objective will be the study of the natural history of mental diseases in order to determine their origin. The indi-

Digitized by v^ooQle
385

viduals selected for observation will include some who are normal and some who are abnormal mentally, and even some of a higher type of mentality than the average. This unit will have forty private rooms, several small wards, a gymnasium, eight sitting rooms, and hydrotherapy and occupational therapy rooms. The unit devoted to research in child development will resemble as much as possible a private residence; it will have a large nursery with a concealed observation room for parents and staff members, a wading pool, garden, photographic laboratory and mothers’ rest room and examining, research and seminar rooms. The Institute of Human Relations building will be one of the human welfare group. Here man as a whole will be studied scientifically, from the mental and social as well as the physical point of view. On completion of the Institute of Human Relations building, there will be four units to be erected before the human welfare group is complete. These will be the isolation pavilion, the surgical pavilion, the women’s pavilion and the semiprivate pavilion extension.

Pernicious Anemia as Deficiency Disease.—It seems, says West, that there is a substance free in liver, and freed by gastric digestion in meats and probably other foodstuffs, which is necessary for the formation of adult red blood cells, and that the lack of this substance as the result of faulty gastric digestion gives rise to the picture of pernicious anemia.

Danger from Exhaust Gases to Occupants of Automobiles

The Zeitechrift fuer Hygiene carries an article by Engineer Pilaar on the results of his studies on the dangers from exhaust-gases of automobiles, and, particularly, autobuses, to the occupants of such vehicles. Pilaar reaches the conclusion that the exhaust gases of autobuses may be the cause of chronic and, under certain conditions, of even acute poisoning. Many other dangerous factors enter into the problem, such as the close atmosphere found, especially in winter, in a crowded autobus with poor ventilation. Another harmful factor is the shaking of the omnibuses, particularly on the rear seats, where often the carbon monoxide content of the air is greatest. These dangers are present not only in the old small type of Ford autobus but also in the most modem autobuses of the largest companies. In the main, too, the public appears to be ignorant of the poisonous nature of the exhaust gases. The protection of the public is a matter of general interest. In autobuses, therefore, the following improvements are greatly needed: (1) a better ventilation and (2) the introduction of the vertical exhaust sytem. The latter measure will improve, at the same time, the hygienic condition of the streets.

Digitized by LjOOQle
386

The Most Dangerous Thing for Pedestrians.—Automobile accidents in the United States last year, the National Safety Council estimates, killed 27,500 people. E. E. Free, Ph. D., in the Week's Science, says that this represents the largest automobile death rate in any important country of the world. Automobile deaths in proportion to the population have doubled since 1920, but the deaths in porportion to the number of automobiles in use have decreased about one third in the same period. About six tenths of the automobile deaths in the United States, he said, are caused by automobiles striking pedestrians. Less than two tenths of the deaths are due to automobiles colliding with each other. A study of these accidents shows that the most dangerous thing that a pedestrian can do is to cross a street in the middle of the block, arid the most dangerous thing a child can do is to play in the street. In more than nine tenths of the reported accidents, both the driver and the pedestrian were apparently in normal condition; only about 3 per cent of the drivers were intoxicated and about half as many pedestrians.

Physicians Examine Pupils Free.—Dentists Are Paid.—

The Sedgwick County Medical Society, Wichita, appointed a committee to work out a plan for the physical examination of pupils in the Wichita schools, some 3,000 of whom have been examined annually without charge so that those physically fit might enroll in the gymnasium classes. When the work was about half completed this year the physicians stopped making examinations until a plan satisfactory to both the society and the city could be arranged. It was pointed out that while the physicians had been doing this work without charge, the* dentists of the community were being paid for their services to school children. Members of the medical society agreed to finish making the examination this year in the hope that the committee and the board of education would reach a more equitable settlement of the matter for next year.

Anniversary of Mental Hygiene Movement.—The twentieth anniversary of the mental hygiene movement was celebrated at a dinner in New York, November 1, at which Dr. William H. Welch of Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, presided, as honorary president of the National Committee. The president of Yale University, James R. Angell, spoke on “Mental Hygiene in the College and the University”; Dr. William A. White, superintendent, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Washington, D. C., reviewed the twenty years’ work and discussed the coming International Congress on Mental Hygiene, which will be held in Washington next May. Other speakers were the medical director of the national committee, Dr. Frankwood E. Williams, and Mr. Clifford W. Beers, the secretary. The movement to prevent mental illness is said to have started in a state society formed in Connecticut, and Mr. Beers is credited with founding the movement which has been ex-

Digitized by v^ooQle
387

tended throughout the United States and into foreign countries. Soon after his own recovery in 1903, Mr. Beers dedicated his life to the cause of mental hygiene. His first step was the writing of an autobiography entitled "A Mind That Found Itself.” He next, according to the New York Times, was instrumental in founding the Connecticut Society for Mental Hygiene in 1908. On Feb. 19, 1909, the National Committee for Mental Hygiene was formally launched with the late Dr. Henry B. Favill of Chicago as president and Mr. Beers as secretary- The committee was able to secure the cooperation of distinguished men and women and later to obtain financial help from some of the foundations. Speaking of the beginning of the mental hygiene movement, Dr. White said:

For a hundred years patients had been leaving our public institutions for mental disease with a sense that if they had gotten well they did not owe it to the way they had been treated. But it was given to only one man who had had similar experiences to have these memories of his treatment strike deep to the very core of his being, and there they took root and grew and produced the fruit which is now the mental hygiene movement. He had been outraged like others had been, but by some strange alchemy these outrages did not have the same effect. They stirred him to creative activity. They stimulated him to try to find the reason for it all. The genius—and I use that word advisedly— whose mind among a million saw opportunity where no one else had seen it for a century, that genius I do not need to name in this assembly. But lest there should be some strangers amongst us who have no inkling of the lifetime of sacrifice to this ideal which has brought about the results which I have only just intimated, I shall speak more fully. That genius is Mr. Clifford

W.	Beers.

Noise Etiquette.—The Noise Abatement Commission is studying the problem of the effects of noise on health and happiness. It will probably be some time before their report will be submitted. In the meantime the health commissioner believes that many bothersome noises can be abated at once if the citizens will follow a code of noise etiquette. He makes the following suggestions:

For Radio Owners

1.	Don’t let the loud speakers in shops and dwellings rise above the natural loudness of the human voice. It is as inconsiderate to penetrate into other people’s dwellings and places of business with the magnified tones of radio loud speakers as it would be to enter and shout.

For Automobilists

1.	Look to the brakes on your car—squeaking brakes cause a large share of the complaints received during the year.

2.	Don’t toot the horn unnecessarily. Tooting to attract the attention of your friends in the house is lazy and selfish.

Digitized by L^ooQle
388

Tooting during traffic waits accomplishes nothing, but increases the nervous tension of those waiting in line and irritates every one within ear shot.

3.	Is the muffler loose on your car? The accumulated sound caused by loose mufflers creates much of the unpleasant pounding and jarring of traffic; also causes louder exhaust cut-outs.

4.	Equip all possible trucks with pneumatic tires.

For Office Workers

1.	Make the fullest use of sound-absorbing partitions and screens both to dull the office-caused noise and to absorb street noises.

2.	Put noisy machines where they can least disturb every one concerned and make full use of mats to absorb vibration and of screens and partitions to absorb sound.

3.	Speak directly into the phone—there is no need, then, of speaking so loudly that others in the office have to hear your conversation.

For Householders

1.	Give the children the quietest rooms in which to sleep.

2.	Use sound-absorbing rugs, draperies, screens and selflinings—especially in bedrooms—to overcome noises entering from the outside.

3.	Don’t give parties often enough to get on the neighbor’s nerves.

4.	Don’t indulge in loud music, laughter and conversation after the children have gone to bed unless their rooms are insulated against noise from the rest of the house.

5.	Use shock-absorbing ash cans. A mat of hemp or rubber fixed to the base of the can will take care of this or mats can be placed on the sidewalk to receive the cans.

6.	Dog owners should endeavor to keep their animals quiet.

Yale Appoints a Professor of Psychiatry from Munich.

—President Angell of Yale University announced, November 14, the appointment of Dr. Eugen Kahn of Munich, Germany, as professor of psychiatry and mental hygiene in Yale University, School of Medicine. The Rockefeller Foundation has pledged $100,000 a year for ten years toward a program to develop the study of psychiatry and mental hygiene at Yale. Dr. Kahn’s appointment is among the first in connection with this program. The foundation also is providing funds for the Institute of Human Relations building. The Commonwealth Fund is making an annual allowance of $50,000 for the development of a mental hygiene program. Dr. Kahn for years worked with the late Dr. Emil Kraepelin. When Dr. Kraepelin decided, in 1925, to give his whole time to the German Psychiatric Research Institute in Munich, which he had founded, he left the active direction of the psychiatric and nerve clinics at the University of Munich to Dr. Kahn, who has since been professor there. Dr. Kahn will return to New Haven in March. He will assist in equipping the insti-

Digitized by LjOOQle
389

tute building, which will have facilities for the care of fifty persons, some of whom will be of inferior mentality, and others of average and superior mentality. The keynote of this work is to be the prevention of mental disease by tracing it to the contributing factors'and origins.

Medicinal Tastes in Water Supplies.—For years and especially since the World War, the water supplies of some cities of the midwest and eastern parts of United States have had a medicinal taste and odor. This difficulty has been most noted in the area tributary to the upper portion of the Ohio River, which drains a region having many coal and steel industries. A study of these tastes and odors by the U. S. Public Health Service revealed that they are due to the replacement in the coke industry of the old beehive ovens for burning coke by the modem byproduct plants from which valuable substances are recovered from the gases which formerly went into the atmosphere as waste. The residues from these recovery processes, especially those concerned with the manufacture of ammonia and benzene, contain tar, cresols, phenols and cresotes, which when discharged into streams tributary to water supplies produce characteristic medicinal tastes and odors. Studies by other workers have shown that the oxidation of phenolic waste when mixed in proper proportion with sewage is essentially a biochemical phenomenon. It is believed that the oxidation of phenols in the Ohio River is due to a process of natural biochemical oxidation. The bringing under a large measure of control since the war of the pollution of the Ohio River by phenol waste is said to be one of the bright pages in recent sanitary history. It has been accomplished through the cooperative effort of federal and state governments and industries concerned. Although not completely eliminated, it has been curbed to an extent to justify the expectation that in the near future it will cease to be a major problem along this water way.

FIRST INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON MENTAL

HYGIENE

The First International Congress on Mental Hygiene will be held at Washington, D. C., May 5—10, 1930. This will be a very important event and is significant of the rapidly increasing interest in this field. It is the purpose of the Congress to survey mental hygiene advance throughout the world, and to draft a list of objectives to be sought for in the mental hygiene field in all countries. Among agencies participating in the organization of the Congress are the National Education Association, the U. S. Bureau of Education, the American Child Health Association, and the National Congress of Parents and Teachers .

Among subjects bearing on education listed on the program are the following:

Digitized by Google
390

(a)	Problems presented by children of spetial type: (1) the child with superior intelligence; (2) the neurotic child; (3) the child with sensory and motor defects.

(b)	Special problens of adolescence.

(c)	Value of mental hygiene in the school and classroom: grade school, high school, and college.

NEWS FROM AN OLD FRIEND

The many friends of Dr. Elmer Berry, who for the past two and one-half years has been Director of the International Young Men’s Christian Association School of Physical Education in Switzerland, will be interested to read the following extracts from an interesting letter which was recently written by him.

“You will be glad to know that the third year of our school has opened auspiciously with 21 students enrolled from 12 different countries. There will be several more added at Christmas time. We are now comfortably located at 62 Quai des Eaux-Vives on the shore of Lake Geneva.

“Thanksgiving Day we gave the people here their first view of an American football game, the students from the American “Floating” University being our opponents. Although a number of our team had never before seen an American football game and the group had had only three days of practice, a very good game was played which looked like football, and the players said felt like it. The latter was probably true because the game was played without equipment of any kind.

“Our school is planning a winter sports instruction trip during Christmas vacation to Chateau d’Oex in the Swiss Alps where skiing will be the order of the day.

“During the winter term we are to have experts from the different schools of physical education in Europe with us.”

Announcement of Graduate Research Scholarship in the Field of Women’s Athletics

The Section on Women’s Athletics of the American Physical Education Association has offered to maintain during the year 1930-1931, a graduate scholarship to the amount of $500.00 at some college or university in the United States. Several institutions are being considered as possibilities for the work, but the final selection will depend upon the candidate accepted.

The study will involve a research along the lines of the physiological effects of different types of competition upon girls, and should result in a thesis or publication for the benefit of those interested. It is understood that the holder of this scholarship will devote her full time to this study and will qualify as a candidate for a higher degree if she does not already hold one.

Digitized by v^ooQle
391

An applicant for the scholarship should possess a bachelor’s degree from a recognized college or university. She should have majored in Physical Education either in the institution from which she received her degree, or be a graduate of a normal school of Physical Education. It is recommended that she have a strong science background, some teaching experience, and some training.

Applicants should submit complete information regarding age, education and experience before April 1, 1930 to Florence A. Somers, 79 Washington St., East Orange, N. J. This should include a picture of the candidate, a transcript of her college or university record, and a marked catalogue. She should also give two names for reference concerning her qualifications and indicate her reasons for making application for the scholarship.

BOOK REVIEWS

An Athletic Program for High School and College Women by Marjorie Hillas, M. A., and Marian Knighton, M. A. —9 x 6 inches, 90 pages. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1929. Price $2.00.

Misses Hillas and Knighton, in this volume, have given physical educators a new slant on the place of athletics in the physical education program. They recognize the fact that an after school coaching program is inadequate under present conditions, as comparatively few of the total number of students can be given the opportunity to participate. They aim, therefore, to present a program which makes possible the teaching of the fundamentals of highly organized games, to all students, during regular class periods.

The organization of such a program is based on class division into squads organized according to ability. The authors explain, in detail, the method for teaching a whole class the fundamentals of any sport by means of squad participation in preparatory games. The training and use of student leaders to give additional coaching is advocated.

The material is well organized into a series of programs in which baseball, basketball, hockey, soccer, speedball, and fieldball are treated as separate units. An exhaustive supply of preparatory games, presented progressively, are included in each program in order that the teacher may select activities suitable for squads of varying abilities. A list of suggested achievement tests for the measurement of improvement precede each program.

A chapter on “Play Day Material” gives detailed description of various types of play days which feature preparatory games of all degrees of difficulty.

For teachers who handle classes of moderate size, and who have access to ample space, this book contains extremely valuable material because it is directly applicable. Unfortunately, no pro-

Digitized by LjOOQle
392

vision is made for extremely large classes in very limited space such as is found in the high schools of large cities. However, the principles set forth offer a basis for the modification of the material to fit varying conditions.

Those who are looking for something new in games for the development of the fundamentals of seasonal sports will be glad to find this course of material. Misses Hillas and Knighton have made a real contribution to modem physical education thought and development.

—Martha	Gable

Creative Activities In Physical Education by Olive K. Horrigan. Clothbound, 6x9 1-4 inches, 147 pages. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1929. Price, $2.00.

In “Creative Activities” physical education in the elementary grades is treated in a new and thoroughly stimulating manner. The opening pages seek to convince the reader of the importance and possibility of correlating physical education activities with the entire educational program. The purpose of the volume is to set forth the activities which lend themselves to correlation, plus the method for their presentation.

Miss Horrigan explains the method of correlating physical education activities with music, dramatics, and poetry. Correlation is acieved through the development of activities which grow out of the child’s own response to the rhythm, story, or poem presented by the teacher. Adequate material and helpful suggestions are given to assist the teacher in presenting and developing this type of work. Poems, stories, songs, and titles of musical selections are included to provide a source of appropriate stimuli for the desired creative response.

Games and dances, characteristic of the important races and countries, are presented as a means of correlation between physical education and studies involving racial and geographical fact. Method is so combined with material that a definite concept of procedure is developed.

One is impressed by the deft handling of this rather difficult subject matter, for by adherence to sound educational principle, and the use of logic, the author dispels the usual skepticism with which a new idea is received. The reader finds herself absorbed in a new and refreshing study which appeals because of its practicability.

Teachers of physical education in the elementary schools, who possess a fair degree of imagination, will find this volume a valuable addition in their field, as it is thorough, practical, and entirely comprehensible. And they will find it unique, in that its contents are as delightful as they are valuable.

—Martha A. Gable

•r I