MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	APRIL, 1928 No.	368

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

. .

Original articles and reprint^}

EXTRACTS FROM DR. SCHMIDT’S “PHYSIOLOGY OF

“EXERCISE”.

Translated by William A. Stecher.

The Influence of Bodily Exercise Upon Metabolism.

By means of muscular work, chemical energy that is stored in the muscles is changed into muscular movement and, in connection with the processes immediately following this, into heat.

Even the slightest muscular exertion causes a demonstrable increase in the use of oxygen and in the excretion of carbon dioxide. A computation of the quantity of these gases, and a knowledge of the caloric value of the ingested foods, furnish a definite criterion by means of which the expenditure of energy through muscular work can be 'measured.

The unit of measurement is the calory, that is, the amount of heat that is necessary to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree Celsius. In physiological experiments the “small calory” also is used, that is, the amount of neat necessary to raise one gram of water one degree Celsius.

Note, for the full text, the reader is referred to “ Physiologic der Leibesttbung-en” von Ferdinand August Schmidt, Bonn. Published and copyrighted by R. Voigtlander, Leipzig, Germany.

Digitized by CjOOQle
2

The unit of muscular work is the meter-kilogram, that is, the amount of muscular work necessary to raise one kilogram one meter in height. A calory is the equivalent of 425 mkg., this amount of work (425 mkg.) being the mechanical caloric equivalent. When the degree of metabolism is compared with the amount of work accomplished, it is possible to get an insight into the working economy of the muscles and to find out how much energy was necessary to accomplish the work performed.

A healthy person, doing no hard muscular work, consumes daily for the ordinary functioning of the life processes (keeping the body temperatime at 37 degrees Celsius, respiration, circulation, digestion, etc.) about 2100 calories, equaling an energy output of 892500 mkg.

The medium amount of muscular work performed in 24 hours by a healthy normal individual, can be assumed to be 300000 mkg. To perform this muscular work, Zuntz calculates that an additional amount of energy is needed amounting to 2200 calories, totaling 935000 mkg. of work, and this increased expenditure would have to be added to the other.

If the production of 935000 mkg. through internal energy results in only 300000 mkg. of muscular work, then the bodily mechanism functions at about only one third of its maximum possibilities. In connection with the effect of such sustained work (and the production of 300000 mkg. in 24 hours is this) it must not be overlooked that the muscles of respiration and the heart also greatly increase their function. This function (of heart and lungs) is increased by such endurance work to an extent that equals 15 percent of the work accomplished.

Food is necessary to have the life processes continue to function; first of all to produce the heat necessary, and second, to store up the energy needed for work.

It is assumed that in the production of the necessary energy the different food stuffs are used according to their caloric values. It also is assumed that it is known that the metabolic process is not a simple one, whereby energy is changed into work, but that the conversion of stored up energy into work is the result of very complicated chemical actions.

It is further assumed that 1 gram of fat is the caloric equivalent of 2.43 grams of dry muscular fiber and 2.56 grams of grape sugar. To supply the materials for the chemical combustion in the muscles, carbo-hydrated food stuffs are used first, then comes fat, presumably after this has been converted into a kind of carbohydrate.

How far and in what form albumin is used in the absence of carbo-hydrates and of fat, has not been clearly demonstrated as yet, although Zuntz has shown that when dogs perform work consisting of climbing, and are fed with food rich in albumin, an energy output resulted that was equal to that produced when the dogs were fed with carbo-hydrates, or if they consumed the fat stored up in the body.

Digitized by Google
3

If the body is furnished with the same amount of food'stuffs as it consumes, a condition results termed metabolic balance. During growth more food is needed for the upbuilding of additional tissue than the amount necessary to equalize repairs. If this increased amount is used during these years for excessive physical work, the result will be an interference with natural growth often noticeable in undeveloped and undernourished children.

The body, conversely, can also store up reserve material not used for the regular use. The greatest part of this reserve material is fat, to which is added glycogen in the liver and muscles, and also albumin in the blood. This reserve material is used when an increased metabolism takes place, in this manner forming a defense against the breaking down of muscles and tissues that otherwise would be affected. That the stored up material is used up rapidly becomes very evident in a person who is fat, or in one who has not exercised for some time. He becomes breathless shortly after any muscular exertion.

The ratio of expended energy to accomplished work is a greatly variable one. It is greatest in well trained muscles, where the ratio of work to food value may rise to 30 percent. Untrained and weak muscles operate less economically. To accomplish a given amount of work, they need more stored up energy than do well trained muscles. The expenditure of energy becomes large and unnecessary when work is performed by many small muscles instead of being distributed among the larger muscle groups.

The same is true when the rhythm of an exercise of endurance like walking, bicycling, rowing, swimming, etc. is greatly increased. An endurance exercise can not only be continued longest when performed in an accustomed rhythm (and this rhythm need not necessarily be a slow one) but such a rhythmical exercise also is performed with the least expenditure of energy.

On the other hand, the expenditure of energy for a given output becomes disproportionately large when the even, uniform accomplishment of a well known exercise is interfered with; for instance, during a march by a trifling but steady pull in the joints or sinews, by a strong pressure of the shoes, by an injury to a foot, etc. The same is true when marching on an uneven or rocky road, or when a strong wind increases the air pressure.

(To be continued)

CLARK W. HETHERINGTON.

Pioneer, Indefatigable Worker, Student, Idealist, Organizer,

Fighter.

By George J. Fisher

The most fascinating study of man is man. Truth is stranger than fiction. The lives of men and women are the great epics of history, ancient and modem. Romance has not died. Some

Digitized by UjOOQle
4

lives are like a placid lake, with only an occasional ripple or squall; serene, even, calm. Others are stormy, billowy, foamy, tempestuous, turbulent. Some are like a leaf floating upon the waters, carried hither and yon by breath of wind or strength of wave. Others are like a ship, with sails full rigged, plowing forward, held to its goal firmly against dashing waves and stormy gales, beaten upon but not beaten about.

Clark Hetherington is like the latter with consistent aim and persistent application. Most tenacious has he been in his objectives, for, says he of his own experience, “Each shift in my career was in each instance in line with my studied objective.’’ There was always a problem to work out and each adjustment in his vocational career was in line with the achievement of that problem. He was persistency personified. He was application raised to the n’th degree.

Mr. Hetherington was from early childhood a pioneer, a scout out on the frontier, always in touch and battling with elementary forces and virgin situations. This was true geographically, and educationally.

He was bom in Lanesboro, Fillmore County, Minnesota, a small town, but at four years he moved to California and during all of his boyhood he was on the move. . His father was a construction engineer and stayed but a brief time in a given community. There were always the primitive country, the open town, rough-and-tumble men, saloons, fights. He saw mines opened, mule trains, prairie schooners. He witnessed life in the rough.

His schooling was broken up by moving, on the one hand, and by working, on the other.

One of his best playmates was the son of a saloon keeper, but in all his contact with the rough and harsh side of life, he did not succumb to its evils. He never smoked because his mother did not want him to, and drinking had no appeal to him, as he saw about him the ruin it worked among men. He saw thousands literally go to pieces in those frontier towns. Before he was twelve years of age he actually witnessed fourteen violent deaths.

A mother’s influence, a positive interest in life, a love for healthful play activity kept him on an even keel and true to his best self. Mr. Hetherington was not religious, but he was fundamentally moral and ethical.

There were four children in the family but all the others were girls, one older and two younger.

Clark Hetherington was exceedingly fond of athletic and gymnastic stunts. The itinerant circus was fascinating. He copied its stunts. He could do all kinds of exercises, tricks and stunts. He imitated every act he saw and soon boys followed him about because of his ingenuity and his physical supremacy. He was the first to ride a bicycle and rode it everywhere and in every way. Boys liked him and what he did, and followed him about in a sort of hero worship.

His father died when he was in High School. He had two financial disasters before his death and a protracted illness. He

Digitized by CjOOQle
5

left just enough to support the mother, but not enough to keep Clark at school.

He always worked hard. Eveiything that Clark Hethering-ton ever undertook he went into with vim and energy and force.

This vivid, active motor experience is to us who learned to know Mr. Hetherington in his later life rather a surprising revelation. We have never thought of him so much as a physically abounding, stunt performing, organically dynamic individual. We have rather thought him more or less ascetic, physically quiescent, scholastic and academic. On the contrary, we find he had a vivid relation to life, full of energy and with considerable muscular ability and skill.

All this must be kept in mind as we proceed with this biography into his later experiences, for it will explain much of his thinking and of his programming.

How did this youth with such a distracting experience and such unscholastic surroundings become the later scholar and leader in intellectual pursuits? How came he to enter physical education and follow scholastic interests?

His first inclination was to enter business. In his very early years he followed every vocational pursuit from cowboy to dentist’s assistant. At one period he was a weigh clerk in a large warehouse to which would come the twelve to fourteen mule teams drawing huge bulky prairie schooners. He also branded sacks of wheat as they dropped into the holds of ships in a seaport town.

He and his saloon-keeper’s-son pal rigged up a gymnasium and performed in it. Every evening they jumped a moving freight train and rode out some two or three miles and ran back for exercise and training. Life was pulsating, throbbing, dynamic. He believed in life and lived it to the full.

At sixteen he entered an architect's office with the idea of becoming an architect and draughtsman, previous to which he had served an apprenticeship as carpenter.

All of this, mind you, before entering High School.

After two years in the architect’s office he discovered that this was not the career that would satisfy him. He craved something else, something that would meet the craving for physical expression and deep feeling.

He joined with a group of eight boys who sought to prepare themselves for college in eight months, and then he finished High School in one year, passing examinations in all subjects.

He entered college at twenty-one.

Hetherington says he was not a student naturally, but we see how he became one under extraordinary circumstances. He had a philosophic turn of mind and always wanted to know why certain things were as they were and would follow his quest until he secured a satisfactory answer.

When he entered college at Stanford, he naturally, because of his background gravitated to the gymnasium. There he was
6

constantly followed by fellow students who loved his stunts and sought his instruction.

Hetherington did not have to urge young men; they followed not only because of what he was but because of what he did.

Here at Stanford he met Dr. Thomas Wood, and Dr. Wood seeing his ability made him a volunteer assistent in his early freshman experience. He gave him full responsibility with no one over him and he led classes and did all manner of gymnasium work.

In his junior year he was made a paid assistant and on the regular staff. He had serious financial problems in college, and this teaching in physical education carried through his junior year on.

In his junior year a second great interest developed. He was tremendously interested in the individual differences and the character development, among the people he met. He wondered why they were different and what influences made them different. He laid out a plan of study in order to find an answer to his questionings.

The professors soon took note of him and his work. It was the first of this type of study which had been undertaken. Here we see Hetherington as pioneer again.

While at school he majored on Education with the thought of teaching. He -had great enthusiasm for psychology and biology. He had started out with chemistry and physics, zoology and physiology and through psychology and sociology. He pursued this course, believing that by the end of his college course he would know what he wanted to do. As he puts it, he had no vocational interest but an intense intellectual drive. He found, therefore, his interest focusing in psychology and his enthusiasms taking shape on the subject of the study of individual differences.

His friends in the college, upon his graduation, secured a position for him in the State Reformatory at Whittier, California. Here he worked for two years. He made a most interesting study of its four hundred and eighty inmates, going back as far as he could into their records. He even organized the police force to get data. He made 6ase reports and studied types of individuals. This proved the forerunner of the later excellent work done in that field.

His study showed that eighty per cent of the inmates ought not to have been thqre, that they were a pure product of neglected play life. They were the products of their environment.

His own experience as a lad combined with this intimate study and association with these waywards of the institution profoundly impressed him with the importance of play life in forming character and in developing personality and in enriching life.

His vivid consciousness of that life and the lack of constructive leadership to direct it became and always has been the most profound influence upon his life purpose and destiny.

Digitized by CjOOQle
7

Here we see the great emotional stimulus, the great drive of his heart and mind which has gained impetus and form and power with the years.

Clark Hetherington took this institution at Whittier and completely transformed its activities. He organized the play of its inmates, the first time such a thing had ever been dreamed of in a reformatory. His work had a profound influence both upon the boys and upon the institution. When he studied other institutions similar in kind, he often received to his inquiries antagonistic answers.

His early experiences in migrating taught him to know these boys from actual experience. His ability in acrobatics and gymnastics captured their imagination. He became the center of their activities. He organized a foot ball team and requested that the school be permitted to attend a game in Los Angeles, fourteen miles distant. The permission was granted upon the personal guarantee by the boys to Mr. Hetherington that they would all return.

Here we find a man moulding a whole institution, influencing its administrative procedures, changing dramatically and completely the content of its curriculum and by the force of his own personality transforming character.

The case material in the reformatory proved a fund of valuable material. It gave a clear insight into the possibilities of leader-shigp in this unique field of play.

He had proven by his own experience in the small town, in college and particularly in the reformatory that one could do anything one wanted with boys; if one had skill in things boys were interested in, one would become a hero and an accepted leader of them.

Here at Whittier started his keen interest in the study of a curriculum of activities in which play was the dominant factor.

It took him eight years to complete his development of that idea. He was a persistent student.

He constantly asked himself the question, What kind of a school organization can we set up to prevent these abnormalities and pathologies of life as found at Whittier?

From Whittier he went to Clark University for two years to continue his studies in this field of individual differences and of character training under Dr. G. Stanley Hall and his able corps of assistants, pioneers in experimental psychology. He received much help from Dr. Sanford, and Mr. Hetherington was made an assistant in the psychology laboratory.

Professor Hetherington told Stanley Hall about his ideas of building up a school curriculum. Dr. Hall wanted him to set up such a school in Boston, but, of course, financial aid and sympathizing patrons were not available.

Years later, however, such a school was set up in the summer session of tthe University of California and still persists. Here he had the able assistance of Mrs. Hetherington who was in full sympathy with his ideas and plans.

Digitized by Google
8

It took Mr. Hetherington ten years of study to work out his Theory of Play.

In it all there was a constant stream of experimentation. By the hour he would observe on the playground, and guide play leaders in their work. Theory and practice always went together. Research was paralleled by experiment and testing. The one to amplify and buttress and support the other.

He was not the academic, cloistered person so many of later workers in the field of Physical Education believed him to be.

When Mr. Hetherington first proposed the new type of school, G. Stanley Hall said it could not be done, that there was no doubt that his ideas of play were right, but educators would not follow him. He was too far ahead of his times. Dr. Hall before the class one day admitted that he was wrong and that Hetherington was right and that he had worked out his theories in actual demonstrations.

Then came a blow in his life. His eyes gave out at the end of the Clark University course. He was told that his scientific career was gone. He refused to accept this dictum and went forward with his work notwithstanding; unconquered and unconquerable.

From Clark University Mr. Hetherington was invited to Missouri University as head of a department of Physical Education. Here was afforded him the great opportunity of his career, namely, to take a large university and build a curriculum with reference to the health of the students, and, in addition, to have opportunity to prosecute his research further along the lines of his favorite and dominant interest.

Here he was the first to demonstrate the possibilities of a curriculum of recreation in which every student took part. It was the pioneer effort in mass play, and it was the most comprehensive program for developing the health and enriching the recreative life of the students which had been conceived and planned. Hetherington was again the pioneer, the program builder. He was coming into his own. His experience in Missouri profoundly shaped the policies of the colleges of the countiy. He vastly extended the play equipment and play spaces, having one hundred and sixty acres of athletic fields. Health and play were recognized as basic factors in education. He started with a budget of twenty-four hundred dollars and at the end of five years he had a staff of fifteen thousand dollars.

This brought him right against the problems of competitive and intercollegiate sport with all of its evils and semi-professional-ism. Athletics in the Mid-West were corrupt.

He startled the faculty and the alumni in an address to the students by saying that any reforms in sport must begin at home and forthwith made drastic changes in the administration of such sports. This led him quickly into relations with other colleges and with national athletic organizations. He analyzed and criticized the methods of sport administration in vogue in the United States. This greatly widened his relations and at one
9

time these outside interests became so great that he employed two stenographers to look after this type of correspondence alone.

This led into conflicts, debates and stormy discussions, for even in his own college the alumni wanted winning teams.

It was largely as the result of his proposals that the National Collegiate Athletic Association was formed, which has been such a vital factor in raising the standards of sport in the colleges of America.

He was the founder of the Athletic Research Society, which in its early history made original studies in amatuerism and athletic administration, and out of which grew the National Athletic Federation Committee and later the present National Amateur Athletic Federation, which has been a power for democracy in the administration of sport and in the management of the Olympic Games.

In these latter movements, and for these important causes I found myself battling with him shoulder to shoulder, together with other valiant souls who sought to correct some of the athletic administrative inefficiencies of the day. This brought us into violent conflict with the Amateur Athletic Union, the self-named parent body in sport in America, with its many debates, lengthy discussions and often heated controversies. Here we see Hether-ington as the fighter, the crusader, the daring warrior for the cause he believed in so sincerely. He is not only the evangelist but the reformer.

Professor Hetherington had become national in his influence, the most virile, the most outstanding figure in the recreative aspect of the Physical Education program in America.

He was able to do in the Middle West what it was impossible for men like Sargent at Harvard, Anderson at Yale and others at older institutions to attempt. Furthermore, he had broken with the formal type of physical training that had characterized it up to that time. Hetherington Americanized Physical Education in America.

Dr. Hetherington’s contribution to this phase of education has been the most unique and original in the whole field of Education, and best of all, it is permanent.

Unfortunately his immersion in the problem of program building interfered with his research work. He had not time and strength for both. The immediate task obtruded itself so forcefully into the situation that for a time he had to forego his desires to study further into his favorite themes.

The experience at Missouri really started his career in Physical Education. He lived in this atmosphere for ten years.

Then came again an opportunity to take up research and study, for he was invited by the Falls endowment in Chicago to devote himself to the development of programs for educational institutions. This, however, in reality required much travel and attendance upon educational conferences.

Digitized by Google
10

He made a survey of educational institutions in three hundred cities and thirty-five states and had the pleasure of seeing his plans adopted in many of them. We find him now as promoter and salesman.

One of the institutions which was responsive to his ideas was the University of Wisconsin, and here upon their request he laid out a comprehensive program. Then they definitely asked him to take charge of it, which he refused, but for which he recommended George W. Ehler. This was one of the finest departments of its land in the country, based upon the rich experience at Missouri.

Later, however, he responded to an invitation to serve as head of the Department at Wisconsin, a four year professional course in Physical Education, where he gave five years of his life.

Here he developed his work on theory courses and his outlines for the school in California.

From Wisconsin he entered an entirely new field, namely, that of supervisor of Physical Education in the State Department of Education in California, to put a new state law of required Physical Education into effect. This decision was no easy one, for he paced the floor of his home at Madison, in wrestling out his decision. But again a vision came to him of a great opportunity, nothing less in its scope than to develop and set up a play program for youth from the kindergarten to the college. The pioneer spirit again prevailed.

The law provided for twenty minutes a day in the elementary school and two hours daily in the high school. His studies, however, had shown that the actual need was for four hours in the elementary schools and three in the high schools.

Here his genius asserted itself, for he made an interpretation of the twenty minutes and the two hour periods as instructional periods at which time students were to be given instruction in play to be carried out at other times. This strategic approach went well and the scheme was greatly discussed. Here he not only worked in his office but spent day after day on the play grounds observing, testing, practising under fire of questions for two and three hours at a time.

Then that which frequently happens in any regime under the influence of a State legislature occurred, namely, the budget was cut. He felt obliged to leave for other fields, but he had demonstrated effectively once more the possibilities of a comprehensive Physical Education program democratically applied.

Now came another serious experience. Money failed, health failed, a serious surgical operation was necessary and a year was lost in a battle for health and vitality.

Then came the invitation to come to New York University, where he is developing a seven year curriculum of professional training in a School of Education, a four year course for undergraduate students and a three year graduate course.

Here he is finding opportunity to give more and more time to writing and we hope that now that the turbulent, stormy,
11

pioneering days are over he will put into permanent form his ideas, his ideals and his programs. In the midst of battle he has had to neglect this aspect of his work. It should be the crowning work of his career and may these days have more of an admixture of play and recreation, for in the recent years there has been too much of toil and too little of relaxation.

Clark Hetherington, you have been true to your best self; you have followed your best impulses as the very voice of God; you have obeyed the heavenly vision; you have served with honor and fidelity. We greet you as a worthy colleague, we bless you for your character, and in so doing we do honor to ourselves.

Those well known lines of Kipling seem to have been written for such an occasion as this, and I repeat them:

“If you bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools;

Or watch the things vou gave your life to, broken,

And stoop to build 'em up with worn-out tools;

“If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss

And lose, and start again at your beginnings And never breathe a word about your loss;

If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew To serve your turn long after they are gone

And so hold on when there is nothing in you Except the will which says to them: “Hold on!”

“If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,

Or walk with kings, nor lose the common touch;

If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you;

If all men count with you, but none too much;

If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run;

You’ll carry on and be returned a winner,

And have as your reward life's work well done.”

PROFESSOR CLARK W. HETHERINGTON.

By H. S. Braucher

Much has been said about the modesty of Clark W. Hetherington. I want to deny this charge. It is true that he is a quiet man, in no way noisy or pretentious, but he has had no light opinion of the importance of the work he has to do. He is very sure of the fundamental principles he has worked out because he has given all of the best that there is in him to working them out and he will not lightly change them.

It is a safe wager that just as soon as Professor Hetherington knew that he was to be born he started in making notes on little

Digitized by v^ooQle
12

cards about 3x5, because he knew the importance of the work he had to do and wished to be prepared for it. All through life he has been gathering h's material. Those who have seen the piles of manuscript which he has are clear that Clark W. Hether-ington not only began early but also that he has great faith in immortality.

It is of no use to speak about Clark W. Hetherington’s contribution to play and recreation because all of the speakers have been telling of that. Nearly everything he has done has had some fundamental relation to play and recreation. Most of us know of the work which Professor Hetherington did nearly twenty years ago as chairman of the Committee on a Normal Course in Play of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, of his travel among the normal schools and the colleges in the interest of a Normal Course in Play; of his service on the Board of Directors. We all rejoice that a special contribution made through the Playground and Recreation Association of America has freed a large part of Professor Hetherington’s time for reducing to published form the experiences and the thinking of a lifetime devoted to physical education problems. The series of volumes coming from Professor Hetherington will be a permanent contribution of great value.

The great gift of Clark W. Hetherington to us all is that we feel so sure of his abiding interest in play and recreation and in the fundamental purposes to which he has devoted his life. One cannot think of him as looking about to find this or that other job. One knows that he has given himself to his life purpose as a doctor or a lawyer chooses his profession and cannot be pulled away from it. Others may come and others may go but with courage, loyalty, persistency he will be working on.

Those who have thought most deeply on the problems of physical education and play and recreation recognize that there is no clearer thinker in this field than Professor Hetherington. Yet it is as a friend that we think of Clark W. Hetherington first. We are all a little surer of ourselves, of the world in which we live, and of the future because of Professor Hetherington and his work.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL INTRA-MURALS.

By C. S. Porter, Whittier Junior High School, Lincoln, Nebraska.

“How many schools represented here have an organized intramural athletic program?” This question was asked of a group of Junior High School teachers in an eastern university this past summer. Out of approximately 150 teachers from nearly every state in the Union there were but two who were from schools having this organization.

The Whittier Junior High School of Lincoln, Nebraska., has been successfully conducting intra-mural athletics for the past

Digitized by CjOOQle
13

five years. We have a sixty minute noon period during which nearly 1000 of the 1200 students eat their lunch in the building. What to do with this many boys and girls for nearly forty minutes is worthy of some consideration.

In each home room two teams are formed, one of boys and one of girls. A captain is elected and is responsible for obtaining the entry blank and returning it properly signed by himself and the home room teacher to the proper person.

There are scholarship requirements which must be met before a boy is allowed to represent his room in a game. A passing grade in certain required subjects such as; Social Science, English, etc., must be maintained for eligibility. If a pupil has a grade below passing in any of these required subjects he is not allowed to play until he has a written notice from the teacher of that subject that he is passing. A pupil who plays while knowing that he is ineligible causes his team to forfeit.

A playground committee of boys under the sponsorship of the physical director and a similar committee of girls has the administration of the tournaments in charge. These committees are divisions of the Junior Civic League which operates in the school and whose officers are elected from and by the student body. The president of the League appoints the chairman of various committees who in turn appoint assistants to work with them. The selection of committeemen is quite important and the sponsor is usually consulted. Since there is much work to be done, only boys and girls who are known to be dependable should be chosen. A good knowledge of various games is another desirable quality.

The committee meets at the beginning of a semester to determine what tournament shall be played first. The chairman writes an announcement for the daily bulletin as to the type of activity and sets a time for the entry blanks to be handed in. After the entiy blanks are in, the committee meets and draws up a schedule pairings being determined by lot. This schedule is posted on a bulletin board in a prominent place in the corridor.

One of the most important duties of the committee is the officiating at all games. The chairman assigns certain games to his assistants and usually makes out a week of assignment at a time. When the boundary lines of playing courts become indistinct, it is the duty of this committee to re-line these fields. It is surprising to see how much interest the boys take in making straight lines. If a team has a complaint to make, notice is filed and the chairman calls a meeting at which the committee members, sponsor, and the dissatisfied parties are present. A decision is rendered according to the merits of the case. A boy naturally interested in sports, considers it quite an honor to be appointed to this committee. If a member does not prove to be an efficient official or is frequently guilty of poor citizenship, he is replaced.

Another division of the Civic League which helps to make this plan successful is the Service Committee. They help to keep the spectators off of the playing fields by putting up ropes and constantly patrolling the side-lines. Serious injury from an unin-

Digitized by C^ooQLe
14

tentionally thrown bat has been avoided several times due to the vigilance of this group which prohibits anyone from standing or sitting along the third-base line.

The type of schedule used depends upon the number of teams entered and the amount of playing space available. In this school there are thirty-four home rooms each of which usually enters a team in every tournament. We have a relatively small playing space for the number of pupils so we must be content to use the “elimination” method of schedule, that is, each team drops out when defeated. This permits a tournament to progress rapidly and a number of different games can be played in a semester.

The seventh, eigth, and ninth grades play teams within their grades until a winner is determined. The winners of the eighth and ninth grades play for the school championship. The seventh grade winners are acknowledged as champions of their grade as they are usually too small to play the higher grades.

After a number of tournaments have been played the members of the winning teams are presented in an athletic assembly and their home room awarded a banner which is theirs until another room wins it. This assembly is usually augmented by having some college athlete, coach, or other person who is interested in athletics give a brief talk as a bit of inspiration.

Our intra-mural program has proved to be a wonderful help in maintaining discipline and morale throughout the day. When, on account of rain or bitter cold weather no games are played, the contrast in discipline is quite noticeable.

THE DUST OF THE OUTER ATMOSPHERE IN RELATION

TO HEALTH.

By Peter H. Bryce, M. D.

Chlorine Fumes from the Royal Mint in Ottawa.

I frequently go to the Archives Building to make researches, and alongside of it, on the bank of the Ottawa, is another massive building, the Royal Mint. In one are many thousands of precious old documents and in the other are minted millions of gold coins for the British government—as many as 240,000 oz. daily during the war. The mint, with its complex and delicate machinery, has to refine the gold to remove the dross, and to do this adds hydrochloric acid to the fused metal in the retorts. Twenty-one modem oil furnaces are to be seen in this building, where temperatures over 3000 degrees F. are reached, and yet in the crudest manner the chlorine fumes are poured out direct from a tower toward the open windows of the Archives, not a hundred yards away. What the acid fumes will do to the precious volumes of manuscripts may be imagined; but their disintegrating effects will be certain soon.

Digitized by L^ooQle
15

I have given these several rather unique illustrations to show that, with all our wonderful advances in applied science, we are still crude at the very point where our progress should be greatest namely, in the means for insuring the health and comfort of the community.

In the matter of chlorine fumes, we can recall their recent use in the great war as poison gas; but I remember the account of the first steps taken to protect the public, as well as the vegetation around the industrial towns of England fifty-five years ago, when the salt and alkali works were located there.

Dr. Angus Smith, the official chemist, found that an excessive amount of chlorine fumes was being allowed to escape from the works, and so, after experimenting, ordered the manufacturers to install a series of lead-lined chambers in which trays of quicklime were placed. The chlorine fumes then were passed through these in succession until, at the exit, the amount of chlorine was reduced to a minimum. Of course, the manufacturers at first strongly protested against the cost of installation, but soon found they had produced a new by-product, bleaching-powder, which is to-day universal in its many applications and makes a steady profit for them.

Smoke as a Nuisance, as Well as an Irritant.

Of course, to the man in the street now, with our asphalted streets and daily washing, and motors instead of horses, the smoke from thousands of chimneys is our most apparent nuisance. Fortunately, it is not directly poisonous, but may act as an irritant to the mucous membrane and actually creates what in miners is called anthracosis, a dark staining of the tissues. It must impede the free healthy action of the tissue cells which line the alveoli of the lungs. But smoke is equally a nuisance, entering houses and covering with dust all objects, soiling curtains and carpets and creating an expensive item in the increased cost of washing clothes. To lessen or obviate these conditions, smoke abatement laws have been passed; but almost no city council has had the nerve actually to force the adoption of means available to-day to eliminate the nuisance. Undoubtedly, the first step is to force the railways to enter the great terminal cities with electric engines, and later to electrify their whole systems by transmuting the coal at regular stations into electric energy and transmitting this along the lines.

Poisonous Fumes Often a Valuable By-Product.

It would be easy to estimate the saving in so important a matter as clean clothing and reduced house-cleaning from an abatement of the soft-coal nuisance, and doubtless the time may not be far distant when the force of public opinion will cause the introduction of such means as will effect real improvements. In those industrial works from which poisonous emanations, such as chlorine and sulphur dioxide, are discharged into the air, there is no logical reason why fans, creating a forced draft should not re-
16

place tall chimneys, and the fumes be carried through chambers in which trays of quick-lime may be placed to form useful compounds such as chloride of lime and calcium sulphite. At the copper mines in Boise City a long flue with doors on the sides, where it runs nearly horizontally, has been constructed, running at an incline up the mountain-side. The gases from the furnaces gradually are cooled and deposits of siilphur and arsenic are collected for use and the poisonous gases lessened in the outer air. Other methods are being adopted at the great Sudbury Nickel smelters and everywhere the sale of by-products helps to replace the cost of installation.

Automobile Gases Present Pressing Problem.

But to revert to urban aerial nuisances, undoubtedly the most prevalent today is that caused by the fumes and gases from automobiles. Doctor Henderson, of New York, has made experiments to prove the noxious effects of these upon the individual, due to the excessive carbon monoxide given off from the thousands of motors, near the ground, on the level with the air breathed by hundreds of thousands of persons. The high buildings and narrow streets confine the air, and it is quite likely that policemen exposed for hours in the traffic line must suffer from these gases. What carbon monoxide does is seen in the almost daily reports of deaths from it in garages and even closed cars, and the public will suffer until intelligent means are adopted for lessening the dangers. Only the fact that great volumes of air are driven through the streets by the wind minimizes the dangers from this source. The necessity for a knowledge of ventilation is yet more obvious when we learn that there is at least one motor car for every ten people in the United States, and the number of garages built without any regard for air circulation is constantly being increased.

Chicago's and Kansas City’s Problems in Connection with

the Stock-Yards.

An aerial nuisance of the most aggressive sort has long existed in such cities as Chicago and Kansas City in the form of emanations from the immense stock-yards and packing-houses. In this case, too, there are particles carried into the air of dry organic matter and volatile compounds from the putrefaction of animal fragments of manure and particles of animal tissues. While much has been done to lessen these nuisances by making smooth paving in stock-yards and abattoirs, which can be flushed, and by white-wash applied to the surfaces of walls indoors as a disinfectant, yet to the visitor to Chicago, the low hanging damp air in the evening blowing from the stockyards has a most depressing effect. Closed windows lessen for the moment, the odors, but the decomposition of organic animal particles in the rooms of houses and the oxidation of volatile emanations from the stock-yards create those stuffy smells which closed parlors have and, as we have seen, tend to produce asthmatic attacks.

Digitized by Google
17

The Hazards of Stone Cutting.

Another external as well as internal air impurity, which has been noted from early times, is that associated with the cutting of stone-especially granite and sandstone. One can imagine it to have been a very serious trouble in European countries when the houses were generally built of cut stone and great cathedrals were building for years. The sharp particles of rock broken off, whether by hammers, chisels or in steel grinding and metal polishing, are inhaled and the fine particles reach the lungs. Where men have worked for months and years, these particles produce a condition known as silicosis from the silica or sharp sand particles which are chiefly responsible for the condition.

Professor Haldane ascribes the disease, chiefly to these angular fragments of rock adhering to the mucous lining of the lungs and setting up a congestion around them, which produces gradually tissue changes into what is spoken of as a fibrosis or connective tissue, replacing lung tissue, as may be easily demonstrated by the skiagraph.

Fortunately, the tissues, both in man and experimental animals, tend to cast out these particles by an excessive mucous secretion; but in man it is found that the disease of silicosis has three distinct stages. The first is seen in the beginning of physical changes, as indicated by increased shadows in the skiagraph; the second is where the tissue changes have progressed till the capacity for work has become impaired, when the patient suffers from definite shortness of breath on exertion and, at times, darting pains in the chest with a morning cough and a frequent recurrence of colds. The third stage means a distressing shortness of breath, cough with increased expectoration, increased fibrosis of the lungs, loss of weight, generally associated with chronic tuberculosis.

The picture is clear in its outlines and the writer well recalls strong-looking Scotch stone-cutters, who seemed to sicken mysteriously, and one after another “go West” at an early age, though their work had been chiefly in the open air.

But the most fatal effects were known to occur in the young scythe-grinders in mechanical works. These men understood from those who had gone before them that the work was highly dangerous; but the large wage made one after another step into the vacant places, like the vine-dressers who return to their homes on the dangerous slopes of Vesuvius.

Mechanical Ventilation the Solution of Dust and Similar

Problems.

Fortunately, modem nechanical inventions are making down-drafts and clever face-masks important means of prevention, while surfaces kept constantly wet during grinding, help to prevent flying dust particles from readily entering the lungs. But in all the varied industrial activities, it is the steady progress of applied

Digitized by V^ooQle
18

knowledge which is going to minimize the accidents incident to the various trades and occupations. Experience soon illustrates the dangers, but, without knowledge and the intelligent appreciation of the value of a skilled artisan, the management is too often slow to introduce methods which do not seem to have any immediate commercial return. Indeed, it will not be until governments, state and municipal, are fully convinced of the money value of a trained artisan to the State as a source of wealth that we need expect to see the steady pressure, through government regulations, resulting in the introduction and inspection of mechanical means of ventilation to dilute the dust in the artificial atmospheres of close-housed industries and of a proper humidity to maintain the mucous membranes of the nose, throat and lungs in their highest condition to resist all malific influence.

THE POSSIBILITIES OF DIFFERENT MUSICAL RHYTHMS IN TURNVEREIN AND SCHOOL WORK

L. J. Doering.

Mrs. L. J. Doering, Accompanist.

One of the main reasons for this paper today is to endeavor to pass on some of my ideas to those instructors who have not had a very extensive musical training; to those who have trouble preparing their work and finding suitable music to fit; and further to urge a greater use of music for your classes. The development of rhythm is a big factor of our work often overlooked by many instructors.

My experience with other instructors, personal observation of their work, and ideas received from talking with them, make me realize why some have trouble making their class work interesting and enjoyable. Rhythm is the foundation of the universe. My studies and collateral reading on this subject of Rhythm have given me a surprising insight into the vast number and kinds of things, plants and animals, in which the rhythmical movements are the very essence of life. A whole paper could be written on the subject of Rhythm alone.

I am taking it for granted that all know the different time signatures and musical notations, as 2-4, 4-4 etc., quarter, half, and whole notes. I will not stop to go into these elements of music.

I intend to define and give explanations of the different Rhythms; their structure and the rhythmical feeling; first, by explanation; second, by diagrams on the board; and third, and most important, by having my accompanist play selections from different compositions that have been picked to illustrate the required rhythm under discussion. Later I shall give my ideas regarding specific elements of our work and also a list of compositions and composers, and where obtainable. Please make notations for your future information and reference, also for further discussion.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
19

I intend starting with children's work. This is a very important branch. To give the child the right rhythmical start means a very great deal to his normal development in these days of radio broadcasting of good music. The child's mind is very receptive to the unconscious rhythmical feeling which goes out from the right kind of music.

One of the big essentials to remember about children's material is, that it should be of a light, breezy, joyous nature; of a much lighter grade than for the adults; simple melodies and simple notations; unadorned with frills. The rhythm should carry thru the notes, so that the child will unconsciously absorb the rhythm and feel the musical impulses carry him along without conscious effort.

The field for material for the children lies among the piano teaching material published by a number of music houses. The material is easy to read and play, and the pianist need not be an expert. Most of the material can be read and played at sight.

The child is not built like the adult. His short legs and snappy, peppy manner of acting place him in a somewhat different group. The short legs, which can be swung faster, combined with the short stride, require a rhythm that must be much faster in tempo than the adult type of rhythm.

The march for children should be a 6-8—with two counts to the measure. There is a feeling of grace, lightness and breadth of movement in a 6-8 march. The 1st and 4th counts are the strong accents, the rest are weak. The rhythmical structure is as a figure 8, two connected circles giving big circular movement possibilities. The march should be played lightly and fast to conform to the light quick movements of the children—*

Examples No. 1 Hunting Song—Dana P. 14 1st No. 2. Example No. II Bugle Call—Goerdeler P. 24 1st No. 2.

If the music is played heavy and slow the youngsters will react to it and become heavy and slow in movement. The music gives life to their movements. An ordinary march played faster may not be, and often is not, suitable for children. Pick with care.

I shall go on and give the Waltz, Mazurka, Minuett, Polka, Gallop, Skip, Gavotte and Schottische compositions we have picked for the children's examples and explain the different rhythms as we take them up for the adults.

The Waltz—First Ball—Foerster P. 8 1st No. 2. This illustrates a simple melody and rhythm.

The Mazurka—Spanish Dance—Lake P. 18 1st No. 2. This illustrates the 1st and 2nd and the 1st and 3rd accent of a very characteristic rhythm.

Minuett—Dance by the Moonlight—Porter P. 4 1st No. 2. In stately Measure—Aletter. P. 28 1st No. 2

Polka—Gaiety—Philip P. 16 1st No. 2

Gallop—Circus Gallop—H. C. Dance P. 69 (Wild Horsemen—Gems) P.

44

Skip—Hunting Song—Dana P. 14 1st No. 2 (Gondelier-Nevin)

Boating on the Pond—Sartorio P. 26 1st No. 2 Gavotte—Echoes of the Past—P. 6 1st No. 2 Schottische—Dance of Rain Drops—Adams—Sheet.

Now there is a straight march for children in 4-4 time that should be noted here. This march has push and snap without the swing of the £-8 march. I am giving these examples to show the difference between the two.

Digitized by Google
Example III Returning from Vacation—Dana P. 20 1st No. 2

Example IV March of 20 Tin Soldiers—P. 11 1st No. 2

Returning to the material for adults I shall start with the waltzes. The 3-4 Slow Waltz—Three counts to the measure.

This is generally very melodious and rhythmical combined. It is good for interpretive dance work or expression—Indian clubs, or combinations of dance and clubs, reeds—adagio work and rhythmical movements of several kinds of free exercises—trunk bending and trunk turning. The structure is as shown in Example V. and VI. Ex. V Schubert's Garland, Ex. VI Kiss Me Again,

Waves of Danube—H. C.

Gold and Silver—Lehar

The moderately fast waltz—three counts to the measure, is also well adapted to a variety of things. It may be very nearly related to the slow waltz or it can verge on to the fast waltz. The big difference from the slow or the fast waltz is that the expression and rubato effects are more variable. Interpretive numbers are best adapted to this group. The structure is shown in Example VII and VIII.

Ex. VII In Vienna—Scott P. 10 2nd No. 1

Ex. VIII Espanita—Rosey—Sheet Mazurka Feeling Estudiantina—Wald-teufel P. 68 H. C.

Rubato is a term and expression that might bear a little explaining. Rubato—is a musical expression for give and take. Any given composition has a definite time length. A performer may take from one or more measures to give expression to his composition, but he must pay the stolen time back before he reaches the end of the composition in the definite time length allowed. It is used to give expression to a musical composition, and by the proper use, may also be used to give expression to an interpretive composition of the gymnastic nature.

I have Examples IX and X. It is for you to notice the difference between these two renditions of straight tempo and rubato.

Rose of Virginia—Bischoff P. 22 A. C. 3rd straight—Rose of Virginia— Rubato—Yesterglow—Shure P. 16 A. C. 3rd straight.—Yesterglow—Rubato.

It is possible by light shading and rubato, to make a mediocre composition become exceptional.

The Fast Waltz 3A—One count to a measure. There are very few good fast waltzes. The structure is usually made up of 1-8 notes, which tend to help hasten the tempo, the movement and the rhythmical feeling. Example XI Durand Waltz P. 85 Gems.

Faust Waltz—Gems P. 21

Espana—Waldteufel P. 56 H. C.

This is adapted for dance movements, interpretive work—which combines leaping, running and fast movements. Also used for some free exercises movements.

The Mazurka 3-4—is very markedly accented and has a very strong rhythmical feeling. It also has a characteristic emotional feeling and activity. There are two strong accents in each measure, the 1st and 3rd or the 1st and 2nd which distinguishes the rhythm.

This is very good for free exercises, especially for lunging. Also very good for interpretive work. Examples XII and XIII.

Ex. XI I5th Mazurka—Lynns—P. 36 A. C. 3rd.

Accent 1, 2, 3.

Digitized by CjOOQle
21

Ex. XIII Mazurka—Lynns P. 21 3rd No. 2 Accent 1-2.

The Minuett is also a 3-4. It is a very evenly accented, stately rhythm. All three counts receive measured accent, the composition is very evenly built up, slow and stately.

Example XIV Old Love Song—Chandon P. 24 2nd No. 1 Grace and Beauty—Rogers P. 42 A. C. 3rd.

The Polka 2-4 Rhythm—It has a characteristic rhythmical feeling. The true polka starts on the up beat of the preceding measure. In its structure the last note in the measure should be an 1-8 or two 1-16 notes or have the feeling of a lift for preparation for the next measure.

Example XV At the Fair—Demuth P. 15 2nd No. 1 A Polka can be fitted to a quick march, but does not work as well as to the characteristic polka.

Example XVI King Karl—Unrath P. 50 H. C. March of Italian Riflemen P. 75 H. C. March.

Now please get this important notation—A heel and toe Polka takes a different rhythm and time element than a true polka.

The heel and toe polka takes a 4-4 rhythm with the 1st and 2nd counts heavy and the 3rd and 4th counts having a lighter accent.

The ideal would be 1st and 2nd notes 1-4, then a grace note leading to four 1-8 notes for the rest of the measure. It should be a slow 4-4 tempo. Example XVII and XVIII.

Ex. XVII Rondo Villageois—Dennee P. 37 2nd No. 1

The regular polka tempo—2-4 or 4-4 is too fast for marching.

The Gallop is a fast 2-4 or 6-8 rhythm. The best 6-8 rhythm has for its structure a 1-4 and 1-8 note, 1-4 and 1-8 note to the measure. Two gallops are taken to a measure.

In the 2-4 rhythm only one gallop is taken to a measure. It is not as good as the 6-8 rhythm. A 3-8 rhythm can also be used for a gallop. 2-4 Example XIX.

Example XIX William Tell Overture. P. 22 Gems Ex. XX Wild Horsemen—P. 44 Gems Spring Festival—Lichner 3-4 with 6-8 feeling Circus Gallop H. C. Dance P. 69.

The Skip—is a 6-8 rhythm played moderately slow. The 6-8 is best which has a structure built on a dotted 1-4 note. This gives a broad swinging movement with two skips to the measure; gives a long sustained movement. Example XXI Hunting Song—Dana P. 14 1st No. 2 Shepherds Dance—German. Ex. No. XXI-2 Revel of Wood Nymphs—Barbour P. 3 A. C. 3rd.

The Tarantella is also a 6-8 rhythm played very fast, two counts to the measure. It ifc very national in character, so has but few uses for our work other than interpretive.

Fete Napolitaine—Bischoff P. 24 3rd No. 2 Tarantella—Lynns P. 18 2nd No. 1 Tarantella—Rossini

The Gavotte is a 4-4 rhythm. The same notations given for the Minuett— very evenly accented, stately rhythm, applies to the Gavotte also. Very evenly built up, slow, stately four counts to the measure. It has, however, more life than a minuett and goes very easily into a schottische.

Digitized by CjOOQle
22

Example XXII Gavotte in 3rds—Pepp P. 26 2nd No. 1

Fair Maiden of Seville H. C. Dance P. 68

The Schottische is a slow 4-4 rhythm, with the accent on the 1st and 3rd counts, a very graceful movement. It has an even rhythmic structure. The ideal is the 1st and 2nd counts made up of two groups of three 1-8 notes, with two 1-4 notes for the 3rd and the 4th counts. It is very good for free exercises, small hand rings, flag drills, etc. Interpretive dance combinations go nicely with the long graceful rhythmical swing of the schottische.

Examples XXIII Dance of the Rain Drops—Adams

Nola—Arndt Sheet

Dance Graciouse—Dennee P. 36 3rd No. 1

Dance of the Goblins—Engelmann

I have left the march rhythms to the last in this explanatory group, for several reasons. I think I have some new ideas on march rhythms that may lead us out of some old ruts and into a broader and more energetic manner of presenting our pep to our classes.

I have discovered that, if you start a class out with a snappy, peppy straight march, a march that is full of life and pep, with lots of push and feeling of action, that this feeling of action and life will carry over all thru the class period. Thru the free exercises, the appartus work and the games; it will carry over a poor outline with success.

I will start my marches with an ordinary one,—A Tum-Tum march I call it—most pianists will play this type for you any time, and you will wonder why your class drags along without pep or life. There is a reason for it, right in the music itself, in its construction. This march may be written 2-4 or 4-4

Example XXIII-2 Play 49 Princeton Cannon

The Um-ta, Um-ta is generally in the bass. Anyone marching to this will unconsciously sag down in the second and fourth counts. Just listen to it. The 2nd and 4th counts are too heavily emphasized and as a rule have no part in the melody—causing a heavy undertone with a long rest between accents. The ordinary march does not have push or go, lacks snap. I have eliminated it entirely from my work. A large majority of the ordinary marches belong to this group.

My next is the peppy march, the straight march that makes the class move with pleasure. It may be written as a 3-4 or as a Cut-time march. The 1st and 2nd counts of the 2-4 march are accented the same; there is no let up in the movement forward. There is a step on every count. This march has snap, push and lively movement. There is no loafing on a 2-4 march. It creates a desire for action and movement. There is a feeling of moving along a smooth, steady track, with the legs swinging from the hips as tho dangling from a fixed support; there is no up and down bobbing of the hips in this movement.

Examples XXIV March Militaire—Schubert Gems

Example XXV March Russe P. 68—Ganne P. 6 H. C. March

In the Cut Time march written 4-4 and played 2-4 the 1st and 3rd counts are heavily emphasized and the 2nd and 4th are practically eliminated or entirely so. The feeling of a straight march is given by this structure. Flag of Victory— Blon P. 63 H. C.

w For Love and Honor—Alberti—P. 33 H. C.

For real straight marches Examples XXVI and XXVII are there.
23

Example XXVI a 4-4 straight march taken from the Herbert Musical Comedy M. Modiste—Chorus of Footmen.

Example XXVII a 2-4 straight march taken from The Opera Carmen— The Toreadors P. 28

If you have been playing the Tum-Tum marches for your classes, just try a straight march once, and notice the different response and the reaction of the class. Some of you are going to shout—“You have been playing a quick march and not a common march”—I remember several instructors kicking one time when my accompanist was playing for them. “Playing too fast” they said, but the class on the floor enjoyed the snappy march and after marching to it for a while kicked when the tempo was slowed up.

Just try this peppy march and notice how they wake up and get on their toes. This march type is good for short snappy free exercise movements, thrusting—knee flexions—any snappy movement in which quick reaction is desired.

In teaching tactics, the instructor should slow up the tempo so that the commands will sink in. The commands must be given in plenty of time so that the execution is not hurried. After the class knows a group of movements the regular tempo can be used, still remembering to give sufficient time for the command to be understood.

The 6-8 march is one entirely different from the above two marches. There is a rhythmical swing, a feeling of grace, lightness and breadth of movement in a 6-8 march. This is true mainly because of its structure and the manner in which it is played. The 6-8 march should be played lighter and with rhythmic feeling.

The 1st and 4th counts are the strong accents, the others are weak accents. The weak accents give an opportunity for large movements and for holding of positions. For this reason it is the best for wands. The rhythmical feeling is as a figure 8, two connected circles giving big circular movement possibilities.

Examples XXVIII Waldmere—Losey P. 72 H. C. March

Example XXIX Line Up—Heed P. 16 H. C.

Hussaran Attacke

This 6-8 march is generally best for children. It fits the Senior Ladies and Senior Men. For the Business Men, Actives and Juniors, a straight march with lots of push and drive is the best. The ladies also take a straight march without the extra amount of drive, or a good peppy 6-8 march is good for ladies.

The last march is a march in 3-4 time—The Polonaise. This march is a very stately one—slow, smooth and dignified. It is to be used for a big entrance or exit number. The best known is The Chopin—Military Polonaise.

The Festival Polonaise—Wolff P. 40 3rd No. 2

The Polonaise carries over and sustains the movement, inserts life and buoyance into the movement without hastening the tempo. It does this because of the extra number of notes it takes to fill the blanks of the theme or melody.

A few words about running and trotting—music for this is hard to find— The manner in which it should be played is light and very staccato. A good straight march played staccato and lightly and slightly faster than for marching can be used for running fairly well.

Yankee Doodle—makes a good run—

Digitized by
Example XXXVII March from Ruins of Athens—is good. This can be slowed up for trotting also.

NOTE:— Mr. Doering has prepared special lists of compositions for children as well as for other classes. He has listed one hundred different compositions and will sell them for $5.00, if orders are placed for 25 or more. For in-Jormation write to Mr. L. J. Doering, 4134 Beaconsfield, Detroit, Michigan.

(Continued In Next Issue)

--------------------------------------------------

Gymnasium and playground

<■	—	—	-I

DANCES FOR GRADES SEVEN, EIGHT AND NINE, PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

GRADE SEVEN A—COUPLE DANCES

1. Combinations in Polka Rhythm (2-4 time)

I.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

4 polkas forward..................................... 4	Meas.

4 glides sideward, face to face.............................2	Meas.

4 glides sideward, back to back ..................... 2	Meas.

8 Meas.

4 swing hops forward ..............................4	Meas.

4 glides obliquely forward-outward........................2	Meas.

4 glides obliquely forward-inward.........................2	Meas.

8 Meas.

4 cut-hops (cut backward and swing opposite leg for-

ward on hop)......................................4	Meas.

4 glides sideward away from partner ......................2	Meas.

4 glides sideward toward partner .........................2	Meas.

8 Meas.

4 balance-hops forward .................................4	Meas.

1	glide-polka, turning clockwise (half turn) .................2	Meas.

1	glide-polka, turning clockwise (half turn) .................2	Meas.

8 Meas.

32 Meas.

II.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

Place foot forward and backward......................1	Meas.

Change step forward .................................1	Meas.

Digitized by v^ooQle
25

Repeat above 2 measures opposite ..................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures ...........................4	Meas.

8 Meas.

Face partner:

Balance-hop forward ................................1	Meas.

Swing-hop backward .................................1	Meas.

Two glides sideward, step and curtsey...............2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ...................4	Meas.

8 Meas.

Face front:

Two double glide-balance-hops obliquely forward ......2	Meas.

Three steps forward and close heels.................. 2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite (steps backward) ... A Meas.

8 Meas.

Face partner:

Two swing-hops sideward.....................................2	Meas.

Glide-polka sideward .......................................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ....................4	Meas.

8 Meas.

32 Meas.

NOTE: Arms move freely and naturally throughout the dance.

II.	Combinations in Mazurka Rhythm (3-4 time)

I.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

Two double glide-balance-hops ..........................2	Meas.

Three glides outer foot.......................................1	Meas.

Three glides inner foot ............................... 1	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures three times ..................12	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face partner:

Three mazurka-hops sideward and a three-step .......4	Meas.

Repeat opposite ..........................................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ..................................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face front:

Three glides forward with outer foot .................1	Meas.

Three glides forward with inner foot ................ 1	Meas.

One mazurka-hop sideward and a double glide-balance-

hop obliquely forward ............................  2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite .....................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ..............................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Digitized by
26

Face partner:

Cut backward and two hops ...........................1	Meas.

Cut forward and two hops.............................1	Meas.

Step sideward, cross-step in rear, step sideward and

point ...................................................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ...........................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures .............................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

64 Meas.

H.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

Two mazurka-hops sideward .........................2	Meas.

Double balance-hop-tum and two stamps in place ....2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ........................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures .................................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Two balance-hops obliquely forward (outward and in-

ward) ...........................................2	Meas.

Face partner, three	step	turn and point ...........2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite (balance hops

toward rear).....................................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ............................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face partner:

Two mazurka-hops sideward ..........................2	Meas.

Three glides and step and curtsey ................. 2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ...................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ........................... 8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face front:

Two balance touch steps..............................2	Meas.

Two swing hops forward...............................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures three times ................12	Meas.

16 Meas.

64 Meas.

NOTE: Arms move freely and naturally throughout the dance.

III.	Combinations in Schottische Rhythm (4-4 time)

I.

Couple formation, skating position, left hands joined in front, right in rear.

All begin with left foot.

Balance-hop left forward and.......................

Swing hop right backward ..........................1	Meas.

Digitized by

Google
27

Three steps forward and point right foot forward...1 Meas.

Repeat above 2 measures opposite ................. 2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures three times ........12 Meas.

16 Meas.

Three-step swing hop forward left ................. 1	Meas.

Three-step swing hop forward right .......................1	Meas.

Four swing-hops backward, left, right, left, right .2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures three times ...............12	Meas.

16 Meas.

Two schottische steps obliquely forward left and right 2 Meas.

Cut backward and three hops on left foot .......... 1	Meas.

Triple-balance-hop right making a half turn (right

about) ..................................................1	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures turning left about .........4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ..........................  8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Two balance-hops forward (left and right)............1	Meas.

A triple-balance-hop forward left ...................1	Meas.

Repeat above 2 measures opposite ...........................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures three times ............... 12	Meas.

16 Meas.

64 Meas.

II.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

Face partner:

Four cut-hops sideward..................................2	Meas.

Face front and two schottische steps obliquely forward 2 Meas. Repeat above 4 measures ............................... 4	Meas.

8 Meas.

Four swing-hops forward...............................2	Meas.

Two schottische steps sideward (outward and inward) .2 Meas. Repeat above 4 measures ...........................   4	Meas.

8 Meas.

Face partner:

Three-step-tum and point...................................1	Meas.

Three-step-tum and point............................ 1	Meas.

Step and curtsey outer foot and .....................

Step and curtsey inner foot ........................ 1	Meas.

Two glides and step and curtsey......................1	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ....................4	Meas.

8 Meas.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Face front:

Two cut-hops backward (swinging the opposite leg

forward) making a half turn inward................

Three steps forward and point........................

Repeat above 2 measures opposite ... ................

Repeat above 4 measures .............................

1 Meas.

1	Meas.

2	Meas. 4 Meas.

8 Meas.

32 Meas.

NOTE: Arms move freely and naturally throughout the dance.

IV.	Combinations in Waltz Rhythm (3-4 time)

I.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with outer foot.

Face partner:

Step and curtsey................................... 2	Meas.

Step and curtsey...... .............................2	Meas.

Two glides and step and curtsey.....................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures opposite ................   8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face front:

Four balance-touch steps sideward..................  4	Meas.

Three-step-tum and point............................ 4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures opposite ....................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Four swing-hops forward.............................4	Meas.

Three steps forward and point.......................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures opposite ...................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Four balance-hops forward ............................ 4	Meas.

Face partner and two glides and step and curtsey ......4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures opposite (balance-hops toward rear).......................................... 8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Couple formation, inner hands joined shoulder high.

Begin with the outer foot.

Place the foot forward and backward .............  2	Meas.

Change step sideward ............................. 2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ................. 4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures .........................  8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Digitized by
29

Four swing-hop forwards........................... 4	Meas.

Three quick steps forward and point	2	Meas.

Three quick steps forward and point.......................2	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ...........................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Face partner:

Balance-hop forward ............................    1	Meas.

Swing-hop backward ...............................  1	Meas.

Repeat above 2 measures............................ 2	Meas.

Change places with partner in two change steps (passing right shoulders) ..............................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ............................8	Meas.

Balance-hop forward ............................... 1	Meas.

Swing-hop backward .................................1	Meas.

Rear cross-step ....................................2	Meas.

Repeat above 4 measures opposite ...................4	Meas.

Repeat above 8 measures ............................8	Meas.

16 Meas.

64 Meas.

NOTE: Arms move freely and naturally throughout the dance.

DANCES GRADE SEVEN B

Description Music Price of Victor

Sheet	Record

Music	No.

1.	“Jolly Crowd” Games and	“In the	17557

dances	Barn,”

Games & dances

2. “The Playful	“	“Parade	40c	73400

Sprites”	of wooden

Soldiers”

3. “Gathering Peascods “ ,	Sheet	25c	20445

music	(new)

4.	“Crested Hen”	“	Dances	of	17159

People,

Burchenal

GRADE EIGHT A

1.	Clog Dance Combinations to the tune of “Oh Where Has My Little Dog Gone?”

(Music may be found in “Clog and Character Dances” by Frost)

a)	3	left, 3 right, 3	left,—1	right, 1 left

b)	3	right, 3 left, 3	right—1 left, 1 right

c)	Step left sideward and brush-swing-hop right Step right sideward and brush-swing-hop left

e)	3 left, 3 right, 3 left, 3 right

Digitized by CjOOQle
30

2.	Clog Dance Combinations to the tune of "Way Down South in Dixie’’

a)	3	left, 3 right, 3 left, 3 right,—4 skipping-steps forward

b)	3	left, 3 right, 3 left, 3 right,—4 skipping-steps backward

c)	3	left, 3 right, 3 left, 3 right, moving forward in a half

circle left

d)	Hop right, step left sideward and draw right to left Repeat

e)	3 right, 3 left, 3 right, 3 left, moving forward in a half circle left

f)	Hop left, step right sideward and draw left to right Repeat

	Description	Music	Victor Record No.
3. “Normal school	Games and	“Larks	17557
Mazurka”	dances	spur”, games & dances	
4. “Alumni Three	<<	“The Dor-	
Step”		othy,” games and dances	35532
5. “Highland		Folk Dance	17331
Schottische”	u	Music, Crampton & Burchenal	
6. “Bluff King Hal”	it	Folk dances and (Singing Games,	17087

Burchenal

DANCES, GRADE EIGHT B

1.	Clog Dance Combinations to the tune of “Yankee Doodle’’

a)	3 left, 3 right,—7 left

b)	3 right, 3 left,—7 right

c)	Lunge left forward, right forward, left forward, right forward

d)	3 left, 3 right, 3 left—hop left, slapright in front and hold

CHORUS

e)	Jump to side-stride position (3 counts), jump with bringing heels together (3 counts),—3 left, 3 right

f)	Repeat e) twice

g)	Jump forward on heels,—step left backward, step right backward, step left forward,—brush right forward and then backward with crossing in front of left leg. Finish by dropping toe of right foot sharply to the floor beside left foot (legs crossed)

Digitized by CjOOQle
31

II. Clog Dance Combinations to the tune of “Swanee

River”

a) 5 left, 5 right— (1 left, 3 right, 1 left,—1 right, 3 left, 1 right)

b)	Face left and three walking steps forward (beginning with left foot),—place right heel forward, bending the body slightly backward and raising the arms upward (elbows bent at right angles), palms turned forward

Repeat, facing right about and beginning the walking steps with the right foot and placing the left heel forward

c)	Repeat a)

d)	Repeat b)

CHORUS

e)	Repeat a)

f)	Spinning step left (pivot on left foot)

g)	Repeat a), beginning with the right foot

h)	Spinning step right (pivot on right foot), closing heels on last count

Description Music Price Victor

sheet Record Music No

Games &

Dances "The Waltz is made for Love”

and	40c	18972

"Lovely

Roses”	40c

(Sheet Music)

Games &

Dances Folk Dance Music,

Crampton & Burchenal

17331

Sheet	25c	20444

music	(new)

GRADE NINE A

1.	"Suwanee”, Clog and Character Dances, Frost

2.	“Captain Jinks”, Clog and Character Dances, Frost

3.	"Maids in Mirth” Chalif—Price $3

4.	"Galanterie” Chalif—Price $3

5.	"Eloise Gavotte" Book of Dances, Gilbert

GRADE NINE B

1.	"Dixie” (clog dance) The Clog Dance Book, Frost

2.	“Rig-a-jig” (clog dance) Clog and Character Dances, Frost

3.	“Cupid and Butterfly” Games and Dances, Stecher

3.	“Venus Reigen” Games &

Dances

4.	“The Nymphs”

5.	"Santiago”

6.	"Irish Lilt”

7.	"Sweet Katie”

Digitized by UjOOQle
32

WINTER SPORTS PLAY WEEK IN MINNEAPOLIS*

The Board of Park Commissioners of Minneapolis conducted, from January 13th to 23rd, its annual Winter Sports Play Week, one of the outstanding events of the year’s program. Activities were conducted on practically all the playgrounds and play centers, feature events being put on at the more central locations. Through the sale of advertisements for the program, 30,000 of which were printed, the expenses of the week were made.

The attached table shows something of the scope of the program and of the interest which the week aroused.

Date  Jan. 13 Jan. 13  Jan. 13	Time P. M.	Events  Grade Sch. Skating Meet ) Adult Skating Races &  Hockey ) Carnival )	Par- Spec-tici- ta-pants tors Total  2155 1400 3555		
Jan. 14	P. M.	Snow Battle	100	200	300
Jan. 14	P. M.	Ice Yacht Races	10	200	210
Jan. 14	P. M.	Mpls. Hiking Club Outing	112		112
Jan. 14	P. M.	Horse Races	30 2000 2030		
Jan. 15	P. M.	Junior Ski Meet	43	250	293
Jan. 15	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	155 3000 3155		
Jan. 15	P. M.	Legion Skating Meet	140	1500 1640	
Jan. 15	P. M.	38 Hockey Games	760 3800 4560		
Jan. 15	P. M.	Ice Yacht Races	12	300	312
Jan. 16	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	22	150	172
Jan. 16	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	150	500	650
Jan. 16	Eve	Girls’ Mun. Winter Sports			
		Club	160	100	260
Jan. 17	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	30	150	180
Jan. 17	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	180 1500 1680		
Jan. 18	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	78	1500 1578	
Jan. 18	P. M.	Speed Skating Races	180 1200		1380
Jan. 18	P. M.	Hockey Games	120 1200		1320
Jan. 18	Eve	Speed Skating Races	130 1500		1630
Jan. 19	P. M.	Races-Pillsbury House Boys	12	50	62
Jan. 20	P. M.	Boy & Girl Champion races	23	100	123
Jan. 20	Eve	Twin City Curling Bonspiel	112	1000 1112	

•Reprint from Playground and Recreation Association of America Bulletin.

Digitized by
Date

Time

Events

33

Par- Spec-tici- ta-pants tors Total

Jan. 21	A. M.	6 Hockey Games	108	500	608
Jan. 21	P. M.	Junior Ski Meet	20	150	170
Jan. 21	P. M.	Ice Yacht Races	10	150	160
Jan. 21	P. M.	Dog Derby	254	12000	12254
Jan. 21	P. M.	Lincoln Ski Meet	50	250	300
Jan. 21	P. M.	Horse Races	36	2200	2236
Jan. 21	Eve	Ice Carnival	162	5000	5162
Jan. 21	P. M.	Blue Streak Skating Derby	108	11000	11108
Jan. 22	P. M.	Mpls. Ski Club Tournament	30	3000	3030
Jan. 22	P. M.	Hockey Games	48	400	448
Jan. 22	P. M.	Ice Yacht Races	12	475	487
Jan. 21	P. M.	Pillsbury House Skating			
		Finals	37	125	162
Jan. 22	P. M.	26 Hockey Games	624	2600	3224
Jan. 23	Eve.	Awarding of Prizes	100	100	200
		Totals	6313	59550	65863

Minneapolis Winter Sports Play Week-1927

Events Participants		Spectators	Total
Sectional Skating Meets	1080	5000	6080
Junior Sectional Skating Meets	200)		
Senior Skating Meets	210)	3000	3410
Hockey Games	80	1500	1580
Ice Yacht Races	32	2000	2032
Ice Carnival—Logan Park	125	3000	3125
Junior Ski Meet	80)		
Senior Ski Meet	125)	5000	5205
Dog Derby	300	2500	2800
Boy & Girl Championship Tour-			
nament	110	2000	2110
Totals	2342	24000	26342

Digitized by LjOOQle
Health education notes

+

4

♦	....	-	 4

From the Journal of the American Medical Association.

According to Malling-Hansen’s observations there are wide daily variations (2 pounds, or 0.9 Kg.) in the weight of children during the course of a day.

Activities, bathing and daily tasks have as much effect on weight as eating.

Weekly variations in the bill of fare are accompanied by periodic fluctuations in weight.

Arrest in weight gains or loss of weight commonly occurs from the first of May to the middle of July.

A period of greater gains occurs in August, September and October. Vacation time is one of rapid gain in weight. Periods of arrested weight or loss of weight appear to indicate unfavorable conditions for the child.

The cause of the great arrest and loss in weight in May, June and July, and similarly of the marked increases in the autumn months, must be sought in other factors than those of seasonal temperature alone.

The increase in the weight of the children is about twice as great in the period when the moon is passing from perigee to apogee as when it was moving away from the earth toward the perigee.

Storage of Water by Body Tissues.—Skelton in the Archives of Internal Medicine, Chicago states that approximately half of the body water is in the muscles. The skin contains about one fifth of the water in the body, and the blood about 7 per cent. Of the water in the blood, 67 per cent is in the plasma and 33 per cent is in the corpuscles. All the tissues lost water after hemorrhage. Following the injection of isotonic and hypertonic sodium chloride solutions, tissues, except muscles, showed an increase in their water content. Following the injection of 1.2 per cent calcium chloride solutions, the muscle and skin showed a decrease in their water content. The results after the injection of 2.4 per cent calcium chloride were parallel to those after hemorrhage. Although the muscle contains nearly one half of the body water, and loses the least per unit mass of tissue, it gives up more fluid than any other tissue when the animal is deprived of fluid, and takes up by far the greatest portion of any water added as water per se or as a hypotonic salt solution. It would seem justifiable, therefore, to indicate muscle as the most important water reserve of the body; it stores the greatest quantity of any excess, and acts as a safeguard against
35

the loss of too much water from the body. The liver and the intestine appear to respond more quickly than any other tissues when there is an alteration in the water content of the body.

Sciatic pain.—Since the time of Cotunio, chiefly through the efforts of neurologists, the symptomatalogy of sciatica has been increasingly well defined, and today we may say that we have the complete clinical picture, and the differential diagnosis is easy. The same cannot be said of the pathology, which remains obscure in many respects. Orthopedic surgeons began to occupy themselves with the subject of sciatica when it was found that in many cases it was associated with deformities) and often took origin from malformations and diseases of the skeleton. Charcot was one of the first to draw attention to the frequent association of sciatica with vertebral deformity, and Brissot first coined the term “sciatic scoliosis,” that is to say, lateral curvature due to sciatica. I already denoted sciatica a symptom, and such, I think, it should be considered, at any rate from the clinical standpoint. It is only when the pain is due to direct involvement of the nerve by the pathological process that sciatica can be considered a primary disease, and this is rare.—Putti, V.: New Conceptions in the Pathogenesis of Sciatic Pain, Lancet, July 9, 1927.

THE FUTURE LONDON: CITY PLANNING

The North Middlesex Joint Town Planning Committee, whose area lies to the north of London, into which the great metropolis is spreading, has approved an interesting report on zoning by an expert. The outer belt of the area is mainly rural in character but penetration by arterial roads and electric railways has brought it within “the shadow of urbanization.” A new situation has arisen, because the rate of increase in the population has been declining, and statisticians think that in a relatively short time the population is likely to remain stationary. Further, the tendency toward decentralization, both of industries and of population, which is a voluntary movement, is becoming more marked. Instead of expanding as one gigantic unit, the expert holds that London should take the form of a ring of satellite towns, not necessarily new ones, dependent on the parent city for the major cultural and commercial organization that is possible only in a metropolis, but otherwise self-supporting and separated from London and one another by a belt of open countiy. The inner belt of the area is already built up, and the districts are little more than local government units; the intermediate belt needs to have its amenities preserved and identity maintained by a park strip along the streams that, in many cases, separate adjacent districts, or by a like recognizable physical boundary; the outer belt, being semirural in character at present_and for the most part unspoilt,

Digitized by CjOOQle
36

offers the best scope of all for zoning. It is desirable to maintain the semirural aspect by preserving large areas for their present use as market gardens. A definite ring of open spaces is recommended between the outer semirural belt and the intermediate suburban belt, so that a more or less continuous green girdle may result. In regard to buildings, it is recommended that four houses to the acre should apply in the semirural zone, subject to special approved schemes for agricultural or industrial workers; in the suburban zone a density not exceeding twelve houses to the acre, and elsewhere eight, six and four houses to the acre.—Foreign Letters, Journal M. A.

THE RELATIONS BETWEEN HEIGHT, WEIGHT AND LENGTH OF LIFE

In an address on the subject of emaciation and nutrition, Dr. Hahn of Vienna discussed recently the relations between the weight and height of a healthy person. In general, the rule is given that a healthy adult should weigh as many kilograms as his height exceeds 100 cm.; that is to say, a man whose height is 170 cm. should weigh 70 kilograms. Exact measurements have confirmed the general correctness of this rule; however, in the earlier years of life, a slight overweight and in the middle and later years a slight underweight should be sought for the sake of perfect health. A weight above normal is not conducive to longevity; even from 10 to 15 kilograms overweight is too much, for the life expectancy tables of the large life insurance companies record for such persons a life expectancy considerably less than for persons of normal weight. Large excess of weight (30, 40 or 50 kilograms) constitutes a very great life hazard. A woman whose height is 160 cm. and whose weight is 100 kilograms is 40 (100—60) kilograms overweight and her life expectancy is reduced by 80 per cent. These details were emphasized: In younger persons a slight excess in weight lessens the danger from tuberculosis, whereas in juveniles who are markedly underweight the danger is greater. For that reason, the so prevalent reducing “cures” for young women are dangerous,if carried to extremes. During the years of growth and the first years of adult life, that is, up to about the age 35, tall persons, especially, should avoid a subnormal weight, for statistics show that such persons as present a weight 20 per cent under normal have an increased mortality of 30 per cent, which continues up to age 40. Most persons who reach an advanced age are thin when they pass midlife. The stout and the corpulent succumb in the fifth or the sixth decade to a heart, kidney or lung affection (pneumonia). It is interesting to note that in Vienna there are about 30,000 women who weigh more than 100 kilograms (according to Dr. Hahn’s estimate), but not so many men.
37

Pathology and Therapy of Headache—Headache, Peritz in the Medizinische Klinik, Berlin states, may be said to be due to anemia or hyperemia. There are two distinct types of headache. It may be only a symptom of an organic disease, or it may be traceable to a functional disorder. Peritz holds that functional headaches do not arise within the brain centers or in the meninges but are induced by myalgias. Even migraine has a myalgic basis. The author discusses the role of the nervous system in headaches and the origin of myalgias. The severity of a headache depends on the resistance in the nervous system. As the chief causes of functional headache, overwork and fatigue are mentioned. Other causes are: anemia, gout, endocrine, disturbances, obesity, infections (influenza), intoxications (alcoholic beverages), reflex pains (disturbances of vision). The treatment varies with the cause, but general measures will be needed in most cases. Massage, high frequency current, application of heat, use of certain drugs, and, finally, injection of sodium chloride solutions into the myalic regions may be helpful. Applications of heat are contraindicated in persons with high blood pressure. Partial arm baths (Schwenninger) are often help'ul. In cases in which headache is due to prolonged overwork, infections or mild constitutional disturbances, injections of sodium chloride solution produce lasting results. In anemic persons, rest, fresh air and arsenic preparations are indicated. When in nervous persons excitability is great, patients must be calmed and strengthened before any special treatment for headache is applied. In many cases it will suffice to eliminate the hyperexcitability of the nervous system. Psychotherapy is often helpful. In some cases a change of employment or of climate will accomplish the best results.

HEALTH.

In the November issue of “The Scientific Monthly” Dr. T. Swan Harding, associate editor of “American Medicine” has a splendid article entitled “Common Food Fallacies” that should be read by every health education teacher. His final statements are as follows: There is no unalterable rule of diet universally applicable to all men. Human beings differ in health and in disease. Individual measures must always be invoked. Diets also are made up of a large number of essentially individual factors. No dogmatic rule can be laid down. Individuals must try to adjust these various diet factors to their personal needs, judging largely by their state of health. Of course certain basic principles exist with which all practicing physicians should thoroughly acquaint themselves in order to advise their patients wisely on nutrition problems. It would also be a great help if papers and periodicals which glory in printing the most highly technical food-fad systems would get over their aversion to the publication of the plain, fragmentary facts about scientific nutrition in order to instruct intelligent readers. The faddist, the fanatic, the quack or the phy-

Digitized by Google
38

sician can not avoid error when they extol some universally appli-able diet system in health or in disease. It is melancholy to consider the false information dispensed so widely on nutrition.

In conclusion the nature of the basic principles will be very briefly indicated. McCollum has long emphasized the fact that the American diet is to-day deficient. Such a diet, consisting of milled cereals, legume seeds, meat and deficient amounts of milk have proved inadequate in calcium and in vitamin A and have prevented rats from reaching maximum size or exhibiting maximum fertility. A menu made up of such food does not appear so frightful. For instance— broiled steak, mashed potatoes, buttered beets, combination salad (or gelatin, peas or carrots), bread, butter, sweet pickles, apple pie, cheese, coffee.

“When a family is confined to such food supply throughout several generations, the physical development gradually deteriorates. They show signs of senility rather early and fail to maintain a well-nourished appearance,” writes McCollum. It is only necessary to add calcium and fat soluble A vitamin to change this picture completely. In other words, milk consumption must rise from half a pint to a quart per capita, since milk is the most accessible source of calcium we have. The consumption of butter, cheese, creamed soups, leafy vegetables, greens and salads must increase. Most important are such vegetables as spinach, turnip, beet tops, celery leaves, romaine, collards, lettuce, cabbage cauliflower, endives. Legumes, cereals, tubers and fleshy roots, it must be remembered are calcium-deficient and calcium is an absolute essential.

We may therefore conclude that if a person will drink ample milk and eat freely raw or lightly cooked green vegetables and raw fruits—to round out the ordinary basic diet, the fundamental requirements of nutrition have been fulfilled. Other adjustments are largely a matter of taste.

We do not for a moment conclude that the nutritional laboratory investigator knows it all. We are tiying to show that what is actually known as fact to the scientific investigator in nutrition is as nothing compared to the vast assumed knowledge of soi-disant diet “experts” and food system faddists. We must learn that scientific nutrition rightly lags far behind these grandiose evangels with their assured “truths.” But slowly and laboriously the foundation is being placed for a science of nutrition that will be immeasurably valuable because it is rigidly scientific. All people of intelligence should know about this. They should be eager to know of scientific progress rather than eager to follow the syndicated words of sciolists.

Extracts from a paper by William T. St. Lawrence, on Exercise for children with Heart Disease.

From the standpoint of management, few phases of cardiac disease in children cause such concern as the attitude to be adopted toward exercise. Although this subject has received much at-

Digitized by
89

tention in relation to adults, little has been presented concerning children, and the great differences that exist between this disease in the adult and in the child make a separate and distinct consideration of the latter necessary.

The heart may be diseased and yet maintain normal function, or its function may be impaired in any degree between slightly below normal and that scarcely sufficient to meet the circulatory needs when the patient is at rest in bed. The milder degrees have been spoken of as “poor compensation” and the more severe as “decompensation.” All are in reality some degree of heart failure. The question of exercise is deeply concerned with the nature of heart failure, and it is believed that the type of management selected will depend on the conception adopted. For many years, the altered mechanics present in a heart whose valves have been injured or destroyed have dominated the attitude toward heart failure. The valvular defects have been looked on as the chief underlying causes of the dimished heart function when the musculature by enlargement or increase in power was unable to meet the extra demands placed on it. The onset of heart failure has been attributed chiefly to excessive physical exertion. Regardless of what may still be the prevailing opinion in relation to the disease in adults, I doubt gravely whether such a conception holds true for children. I believe that there is another attitude which is far more likely to lead to a better understanding of the processes present and therefore to a more enlightened type of management.

Rheumatic infection is by all means the chief, if not the sole, important cause of acquired cardiac disease in children. The lesions in the heart may be large or small.

The onset of cardiac failure as a result of physical exertion in the absence of other factors has never been observed in spite of the fact that 95 per cent of the children lead normal lives and pursue the physical activities normal for their ages. To be sure, it cannot be denied that in the presence of other factors and impending cardiac failure, physical exertion might hasten its advent and appear as the all important cause.

If a child with heart disease has been able to provide a normal exercise tolerance for himself, the question arises as to whether we have good reason for restraint. It should be remembered that it is as important not to limit activities when they might be performed without harm as to allow them when they might be dangerous. Experience alone can give the answer to this question. For about eleven or twelve years, the policy of allowing full freedom in all physical activities including games and sports for children in class I (poor compensation) has been in force at the St. Luke’s Clinic, St. Louis, Mo. These children are permitted all types of exertion until they become conscious of mod-

Digitized by
40

erate dyspnea and heart beating. They are instructed not to pursue their activities beyond this point. As they do not suffer dyspnea sooner than their playmates, it follows that they enter into all such sports as football, baseball, basketball, running and jumping. Selected patients are allowed to compete in athletic contests with normal children of their age, and several of them have medals for such events as the 80 yard dash, high jump and broad jump, which have been won in competition with their normal playmates. To be sure, great care is used in selection for such events. It is well understood that competitive sport is likely to carry a child beyond a point at which he might otherwise cease. While it might seem that this would lead to overstrain, such has not been observed to be the case. If full freedom in physical activity can do harm to the average child in class I, this fact should have made itself known. Yet it can be stated without reservation that the observers at this clinic have never seen physical exertion, in the absence of infection, account for the onset of cardiac failure in a case in class I. At first great caution was used, and there was much hesitation in allowing or urging the usual games and sports of normal children except in patients with the mildest anatomic lesions. However, the absence of bad results and the general improvement obtained invited greater liberties, and for many years all class I children have been urged to pursue normal lives. The conclusion has been reached that exercise can do no harm to such hearts. Cases of sudden death following exertion have never been observed.

RUNNING WATER IS NOT ALWAYS PURE.

With a persistence which entitles it front rank among hygiene fallacies, the idea has long clung to the popular mind that running water, if not always pure, will at least purify itself “in a dozen miles or so.” Disastrous consequences following too literal application of this erroneous principle to the selection of municipal water supplies has prompted numerous scientific investigations both here ana abroad. A critical review of these researches with a bibliography of over 170 references is given in Part I of a publication entitled “The Oxygen Demand of Polluted Waters” recently issued by the United States Public Health Service, as Public Health Bulletin No. 173. Part II of the same bulletin is devoted to the presentation of an extensive series of experiments conducted in the Stream Pollution laboratories of the Public Health Service.

* * * *

Briefly, it may be stated that a water contaminated with the Organic matters found in sewage and in various industrial wastes does gradually rid itself of such pollution, if allowed free access to air. But this is no short process. In a given experiment with Ohio River water collected at Cincinnati, oxygen continued to be

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
41

used up for fully 300 days and bacteria of intestinal varieties persisted for almost that length of time. Even in the absence of intervening pollution, it would be necessary to allow for a stream flow of several hundred miles before a water, once polluted, could regain its pristine purity. Irrespective of distance from the nearest upstream point of known pollution, it may be safely stated that no river in the United States can now be regarded as hy-gienically safe without treatment. Conversely, the possibility that a water polluted with sewage might be fully purified by flowing for "a dozen miles or so” becomes too remote for serious consideration.

.. . ■ ' .<>

News, notes and comments

<> ......... " " . ■■ ................... ■>

SCHOOLS CARE FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN

Special methods of handling children with heart defects in Los Angeles are described in the Trained Nurse and Hospital Review.

The school health department is equipped with a laboratory, x-ray machines and an electrocardiograph, by means of which careful diagnoses are made and progress is observed.

By special adjustment with the teachers these children are spared any special strain, such as reciting before the whole school, rushing between classes and heavy home work.

A special heart committee of the school health committee examines children who have serious defects at frequent intervals in cooperation with the school physician. The schools maintain eighty corrective rooms, in which these children have supervised corrective exercises.—Hygeia.

COSTS LESS TO EDUCATE HEALTHY CHILDREN

As a result of continuous medical supervision of school children, the number that do not finish their work in the specified time has been reduced from 49 per cent to 23 per cent in the last ten years, says the health department of Maryland.

Losing less time from sickness has made it possible for many children to complete their work without interruption.

This medical supervision serves a double purpose. First and most important is the correction of unfavorable conditions that might be serious handicaps to the children’s development. There is also an advantage to the taxpayer, in that it costs the state less to educate a child who finishes his work without having to repeat it.—Hygeia, December 1927.

Digitized by
42

ENFORCED PROTECTION SAVES WORKER S SIGHT

Glass eyes are works of art, but impossible to see through, remarked Harry Guilbert, director of safety for the Pullman Company, in a recent address, describing the efforts of his company to protect the eyes of its employees.

A mandatory ruling, rigidly enforced, requiring employees in industrial shops to wear goggles while they are at work, on penalty of dismissal, has made possible a record of one eye lost in a period of five years in the Pullman shops.

A nonhazardous occupation does not exist as far as the eyes are concerned, Mr. Guilbert declared. He vigorously scored the officials who upbraided workmen for not wearing goggles, meanwhile exposing their own eyes. Yet this is happening in thousands of' shops throughout the country.

“Wherever men and women are at work fragments of metal, splashing chemicals and molten metals, splinters of wood and cinders are bound to get into their eyes unless proper protective devices are used. It is necessary to begin training the workman to guard his eyes from the moment he is hired. It is imperative that the new workman be provided with goggles fitted to his particular nose—because no two noses are alike—before he starts on the job,’’ the safety director said.

The United States imports 40,000 glass eyes each year, but, Mr. Guilbert added, “you can’t see a thing with a glass eye.” —Hygeia-December 1927. Industrial	.

OHIO STATE EDUCATIONAL CONFERENCE.

Thirty-two out-of-state speakers, most of them with national reputations, will appear on the programs of the Eighth Annual Ohio State Educational Conference, April 12, 13, and 14, 1928.

Speakers fcr the general programs are Clarence C. Little, President, University of Michigan; Glenn Frank, President, University of Wisconsin; W. 0. Thompson, President Emeritus, Ohio State University; J. Paul Goode, Professor of Geography, University of Chicago; and O. T. Corson, former Director of Education for the State of Ohio.

New York, February 5 (A. P.)— Athletes in 2’3 colleges showed a slightly lower scholastic average than nohathletic students in a survey of 44 colleges and universities, made public today in the twenty-second annual report of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.	>

Fourteen institutions, the report showed, credited the athletic-group with a higher average, while five gave them equal rating. Two reported particularly on football players. One of these placed all but 25 per cent of the gridiron players below the

Digitized by vjOOQle
43

average of their groups. The other reported juniors and seniors, who did not participate in the sport, had a slightly higher average than those who did.

Dr. Howard J. Savage, staff member in charge of the study of college athletics, said in the report that results of the survey were inconclusive, because no uniform basic method had been used in the comparisons.

Twenty of the institutions used percentages in reporting average grades of various groups for comparison.

The percentages, figured on a basis of 100 were reported as

follows:

Participants in nonathletic	activities........................80 .8

All students........................... .......................79.	4

Students participating in	no	activities.....................  78	2

Athletes .................................................    77.	3

Fraternity members..........................................  76.	6

If the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching really wants to help us in the development of better human beings it might spend some of its efforts in the attempt to construct a questionaire that, when interpreted, really reveals something of importance.

The information given above, has been broadcast over the country under the heading: Athletes Trail Other Students.” Trail them in what: In examination results in what subjects? In memory tests? In reasoning? Was any effort made to find out how the members of the different groups compared in health, or in those character traits enumerated by the N. E. A. committee on character education? These were: courtesy, honesty, co-operation, loyalty, responsibility, justice, independence, service, self-control, promptness, judgment, accuracy and sportsmanship. Apparently it has not dawned on some people that athletics has as its objective the training of that other half of a human being that is ignored by the conventional school subjects, but which is fully as important. (Editor.—)

NEW NEBRASKA LAW REQUIRES CHARACTER EDUCATION

A course of study in character education, published recently by the Nebraska State Department of Education, was introduced this fall in schools of the State. This is in conformity with an act passed by the 1927 session of the legislature, requiring that beginning this year special emphasis be given in schools to morality, courtesy, obedience to law, respect for the flag of the United States, the constitutions of the United States and the State of Nebraska, and other attributes which tend to promote upright citizenship. Separate outlines are provided for the nursery school and kindergarten, primary grades, intermediate grades, and junior and senior high school,

Digitized by LjOOQle
44

As time for preparation of the course was limited, the present text is considered tentative, and it is expected that constructive criticism by teachers and citizens will assist in the development of a course that will enable the schools to accomplish all that they can be fairly expected to achieve in character education.— School Life.

MEDICAL CONGRESS TO BE HELD IN HOLLAND, IN 1928

A Dutch Society of Medical Doctors who are interested in Physical Education have decided to hold a congress in Amsterdam at the time of the International Games. They have invited world renowned physiologists to take part. Studies are to be made of the effects of highly competitive exercises on the human body.

The secretary of the society Dr. Van Breemen has sent an invitation to all Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors to take part in this important gathering.—Physical Education Bulletin, England.

The Brain of Anatole France.—November 14, 1924, MM. Guillaume Louis and Dubreuil-Chambardel proceeded to embalm the body of Anatole France, first removing the brain for the purpose of making a detailed examination of it, later. The report on the examination of the brain has recently been submitted to the academy. The conclusions reached by the two anatomists who examined it demonstrate once again that the weight of the brain is not important as a measure of intelligence. The brain of Cuvier weighed 1,829 Gm.; Lord Byron’s brain weighed 1,807 Gm.; that of Schubert weighed 1,420 Gm. The weight of the average brain is placed at 1,360 Gm. It has been found that the brain of Anatole France weighed only 1,190 Gm., or much below the average. The observations of the anatomists confirm, on the other hand, the opinion, commonly held today, that intelligence is in relation to the convolutions and the sulci of the cerebral cortex. From that standpoint the brain of Anatole France was, it seems, excellent. The convolutions were separated from one another by deep and flexuous furrows, together with secondary fissures and notches. The frontal and occipital lobes, especially, were of a very complex character.

Finger Prints According to Race.—Finger prints are divided into three classes; i. e., arches, loops and whorls. On investigation of these three kinds of finger prints, Furuhata in the Japan Medical World says it may be learned that the rate of their distribution in the races belonging to the same group is almost definite. He believes that in time a complete classification of races, based on the study of heredity as well as the mathematical investigation will be given out, taking all kinds of finger prints into consideration. By the finger print indexes
45

the races of the world may be roughly classified as follows: the Manchurian type; the Japanese type; the Italian type; the Indian type ana the West European.

DARWIN’S HOME FOR THE NATION

In his presidential address to the British Association, Sir Arthur Keith made an appeal for a fund to purchase Darwin’s home at Downe in Kent, where he did most of his epoch making work, so that it might be preserved for the nation. The appeal met with a prompt response. Mr. George Buckston Browne, a retired genito-urinary surgeon, on reading the appeal at once telegraphed to Sir Arthur offering to make himself wholly responsible for the gift. His motive was to allow future generations to see Darwin’s home, which, with its estate, might otherwise pass into the hands of builders. The cost, with some endowment fund, is estimated at from $60,000 to $75,000. Mr. Browne has made it a condition that no other contributor is to be asked to share the cost with him. He was admitted to the membership of the College of Surgeons in 1874, and for fourteen years acted as assistant to Sir Henry Thompson, the leading genito-urinary specialist of his day. He is an antiquarian and an enthusiastic collector. In offering to buy Downe House and to establish a fund for its perpetual upkeep, he is giving expression to his profound admiration for the work of the great naturalist. He considers that the house in which evolution was cradled should be as reverently preserved as Shakespeare’s birthplace. He desires that the house should be restored as nearly as possible to its condition when Darwin lived there. When the house and garden have been restored, he would wish them to be opened without charge to visitors, who could then be shown Darwin’s study, laboratory and living rooms much as when he left them. He also expressed the wish that some physician of slender means and good record should be appointed the custodian. Sir Arthur Keith has suggested that out of the endowment fund money should be spared for a prize to be given every second year for the best contribution to biologic knowledge. Downe House is the property of Darwin's son, Prof. Francis Darwin, and is now used as a school for girls.

THE DECLINING BIRTH RATE

The birth rate in England and Wales has now fallen below that of France, and, excepting Sweden, is the lowest of the principal European countries. This statement is contained in the statistical review of the registrar-general for 1926. The birth rate for 1926 was 17.8 per thousand of population. Excepting the rate of 17.7 in 1918, the last year of the war, which at that time was regarded as phenomenally low, that for 1926 is the lowest recorded since the establishment of civil registration in this

Digitized by LjOOQle
46

country. In view of the continued decline during the first half of the current year, it is probable that the rate for 1927 will be lower than that for 1918. The crude death rate was 11.6 per thousand of population, and was equal to that of 1923, the lowest on record. In 1924 and in 1925 the rate was 12.2 per thousand. The death rate from cancer was 1,362 or 26 per million higher than in 1925, and was the highest rate yet recorded. The suicides from poisonous gases, practically all of which were from coal gas, have shown a substantial increase in recent years, from 165 in 1917 to 943 in 1926. The general death rate and the infantile mortality are low compared with the rates prevailing in most of the other countries.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Sources Of Information On Play And Recreation”

(Revised.and Enlarged Edition, 1927) by Marguerita P. Williarps, Department of Recreation, Russell Sage Foundation. Published

by Russell Sage Foundation, New York City, 1927........... Price

$1.00.

This book is a compilation of carefully selected and readily available books, pamphlets, reports and articles on many places of recreation. For a book of only 94 pages it is very comprehensive in scope. There are twenty-five chapters covering as many different topics under play and recreation, with a tendency to group around larger and more general phases of the subject.

Chapters I, II. and III. cover the theory and philosophy of play and recreation with emphasis on the nature, function and value of play; leisure-time problems; and recreation and delinquency. Chapter IV. will appeal to those interested in the layout and equipment of play facilities. About six pages are devoted to problems of organization and administration of public recreation; publicity; training and reports. The bulk of the book (60 pages) is given over to references on actual content material in play and recreation. Such topics as games, entertainments and socials; athletics and sports; swimming pools; dancing and rhythmic games; dramatics, music; story telling; community centers; motion pictures; boys’ and girls’ organizations or clubs; camping and hiking; nature study and gardening; home, school and playground recreational occupations; church recreation; industrial recreation, and physical education are each given several pages of references. Lists of recreational surveys are given under a separate chapter of about four pages. The last chapter lists addresses of publishers and periodicals.

The contents of this book are so extensive in their scope and at the same time so well selected that they are equally valuable to the recreation teacher or executive. It ought to be one of the first books in a recreation worker’s library and probably the one used most.

—John C. Kiefer.
47

“Students’Use in Leisure Time of Activities Learned in Physical Education in State Teachers Colleges,” by Ethel J. Saxman, Ph. D. Teachers College Contributions to Education No. 217 Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City, 1926..

This is a book concerning the problem of education of students in state colleges for the use of leisure time. In the words of the author, “it is an evaluation of certain physical activities for student’s leisure time use.” The data on which the discussions and recommendations: are based “were secured from student bodies and directors of physical education departments in state teachers colleges.”

In order to get the information needed in this study, the questionaire method was employed. Samples of the questionaires used are given at the end of the book as appendices. They are comprehensive, short, and understandable.

The arrangement of the material centers around five main topics:—

1.	Partial factors in the matter of students leisure hours.

2.	Amount and frequency of provision for recreation

3.	Leisure time use of activities learned in physical education

4.	Students’ reactions to a given list of recognized leisure

time activities.

5.	Summary and recommendations.

Under each of these main topics there are several sub-topics embracing a study and discussion of the findings in the questionaires. Each topic,is briefly summarized at the end of its chapter. Tables and charts are used liberally to present the volume of statistics resulting from this type of study.

The selection of the questions and the arrangement of them in the questionaire, the large number of cases involved, the number and variety of institutions from which information was gathered, the analysis of the problem and subsequent classification of material, and the thoroughness of treatment, all testify to the sound technic and procedure used in this work.

The findings in general are very interesting to a person engaged in teaching physical education and particularly so to the teacher of. physical education in colleges or normal schools. Unless the reader has some specific problem in which special information is sought, there is a tendency in going through the book to avoid the tedious work of plowing through tables of figures and turn directly to the summaries and final recommendations.

Chapter IV. is particularly interesting to those teaching physical education in elementary and secondary schools. It discusses the findings of twenty city and six state surveys of physical education in the grades and high school. The author explains that “the mean ages at which students learned each of the activities studied, were the ages at which many boys and girls are in either the elementary or high schools so that it was felt that a study of state and city surveys of public school systems might give an added understanding of factors which control the use in

Digitized by UjOOQle
48

leisure time of activities learned in physical education.” Undoubtedly the physical education activities learned by the students were affected by the same programs and methods brought out in the surveys studied, but too much importance should not be attached to this factor as influencing what they can do or would like to do today.

In the discussion of the “Programs of Physical Education” it is pointed out that “the significant factor in regard to the types of materials used, is the trend toward a change in emphasis from formal gymnastics to the more natural activities of childhood.” This smacks of the confusion and misunderstanding of method and content. Probably it would be less of an exaggeration to say that the trend has been toward a greater change in method than in content.

The final recommendations are precise and amply supported by the evidence submitted. They should appeal to teachers of physical education in general and particularly so to those in colleges. The organization of the material while necessarily complicated is thorough and logical. Although limited in scope the book is a valuable addition to a phase of the literature which has been more or less neglected.—John C. Kieffer.

“Musical Settings for Gymnastics—A Collection of Rhythms for Use in the Gymnasium”— compiled and arranged by Gertrude Haynes Young; 9” x 12 1-8”; paper cover; published by Gamble Hinged Music Co.,—Price $3.50.

“Handbook of Suggestive Music for Gymnastics,” by the same author. Price 50c.

This is a collection of musical compositions for use as accompaniments to various types of gymnasium work.

There are texts for marches, for stunt marching, for running, for simple steps in different rhythms, for calisthenics and for club swinging—compositions to meet every need of the gymnasium instructor.

The foreword tells us that the compiler of the collection is peculiarly fitted to get such material together because of her many years of experience in playing for gymnastics and dancing. She has culled from the vast amount of musical material that which has proven satisfactory.

Teachers of Physical Education and accompanists will find it convenient to have material in one book and so bound that the pages turn easily and lie flat. It will enable the instructor to have material at hand for any phase of her work.

While there is a choice of selection in the book, it is necessarily limited and there might be a call for greater variety. To meet this need the author has supplemented this book with a “Handbook of Suggestive Music for Gymnastics” (6” x 4”; 50c).

This contains a classified list of many musical numbers in all rhythms and suggestions for the use of each. From this list the accompanist or instructor may select a more extended repertoire.

•—Janet B. Walter.