MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	JULY,	1926	No.	351

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ns second-class matter October 1, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

ADDRESS BEFORE MID-WEST ASSOCIATION OF TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By President L. D. Coffman, University of Minnesota

One of the strange paradoxes of life is that the things which are most worth having frequently receive the least recognition. It is so in Education. Every leader of any importance in listing the aims of education has placed physical welfare and health at the top of the list. The claim has been made frequently that intellectual power and one’s social and spiritual outlook on life are dependent on his physical health. And yet the race has gone serenely on its way, decade after decade, and generation after generation, with an occasional exception to be sure, but generally speaking, ignoring this point of view and without providing a systematic and adequate means for the achievement and conservation of health.

Digitized by LjOOQle
146

Several factors have undoubtedly contributed to the failure of the public to insist upon a thorough going program of physical education. One of these is the ancient conception that health is a gift, divinely bestowed by the gods. It came without the asking and it was preserved without special effort. Its symbol was strength and physical power. The strong man was the leader and the hero, the weak one the vassal and the outcast. This simple belief swayed the thoughts of men and influenced their conduct for many generations.

But it alone does not account for the fact that we have delayed for many decades now the inauguration of a universal program for physical welfare. Another factor which has contributed to this delay is that until recently our ancestors were engaged in a' heroic struggle with nature. There were forests to be cut, rivers to be spanned, mountains to be tunneled, wild prairies to be tilled. The struggle for existence was severe. Great fortitude and hardihood was manifest on the part of pioneers everywhere. Health, physical development and strength were qualities which they possessed to a large degree. Indeed, these qualities seemed to be the incidental products of their daily life.

But the changes that have occurred within a century in the social and economic life of the country have transformed our thought with reference to this matter. In 1790 only 3 per cent of the population of America lived in cities. The last census shows something like 60 per cent of our population is essentially urban in character, and those who live in the country are no longer rural in the sense that those were who lived there twenty years ago. Before the movement for the improvement of highways started, before mail was delivered to the country districts, before the introduction of a telephone and the wireless for more than a hundred years our ancestors renewed their vitality through contact with nature in the forest and open country. The American people were essentially a rural people. But these physical activities of the open country are no longer possible. The growth of cities and the development of industrialism in America have forced us to devise substitutes for the recreational and educative opportunities of outdoor life.

Another reason why physical education has found it so difficult to establish itself as a part of the recognized program of education, is that it consisted almost entirely of games, bodily exercises, and recreational features. It was a method or a point of view, an incident in one’s total experience, but it did not rise to the dignity of a subject. One could learn to do many pleasant things with ability and skill. He could becofiie expert in games, but these things, although they were valuable in themselves and no doubt unproved the physical well being of the individual in manifold ways, nevertheless were so different in
147

character from the things that were usually taught in school that no one looked upon them as constituting a part of a legitimate program of education.

A fourth reason why physical education remained an academic outcast for more than a hundred years, was that there were no teachers competent to teach it. It is true that there were persons who were exponents of some particular system. It is also true that there were those who were especially expert in certain games. In most instances, however, they were what someone has called “big muscle teachers”. They knew how to develop the biceps, or chest muscles, or to increase the strength of the individual, but they knew nothing of the relationship of these muscles to the general health of the individual and they knew less about teaching. On the other hand, while they may have been good wrestlers or good trapese performers or men who could lift heavy weights, or break iron bars, or do other remarkable things, in many cases they lacked the personal, social, and intellectual qualities which are regarded as necessary among those who teach.

A fifth reason why physical education has found it so difficult to receive recognition, lies in the fact that those who are already entrenched in education have seldom extended a welcoming hand to a new subject. Every new subject has had to knock long and loud at the door in order to gain admittance. The advocates of the new subject in nearly every case have resented this attitude and the resentment has not always been illfounded. On the other hand it should be said that the conservative attitude of the advocates of the established studies has in the long run had a wholesome and beneficial effect. It has prevented the acceptance of many utopian schemes, and the foisting of many reforms upon the schools. It has forced every new subject to prove its case, to demonstrate its value and to organize its materials before it secured admission into the sanctum sanctorium.

Superstition, the rural character of our social life, the absence of subject matter, the incompetency of the teaching staff, and tradition, each in its own way and in its own time, has played its part in preventing physical education from being accepted as a part of the program of general education.

Gradually, however, conditions have changed. Superstition has been dispelled, total reliance upon the gods has been undermined. Society has become urbanized. The attitude of the faculties has been modified. Well trained and cultured persons are studying the problem in light of social needs. The demand for physical education has become more insistent by the general public. What are some of the factors that were responsible for this change? One of them undoubtedly is the increase in leisure of the American people. With the development of in-
148

dustrialism the hours of the working day have been shortened. We live in an iron age, an age of machineiy, of specialization and of narrow skills. The problem of providing a worthy use for leisure in late life and during the hours of the working day has become acute. The laborer has more time on his hands— what shall he do with it? Sociologists have taught us that as the curve of leisure increases so also increases the curve of crime. What prevented this increase in crime in earlier days? Perhaps it was methodical labor. Methodical labor, hour after hour, from sunrise until sunset is no longer a characteristic of civilization. It is well known that men will play even when they are tired. Unless we give them something refreshing and noble to think about and to do and something attractive in the form of recreation and amusement, they will live on the plane of sensuality and passion. It is a splendid thing to lift mankind from the plane of sensuality and passion to that of the sensuous. Yet everyone recognizes that there are still higher levels of thought and conduct to be achieved.

If the leisure which modern industry affords the working man and woman is used for dissipation, then leisure will prove a curse rather than a blessing. On the other hand leisure may be a very great blessing if it is devoted to recreational activities than will improve the vitality of the individual. Physical education should lead the worker to spend his leisure time in worthy recreational activities. This is no doubt one of the reasons why physical education is acquiring increased respectability.

Another reason grows out of the fact that spontaneous play has to a large extent given way to organized activities and games, some of them attended by hundreds and even thousands. A program of physical education became necessary partly to establish and certainly in other cases to raise the level of sportmanship among the American people. One hesitates to say that we are not “good sports” and yet the truth is that we are so interested in victory as to be more or less unsympathetic with the other values which result from organized games. What a great opportunity we have in attempting to develop right ideals of play and recreation! The good sportmanship which children learn upon the field in their games, which spectators are supposed to learn as they sit on the side lines, should be carried over into later life. One of the great needs of the industrial world today is that of good sportsmanship and cooperation. Unless we can develop on the play fields of America much of that sportsmanship that is needed for the successful organization and conduct of American industry and American life, it is possible that we may face many difficult problems and situations in the future.

But these, of course, were not the real reasons why physical education was introduced into the schools. There were others. Among them was the fact that children who engage in a health-

Digitized by v^iOOQle
149

ful recreation and in forms of organized play, furnish fewer disciplinary problems than those children who do not. A school without play is always more difficult to govern than a school with play. If I had no other argument to use in advocating a wholesome program of physical education at the University than that it would improve the discipline of the institution, I would feel that that argument was sufficient to justify the introduction of such a program.

Not any one of these reasons, however, accounts solely for the attention physical education is receiving today. There is something else, still more fundamental. We really did not discover it until we became students of human nature. It was not until we began to weigh and measure individuals, to examine their bodies, that we discovered that probably more than seventy per cent of humanity instead of being physically perfect was actually physically defective. Then science, with patience born of centuries’ search for truth, began to inquire into the causes of these defects. It found that they were due to bad posture, to improper gait, to malnutrition, to bad teeth, to poor circulation, to all sorts of things. It found that there was a direct relation between physical condition and mental achievement. It found that one's outlook on life was colored by his physical condition. It found that health was a prize to be achieved, not a gift from the gods. Furthermore, it found that most of these conditions were remediable and that nearly all of them were preventable. Science and common sense began to teach the doctrine of prevention rather than the doctrine of correction. Doctors, surgeons, nurses, dieticians, psychologists, physical educators, joined together in a common cause.

And then the war came and the tragic lesson which it taught accentuated the need and hastened action. We found that there were literally thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands of the youth of this country who were physically unfit for active service. It was necessary to place them in “development batallions’’. One man out of every three was so seriously defective that he could not engage in active combat. It is unfortunate that we do not have corresponding figures for the women but it seems reasonable to suppose that if the manhood of this country was so lamentably defective that the womanhood was no better.

The war emphasized the great need for physically fit men and women. Science has helped to supply the content of a program for physical education. Science, however, has not limited its researches to the requirements of the individual. On the contrary it has contributed to the conception that health and general physical welfare are matters of concern for the community as truly as for the individual.

And now we have a new type of teacher of physical education, one who can do something other than simply teach games,
150

one who can provide that intellectual training and furnish those appreciations which are so essential for personal and public health. The teachers being trained today are being taught to think of their work in terms of its social meaning and of their positions in terms of their social servantships.

Hope lies now with the kind of training we provide the youth. There is little hope among the older generation. I sometimes say that if the men and women of my day and generation were given an intelligence test and were checked with reference to the daily attention that they give to matters of health, they would be found to be near morons. Whatever part physical training is to play in the social, economic and spiritual welfare of the future, it is through the training which we shall give to the youth of this day and generation.

Those who inveigh against the new program of physical education most vigorously are usually the ones who need it most and who know the least about it. Their motives may be entirely worthy, but so far as their attitudes and their information are concerned, they are out of touch with one of the paramount needs of modem civilization.

There is a fear on the part of some that somehow or other physical education does not contribute to a liberal education. There are those who think that education consists entirely of training the mind. They would have nothing taught and nothing sanctioned that does not savor of monastic halls and cloistered walls. They cry out against all sorts of games and against the recognition of physical education as a legitimate part of a general education program, and particularly do they indulge in their invective against competitive sports. So far as my own point of view is concerned it agrees precisely with that of President Faunce of Brown University who said recently, “The intense interest of young Americans in outdoor competitive sport is not something to be feared and dreaded but something to be guided and utilized for the highest ends. That same interest existed among the Greeks in their golden age and was then made tributary to the drama, to education, and to religion. We are, indeed, morally anemic if as teachers and guides of youth we do not frankly accept this universal American interest in outdoor sport, rejoice in its contribution to self-discipline and loyalty and cooperation, rigorously curb its obvious excesses and abuses, and find in it, as did Pericles and Plato, an indispensable factor in the making of men."

It is unfortunate, of course, that physical education has had such a long and arduous struggle to secure recognition but that struggle has not been without its values. It has helped to humanize the whole conception of education. For generations we have talked about liberalizing the mind as the primary function of a college education, but we are passing, if we have not

Digitized by UjOOQle
151

already passed, the day when we recognize this in the traditional sense as the sole function of a college education. Further-mqre, we have modified our point of view with reference to what this means. We once thought that one had a liberal mind when he knew something of literature, of history, of mathematics, and when he could speak or read one or more foreign languages. We now know that knowledge does not produce liberal minds. One might be a vest pocket edition of an encyclopedia and still not have a liberal mind. He might be able to quote reams of poetry and still not have a liberal mind. He might even be able to dream in a foreign language or to solve abstruse mathematical equations and still not have a liberal mind. Because one has studied the humanities it does not follow that he is an educated being. Something besides knowledge is necessary to produce this. We do not know what that something is. Some may call it a point of view, a method of approach, a mode of attack, an insistence upon facts, tested experience, or an impelling desire to consider them. Some may call it a benevolent critical spirit. Whatever it is, it means an enlarged and liberalized point of view as to the meaning of education; it calls for a new definition of an educated person; and it tests the educated person in terms of the uses he makes of his social privileges and the way he meets his civic obligations.

We have learned that culture is not something that represents the peculiar outcome of any particular subject or group of subjects. We have long known that one could have a liberal mind without ever going to college, but somehow or other we have clung rather tenaciously to the view that culture is the peculiar prerogative of humanistic education. No one knows just what culture is. I suspect that is little more than conformity to the best usages of society, but if it is more than this, then education should be able to add something to good manners. It is my firm conviction that the thing which education can add does not belong to any given program of education. On the contrary I believe it may belong to any or to all of them I believe that one may teach any subject, even arithmetic, so as to produce saints or sinners. I think that one may in pursuit of a given curriculum come out with a closed or an open mind.

Culture is the most important by-product of any program of education. It is something which can be acquired by the study of law, or medicine, or engineering, or agriculture. I believe it often is. And I would add physical education can be taught so that one may be fully conscious of his social service; so that he may realize that his responsibility is a social responsibility; so that he will deal with the questions of life and welfare and progress in a tolerant and generous manner.

It is my profound conviction, therefore, that a new era for physical education is dawning, that the old forces which have

Digitized by <^.ooQle
152

hitherto held it in restraint will not much longer be able to withstand the demands of the time and the development of the subject. Health and physical training are destined to take their place, to develop side by side with the other subjects in the established college curriculum. Instead of one play field, we shall have many. Instead of one gymnasium there will be several. Instead of one swimming pool, there will be a half dozen. Instead of a few courses in games, there will be fundamental courses in corrective exercises, hygiene, health, public sanitation; there will be courses in anatomy, chemistry; bacteriology, physiology; and there will be courses which are intended to give the student some knowledge and conception of his duties as a citizen; all a part of a common curriculum. Physical training will be provided1 for those who wish to follow it as a profession. It will also be provided for those who expect to follow other professions so they may know the elemental things underlying human wealth. So far as I am concerned I look forward hopefully to the day when this dream may be more truly realized and every day that we postpone it, I consider it more or less a reflection upon our ability to make one of the things which is essential to personal happiness, to the “abundant life,” to community welfare, the conspicuous part of which it is capable, and to national prosperity play. The things which society considers fundamental to its life and perpetuity will survive and means will be found to transmit them to the succeeding generation. Let us not be discouraged because we make progress so slowly. Let us remember that the mills of the gods grind exceedingly slow, but they grind.

TEACHER DETERMINES CHILDREN’S HEALTH ATTITUDE

By Julia Wade Abbot, Director of Kindergartens, Philadelphia Public Schools.

The diversity in the systems of education of the many countries represented in a world conference of education makes it necessary to seek for some common factors in discussion. There is one subject which is equally important in all countries and which is recognized as a major objective in education—the subject of health. I am particularly fortunate in having to discuss two elements in the scheme of education which are absolutely indispensable, “the teacher” and “the taught.” School systems may be administered and curricula formulated by all

•This paper was delivered at the Health Section of the World Federation of Education Associations convention held in Edinburgh, July, 1925.

Digitized by Google
153

the experts available but the whole machinery exists for the child alone, and whatever education he is to receive must be transmitted to him by a teacher.

Changes in education come slowly. New theories and new methods are usually thought out by the administrative group, formulated in a curriculum, and issued to teachers who are to inoculate the children with these new ideas. This logical process does not take into consideration the attitudes of teacher or child. It reminds one of a description of the lecture method, that the ideas propounded are never in anyone’s mind. Words flow from the lips of the lecturer down the pens of the students, trickle from the penpoints to the paper, and then are neatly given back to the instructor on the examination papers! Scientific courses of study may be constructed by the authorities but what reaches the child is the teacher’s interpretation of the course of study. Except in a Thomas Gradgrind type of education we must take into consideration the attitude of our teaching force which in turn gives color to the attitudes of children. In one of the large cities in the United States a new curriculum was recently adopted. The literature course was enriched by gems of poetry that were a shade more classic than Village Blacksmith and Woodman, Spare That Tree. I happened to be passing the classroom of an eighth grade in this city. The door was open and a roar of boyish voices assailed my ears. A class of overgrown youths was lined up against the wall and in their rought, adolescent voices were shouting in unison, “Flower in the crannied wall, I pluck you out of the crannies.” Alas! the difference between a curriculum on paper and a curriculum in die hearts and minds and wills of children!

I believe that the development of the health education movement in the United States is unique because it started the other way around. It wasn't formulated on paper; it was launched by a direct appeal to children and to teachers. And it was done in this topsy-turvy, unorthodox way because it was planned by others than pedagogues. I refer to the health education movement that was inaugurated by the Child Health Organization, under the leadership of the late Dr. L. Emmett Holt and Sally Lucas Jean, the secretary of the Health Education Section. We in the school room had been teaching hygiene for some time but we weren’t teaching health. I say “we” advisedly, because I was one of those school people who were at first skeptical as to the value of the Health Fairy and Cho-Cho, the Health Clown, sent out by the Child Health Organization, to charm and convert to the pleasant paths of health thousands of school children. Yes, the school was teaching hygiene before this. And what did studying hygiene from books mean? Tagore says, “We rob the child of his earth to teach him geography, of language to teach him grammar. His hunger is for the Epic, but he is supplied with chronicles of facts and dates. He was born in the human world, but is banished into the world of living gramophones to expiate for the original sin of being born in ignorance.”

Digitized by

Google
154

We might just as truly have said, “We rob a child of health to teach him hygiene.”

Miss Jean and I realized this when we were visiting schools in the Panama Canal Zone. The school rooms were wide open to the winds of heaven, the children lived in the open because of the dry climate, and yet in schoolroom after schoolroom we heard the children reciting the gruesome story of the Black Hole of Calcutta! Why? Because the hygiene book was using this story to teach the necessity for ventilation!

And so the Health Education movement was inaugurated by a direct appeal to the children, and joy was its keynote. Perhaps its originators did not consciously base their appeal upon the principles of behavioristic psychology, but the principles were inherent in its methods. As a behaviorist expresses it: “The new psychology of behavior tells us that the only way we can educate or reform is through the desires, needs, interests of the individual .... It is for the end we set up, our heart’s desire, that we surmount all obstacles.”

While the health fairy and the clown were making a direct appeal to thousands of children, the Child Health Organization enlisted the interest of teachers by providing them with delightful literature. It was recognized that teachers were already burdened with large classes and a crowded curriculum. If “teaching health” were added as an additional job, the task would be undertaken in a perfunctory way and the spirit of health education would be lost. Attitudes and mental health must always be bound up with the concept of health education and so the first literature issued by the Child Health Organization contained beautifully illustrated rhymes and stories. Teachers became interested in the physical condition of their children, because there was a very practical plan outlined for them in the six health rules to be practised by the children, and in the weighing and measuring of the children as an index of their physical condition. Here lay the unique character of this movement. The teacher was recognized as the all important person in helping children practice the “rules of the game.” Doctors and nurses might be necessary for diagnosis and follow-up, but teachers were trained to teach and if they could teach spelling and arithmetic, why not health? In her small sphere in the classroom, the teacher has a peculiar authority. Her rule must be absolute or she would never survive. Children recognize this power and authority. It is sometimes a shock to parents to be ignored by their young offspring who quote to them, “My teacher says/' The authority of parents seems to totter on its throne. “The King is dead,,—Long live the King!”

In the small kingdom of the school room, the teacher’s ideals and standards determine whether the government is an absolute monarchy or a constitutional monarchy. Happy the school-room whose teacher has a deep interest in the health and development of every child. The gravest danger in our large school systems is the danger of dealing with children only in

Digitized by CjOOQle
155

mass, "the lock-step of the public school.” Health education strikes the note of individual development. In the constitutional monarchy type of school, the authority of the teacher is strengthened by the opinions of the individuals in the group. For example, in the schools of Newton, Mass., where there has been developed one of the most successful health education programs in the United States, the children have a remarkable set of "health values.” A few children were talking about some new comers in the community and characterizing them in no gentle terms. The climax came when one child said, "They’re the kind of children who don’t go to bed early enough!” In this city of Newton there has been developed such a fine cooperation between home and school that ideals and standards have been established and tested in terms of health practice.

A complete health program must embrace both home and school. Each institution has its own contribution to make in building up health habits. The home regime lends itself to the continuous practice of all the health habits. Repetition is a rule of habit formation. But custom grows stale without change and variation. The school supplies the stimulation of class spirit. The approval of teacher and children gives the sanction of society. Group activities in producing health plays, making posters, and writing slogans give variety and supply a motive for the repetition of habits day by day. Many a conscientious mother, who has tried to make brushing teeth a habit, has rejoiced when her child has come home from school imbued with a new enthusiasm for this ancient practice. Children’s food dislikes have been effectively modified by health teaching in the schools. I knew of one kindergarten teacher who was a health enthusiast and impressed upon her small flock the kind of foods that make children grow. The mother of one little girl sent her an S. O. S. call. She wrote "You have converted Helen to spinach; when are you going to talk about cod liver oil? The doctor says Helen must have it.” Even with the youngest children in the kindergarten, health education may be absorbed in the most natural way as children live together in the happy society of the school room. I heard some little children discussing a visit to a toy shop at-Christmas time. One child was describing a big doll. She lifted her little hand way above her own head saying "She was high as that; she went way by me!” The little girl next her nodded her head wisely and said, “That dolly drank milk. She slept with her window open!” So naturally do young children carry over ideas of food and growth in their play with their own doll children!

Some interesting experiments in health education are being carried on in rural schools. The rural school presents special problems because of its isolation and lack of equipment and its ungraded classes. But these very conditions have called out in some teachers a devoted type of service which makes it particularly appropriate to speak of a rural school as “a teacher’s kingdom.” I recall a visit I paid to a rural school in the state
156

of New Jersey this spring. The subjects in this miniature community represented three widely divergent racial strains. This was a region of truck farming. Of the 45 children composing the group, 17 were the children of farmers of old English stock, 18 were children of Italian laborers, and 10 were children of negro laborers. The ages of the children ranged from the Italian twins 5 years old to two large negro boys of 15 years. I have never been in a school room where there was such a feeling of the solidarity of the group and mutual helpfulness. Here was a constitutional monarchy and a teacher ruling by divine right. The welfare of every child was her chief concern. The children had caught her spirit. The health inspection in that school was a ceremony that exalted not only cleanliness and order, but also respect for the person and personality of others. A boy and girl slipped into the adjoining small room and appeared as doctor and nurse. The boy had on a spotless white jacket and nurse had on her red cross uniform. The boy was the son of a farmer of English stock, the girl was a large, mild-mannered colored girl. The children were inspected for clean handkerchiefs and supplied with gauze if a handkerchief were lacking. Their necks and ears, teeth, hands, and finger nails were examined for cleanliness. The large colored girl handled the children with the gentleness of a negro mammy. The ceremony was extremely impressive and dignified, but no child felt any sense of shame or disgrace. There were scales in the room and all the children were weighed and measured once a month. In this delightful school, the children had real situations in which they could learn the relation between food habits and health. Every child brought a part of his lunch to school, but one hot dish was always prepared by the older girls on the little oil stove in the school house. When the children first came to school, they brought the usual food served to children on the farm, cold pork, cold sweet potatoes, fried doughnuts, and pickles. But the day I visited the school I noticed the lettuce sandwiches, the fruit, and the good plain bread and butter. All the children had the benefit of the creamed vegetable soup prepared by the older girls. The fame of this teacher had spread through the land, and the farmers would leave tomatoes as thank offerings on the steps of the school house. The practical little school marm had the children can the tomatoes and serve them through the winter for luncheon. When I visited the school, the children were raising their own vegetables in a garden on Hie school grounds. There were swings and parallel bars on the playground, and after luncheon all the children were happily employed in the garden, on the play apparatus or in ring games which the older children played with the younger. This rural school reminded one of Dr. Dewey's prophecy in School and Societys “When the school introduces and trains each child of society into membership within such a little community,* saturating him with the spirit of service and providing him with the instruments of effective self-direction,

Digitized by t^ooQle
157

we shall have the deepest and best guarantee of a larger society which is worthy, lovely, and harmonious.”

The interest of one teacher in health education is often the means for its incorporation in the whole school program. In a city school, consisting of a kindergarten and six grades, the sixth grade teacher was instrumental in helping all the children of the school forma civic league. Every Friday there was an assembly and representatives from each grade made report on civic affairs. There was a sanitary committee that was responsible for keeping the school yard clean. There were reports of committee helpers in arithmetic, who tutored children who were having difficulty with problems, and there were health achievement reports from all the grades. I recall the funny stumbling statements of the kindergarten and first grade children and the queer little crude pictures they had drawn, illustrating the rules of the game. The older children listened with the utmost consideration and respect. No child was ever laughed at in this assembly. The most important achievement of the league was the influencing of children to have defects corrected. At the end of the year that school had a record of 100 per cent correction of dental defects.

The health education movement is helping place emphasis upon what we know children do rather than what we think children know. This is true character education. More and more health education is becoming a regular part of courses of study. While in its early stages it was introduced into the classroom because of the interest of the individual teacher, it is now becoming an administrative unit and some school systems are employing supervisors of health education, and this is as it should be. No feature of education important to the welfare of children should be left to the chance interest of the teacher. Courses of study in health education and supervisors of health education mean that thousands of children will be given their first chance to build healthy bodies. The significance of these healthy bodies and alert minds to the life of the nation cannot be over-estimated. For dedication of a public school Walt Whitman wrote these lines:

“These young lives,

Building, equipping like a fleet of ships,

Soon to sail out over the measureless seas,

“Only a lot of boys and girls?

Only the tiresome spelling, writing, ciphering classes?

Only a public school?

Ah more, infinitely more;

“Cast you the real reckoning for your present?

The lights and shadows of your future, good or evil?

The girlhood, boyhood look,

the teacher and the school.”

Digitized by LaOOQle
158

DANGERS OF THE COMMON DRINKING CUP

United States Public Health Bureau Calls Common Glass

A Germ Exchange

Now that the warm months are upon us, when bodily and solar heat produce within us an exceptional craving for water and other drinks, it is well to recall the fact that there may be danger in satisfying this healthy thirst, unless care is exercised in doing so.

It is probably no exaggeration to say that every day there are in the United States, on an average, a million persons who suffer, or are recovering from some communicable disease of some kind. Among the most prevalent and the most damaging of these ailments are the so-called “respiratory diseases” and also we should place here the ordinary contagious diseases, practically all of which are conveyed by the secretions of the nose and mouth, and consequently by the common drinking cup. Included in these groups (respiratory and contagious diseases) are tuberculosis, pneumonia, influenza, diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, whooping cough, cerebro-spinal meningitis, poliomyelitis, (better known as infantile paralysis), smallpox, chickenpox, mumps, German measles, septic sore throat and last but not least, the common cold. Some of these diseases may be conveyed in some other way, but certainly all of them may be conveyed by the secretions which escape from the body through the nose or mouth. They may be spread through articles that are carried to the mouth, such as glasses, cups, spoons, towels, handkerchiefs, and pencils, if such articles are used in common with other persons.

If one drinks from a glass that reaches him unsterilized from the previous use by a person whose mouth or lips contain the germs of any of these diseases he exposes himself to the danger of contracting them. This danger has long been recognized by sanitarians of the country, and it was mainly through their insistence that the first effort was made to combat the continual danger from this source of infecton. Kansas was the earliest of the States to enact a law against the common cup and the common towel and similar measures have since been placed on th'e statute books of forty-five other States.

In order to minimize the dangers of these diseases, and to prevent their being carried from one State to another, the Secretary of the Treasury, on recommendation of the Public Health Service in the year 1921 forbade the use of common drinking cups on trains, steamers, and other public carriers engaged in intestate commerce. The majority of the States themselves have also enacted sanitary measures forbidding the use of the common drinking cup. In addition, many cities and towns have supplemented State laws and regulations with local ordinances which forbid the use of unsterilized drinking vessels at soda fountains, in hotels, restaurants, theatres, and other public places.
159

Insofar as legislative action can protect—with the exception of two States—the public is protected against the common drinking cup. However, and this is the most difficult factor public health authorities have had to face, the people of the community, for whom these safeguards have been devised, ofttimes fail to support the laws by failing to comply with them individually and by failing to insist on their enforcement.

Men and women thoughtlessly expose themselves to infection by these diseases, and what is worse, they permit their children to suffer a like risk, by drinking at soda fountains where they can even see that the glasses are not sterilized between users. In such a carelessly operated soda fountain there may be— in fact, there actually exists—a veritable “germ exchange.’ One wayside cart serving children from infected glasses is a very potential danger to any community. Children ladling out lemonade in glasses that are contaminated with the diseases of others are in like manner a menace to those who are served. One ailing employee may cripple a large office force if a common drinking glass is in use.

A person suffering from any one of the diseases named, carries in his saliva the infecting agent of that disease, and unless the vessel from which he drinks is sterilized or destroyed, the next user takes a chance of becoming infected.

It is because of this menace to the public that the laws in general provide that there shall be sterilization of glasses after each use, or that cups shall be provided which may be used once and then destroyed. The process to be used in sterilizing is detailed in some of the laws bearing on this subject. Ohio, for example, prescribes the following method—gamely, that after each individual service, the glass must first be washed by rinsing in cold water, then thoroughly washed in hot water with soap or suitable cleansing powder, or exposed to live steam, boiling water or hot air, the latter at a temperature of not less than 250 degrees Fahrenheit, for a period of not less than five minutes, then rinsed in clear cold water and drained. Heat, of course, is about the best sterilizer known. Boiling water kills most germs in five minutes, and dead germs are harmless unless they exist in enormous numbers.

There is an obvious disposition on the part of many dispensers of soft drinks to avoid this sterilization process, and it is not uncommon for such glasses to be dipped and redipped until the water in which they are rinsed becomes a veritable cesspool of germs; and each time a glass is rinsed its potentiality for danger increases for the next user.

The difficulty of enforcing adequate sterilization has led some communities, for example, Durham and Goldsboro, North Carolina, to forbid the use of glasses in soft drink places altogether. At many state and county fairs they are also prohibited.

It is not alone in soft drink dispensaries that the dangers of the unclean glass may be encountered. These dangers may exist in restaurants, cafeterias, theatres, and many other places.

Digitized by CjOOQle
160

The individual manifests the same carelessness every time he uses a common drinking glass at a picnic, on a motoring trip or in a camping ground or park. In the case of the motorist, the peril is aggravated by the fact that he may carry disease from one state to another.

Every man, woman and child has a responsibility in this matter, a responsibility to himself and to his fellows. It is the duty of any one who drinks at a soda fountain, a restaurant, or any other place, to find out whether the receptacle from which he drinks is safe, and if not, to demand one that is. Insanitary conditions of whatever nature should be immediately reported to the local health authorities.

When traveling by motor, one should be sure that each member of his party is provided with his own individual drinking cup and everybody concerned should take the utmost pains to avoid becoming infected, and to avoid carrying infection from one place to another. Most of all the greatest vigilance should be observed for the protection of one’s own and his neighbor’s children. The young do not know enough to discriminate and should be safeguarded against the ever presented dangers of the common drinking cup or glass when such common receptacles are allowed to exist.

WASHINGTON AS AN ATHLETE

Long has the tradition been cherished that George Washington once threw a silver dollar across the Rappahannock. Dr. James Hosmer Penniman of the University of Pennsylvania for many years has been engaged in original investigation of the career of the man he terms “the least understood and appreciated—though always the first—American.” Now he reports he can find no evidence that Washington ever threw away his money like that. It wasn’t a dollar—but a stone.

“Washington was the best all-around athlete in America, for a considerable period,” declared Dr. Penniman. And even though present-day American baseball was developed within the memory of men not yet arrived at old age, Washington had an arm, and a skill at throwing stones, that well might rouse envy among the greatest baseball players of today.

For though Dr. Penniman dismisses as unfounded the legend of the throwing of a dollar across the Rappahannock, he says Washington did throw a stone across that river, at Fredericksburg—and threw it with such giant strength that it landed thirty yards beyond the further bank.

“No one else has been able to clear the river,” declares Dr. Penniman.

Apparently brains as well as strength aided in that stonethrowing, says Dr. Penniman. Sticklers for historical accuracy maintain, he reports, that Washington selected for his feat a piece of scaling slate the size of a silver dollar. So like Leonardo

Digitized by LjOOQle
161

da Vinci, Washington seems to have anticipated some of the principles of aviation, for he bettered his throw by selecting a missile that would slam fast and far.

There are other historical records of Washington’s skill at throwing stones. Dr. Penniman records that Washington is said to have thrown a rock from the Palisades into the Hudson. Also, a mark is shown high up on the Virginia Natural Bridge which Washington reached with a stone.

Those who have resented the yokel witticism of shaking hands with a grip that tortures the unfortunate victim of a mis-developed sense of humor have reason for fellow-feeling with Washington.

There were Indians in Washington's day, relates Dr. Penniman, who liked to show their strength by giving a painful squeeze when they shook hands.

“But no Indian dared try this on Washington,” says Dr. Penniman, “because of fear of getting his own fingers crushed.”

Time and again, says Dr. Penniman, Washington was on the verge of death, through perils of nature and of man. But his life was spared by fate—and Dr. Penniman believes that had Washington not survived, and had it not been for his transcendent courage, the Americans of today would be British subjects.

For instance, there is the unfamiliar story of how he narrowly escaped death when crossing the Allegheny River in midwinter. In December, 1753, Washington and a companion, Gist spent a whole day making a raft—with the aid of one poor hatchet. Ice extended out fifty yards from each shore. The open water in between was filled with drifting ice. But the two men pushed out into the stream.

Halfway across, the raft jammed in ice. Washington thrust out a pole. The current threw the raft against the pole. Washington was jerked off the raft and was plunged into water ten feet deep.

“Only a trained athlete could have survived,” says Dr. Penniman.

The two men held on to the raft until they were near an island. There they spent the night. All Gist’s fingers and some of his toes were frozen. But by morning the river had frozen solid and the two men were able to walk across. That Washington was not frozen shows wonderful physical condition.

Another narrow escape from death was when Washington, in his early youth, as an officer in the French and Indian War, saved General Braddock’s defeated forces from extermination. In that retreat four bullets pierced Washington’s garments and two horses were shot under him.

A fine tale of deadly intentions turned into lifelong respect and admiration is the story of Washington and the poacher as related by Dr. Penniman.

This adventure occurred in March, 1775, when Washington was just returning to his beloved Mount Vernon from the Virginia Convention. He found a poacher shooting his ducks. The

Digitized by

Google
162

man fled to his boat and started to push off. Washington galloped up and commanded him to surrender. Instead, the hunter leveled his gun at Washington.

Undaunted, Washington urged his horse into the water, collared the poacher and pulled man and boat ashore. After administering a good shaking, Washington turned the offender loose—but kept the gun.

Years later, after he had enlisted in Morgan’s Rifle Corps and served throughout the Revolution, the poacher told that tale thus:

“Colonel Washington was mighty techy about them ducks, for they was all canvasbacks, hatched on the place from wild eggs, and he stocked the pond with lots of wild celery for them to feed on and flavor up for his table.

“He was a bad man to projeck with, and he was awful rough with me about that dead duck. I was pretty much of a man myself them days, but no man in Virginia could match Washington in a hefty fighting. I thought he would have shook my neck out of joint.

“After the war I went to him in Alexandria, when he was standing in Christ Church Yard and he said he would accept my apology, as I was a good soldier and stood fast by the country, and if I would come over to his plantation he would give me a good ducking gun. So I went over to Mount Vernon, and he gave me the finest English fusee, which he used to shoot himself, and a copper gauge powder horn. And he asked me up to his sideboard and set a big decanter of old rum before me and he says: ‘Sergeant, take a drink!’ And like a true gentleman he turned his back while I was helping myself.’’

Many another time Washington showed his muscular power in dealing with the unruly. One day the Virginia riflemen were having a rough-and-tumble fight with the Marblehead fishermen at Cambridge. Washington rushed into the thick of it and collaring them, sent them sprawling.

Once the champion wrestler of his region provoked young Washington to try to bout with him.

“After a short, fierce struggle,” the wrestler told the story, “I felt myself grasped and hurled upon the ground with a jar that shook the marrow of my bones.”

In physique, Washington was a mighty man. He stood six feet two, and he weighed 210. On his vast chest and arms, says Dr, Penniman, the muscles stood out like nets of heavy cord. With one hand he could raise and aim a musket as if it were a pistol. He could toss his tent into a wagon. Ordinarily it took three men to lift the weight. In his boyhood, according to John Fitzhugh, he was the swiftest runner among all his comrades. He was skilled in fencing. He loved, as a young man, to ride wild horses, and so firm was his knee-grip that he never was thrown, though injured once in later life when a horse fell with him. He was best of all his comrades in jumping, wrestling, pitching quoits or putting the fifty-pound weight.

Digitized by UaOOQle
163

Charles Willson Peale, who painted the earliest authentic portrait of him, at 40, recorded an anecdote of Washington’s prowess. The incident occurred during Peale’s visit to Mount Vernon to make a sketch in oils.

On the lawn at Mount Vernon, relates Peale, some young men, all stripped to the buff, were pitching the bar. Washington appeared, and without taking off his coat, held out his hand for the bar.

“No sooner did the heavy iron feel the grasp of his mighty hand,” goes on Peale, “than it lost the power of gravitation and whizzed through the air, striking the ground far, very far, beyond our utmost limits. We were, indeed, amazed. The Colonel, on retiring pleasantly observed, ‘When you beat my pitch, young gentlemen, I'll try again’”.

Since unfortunately, there was no portrait of Washington in his youth, he is remembered by today as the stately, grayhaired man Stuart painted.

Washington did not use tobacco, declares Dr. Penniman, was temperate, went early to bed, and kept himself so fit, physically, that he had the endurance to remain for forty hours or longer in the saddle.

“On a football team composed of the athletes of all time,” says Dr. Penniman “—such as Hercules, Ajax, Samson and Richard Coeur de Lion, with Ulysses as quarterback—George Washington would be the triple-threat man. That’s what he always was to the British. The necessary qualities of an athlete are strength, skill, speed, endurance and courage. And Jefferson said that Washington was incapable of fear.

"Though as devoted to the occupations of peace as any man, Washington had a flaming ardor of combativity which shone brightest when all around was dark.”—Philadelphia Bulletin

LIFE SAVING-WATER SAFETY*

Gustave L. Stecher, Cincinnati, O.

In 1891, The Royal Life Saving Society was founded in England and from that date systematic efforts in Water Life Saving were made up to February, 1914, when the American Red Cross took to itself the duty to make Life Saving more popular. In America Life Saving was practiced as long as 50 years ago, but was confined principally to the U. S. Coast Guard activity. In the New England states the Massachusetts Humane Society and in New York State the U. S. Volunteer Life Saving Corps were active in a limited way.

It was left for the American Red Cross to put life into the movement, and ever since taking hold, it has maintained its leadership. A big part of the credit for the success attained is undoubtedly due to Commodore W. E. Longfellow, for he, thru ability backed by a pleasing personality, made things move.

Digitized by CjOOQle
164

He popularized Life Saving as no other person could have done.

Through Red Cross literature we learn that close to 80,000 Life Savers are in service at this time and that nearly 23,000 more trained and tested last year. This year twelve full time field representatives are traveling over the country bringing inspiration to the local training fields, without expense to local communities and during the summer ten additional swimming and Life Saving experts assist the regular staff in carrying the gospel of water safety to the swimming holes of America

It is safe to estimate that more than one million persons each year are reached by Red Cross demonstrators in their lectures, and that more than 500 swimming teachers receive special instructions at the Red Cross Institutes conducted throughout the States.

The writer, although in possession of a Senior Life Saving certificate as well as that of an Examiner had the opportunity to be sent by the Cincinnati School Board to take part in the Institute conducted at the Culver Military Academy at Culver Ind., June 15 to 22, 1925. The camp was located on Lake Maxinkuckee, an ideal spot for such an undertaking. All male students were quartered in good tents, and the women were in the dormitories of the Academy. About 85 students attended the course.

The faculty consisted of 14 first class instructors. All phases of water and allied activities were taught, i. e., First Aid, Swimming, Life Saving, Water games, Pageants, Diving, canoe and boatwork, Administration, lectures by a Swimming Pool Engineer, etc. Certificates were distributed to all who passed the rigid final examination. If you are interested in Life Saving work, I can not too strongly urge you to be a student at one of these Institutes. Write for a circular to Washington, D. C. Headquarters of the American Red Cross. If you are a good swimmer you will experience no difficulty in passing the examination; but do not let the fact that you are not a good swimmer keep you away for swimming is taught and the inspiration derived from association with good instructors and swimmers will compensate you for time and money expended, and you will leave the camp a better swimmer and with a great deal of knowledge of the grand work that the Red Cross is furthering. The total expenses are $5.00 Registration fee, $2.00 per day for 3 good meals, and your Railroad fare to and from Culver, Indiana.

I do not know of anything that has been accomplished during recent years, that has meant more in a constructive educational way, than the organization and development of Red Cross Life Saving. The American Red Cross has done more than any other organization to educate our people along this line, and it behooves every educational institute to take advantage of this service by cooperating with the local Red Cross Chapters. The wearer of a Red Cross badge must live up to his pledge. Responsibility and leadership cover a part of his program.
165

Thorough practice in Life Saving will insure that in moments of excitement and confusion, the life saver will act instinctively and accoring to well grounded habits without thinking, doing quickly what he has been trained to do, because the correct tiling has become natural, and he would never think of doing anything else. To learn Life Saving has its purpose. It may happen only once in a life time that you will make use of it. If it is possible to save the life of one child, all the money and all the time and all the effort expended in the past or in the future will be well worth while.

The Red Cross Life Saving program certainly measures up to the high standards set for modem Physical Education.

TRAINING TO BECOME A CENTENARIAN*

Lecture by Charles S. Thompson, M. D., D. P. H., B. Hy., Medical Officer of Health, Deptford, at the Holiday Course of the Incorporated British Association for Physical Training, January 6th, 1926.

I have come here to-day to speak to you on training from a different angle to that perhaps from which you are accustomed to regard it. I feel that many people hold the old-fashioned idea that physical training is concerned with the development of the muscular system; but this, of course, is only a part of the whole.	To-day I am going to prove my case	that	there

is great truth	in	the old saying that “a man is as	old as his

arteries.” The preservation of the natural resilience and elasticity of your arteries is one form of physical training, and unless you attend to this you cannot hope to become a centenarian.

Now, living to ninety or a hundred is not a pleasant prospect to many people. People of thirty or forty laugh at death. —it seems to	be	so far away—and so they do not	plan	their

manner of life	so	as to live to ninety or a hundred.	But	when

these same people reach sixty or sixty-three and find that nature, whom they have ignored, proceeds to send in the bill for neglecting her, they suddenly awaken to the fact that they do want to live to ninety, and so they bustle off to the doctor and implore him to help them to meet the overdraft which they have drawn on their systems. It is a black moment when the heralds proclaim the passing of the dead and the great officers break their staves, but it is sadder still when it is the victim’s own voice that announces his decadence, when it is the victim’s own hand that breaks the staff in public. But even though a man is of a melancholy turn and does not want to live to ninety or a hundred, he will surely wish himself an easy old age, one unaccompanied by aches and pains, signs and symptoms, which mayhap bespeak the careless life of earlier years. Now when

•From “Physical Education’’ England.

Digitized by L^ooQle
166

we reach forty we must follow Bacon's advice concerning the coming on of years and thinking not to do the same things still, for age will be defied. We must study the pleasures which are the privilege of maturity. Now, the manner of life, the programme which is to be followed by those who seek to live to a hundred, is a simple one; it calls for moderation. For some self discipline, but it is not that of a kill-joy. After thirty—especially after forty—there must be moderation in eating and, of course drinking, and we must play in moderation. When we are young restoration or new growth of the tissues takes place rapidly; in middle-age the balance between wear and restoration is equal; while in old age the ever changing cells of our bodies renew themselves but slowly. If we over eat, or over stimulate, or sleep in close, badly ventilated, overcrowded, sunless, insanitary houses, we stand little chance of living to seventy, let alone to ninety. Such a combination tends to induce senile decay. Senile decay is not the result of wearing out or overwork; it means the cessation of renewal of the tissues or body cells rather than their destruction.

Premature old age is largely due to the neglect of dietetics —proper foods and the quantity taken—and to the neglect of the hygiene of the bowels. Up to thirty years of age, over-eating may seem to be recovered from, but a mark is left on the reserve of power. Over-eating after forty damages our excretory organs; that is, our kidneys, which should clear away the rubbish heaps from our systems. They cannot cope with the strain, hence rheumatism, gout, and kidney diseases follow. When we add to over-indulgence in food and drink, the strain of social and business ambitions, worry, emotional states, anger and grief, then our errors are followed by structural changes in our organs. The man of over forty who eats and drinks too much, who takes too little exercise and is careless concerning his bowels and who throws himself into the whirl of excitement associated alike with business and pleasure, must not cavil at Fate, must not rage at the doctor when he is warned that his blood pressure is becoming high and remaining high.

Do not dig your grave with your teeth. The secret of living to ninety is all a question of intake and outjrnt. Over-eating and over-stimulation lead to a certain combination, viz:— high blood pressure, corpulence, mental depression, memory weakness, constipation, with its consequent blood poisoning, through absorption of poisons from the bowels. Those who eat and drink wisely, in moderation, have a clear eye in their heads have a retentive memory, an elastic step, an unirritated brain; they retain the resilient and elastic arteries with which Providence endowed them, and a green old age is their reward. There is a vicious circle which must be avoided, for, if the wear and tear of life is combined with gluttony, the kidneys gradually grow tired of their task and slowly but surely they become less liable to eliminate, get rid of, the waste products from the blood. These products, ^therefore, circulate through the arteries and ir-

Digitized by v^ooQle
167

ritate them and, as I shall show you presently, after causing an initial or commencing rise of blood pressure, they lead to permanent structural change in the arteries with signs and symptoms I shall allude to hereafter. This waste material, this debris which collects in the bodies of the gross eaters, has another serious result: the waste products injure certain glands called endocrine glands. We all possess endocrine glands in our bodies. Here are some of them: the thyroid gland in the neck is the most important of them all. Others are called the pituitary and pineal, both situated in the brain. There are also suprarenal glands situated on the top of the kidneys. Now, every moment of the day and night these glands are hard at work; they make little secretions which the body needs if it is to remain healthy. Take the case of the thyroid gland. The late Sir Victor Horsley said that degeneration of the thyroid gland was the cause of old age. The thyroid gland governs the vital

Erocesses of the body; if it acts deficiently in any one of us we ecome an easy prey to intoxications and infections, we fall a victim quite easily to any illness that is going about. A defective thyroid does not contain the iodine which we know is present in a healthy thyroid. One form of defective thyroid is known as goitre or Derbyshire neck. Goitre was caused through living in valleys as in Derbyshire or the Swiss cantons, simply because in these inland places the people did not get the iodine which is conveyed in sea air from sea spray. Goitre has been largely stamped out by taking iodised salts in place of the ordinary table salt. Now, all these endocrine glands are interdependent. If one gets out of order, the others feel the effect and do not work so smoothly. The enemies of these glands are toxins or poisons, arising either within the body, called waste products, or toxins or poisons, introduced from without. Such toxins or poisons injure the endocrine glands and lead to degeneration and premature old age. Bacon, speaking of such people, said “They object too much and consult too long; they adventure too little and seldom drive business home to the full period, but content themselves with the mediocrity of success.” Now I turn to the more practical side of my remarks. Many of you are inclined to fear tuberculosis and cancer. These are the two diseases most talked about. Tuberculosis is being steadily suppressed. In 1847, 3189 deaths per million living; in 1875, 2313 deaths; in 1924, 801 deaths. The more foods and the better the food we give people, combined with town planning, more space, better housing, the sooner will tuberculosis be stamped out. Cancer is said to be increasing, but then cancer is a disease of old age for the most part, and since people are living longer, therefore there are more people of the cancer age— old age. But neither of these two diseases do the damage which is done by high blood pressure. If you study the statistics of all kinds of towns, you will find that heart disease, diseases of the heart and blood vessels kill more people than any other disease. Now heart disease is frequently the final result of high blood

Digitized by CjOOQle
168

pressure; it is not always so, of course, but frequently is. Look at statistics for the moment. In my Borough of Deptford in 1924, out of 1152 deaths 173 died of heart disease, the next to that came pneumonia, then cancer, then tuberculosis. In every other borough, heart disease is practically the greatest killing disease.

Take note, then, that persistent high blood pressure leads to hardened arteries, which we doctors call arterio-sclerosis. If we study our intake and output as regards diet we can defer or eliminate the onset of high blood pressure and hardened arteries.

Now the whole secret is, are we going to prevent toxins or poisons from getting into our system, or from developing within our systems. We must not poison our endocrines, for the duration of our lives depends upon the renewing force of our endocrines, that is, our glandular system. The first considerations are good digestion, the choice of proper foods and good cooking. We must have good teeth. At least one visit must be made each year to the dentist, otherwise pyorrhoea develops and poisons the system and is the cause of anaemia, rheumatism, and arthritis. Chew your food properly. Do not read at meals. Do not sit down to meals exhausted physically or mentally. The angry man and the tearful woman must cool before eating. Avoid monotony in eating. It was a well-meaning but slightly confused Eton boy who said that the custom that a man should have only one wife was first instituted by the Greeks, who called it monotony. Give your food time to digest. Eat meat once a day only, and hardly ever at all if you already have a high blood pressure. Old people should eat in strict moderation; their food should be simple in quality and contain little or no starchy food. Everybody should take enough food to maintain the lightest weight consistent with perfect health. Simple diet consists of wholemeal bread, plain biscuits, plain puddings, vegetables, fruit, some meat, fish, milk, butter and cheese. Take very few condiments. We used to work out scientifically in calories the diet required by a man doing moderately hard work. The calorific value of any food is a measure of the energy which is given out by the complete oxidation of the substance. A man doing average work requires food which yields 2,500 to 3,000 calories a day. These calories are obtained from certain substances which are the basis of all foods, namely, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, salts and water. The proteins are derived from animal foods such as eggs and to a small extent from cereals and pulses. Carbo-hydrates are derived from vegetables, cereals, pulses and sugar, while fats are found in the fat of meats, in butter, animal oils derived from fish, and to a lesser extent from vegetable oils. The proteins we eat make up the loss of structures from wear and tear. Carbo-hydrates and fats give heat and energy for work. Fat supplies more energy than carbohydrates or proteins. Now, our scientists used to work out di ets on these lines; they calculated the calorific value in calories
169

of different foodstuffs and so they worked out diets by weight of different kinds of proteins, carbo-hydrates, fats, salt and water. But they did not know, as we do, that there is another most important something required in our daily food, and this is something known as vitamines. Vitamines vitalise the tissues. We do not know their chemical composition, but we do know the foods which contain vitamines, and those foods we must consume. They are largely present in the outer coverings of rice and com, in milk, eggs, potatoes, and cod liver oil, in liver, in herrings and vegetables and fruits. There are none in fine white bread, but they are present in brown bread containing all parts of the grain. Here is a valuable couplet which you should remember :-

"A pint of milk, egg, orange and greens,

Give us our daily vitamines.”

The waht of vitamines in food leads to certain diseases called deficiency diseases. For example, rickets, scurvy, and beri-beri. Now turning from vitamines, remember that we are enquiring as to how to live to a green old age. We must eat fresh foods and give up the fancy cooking which wrecks the vitamines. We must keep a check on our intake of food, the quality of food. Corpulence is the proof of overcrowded digestive and assimilative organs. Over-eating and wrong eating mean that the heart and liver become encased in fat and therefore we become short winded and the liver breaks down. This means that toxins, that is waste products, spread throughout the system and then injure the endocrines. The next stage is gout, obesity, high blood pressure, arterio-sclerosis or hardening of the arteries, heart disease, possibly apoplexy and death. Such men, such big eaters, take four meals a day instead of two. When a doctor scolds them their excuse is that they must eat to keep up their strength. This is just nonsense, for the man who eats four meals a day would need a forty-mile walk a day to oxidise half of what he eats. Oxidation means the burning up of waste matters. But your big eater never walks. Excessive intake is fatal. Here the animals teach us a lesson, for sick animals starve themselves. Moderation in eating is imperative. Butcher's meat contains no vitamines, it is less healthy than fish, fowl or game. Eat more unconcentrated foods.

Our usual food does not contain the salts we need, such as salts of calcium, iodine, magnesium, sodium, potassium and iron. The herring and the cod give us our iodine. Milk and green vegetables give us our mineral salts. Green vegetables and eggs contain iron. Phosphorus is derived from milk, egg yolk and cereal. Iodine is obtained from green vegetables and cod liver oil. Fruits and vegetables correct an over acid diet. Note, then, that we should consume milk, eggs, fruits, vegetables, brown bread and herring. Children should have some cod liver oil emulsion every winter. Now we come to output, the throwing off of waste products. Some of you have heard of Sir Ar-buthnot Lane, the surgeon. He has written on constipation and

Digitized by CaOOQle
170

its cure. Many people think that their bowels are in excellent order because they have a daily habit. Yet even in such people I would recommend, once or twice a week, a wineglass full of a solution made by dissolving one ounce of Epsom salts and one ounce of Glauber salts in twenty fluid ounces of water. This cleans the inner lining of the intestine and so prevents ab-sorbtion into the system of toxins or poisons from the bowel. Remember that stagnation in the bowel converts the normal friendly germs into enemies. We would never develop this intestinal stagnation if we ate natural foods. Drink plenty of water between meals; and you would be doing yourselves great good if you would learn to fast for a day from time to time, for this redresses the balance between intake hnd output. Hot baths, with or without massage and electricity, act similarly. Hot air, vapour or water baths, and exercise, such as walking, tennis and golf, all act by raising the temperature, and so promoting oxidation. Oxidation means the burning off of deleterious waste matters which are clogging the system.

A word on constipation. If long continued, this lejids to distention, then lengthening of the large bowel. Next, bands form and these contract and kink the bowels, hence the contents are retained; toxins are absorbed, the muscles and kidneys are weakened and the liver and pancreas degenerate. The injury to the nervous system is shown in headaches, rheumatics, neuralgia, pains, mental depression and irritation and lack of energy. Sometimes little eruptions appear on the skin. Too many cooked meats favour the onset of constipation, and as cooked meat contains no vitamines, the result is that the presence of toxins in the body from constipation and the absence of vitamines injure the indocrines. Eat more fruit and salad and less meat. Sunlight treatment, natural ofr artificial, stimulates the skin, thereby helping the passing off of the waste material from the blood. Vigorous action in the open air keeps the lungs sweet and clear. As regards obesity or corpulence, there are two treatments to choose from,

(a)	Eat what you like, but do drink any fluid during or for half an hour before or after meals.

(b)	Take two meals daily. At breakfast time take a cup of unsweetend tea—for all sugar must be cut off—and an apple or a grape fruit or a banana. At mid-day meal take no potatoes, for such are barred to the man who wants to lose weight.

Eat salads, such as lettuce, cucumber, tomatoes, and watercress, young cabbage, brussels sprouts, young carrots, parsley, onion, beetroot, and even dandelion and nasturtium leaves. Use any kind of salad dressing. Instead of pudding take uncooked fruits. Tea and coffee after dinner retard digestion, but you may take one cup of weak tea. If your mid-day meal is your dinner, you may take fish, fowl and game, which are better than veal, pork or roast beef. Your dessert may be varied by taking fruit salad and a little cream.
171

Some days your dinner, at one p. m., should consist of bread, cheese, some butter, an omelette and a salad of raw fruits. At tea time, say five o'clock, do not spoil things by taking cake, bread and butter; simply take one cup of tea and nothing else. The second" meal comes at eight p. m., and much depends upon what you have eaten at one p. m. Some fish, a herring or two for example, may be eaten. Brown bread, as usual, in place of white. Such a diet is not drastic. If only fat men could see the liver congestion they suffer from they might take heed and mend their ways. Beer is forbidden in such a diet, a little whiskey at night might be allowed if used to it.

I conclude with a word or two more on high blood pressure. It is a good plan to ask a doctor to test your blood pressure, so that you may be advised. The causes of high blood pressure are high speed of life in business and the whirl and gaiety of the social round; late hours, over-feeding, over-smoking, continual excitement, drinks, dances and dinners. It is not so much the drinks, as the drinks between the drinks; passions, such as anger, worries and anxieties.

Constipation. Before I mention the symptoms of high blood pressure, let me warn you that some of these symptoms occur in some other simple complaints, so do not go away thinking that you have high blood pressure. The symptoms are:—(1) Increased shortness of breath, (2) Giddiness. Of course you can get giddiness from such simple things as indigestion and bloodlessness, (3) singing in the ears on stooping, (4) a constant sense of fatigue, out of all proportion to the work that has been done. If your doctor says that your blood pressure is up, be honest. Face the facts. Cut out the drinks. Black coffee and strong cigars must go, even pipe smoking may have to be stopped. Plain and simple diet. No more rich gravies, no strong meat soups. Cigarette smokers who inhale are irritating their arteries with nicotine. Cut out the late hours. Go in for an occasional day’s fasting and attend to the bowels. Take dairy produce in place of strong meats. No passions. These rules will help you to live in the direction of ninety or a hundred.

An Acrostic illustrating food which we should eat in order to make our dietaries safe as regards vitamines.

A gentle-eyed satin-skinned cow is a pleasant sight in the fields. Our instinct is to pat it, as a sign of gratitude for the good things we owe it: milk, butter, cheese, cream, junket, Devonshire cream, cream cheese—so “Pat comely “cows,” indicating the value of dairy products is a not unsuitable phrase for our acrostic.

Potatoes.

Apples.

Tomatoes.

Cabbages.

Offal.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
172

Milk. (Including butter, cheese and the other food made from it) Eggs.

Lettuces.

Yeast.

Cod liver oil.

Oranges.

Watercress.

Suet.

SPORT AND RELIGION.

By Charles Herbert

1.	Back to Sparta.

The Spartans may have been a heathenish crowd but they have a great deal to teach us in the 20th century. Ours is the soft age; their’s was the hard one. That modem Spartan philosopher, Lloyd George, when pulling off that great Olympic event, the Health Insurance Stakes, said that if a modem man had toothache he thought he was going to die. Of course, that was before the War. Some of us learned to endure hardness during that little bit of a dust-up in Europe, and a lot of us didn’t, because the doctors knew beforehand that if we were placed on the “Try him in the trenches” stunt we should crumple up like tissue paper in the fist of a giant. Well, the tissue paper section of us survived; also some of the others. And here we are today in probably the most neurotic age in human history. It is not the philsopher’s stone for which we are seeking to-day but the very latest, newest, and surest psycho-analytical nerve restorer on the market!

Now, let us have a look at those heathen Spartans. They believed in hardness, which was a religion to them. Babies were tested for physical fitness and if it were apparent that there was weakness the child was just deposited on a hill side and left there to perish. This is a fairly easy way of getting rid of undesirable offspring, not to be recommended to this enlightened age, but it helps us to see the single view-point of the residents of Sparta. Physical unfitness was an absolute disgrace, and children who were unfit were simply not allowed to live. And when young Sparta went to school, it did not don suits of clothes, scarfs, overcoats, and Russian boots, nor the ancient equivalent to all this “muffie-up ’ and keep warm” paraphernalia of our day. Boys had one suit of clothes for winter and summer alike. Shades of Wolsey vests and pants! Probably enough they hadn’t to face the climate which we have in Britain; for it isn’t possible that there ever was another climate like ours, and surely to goodness, we might sometimes remember that we are mam-

*From “Physical Education Bulletin,” England.

Digitized by v^ooQle
173

mals and not reptiles. Those young Spartans lived and slept and did their work in the open. The big thing in their education was their outdoor life, their sports and pastimes. The lessons they had were just question and answer, but these were made to revolve around their physical well-being.

They were very like modern boys in this, that their great heroes were war heroes, but the glamour of the military life to them lay not in glittering uniform and brilliant parade but in physical prowess, the power to endure and to achieve in physical combat. What a degeneration to the mud and dirt of France and Flanders, those long-range weapons and poison gas! Quite true, there was endurance there also, but it was a machine-governed combat of. which, in the review, humanity needs most to be ashamed.

LIFE SAVING CLASSES IN SYRIA

By Mabel S. C. Smith

Between the steep slopes of the Lebanon mountains and the glittering blue of the Mediterranean is a strip of land in which the stern Syrian landscape becomes smiling and gracious. It is dotted with villages and villas, and green with olive groves and mulberry orchards. Here are some of the towns whose names have been famous since Bible days—Tyre where lived King Hiram who furnished Solomon with cedars for the Temple; Si don where the centurion Julius allowed St. Paul to “refresh himself,” Beirut an ancient Phoenician city, today the liveliest place on the Syrian coast. In several of these historic spots Near East Relief is maintaining orphanages to care for the child sufferers of the Great War. Most of them are Armenian boys and girls driven out of Turkey after the Smyrna disaster. They are now being trained for self-support so that when they are old enough to go out on their own they will be no burden on the generous country that is sheltering them.

In addition to their vocational and schoolroom training the youngsters are taught something of hygiene and sanitation, the care of their bodies and of their surroundings, so that they will be a healthy and wholesome addition to the Syrian population.

One of the features of the physical instruction of the boys has been a course in life-saving. As some of the orphanages, that atAntilyas, for instance, are on the seashore, and the boys are on the beach and in the water every day, it is important not only that they should know how to swim but that they should be able to cope with accidents.

To meet this situation George M. Wilcox of Iowa, Director of_Education of Near East Relief with headquarters at Athens,

Digitized by

Google
174

Greece, has given a course in Life Saving. The instruction and the tests are based on those of the American Red Cross Life Saving Corps. As the organization admits only American citizens to membership Mr. Wilcox has established the Near East Relief Life Saving Corps.

The requirements call for the passing of the following tests: five breaks, namely, front and back strangle, one hand and two hand wrist and two drowning persons; four carries, namely, hair, head, cross chest and tired swimmer; the Schaeffer method of resuscitation; front dive; surface dive and recovery; fireman’s carry; back float, tread water; under water approach to drowning person.

The same course and tests were given to the larger boys at the Hilltop orphanage situated high above the ancient city of Sidon. The boys have a downhill run and an uphill pull to reach the beach just outside the town and return but the little journey seems to add zest to the experience.

Those who passed the tests at Antilyas and Hilltop won the right to wear a certain sort of swimming shirt for which the Hilltop girls make an emblem designed by Mr. Wilcox. The youngsters take as much pride in it as any college man who has won his letter. Needless to say that they showed off in great style when the jackies of the “Lamson” and the “Coghlan” visited Antilyas.

As these boys expect to spend their lives in the neighborhood of the Mediterranean their skill in life-saving probably will be of lasting value to them and to the communities in which they throw in their lot.

RESULTS OF SOME MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS IN APPARATUS WORK, TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS

Roy W. Delaplaine, Philadelphia*

In “Minimum Course of Study in Physical Education for High Schools,” (Revised, September 1923), published by the Board of Public Education, School District of Philadelphia, we have prescribed minimum requirements on six pieces of apparatus, and six track and field events.

The prescribed tests are as follows:

APPARATUS WORK I. Parallel Bars H—Jump to an outer cross seat in front of hands. Rear dismount over both bars. (Bars chest high).

G—Jump to a cross support. Swing forward and backward and rear vault dismount. (Bars chest high.)

♦Mr. Delaplaine is head of the physical education department of the West Philadelphia Boys High School.

Digitized by UaOOQle
175

F—Jump to cross support in middle of bars. Swing to support lying frontways. Bend and straighten arms three times (three dips). Intermediate swing and rear vault dismount.

E—Same as F, but begin with a running start. Finish with a front vault.

D—Upper arm hang. Swing forward and backward and kip to an outer cross seat in front of hands. Rear vault dismount over both bars. (Bars shoulder high.)

C—Upper arm hang. Swing and kip to straddle seat in front of hands. Front vault from an intermediate swing. (Bars shoulder’ high.)

B—Jump to a cross support at end of bars. Travel forward to middle of bars. Swing forward and backward to a straddle seat in rear of hands. Roll forward to straddle seat in front of hands. Grasp ends of bars and with an intermediate swing straddle dismount over either bar.

A—Same as B, but begin with hand hopping (both hands move simultaneously) in the support. Finish with a straddle over both bars.

2.	Horizontal Bar's (Jump High)

H—From straight arm hang raise knees to knee hang left (or right) between hands.

G—Knee swing up left (or right) between hands.

F—Inverted hang rearways. Return.

E—From side stand frontways jump to hip swing up. Turn over forward.

D—From straight arm hang hip swing up. Under swing to stand. (See Note)

C—Knee swing up (left or right) between hands. Knee circle backward.

B—From straight arm hang hip swing up. Hip circle backward. Under swing to stand.

A—From straight arm hang hip swing up. Hip circle backward. Turn over forward and lower legs slowly, arms straight.

NOTE—Due to a high percentage of failures, we substituted the following;

D—From side stand frontways, grasp bars (reach high) and hip swing up. Under swing to stand.

3.	Climbing Ropes

H—Correct climbing to top.

G—Climbing to top. Handclimb downward (without use of legs).

F—Climb to top. Return halfways. Climb to top again. Climb down.

E—Climb to top twice.

D—Handclimb (climb upward, hand over hand, without use of legs) three-quarters of the way up. Climb downward.

C—Same as D to top.

B—Handclimb to top on two ropes (without use of legs). Climb down on one rope.

Digitized by
176

A—Handclimb to top on two ropes (without use of legs). Handclimb down on both ropes in bent arm hang.

4.	Rings (Jump High)

Note—All exercises begin from a straight arm hang.

H—Raise knees and turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return.

G—Inverted hang, feet placed against the ropes.

F—Inverted hang, free.

El—Inverted hang, free. Lower body to hang rearways. Return.

D—Inverted hang, free. Lower body to hang rearways. Return to bent arm hang. Straighten left arm sideward and return. Repeat right.

C—Same as D, but straighten and bend each arm twice (alternately).

B—Short swing to inverted hang (free). Lower to hang rearways. Return and lower straight legs slowly.

A—Same as B to hang rearways. Return and cut off left (let go with left hand and regrasp after leg has passed) and then right.

5.	Horse (Side)

H—Squat vault.

G—Front vault

F—From support frontways leg swing left under left hand and right under right hand to support rearways. Squat backward to stand frontways and at once front vault. (See note.)

E—Same as F, but finish with rear vault. (See note).

D—Squat forward to a support rearways. Leg swing left backward under left hand, and right under right hand to stand frontways, and at once front vault.

C—Same as D, but finish with rear vault.

B—From a side stand frontways frank swing left under left hand to support rearways. Leg swing backward under right hand and left under left hand to stand and at once rear vault. (Exercise may be done opposite)

A—Same as B, but rear vault with one-half turn.

Note—To avoid possible accidents we substituted;

F—“Swing left leg backward under left hand” in place of “Squat backward.”

E—“Swing right leg backward under right hand” in place of “squat backward.”

6.	Mat Exercises

H—Roll forward, grasping ankles.

G—Roll backward.

F—A forward dive, knee high, and forward roll.

E—Head stand. From head stand roll forward to stand.

D—Cartwheel.

C—Roll backward to a momentary handstand (a push off from both the hands)

Digitized by LaOOQle
B—A momentary handstand.

A—Roll backward to momentary handstand, finish with a roundoff.

TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS.

	Standing Running Running Shot Put 50-yd dash 100-yd dash br'd jump br'd jump high jump (8-lb)					
Age	sec & fifths sec & fifths		ft. & in.	ft. & in.	ft. & in.	ft. & in.
20	7	13	7-4	14-8	4-7	36-5
19	7	13-1	7-3	14-4	4-5	32-2
18	7-1	13-2	7-2	13-10	4-2	28-10
17	7-2	13-4	7-2	13-4	3-9	25-6
16	7-3	14-1	7-0	12-10	3-7	21-2
16	7-3	14-2	6-9	12-1	3-4	19-0
14	7-4	14-3	6-6	11-8	3-2	16-4
13	7-4	14-4	6-4	11-4	3-0	14-3

The shot put, running high jump, ONE of the dashes and ONE of the broad jumps, are obligatory during each of the four years. The 50-yd dash and the standing broad jump were eliminated in our tests.

The following results were obtained at the West Philadelphia High School for Boys during the Spring and Fall terms of 1925:

APPARATUS WORK

	H	G	F	E	D	C	B	A	Total
	T F	T F	T F	T F	T F	T F	T F	T F	T F
	%	%	%	%	%	%	%	%	%
Parallel	133 18	144 9	352 52	339 21	208 6	208 3	145 7	133 7	1662 123
Bars	.135	.062	.148	.062	.014	.014	.048	.188	.074
Horizontal	119 19	160 27	358 48	366 83	250 45	224 30	147 45	133 22	1757 319
Bar	.160	.169	.134	.227	.180	.134	.306	.165	.182
Climbing	165 12	157 31	351 88	296 54	354 67	193 63	210 46	127 26	1853 387
Ropes	.073	.197	.250	.182	.189	.326	.219	.204	209
Rings	172 11	162 12	344 53	294 45	344 46	189 15	218 25	123 12	1846 219
	.064	.074	.154	.163	.134	.079	.115	.098	.119
Horse	167 8	152 12	330 52	296 24	372 65	194 21	221 6	124 4	1856 192
	.048	.079	.158	.081	.174	.108	.027	.032	.103
Mat	109 8	143 9	341 51	332 34	219 37	207 57	144 7	133 25	1628 228
Exercises	.073	.063	.150	.102	.169	.275	049	.188	.140
Total	865 76	918 100	2076 344	1923 261	1747 261	1215 189	1085 136	778 96	10602 1468
	.088	.109	.167	.136	.152	.156	.125	.124	.138

T—Total number tests completed.

F—Number of failures.

%—Percentage of failures.

*—Classes (H—9A—First term students)
TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS

	Running	100-yd.	Running	8-lb.	
Age	High jump	dash	broad jump	shot put	Total
	T P	T F	T F	T F	T F
	%	%	%	%	%
20	7 4	6 1	2 2	2 1	17 8
	.671	.167	1.000	.500	.471
19	28 12	24 8	27 8	26 14	100 37
	.522	.125	.296	.588	.370
18	189 40	139 18	90 20	92 12	460 90
	.288	.130	.222	.130	.196
17	- 340 17	338 13	207 32	187 24	1072 86
	.050	.038	.155	.128	.080
16	498 7	501 23	341 46	350 12	1690 88
	.014	.046	.135	.034	.052
16	668 15	582 42	389 52	408 20	1947 129
	.026	.087	.134	.049	.065
14	378 29	378 35	293 34	310 4	1359 102
	.077	.093	.116	.013	.075
13	109 4	116 18	72 12	71 1	368 35
	.037	.155	.166	.014	095
Total	8062 128	2084 153	1421 206	1446 88	7013 575
	.062	.073	.145	.061	.082

NOTE—Fourteen 12-year old boys and three 11 year old boys are included among the records (or the 13-year old boys.

The West Philadelphia High School for Boys being a school in which promotion by subject is in operation and physical education being a required subject for graduation. We attempted to work out the requirements for “Track and Field Events” .based upon the grade of work taken by the student regardless of grade in other departments.

We collected and compiled the data from about 5000 cases. After plotting the graphs, straightening out the curves, and using the “bell shaped” curve to conform to the general scheme of 70 as passing, we obtained the following:

RUNNING HIGH JUMP

Y.Numerical mark X.Distance or time

Class		Formula	Min.
H	9Y*	20X - 110	37
G	9Y*	20X - 150	39
F	9Y*	20X - 190	41
E	9Y*	20X - 230	43
D	9Y*	20X - 270	45
C	9Y*	20X - 310	47
B	9Y*	20X - 350	49
A	9Y*	20X - 350	49

Digitized by ^.ooQle
179

100-yd. Dash

Y. Numerical mark X. Time in seconds and tenths.

Class	Formula		Min. time,
H	I.8Y*	-25+491	14.6
G	I.8Y*	-25+486	14.4
F	I.8Y*	-25+481	14.2
E	I.8Y*	-25+476	14
D	I.8Y*	-25+471	13.8
C	I.8Y*	-25+466	13.6
B	I.8Y*	-25+461	13.4
A	I.8Y*	-25+461	13.4

Running Broad Jump

Numerical	mark	X-Distance in	feet and tenths.
Class		Formula	Min. distance.
H	3Y*	30X - 140	11.7
G	3Y*	30X - 150	12
F	3Y*	30X - 160	12.3
E	3Y*	30X - 170	12.7
D	3Y*	SOX - 180	13
C	3Y*	SOX - 190	13.3
B	3Y*	SOX - 200	13.7
A	3Y*	SOX - 210	14

8 Lb. Shot Put

Y-Numerical mark	X- Distance in feet and tenths.

IS	Formula		Min. 1
H	11Y*	20X+430	17
G	11Y*	20X+390	19
F	11Y*	20X+350	21
E	11Y*	20X+310	23
D	11Y*	20X+270	25
C	11Y*	20X+230	27
B	11Y*	20X+190	29
A	11Y*	20X+150	31

Note—Numerical marks for the various heights, times and distances have been computed in all events and are kept posted on the bulletin boards at all times.

Digitized by (<jOOQle
Track and Field Events

	H	G	F	E	D	C	B	A	Total
	T. F	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.	T. F.
	%	%	% %	%	% %	%	% %	%	% %
100-yd.	158 8	150 5	322 38	291 13	335 20	188 18	218 4	121 5	1783 111
Dash ....	051.	.033	.118	.040	.060	.095	.018	.041	.063
Running	119 9	139 12	319 16	338 21	200 9	203 17	145 13	133 7	1596 104
Broad Jump	.076	.086	.050	.062	.045	.084	.090	.053	.065
Running	161 11	142 7	376 50	295 6	344 13	184 15	223 15	125 13	1850 130
High Jump	.068	.049	.133	.028	.038	.081	.067	.104	.068
Shot Put	110 8	127 7	347 17	336 21	203 6	207 17	143 7	134 9	1607 92
	.073	.055	.049	.062	.030	.082	.048	.067	.057
Total	548 36	558 81	1364 121	1260 61	1082 48	782 67	729 89	513 34	6836 437
	.067	.055	.089	.048	.044	.086	.053	.066	.064

Note:-The above tests are the results of the new rating scheme.

Methods of Conducting the Tests

Due to overcrowded conditions, the roster calls for one 45 minute period in the gymnasium and one 45-minute period on the neighboring lots per week. All tests were taken in ordinary clothes with the exception of the wearing of gymnasium shoes. The 100-yd dash was run on the cement sidewalk.

Five tests are given during the Spring Term; horizontal bar, parallel bars, mat, running broad jump and shot put. The remaining five tests, horse, rings, ropes, running high jump and 100-yd dash, are given in the Fall.

At the beginning of each term, a blue-print of all tests is posted on the bulletin boards. Two periods, one in the gymnasium and one on the lots, are set aside for instructors to explain and demonstrate to the students the respective tests. During the remainder of these periods, students practice their tests under the supervision of the instructors and student “leaders”, special attention being given to “form.” At no other time during the term are the assigned periods used for this purpose.

One month prior to the ending of each term, the tests are held, and numerical marks recorded. Three tries are allowed in the running broad jump and shot put. Three failures disqualifies in the high jump.

Two weeks afterwards a “re-test” is given for all those who failed. No mark above a 70 is ever recorded on a “re-test”.

Instructors only judge time, and measure tests.

Digitized by CjOOQle
181

BE A HELPFUL BYSTANDER

By Capt. G. R. G. Fisher

The summer season because of the moving about of people on pleasure bent is peculiarly liable to accidents which call for prompt first aid in order to avoid disaster. For that reason it is well to know what to do and what not to do to render effective assistance and this issue of Mind and Body contains numerous suggestions taken from Red Cross Rules for their workers.

WHAT NOT TO DO IN CASE OF ACCIDENT

Rules concerning things not to do in case of accident are as important as the things we ought to do. The “do not’s” should be memorized and followed as faithfully as the “do’s.” I am listing a few of the more important negative commandments so that every Red Cross worker may memorize them.

1.	Never move an injured person until the nature of the hurt is discovered. This is especially important in street accidents.

2.	Never pour liquids down an unconscious person’s throat. Lots of persons are choked to death by such kindness.

3.	Never give an emetic to a person who has swallowed acid or strong alkalies, such as washing lye or ammonia.

4. Never put a soiled cloth on any wound.

5. Never lift a person who has fainted. Let them revive

first.

6.	Never give liquor to a person who is bleeding badly, whose head is hurt, or during zero weather—if they are suffering from a serious injury.

7.	Never take a person suffering from frost bite into a warm room or near a fire.

8.	Never neglect the opportunity of taking a Red Cross course whenever your chapter organizes a class. If that is not possible, study the A. R. C.. General Edition on First Aid.

Examples of failure to learn these commandments are only too frequent. A University student tried to revive his fainting sweetheart with household ammonia instead of aromatic spirits of ammonia. Her life was eventually saved. An ignorant policeman prevented resuscitation of a drowning man because the first aider was not a doctor. The drowning man was not revived—he was buried.

HOW TO STOP BLEEDING

The oldest book in the world made this statement three thousand years before Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood. “For the life of the flesh is in the blood!” That is a scientific fact and still holds true. Then, too, there is but about twelve pounds, troy weight, of blood in a matured body, and consequently no one

Digitized by kjOOQle
182

can afford to lose very much, for if they do, one of two things will occur, they will die, or, if kept alive, it will take a long time to recover strength lost from the excessive blood letting.

Nature has done a very wonderful thing in regard to the arteries. She has placed them next to the bones so that all you have to do is to press them against the bone in case the wound is severe, as in a crushed or severed limb, or where one is cut through a bad wound. But, remember, if an artery is severed you always press between the wound and the heart, since arterial blood is flowing from the heart. If it is a vein which is Cut, you press on the opposite side of the wound from the heart, as venous blood is flowing to the heart. But possibly you ask, “How does one know which is which?”

Arterial blood comes out in spurts or ierks, in keeping with the heart beat, and is bright crimson, while venous blood flows evenly and is dark red. If one is wounded close to the windpipe and high in the neck, press with finger below and alongside of windpipe against the spine, and there you check the carotid artery. If the wound is on the side of the neck and blood is flowing fast, it is the jugular vein which is cut. Press with finger above the wound and you will check bleeding. Both of these wounds may come from an auto accident where one is thrown on the broken windshield. If the arm is torn out from the socket, or is crushed, or severed high in the arm, press on the subclarion artery, which crosses the first rib, almost at the base of the neck behind the collar bone.

. If the wound is below the shoulder, press on the brachial artery on inside of arm, against bone, or if the wound is in the hand or wrist, put a medium sized pad of tightly folded paper in bend of arm and flex limb and tie it so. Or make a tourniquet and put on brachial artery (as above), fold something hard, as penknife, smooth stone or piece of wood, in a handkerchief, tie somewhat loose over center of arm, put a pad to protect arm under knob, and take a pencil or piece of short stick and twist handkerchief on outside of limb and hold or tie tight. This will compress artery and prevent further loss of blood. For lower limb, the femoral artery is on the inside of thigh, about where the seam of a man’s breeches runs, and at upper third of thigh where there seems to be a hollow spot. A tourniquet may be placed there made as above, though the hard object should be quite prominent, as a large cork, or if the wound is below the knee, flex the leg with large pad in bend of knee.

Sunstroke, Heat Exhaustion and^Freezing

Sunstroke and heat exhaustion are both caused, generally speaking, from the same source, i.e., excessive hot weather, although the former is usually produced by the direct rays of the sun striking the head, while the latter is more apt to come
188

from humid weather or as a result of being confined to poorly ventilated work shops or rooms.

The remarkable thing about these very serious emergen-cies is this, that while both arise from a common cause, yet in each case the symptoms are so diversely opposite, as is also the treatment, that it will be well to impress these points by means of a comparative table and thereby facilitate one's decision as to which is which, and also enable one to do just the correct thing, for we must be sure in these quite common emergencies since they are of an exceedingly serious nature. 1,964 deaths occurred last year from this cause directly, and of the 62,431 deaths reported from apoplexy (there is a form of this disease which is termed "heat apoplexy”) there were doubt-. less many of these whose death was the result of this condition, due to humid or hot weather.

Sunstroke—

Weakness—tired feeling.

Throbbing headache.

Sense of oppression.

Flushed face.

Skin very hot and dry.

Great fever (104 degrees or higher)

Breathing shallow or loud like snoring.

Pulse quick and bounding.

Unconsciousness.

Heat Exhaustion—

Weakness—tired feeling.

Dull headache.

Great depression.

Pale face.

Skin clammy and cold.

Temperature of body low.

Breathing feeble.

Pulse weak.

Seldom unconscious.

Treatment

Sunstroke—

1.	Get quickly into shade.

2.	Remove tight clothing and strip to waist.

3.	Dash cold water on face and chest, or put into ice water bath. Keep ice on head.

4.	Keep patient in recumbent position—head raised.

5.	When conscious, give lots of cold water to drink, or ice to suck.

Heat Exhaustion—

1.	Get into any quiet place.

2.	Loosen tight clothing and cover with blankets to keep warm.

3.	Do not apply cold applications under any circumstances.

4.	Patient lying flat, head low.

Digitized by LjOOQle
184

5.	Aromatic spirits of ammonia water in sips. Hot tea or coffee.

Both of these distressing conditions may be prevented by taking care not to overdo during hot weather, and in case of one becoming tired, especially dizzy, followed by headache or sense of oppression, these being the warnings of approaching trouble. Then at once stop working, take a cool bath, or bathe the head, face and hands in cold water, lie down in shady or airy place, and rest quietly for an hour or two. DON’T PERMIT USE OF ALCOHOL IN ANY FORM!

Frost bite need hardly be described since it is a common affliction in Northern Division territory. If anything need be emphasized in this connection, it is prevention. Proper care should be taken to avoid unnecessary exposure of face, ears and hands, taking particular care of the feet.

If one is frost bitten, endeavor to restore affected parts by rubbing with snow, or, in absence of snow, ice scrapings or ice water. The hands or feet can be submerged in cold water and friction applied while in water and as the color of parts is restored, raise temperature of water gradually until normal condition obtains. Dry parts and rub on vaseline, or lard and turpentine, or carbolic salve and wrap in absorbent cotton. If blisters had formed, prick with a sterile needle. Care will have to be taken for some time following to prevent reoccurrence of frost bite.

Caution—Never take a person into a warm room who is suffering frost bite. First restore parts. Heat will cause gangrene!

COMMON EMERGENCIES

There are numerous ills which humanity has to suffer, of which some are of such a nature that it is not always necessary to have the services of a physician, though it is always best to err on the safe side. Therefore, in any illness where one is puzzled and where there are symptoms which tend to grow worse, lose no time in calling for medical aid. There are only too many sad hearts in the world whose grief is unceasing, because of the awful conviction that they were guilty of neglect in this very matter.

This leads me to urge upon all women to insist on the organization of Home Nursing classes. Your county Red Cross nurse is only too anxious to bring this about, and how much it will mean to your own immediate family as well as to the community!

A word of warning must be raised here, particularly in reference to patent medicines. Don’t have anything to do with them! If you have any vital ailment, seek reliable medical advice, but best of all follow the suggestion ofjhe old rhyme,

Digitized by v^,ooQle
185

"Health, temperance and repose, slam the door on the doctor’s nose.”

We suggest a few hints which will be helpful in dealing with the following emergencies:

Cramp and Colic

This trouble is due to a spasm of the intestines, usually caused by indigestible food, and frequently by cold when overheated in hot weather; in children, by eating green apples, etc. Care ought to be taken to avoid these causes, particularly spoiled foods or unripe fruit.

The symptoms are well known, as for instance, the severe griping pains m the abdomen, but if there is vomiting and purging you may suspect ptomaine poisoning. Ordinarily a hot water bottle to abdomen brings relief, or rubbing sometimes is helpful, soda mint tablets, or hot water with a little ginger. If the stomach can be emptied by an emetic so much the better, and a purgative ought also to be given, salts or a seidlitz powder.

Diarrhoea

This trouble may follow as a result of colic, and usually its prevention is the same. Never be too hasty in checking diarrhoea; if it is obstinate insist on a doctor’s services, but in ordinary cases 1-10 grain doses of calomel, fifteen minutes apart up to six doses, and this may be followed by seidlitz powder or epsom salts. If there is much pain, ginger tea may be given, but for children usually a dose of castor oil suffices. Be sure to diet the patient, avoiding meats, vegetables and fruits, giving boiled milk, eggs beaten in milk, weak tea, etc.

Constipation

The cause of this trouble is usually a lack of properly masticating one’s food, and indigestible foods, or a lack of drinking water freely on retiring and rising. Avoid patent medicines, which only aggravate; insist on regular habits, good plain food, lots of water and use of apples—eating them entire, aside from the core. Apples supply the great essential for healthy intestines, i.e., acidity, roughness and bulk.

Chills

These are often the warning of some serious disease, such as pneumonia—don’t neglect. If they are not due to cold weather, getting wet, etc., lose no time in putting patient to bed, using plenty of hot water bottles, rub the limbs towards body, give hot drinks. If patient seems prostrated use aromatic spirits of ammonia (1-2 teaspoonful in 1-2 glass of hot water) and above all, if the chills continue, hasten medical help.

Croup

This has caused the death of only too many children and the distressing thing about it is that a strong healthy child will choke to death from it.

The great essential is not to neglect it in its beginning— go right after it at once. Lard and turpentine rubbed well
186

into neck and chest and light flannel bandage. Give onion syrup as a medicine; see that bowels are well moved and don’t be afraid of fresh air in bedroom—only see it does not directly blow on bed.

Neuralgia Of The Face

If it is due to a bad tooth see a dentist, but otherwise use hot or cold applications as preferable to patient. Pain has been characterized as “the cry of a nerve for more blood/’ consequently stroking of the part by the hand or gently massaging may prove helpful.

Styes

These are really an inflamation of the small glands of the eye-lid, and may be the result of eye strain through an error of vision, and if they occur frequently—especially in school children —an eye specialist should be consulted. Hot, wet applications to parts are helpful in ordinary cases.

Sunburn

Sunburn or tan is considered healthy, but this is a false idea, and persons with delicate skin should avoid it by taking pains to protect themselves from the sun. A splendid remedy is one part lime water to three parts olive or almond oil, but any soothing application is good, such as cold cream or any good toilet cream, or even vaseline. If eyes are affected use cold water compresses.

Prickly Heat

This may be due in part to too much clothing and may be prevented by not exercising too much and avoiding heating drinks. In many cases good talcum powder will give relief, though if it is very bad, it is best to soothe the affected parts with a mixture of one part pure alcohol to three parts of water and when skin is dry dusting with talcum powder.

Poison Ivy or Oak

Everyone on going camping should positively become acquainted with these plants and avoid them, since an infection of either is quite serious to many people—especially if one is perspiring at time of contact. The symptoms are quite positive, severe inflammation of exposed parts, usually hands, arms and face—swelling of parts may follow and in some cases blisters or even matteration—pain, itching and discomfort frequently severe. If case is quite extreme, a doctor should be consulted, but lose no time in bathing the affected parts with a strong wash of boracic acid and follow this by smearing parts with zinc ointment covering same with light cloth or loose gauze bandage. If these are not at hand bathe parts with vinegar in which a cent piece has been placed, or even strong soapy water.

Mosquito Bites—Ticks, Etc.

If camp is badly infected use netting around beds and smoke smudges in evenings. Children can be protected from mosquito bites at night by lightly smearing face, neck and arms

Digitized by

Google
with petroleum jelly—slightly carbolized. In case of bites touch with ammonia or hartshorn. Lime water with two drops of carbolic acid is good—follow by talcum. If a tick is sticking ip the flesh, touch it with pure carbolic acid or pure ammonia, when it will fall off. Paint spot with iodine.

Chilblains

These usually attack toes, ears, fingers and even the nose and are caused by contraction of blood vessels though exposure to cold— then reacting and dilating, the parts become red and swell, causing burning, itching and aching. Persons with poor circulation suffer mostly. If toes are affected, bathe in cold water, drying with a flannel thoroughly, treat with one part iodine and two parts soap linament. Wear woolen hose, avoid tight shoes and never hold foot to fire. If fingers or other parts are affected, endeavor to protect from cold, wear woolen gloves and treat as above. Equal parts turpentine and olive oil is a good application. For itching—one dram of powdered camphor to four ozs. cosmoline.

Medical Supplies To Be Kept In Home

2 oz. aromatic spirits of ammonia. For fainting, shock, heartburn, sour stomach, etc. Use rubber cork.

2 oz. Tinct. Iodine. For all cuts, slight wounds, etc. Rubber cork.

4 oz. Castor oil.

8	oz. Carron Oil. For bums. Made from equal parts lime water	and raw linseed oil.	Lime water	made	by	dissolving

4 oz. piece	of quick lime in 3-4	pint of	water.	Pour	off	when

settled.

1 oz. pure ammonia. For stings, etc. Rubber cork.

1	lb. Epsom salts. Purgative and for evaporating lotion on sprains.

4 oz. Mustard—Colman’s English Mustard—best.

2 oz. Syrup of ginger—oil of cloves—1 drm. bottle.

8 oz. Benotol—For washing wounds, etc.

Bottle Calomel tablets—1-10 grain—50 in bottle.

4 oz.	pure alcohol—Witch	Hazel.

I oz.	Pure Carbolic acid.

Tube carbolized vaseline, Xinc Oxide, Adhesive Tape.

Talcum powder. Small bottle collodium with brush.

Small carton antiseptic gauze.

1-2 lb. Absorbent Cotton.

Rolled bandages—1, 2, 3 inches.

Triangular bandages—38” square piece cut from old sheet and cut comerwise.

Graduated medicine glass.

Burns

Burns are of three kinds—1st degree, where the skin is inflamed, as in scalds; 2nd degree, where blisters appear; 3rd degree, where the tissue is destroyed and the burned parts are charred.

Digitized by t^ooQle
188

Bums are caused—

a.	By dry heat, as fire or hot iron.

b.	By a rail, wire or dynamo charged with high pressure electric current.

c.	By acid, such a vitrol.

d.	By a corrosive alkali, such as caustic soda, ammonia or quicklime.

e.	By friction, contact with revolving wheel or belt, or sliding down a rope.

f.	. Scalds by moist heat, boiling water, tar, oil or steam.

To treat bums, first remove clothing from burned parts,

but if any sticks, don’t pull off; just cut around with scissors and soak clinging pieces with oil and leave to doctor to remove. Never break blisters. Leave these also to the doctor. Immediately cover burnt areas with gauze, absorbent cotton or clean cloths soaked in oil. Any pure oil will do, but the best is Carron Oil which is easily made with equal parts of lime water and raw linseed oil. If the bum covers a large surface, it is best to apply oil dressings in strips three or four inches wide, as these will fit better on the parts. If you cannot secure oils, quickly mix a strong solution of baking soda, Arm Brand salaratus, thoroughly soak cloths and cover parts and keep wet with the solution. Or failing in these, smother burned part with pure flour. The air must be quickly excluded from the burned surface.

If the face is burned, cut a mask out of gauze or linen, leaving holes for eyes, nose and mouth and smear this with oil or vaseline and cover with absorbent cotton with holes to correspond with dressing.

If the hand is burned badly, submerge in water at temperature of body (98 degrees), in which some baking soda has been mixed, and when oil dressing is ready apply strips to each finger and thumb separately and bind the whole with absorbent cotton.

In all severe cases of bums, it will be necessary to treat shock.

If the bum is caused by a corrosive acid, quickly apply water, and then follow with a weak alkaline solution made from salaratus, washing soda or slaked lime in warm water and then apply oil dressings.

If it is a corrosive alkali, immediately neutralize with water, then bathe in a weak acid lotion made from equal parts vinegar or lemon juice and water. If it is quicklime, be sure to remove any lime before the water is applied.

When a woman’s dress catches fire, if she runs, which is most common and also an aggravation of the shocking accident, it only fans the fire, and also in screaming she will probably inhale the flames.

1st, get her down, beat out fire, taking great care to do so with something to protect your hands. If fire is on front of

Digitized by (^.ooQle
189

dress, keep her on her back; if on the back of her clothes, lay on stomach. Remember fire burns upward.

2nd, if it is out of doors, as soon as fire is extinguished, get in out of wind, and proceed as herein suggested, remembering that shock must quickly be treated.

3rd, if a woman should be the one who is to save her, she must first protect her own dress from catching fire by wrapping a blanket or rug around herself.

4th, if the reader is a woman, and your dress catches fire, try to control yourself. Throw self on floor, roll on flames and endeavor to smother fire with rug or non-inflammable material, call for help, phone, but don't go out of doors unless you MUST.

Wounds

For all general purposes, wounds may be classified under five general heads. First, INCISED, such as a sharp knife or razor would inflict. Second, LACERATED, where the flesh is tom apart, as by a fish hook, barbed wire, or the jagged edged of a tin can. Third, PUNCTURED, a wound greater in its depth than its width, as by stepping on an upturned nail in a board, falling on a spike and piercing the hand, or a sliver running in deep. Fourth, POISONED, such as a rattlesnake bite, or that of the bite of a dog or other animal with rabies. Fifth, GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Never neglect a trivial (?) wound, as so often blood poisoning comes from just such cuts, chafings or scratches, so never "take a chance” on those, but rather do something for it since “it’s better to be safe than sorry!”

All serious wounds call for immediate medical treatment, but if the hospital is too far off or the doctor is likely to be long in coming, something must be done in the way of first aid for the good of the patient. But there are some important "Don'ts” to keep in mind:

Don’t wash a wound with water. No unboiled water is clean, and especially a wound on which the blood is clotted.

Don’t touch a wound with the fingers, or any instrument which has not been sterilized. Don’t cut away tom skin which is hanging loose.

Don’t probe a wound in which there are foreign bodies, such as broken glass, gravel, cinders, or splinters. Leave that to the doctor.

Then as to the positive things to DO, that is, IF YOU MUST. First, thoroughly cleanse the hands. Second, if there are foreign bodies in the wound, sterilize a knife blade in a clear fire, or over alcohol flame, and remove surface particles therewith. Third, if you have no real antiseptic gauze, take a clean handkerchief or napkin and scorch with a hot iron, and place face down on wound and secure loosely with bandage. Fourth, if the wound must be cleaned because of mud, dry dirt or gravel, etc., irrigate with clean gasoline, that is, by squeezing the oil out of a sponge held above wound, then apply compress.
190

PHYSICAL EDUCATORS CLUB OF CHICAGO

Another very interesting program was carried out in the May meeting of the Physical Educators Club of Chicago, regardless of the fact that a good deal of the time was taken up by the election of officers. Mr. Max Strass and his staff of capable officers, after two years of hard work in building up the Club and projecting the wonderful programs, asked to be relieved of his arduous duties as president of the Club. The members were very reluctant to release Mr. Strass because of the splendid way in which he managed the Club, but felt that he was entitled to a rest. The other officers, Mr. Wm. Kopp, Vice-President, Mr. George Sonnenleiter, Secretary, and Mr. Robert Maysack, Treasurer, also asked to be relieved of their duties.

Mr. David Holmes was elected President for the ensuing year, with Mr. August Pritzlaff, Vice-President, Mr. Karl Stoes-ser, Secretary, and Mr. Myles Havlicek, Treasurer. It is hoped that Mr. Franz Gerlich, who was largely responsible for the splendid programs during the last two years, can be prevailed upon to assist the new staff of officers in making the meetings of the Club as educational and interesting as in the past.

During the meeting, Dr. Max Schmidhofer continued his lectures on anatomy and physiology, covering the subject of “Composition of Brain Cells” and the manner in which the nerves function. The Club is deeply indebted to Dr. Schmidhofer for his wonderful contributions; the capable manner in which his lectures are delivered together with the artistic and elucidating manner in which he describes his lectures on the blackboard are greatly enjoyed by the members.

The demonstration of calisthenic exercises performed by men and women from the Chicago Sokol under the direction of Mr. R. Molcar, was a renewal of the almost lost art of old time calisthenic work. The precision and accuracy with which these men and women performed the four groups of exercises were an inspiration to the members of the Club who were fortunate enough to witness the demonstration. The group of exercises used were those that will be performed at the Eighth Bohemian National Festival to be held in Prague in July, 1926. The difficult combinations with the many changes in facings and formations involved a display of mental gymnastics as well as physical exercise that it is hardly possible to obtain from a group in an American school. The members all expressed regret that more of this type of work is not carried on in our school program.

The meeting was concluded by a talk on “Corrective Exercises” by Dr. C. 0. Carlstrom.

Theo. A. Gross, Chairman Publicity Committee.

Digitized by kjOOQle
191

Loss of Weight in Hot Air Baths.—Changes in body weight are not infrequently made the subject of concern for the physician. Usually his problem in this connection refers either to averting a loss of weight that is threatened by the ravages of disease or to the production of substantial gains during the years of adolescence and even later. Sometimes, however, he is expected to reduce body weight, particularly when it has advanced to the development of an unseemly figure. What the physician may be unwilling to advise in an attack on obesity is frequently undertaken without a qualm of conscience by one of the now numerous “physique specialists,” who thrive on the mental, physical and esthetic discomforts of the obese. Among the schemes that enter into the reduction treatments are recommendations that inevitably lead to losses of water—and consequently decrease of weight—in the body. How striking and considerable they may be is shown in recent observations on the physiologic effects of hot air baths. Exposure of the nude person to dry, hot air for periods of an hour or more have led to weight losses of more than 600 gm. an hour. This is in striking contrast to the normal loss of 40 to 50 gm. am hour in room air. The difference on exposure to the hot air bath has been demonstrated to be due almost exclusively to the increased amount of visible perspiration rapidly removed by the hot, dry atmosphere. Inspection of the actual changes in metabolism showed only minor increases in the oxidation of body tissues following exposure to hot air. There is some increase in the temperature of the peripheral tissues; and consequently some stimulation of cell activity there may be assumed to occur. However, the augmentation of the metabolism amounted at most to 10 percent, after a sojourn of from one and one-half hours in a hot air bath, whereas the loss of water was greatly accelerated. The drop in body weight may delight and encourage the candidate for reduction—until he discovers how easily water can be restored to its accustomed haunts in the body.

'Benedict, C. G.; Benedict, F. G., and Du Bois, L. F. Some Physiological Effects of Hot Air Bath, Am. J. Physiol. 73:429 (July) 1925.

Current Comment: The Journ. Am. AT. A. Aug. 29, 1925.

New York City—The loss of eyes in industrial accidents cost the employers of Pennsylvania more than $800,000 during the last year and more than $8,000,000 since the enactment of the State Workmen's Compensation Law, according to an analysis of the annual report of the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry made public recently by Lewis H. Carris, Managing Director of the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness.

“It has always been the conviction of the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness that eye hazards are the most serious of all non-fatal industrial accident hazards,” declared Mr. Carris' statement. Striking evidence of this fact may be had in the 1925 accident report of the Pennsylvania

Digitized by LjOOQle
192

Department of Labor and Industry which shows, for instance, that both during the last year and during the entire period since the passage of the Workmen’s Compensation Law the employers of Pennsylvania have found it necessary to pay more money as compensation for loss of eyes than for all accidents resulting in loss of legs, loss of arms and loss of hands combined.

The Pennsylvania report shows that 538 eyes were lost in industry in that one state last year and that a total of $800,598 was paid to workmen as compensation for this loss. At the same time a total of $793,952 was paid for the loss of 97 legs, 73 arms and 190 hands. Altogether since the enactment of the Pennsylvania Compensation Law, the employers of this state have spent $8,011,259 as compensation for loss of eyes and $8,-007,862 as compensation for loss of legs, arms and hands combined. During this period the vision of 5,885 eyes was destroyed through industrial accidents.

BASEBALL FOR WOMEN

The National Committee on Women’s Athletics of the American Physical Education Association has felt the need of a sub-committee on. BASEBALL, to take its place alongside of the other sub-committees on various sports, in an effort to popularize Baseball as a game for girls, and to work out some official girls’ rules. This sub-committee has begun its work and encloses herewith a set of Baseball rules concerning which it would like your helpful advice, and we hope your approval. If possible, will you please use the rules this spring, fill out the questionnaire, and return it to the chairman by July 1st. On the basis of the returned questionnaires with your helpful suggestions, the committee will go ahead with its work with the hope that in the near future we may have Baseball rules for girls in guide book form.

When filled out, please mail this questionnaire to the chairman of the Sub-committee on Baseball of the National Committee on Women’s Athletics of the American Physical Education Association—MISS HELEN HAZELTON, Women’s Gymnasium, University of Minnesota, Minneapoils, Minnesota.

1.	Do you find the size of the diamond satisfactory?

2. Do you favor nine or ten players on the team?

3. Do you favor the twelve-inch underhand or nine-inch overhand style of pitching?

4.	What situations do you think are not covered by the present rules?

5.	Would you be in favor of a Spalding Handbook on Baseball incorporating these rules as Official Rules?

6.	Rules of which you disapprove with reasons for disapproval:

Note. All comments on the above should be addressed to Helen W. Hazelton, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

Digitized by UjOOQle