MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31	June,	1924	No.	329

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa. CARLfL. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ms second-class metier October 14, 1916, mt the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March J, t^79-

♦----------------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint^

♦-----------------------------------

THE ATHLETIC SITUATION IN HIGH SCHOOLS.*

By William H. Geer, Director of Physical Education, Harvard University.

L'fw	-------------

My subject, Secondaiy School Athletics, is a comprehensive one. It has three major divisions — a program of athletics for all, with particular reference to intramural games, inter-school competitions for girls, and inter-school contests for boys. The problems connected with all of them are so many and so diverse that each one could well be the topic for a separate presentation. In the time allotted to this paper it will be possible to refer but briefly to two divisions of the subject before discussing in detail some of the important aspects of the problems connected with boys' athletics.

Tne introduction of any subject into the high school curriculum always involves certain complications. If the course is a prescribed one that affects all students, the difficulties are multiplied.

• Read before the Eastern District Convention of the American Physical Education Association held at Atlantic City, N. J., April 14, 1924, and before the Annual Conference of Principals of Junior and Senior High Schools, at Bridgewater, Mass., April 17, 1924.

Digitized by v^ooQle
98

When we consider that during the last decade thirty-two states have adopted legislation calling for prescribed programs of physical education in the public scheols, and that nearly every city in the other states has adopted some kind of a physical training program, it is not surprising to find many institutions still poorly prepared from the point of view of adequate equipment and a trained personnel. An activity program of the formal gymnastic type might have been organized witk fewer difficulties. Such a program would, however, have failed to serve in any large way the social, moral or recreative needs of boys and girls. The American conception of physical education, with its emphasis on plays, games and athletics, has introduced many financial problems. The athletic type of physical education with everybody in the game costs money. Adequate provision must be made for both indoor and outdoor facilities. The community, thru the school, is finding it difficult to give back to boys and girls their birthright of a placq, and a chance to play. Furthermore, a physical education program, with the emphasis on play and recreation, requires a staff of trained workers who appreciate the place and value of play in education. Each year finds more and more schools prepared to discharge in a reasonably satisfactory manner obligations for the health and physical welfare of students. The tendency is in the right direction. Building programs of the present day include provisions for gymnasiums, swimming pools, playgrounds and athletic fields. This is an evidence of a real attempt to make the athletic opportunity available to everybody.

The problem of inter-school athletic competition for girls is a comparatively new one. During the last few years, more and more attention has been focussed on this phase of physical education. It seems to be quite generally agreed that the time is ripe for a constructive policy. In the state of West Virginia, Mr. Melville Stewart, Supervisor of Physical Education, reports: “There is a tendency in the state among the larger high schools to discontinue inter-scholastic competition for girls. I am opposed to this competition carried on as it has been, but I would not say at this time that a safe and sane program for girls cannot be worked out. At a recent meeting of the State High School Athletic Association the question of athletic competition for girls was discussed, and a Committee was appointed to investigate and make a complete report at a later date. The Association voted to assume active supervision of girls’ athletics.” Dr. A. G. Ireland, Director of Physical Education in Connecticut, writes as follows:—“I do not believe in inter-school competition for girls as conducted in this state. To a great extent it is limited to basketball, and the prime object seems to be to satisfy the spectator. I do believe that interscholastic athletics has a place in the girls’ program when it is conducted under the supervision of women with high educational ideals who have had a technical training in physical education. I can forsee that when a high school girl is trained to play during her elementary school days, the high school competition will be placed on a better basis.” Dr. C. H. Keene, Director of Health
99

Education for Pennsylvania, has this to say on the subject: “Therd are certain definite problems facing us which should be improved and I think we see ways of improving them. To begin with, within the last two years we have persuaded such a large majority of the girls high school basketball teams to participate under girls rules that those which still insist on playing boys rules will find it impossible to make schedules after this season. Previous to that time, practically all the girls basketball for this state was carried on under boys’ rules anc* with men officials, often with men coaches. This, as you will undei stand, was a bad situation. The ease with which this has been brought about leads us to believe that c.any of the so-called evils of inter-scholastic competition are due to laziness or lack of courage on the part of those who might remove these evils. Girls’ teams should not be permitted to go so far away that the members have tc be permitted to sleep away from home. Very few of them in this state now take trips long enough to necessitate this. Interscholastic sports must be made school sports rather than sports for the poolroom sport. In basketball this can be brought about by insistence on the part of the school officials that interscholastic basketball games be played in the afternoon rather than in the evening. This will change it from a town sport to a school sport.’

The most immediate and vital questions regarding girls’ and women’s athletics were frankly and fully discussed one year ago this month at an important conference called in Washington by Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Vice President of the National Amateur Athletic Federation. The outstanding result of the conference was the adoption of a set of resolutions embodying the concensus of opinion regarding certain fundamental policies upon which all agreed girls’ and women’s athletics should be based. The resolutions can well be called epoch making, since they represent the first publicly adopted statement made before as large a group of leading women in physical education and athletics as could be assembled in the United States. The same resolutions adopted the following week by the American Physical Education Association at its convention in Springfield, Mass., now stand as the platform of that organization for the conduct of girls’ athletics. These gliding principles should be of real assistance to those who are interested in the development of a constructive program. The ones that are the most significant and far reaching in their implications are quoted from The Official Handbook of the National Committee on Women’s Athletics.

“That no consideration of inter-institutional athletics is warranted unless

a.	The school o*- institution has provided opportunity for every girl to have a full season’s program of all-around athletic activities;

b.	Every girl in the school, or institution (not merely the proposed contestants) actively participates in a full season cf activities and takes part in a series of games within the school or institution;

Digitized by LjOOQle
100

c.	These activities are conducted under the immediate leadership of properly trained women instructors who have the educational value of the game in mind rather than

That in cases where the foregoing conditions obtain, and proper and responsible authorities (preferably women) deem it desirable educationally and socially to hold inter-institutional competitions, the following requirements should be observed:

a.	Medical examination for all participants.

b.	No gate money.

c.	Admission only by invitation of the various schools or institutions taking part, in order that participants may not be exploited.

d.	No publicity other than that which stresses only the sport and not the individual or group competitors.

That all awards granted for athletic achievement be restricted to those things which are symbolical and which have the least possible intrinsic \alue.

That schools and other organizations shall stress enjoyment of the sport and development of sportsmanship, and minimize the emphasis which is at present laid upon individual accomplishment and the winning of championships.”

A consideration of some of the important phases of boys' athletics may well include a brief reference to the early history of this extra curricular activity. Beginning with informal teams and a very limited number of outside games, athletic contests caused little or no interference with the main functions of the school. The development of sports in the high schools, as in the colleges, indicates a rapid growth in the beginning with little or no supervision by school authorities. In too many cases school officials failed to see any educational advantages in connection with competitive athletics. Games were thought of as amusements_that were outside the province of the school. During the decade that ended about 1890 there developed on the part of school men a real opposition to interschool games. In a great many instances boys were not permitted to participate in inter-school contests. This attitude changed during the next ten years to one of toleration because there was qn every hand an evidence of the misuse of leisure time. Many school officials at that time thought, and unfortunately some even today feel, that the elimination of athletics would be followed automatically by more time devoted to school work. President Lowell, in commenting on the subject of athletics at a meeting of the Harvard Faculty,, once remarked that he had failed to observe that the average college student who was interested in college athletics devoted any more time to his books if he were deprived of an opportunity to train for the various competitions. He might have added that in the case of a great many students there is often a closer application to academic work during a season of athletic training than during other periods of the year.

. Toleration of athletics in the early part of the period 1890-: 1900 does not mean that athletics were given a chance to make •much of a contribution in the work of the school. In most in-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
ioi

stances athletics existed as a necessary evil. It is an evidence of real progress in education to note that that feeling has now almost entirely disappeared. The early student manager control of athletics carried with it a train of evils. Teams frequently brought discredit to the schools they represented. By 1900 athletics became such a source of annoyance that the schools were faced with a situation where it was necessary to consider either reform or abolition. The period 1900-05 is chronicled as one when a great deal of attention had to be paid to the problems of interscholastic, as well as intercollegiate athletics. The game of football had become so rough that many educators were in favor of abolishing it altogether. The educational literature of that period contains a great many references to athletics and the need of drastic reform.

The National Collegiate Athletic Association grew out of a meeting held in 1905. A few leaders who had a vision of the place and function of athletics influenced the conference - called to abolish football - to pass a vote in favor of reforming and controlling intercollegiate athletics. Starting with only 26 members, the National Collegiate Athletic Association has had such a phenomenal growth that today the number of educational institutions represented in its membership is about 200. The reasons for the remarkable success achieved by this organization lie largely in the working principles which are expressed in the constitution as follows:

“The purposes of this Association are:

1.	The upholding of the principle of institutional control of, and responsibility for, all collegiate sports.

2.	The stimulation and improvement of intramural and intercollegiate athletic sports.

3.	The establishment of a uniform law of amateurism and of principles of amateur sports.

4.	The encouragement of the adoption by its constituent members of strict eligibility rules to comply with high standards of scholarship, amateur standing, and good sportsmanship.

5.	In general, the study of the various phases of competitive athletics, physical training, and allied problems, the establishment of standards for amateur sports, and the promotion and adoption of recommended measures, to the end that the colleges and universities of the United States may maintain their athletic activities on a high plane and make efficient use of sports in character building.”

This is a fine platform which the colleges are supporting under the following prescribed conditions of membership:

The members of this Association severally agree to supervise and, in so far as may be practicable, to control athletic sports so that they will be administered in accord with the law of amateurism and the principles of amateur sport set forth in this Constitution, and to establish and preserve high standards of personal honor, eligibility, and fair play. The self-government of the constituent members shall not be interefered with nor questioned.”

The success of the National Collegiate Athletic Association has demonstrated that the founders were not influenced by any idle

Digitized by L^ooQle
102

theory in their contention that the amateur law can be enforced sind that athletics can be fitted into the general program of education if institutions assume a proper simount of direction and control of competitive sports, and athletically related colleges combine into administrative groups.

There are a few pbsises of the athletic situation that seem to deserve special comment. They might be characterized as unfavorable tendencies.

It is difficult to find a single argument to justify pre-season coaching of high school football teams. Many things might be saiid against such training. As far as the writer has been able to observe, the individuals who sponsor pre-season coaching have a mania for longer schedules, the winning of championships and larger gate receipts. Unless all of the high school teams in any competitive unit have an opportunity to secure pre-season coaching, there is a direct violation of the spirit of fair play. Furthermore, as soon as we admit the necessity for such training, we magnify the importance of football and deliver the game into the hands of those who are willing to make it the major business of the school. The high school season is, under normal conditions, almost a month longer than the college season. The pre-season coaching in colleges, where it exists, comes some time after the official opening of the high school. Today the trend in colleges, and it is a wholesome one athletically speaking, is to reduce or eliminate entirely pre-season coaching. Princeton, Yale and Harvard, by mutual agreement, have restricted such coaching to one week before the opening of college. Other institutions are adopting a similar practice. In other words, the college football squad will not be called together until about two weeks after the date for the official opening of most high schools. With such a procedure in the colleges, it is a sorry spectacle to see the members of high school football squads called together two or more weeks before the opening of school -that is, the last of August or one month before the college players begin training.

The practice of pre-season football coaching was so prevalent last fall in the schools about Boston that it called forth unfavorable editorial comment in several of the daily.papers. The failure of school authorities to prohibit pre-season coaching was interpreted by some organizations as an official approval of the practice. It was not surprising then to find the Y. M. C. A. coming forward with a proposition that would enable more boys to get pre-season training. Plans were under way within the last few months to launch a campaign to get members for a “Grid Camp” that was to serve the Boston high school athletes. A successful coach was to be secured so that the boys who attended a ten day camp just prior to the opening of school would have the advantage of fundamental instruction in football. The writer was approached by a member of the Committee in charge of arrangements and asked to serve in an advisory capacity. He declined the invitation and served notice that he would do all within his power to prevent the organization of the camp. The next day he was waited on by the members of the

Digitized by t^ooQle
108

Conlmittee. When it was pointed out that school men would frown on their proposition, that the plan was manifestly unfair to high school football candidates who could not attend the camp, and that their scheme merely played into the hands of the undesirable type of football coach, the members of the Committee willingly agreed to cancel the publicity matter that had been sent out and abandon the entire project. It is only fair to say before leaving this topic that the members of the Y. M. C. A. Committee were actuated by a high motive; that is, a desire to be of service to high school boys. The failure of school men to register a vigorous protest against pre-season coaching had been misinterpreted by an organization that is always ready and willing to cooperate in the conduct of the schools’ extra curricula activities.

A corollary of pre-season coaching is the playing of post season games... This evil became so pronounced last fall in the New England district that certain schools insisted on prolonging the football season until two and even three post season games had been played. Some teams played three strenuous games in ten days. Contests were scheduled and played at such a.late date - about one month after the close of the regular season - that the sports editor of one of the Boston papers was moved to remark that “it is time to ring down the curtain.” In analyzing the situation one finds a variety of factors contributing to bring about this very unwholesome condition in secondary school athletics. The mania for championships, the opportunity for cross country jaunts, the need of funds to reward members of teams by sending them on “educational expenditures” to distant cities, and agreements to give coaches a percentage of the gate receipts at the post season games, all combine to create a condition that, if permitted to continue in New England or any other section, will soon sound the death knell of high school football. When the situation gets so bad that high school principals, either of their own accord or under pressure from the alumni and so-called supporters of high school athletics, arrange post season games, contrary to the better judgment of both player and coaches who say it is time to quit, and when heads of schools send challenges for post season games to institutions in sections that are far removed, one is prompted to ask “What next?” This condition, one that would not be tolerated in any self respecting college, was allowed to exist with little, if any, protest on the part of those who ought to be seeking ways and means to safeguard high school athletics. It should be said to the credit of the Boston sports writers that they were almost alone in voicing a protest against this trend in high school football in New England.

Another unfavorable tendency in high school athletics that is fraught with a good deal of danger, is the mania for state and national championships. In college athletics, where the players are more mature than high school boys, we find that the trend is toward a reduction in schedules, and an elimination of post season games, with less and less attention devoted to sectional and national cham-pionships. It is disturbing, then, to find so much of the administra-
104

tion of high school athletics concerned with the organization of tournaments that take teams away from their athletically related groups. As a man remarked to me the other day, "We cannot help but wonder how long it will be before school leaders call a halt on the whole business.”	0

In basket ball, for example, boys once thought there was glory enough in winning the district or conference championship. The regular season, being a long one, affords all of the competition needed or desirable. Today, the promoters of championships have created a situation where the good high school basket ball team has constantly before it a vista of more and more worlds to conquer. The victorious local league team enters a district tournament and then, if successful, competes for the state championship. This involves travel and absence from classes. It generally requires the playing of several games in one or two days. In the regular season a single strenuous game a week is considered enough for most high school teams. In fact, many college coaches are heartily in favor of just that kind of a schedule for their teams. Yet, in the interest of a state championship, immature high school boys are permitted to compete in two or three strenuous contests in a single day, and that on top of a long season that has been quite exhausting. Having been crowned the victor in a state basket ball tournament which is, in reality, a post season series, the conquering hero—the winning team—goes forth to bid for the next highest honor which may be a sectional championship. In this second post season series there is again a trip away from home, absence from classes and three or four contests - more strenuous ones this time - that must be played in about two days. One might think that everybody concerned -players, coaches, school officials and promoters of championships -would now be willing to call a halt on further competition. A team in a recent tournament at Worcester actually dropped out while still in the running, because the fnembers of the team said they were in no condition to enter another strenuous contest so soon after the one in which they emerged as victors. But the end is not yet. The teams in the state and sectional contests are baited with still another championship. This time a national one. So the much crowned champions - our poor misguided high school boys - pack their grips and sally forth to a third post season series. This time the jaunt will take them to Chicago. That means for many players a week away from home and school, and several more strenuous games crowded into a few days. The girls, not to be outdone by the boys, must have their championships, so we read of a team from Guthrie, Oklahoma, playing in a series of three games with a local team at Westfield, N. J., to determine the girls’ basketball championship of the United States.

Another unfavorable tendency in secondary school athletics is the unncessary showering of honors on winning athletes. A desire on the part of the school and townspeople to honor the members of victorious teams finds expression in various forms. This matter assumes such proportions in some schools as to become a travesty on amateur sport. If it is necessary to arrange com-
105

plimentary trips for successful teams, and give elaborate banquets at the close of victorious seasons to pay boys for athletic services rendered, we are forced to admit that all the talk about sportsmanship and loyalty in connection with athletics is hollow mockery. There can be no possible objection to an annual athletic dinner, arranged for the players on all high school teams, if it takes the form of a good sportsmanship rally. In fact there are arguments in favor of such meetings. Detroit has shown the way to make a sportsmanship rally an important feature of competitive athletics. It is, however, most unfortunate if we are going to spoil the fine idealism that ought to exist in connection with our sports, by introducing elements that lead boys to feel that the school or town owes them something for competing on a team. The big reward, that is, the honor of representing the school, and the opportunity to make sacrifices for a cause is big enough to challenge, the average American boy to do and dare on the athletic field. If there are players whose sense of values has been distorted and who feel the school should “pay” them to play, let th.?m step aside and give way to the substitutes who covet a chance to prove their devotion and loyalty to the school.

Still another unfavorable tendency looms on the. horizon of secondary school athletics.. It is the danger of commercialism permeating every phase of the athletic administration. Excessive expenditures require large gate receipts. Large gate receipts are not possible without winning teams, and a schedule of games with teams that draw big crowds. In commenting on this phase of athletics, Mr. L. I. Friend, State Supervisor of High Schools in West Virginia, writes:

“The great interest in high school athletic contests that has developed in this state has resulted in certain evils, that threaten to rentier high school athletics in many communities more harmful than beneficial. There soot) appeared a tendency in some schools to ignore scholastic standards and even to enroll pupils not honestly and legitimately belonging to the student body in order that the school might have winning teams. Extensive schedules of games to be played away from hoibe became common, sometimes requiring teams to be absent from schopl and from home for several successive days. In some instances communities became so greatly interested in having winning high school teams that they refused to support the high school principal and'his teachers in their efforts to have clean athletics ana to .tnal^d' athletics secondary to successful high school work and proper standards. In some instances principals lost their positions be£au& they refused to yield the popular clamor for winning teams at any cost. Bitter rivalries-sometimes developed between neighboring communities oVer. high school athletic teams. This intense community interest often involved entire student bodies to the extent of making effective high school work impossible. This tendency of athletics to absorb the entire interest of high school pupils was particularly pronounced before and immediately after regional and state tournaments. More recently there has existed a feeling in the minds of not a few'high

Digitized by v^.ooQle
106

school principals, and others, that the tournaments, especially the state tournaments result in physical injury to pupils participating in them, particularly to the members of the better teams, that continue in the contests until the finals are played. It frequently happens that these teams are required to play in three or more contests in a single day. The feeling against the state girls’ basketball tournament has grown particularly strong since it has become known that in not a few instances girls have been permitted to participate in these contests when their physical condition was such that physical injury must inevitably result."

The writer is of the opinion that Mr. Friend has not exaggerated the situation. He knows of a case where a candidate for membership on a school committee ran under the slogan "a winning football team for the high school." The candidate was elected. A coach whose chief qualification was the ability to produce winning teams was secured. Then followed the rest of the vicious circle, including pre-season coaching, post season games and a part of the salary of the coach paid from gate receipts.

Dr. Keene of Pennsylvania has commented on this subject as follows:

“Football as alwayB is a serious problem, and will be so long as weak school officials permit interscholastic athletics to be controlled by the town element rather than by the educational authorities. Some of the school officials, too, are led away by the possibilities of income if they can turn out star football teams. We have had a striking example of that in Harrisburg this year. The local high school team cleaned up a profit of something like $16,000 on the season. There is serious doubt if any high school team can make a net profit in three months of $16,000 without serious ethical injury to many of those concerned."

When a condition exists where the maintenance of the whole athletic program, including inter and intra school competition, and the erection, development, and upkeep of all facilities for exercise are dependent wholly on gate receipts from a very few games, there is a serious ethical problem - one that sooner or later will have to be faced squarely by noth school and college authorities. It is little wonder that ex-President Meikeljohn of Amherst, a champion of clean, honest and rational athletics, was moved to write in the Atlantic Monthly for November 1922 an article entitled “What are College Games For?” It will always be difficult, in fact almost impossible, to maintain an amateur spint and any degree of idealism in competitive sports if schools are compelled to conduct athletics on a commercial basis. In fact, this difficulty and other attending evils will always remain as long as institutions are unable to adequately finance an athletic program.

The school that has such wholesome competitive athletics that it is free from all the unfavorable tendencies that have been mentioned deserves real commendation. More schools will be in *that select, group when they adopt institutional control of and responsibility for interscholastic athletics.

Digitized by L^ooQle
107

There are, the writer is happy to say, favorable tendencies m the high school athletic situation. A reference will be made to a few of them. Some have come under his personal observation, others have been brought to his attention by leaders instateandcity physical education who are engaged in the promotion of rational atnletics. The men whose names have been mentioned, as well as Dr. William Burdick of Maryland, Mr.' Daniel Chase of New York State, Mr. J. W. Taylor of Maine, Mr. C. L. Schrader of Massachusetts, Dr. A. K. Aldinger of New York City, and Mr. H. J. Norton of Rochester, N. Y., have written very fully of the condition of secondary school athletics in their sections.

It is being more and more generally recognized that athletics bring forth, as nothing else will, in a boy’s life expression of unity and loyalty to the school athletics, for both student spectators and student players, exist as tremendous social and spiritual expressions. A school can ill afford to allow such a splendid and wonderful expression, so fraught with magnificient opportunities, as well as with grave dangers, to go undirected or, even worse, misdirected. Some one has said, "the ideals and ethics expressed in athletics are more likely to be the student’s ethics in more purely social and business relations than are those found in the discourses of the lecture room or in the principles enunciated from the pulpit. The one he hears and may believe; the other he accepts and lives.” The Football Rules Committee refers to this contribution of amateur sport in the following sentences: “You may meet players and even coaches who will tell you that it is all right to hold or otherwise violate the rules if you do not get caught. This is their code, a code that obtains among sneak thieves and pickpockets. The crime in their code is getting caught. The football code is different. The football player who intentionally violates a rule is guilty of unfair play and unsportsmanlike tactics, and whether or not he escapes being penalized, he brings discredit to the good name of the game, which it his duty as a player to uphold.”

One of the most encouraging favorable tendencies in secondary school athletics is the very definite attempt that is being made by many schools, thru local and state organizations, to change the old form of athletics regulation that was negative to one that is positive and constructive. Repression and restriction are giving way to encouragement and promotion. Just as soon as school men see in the athletic field the possibility of a great human laboratory for the development of personal honor, self control, and other desirable qualities in the training for citizenship, athletics will cease to be viewed with suspicion and merely tolerated as a necessary evil.

Many schools now have excellent eligibility codes. Examples could be given of institutions where many of the following rules and regulations are being enforced: strict amateurism, no post graduates on teams, competition limited to four years, high standard of physical fitness, safeguarded by careful physical examinations by school medical examiners, parent’s consent, training and competition in any one season absolutely restricted to school contests, limited schedules that do not necessitate absence from home over-

Digitized by

Google
108

night, age limit of 19 or 20 years, and maintenance of a grade of scholarship, in a full program of work, that is required for promotion together with credits on the school records for satisfactorily completing the work of the previous semester.

Many schools, too, are eliminating the professional coach and substituting the teacher-coach, elected by the school committee as a member of the high school faculty, and directly responsible to the principal. Such coaches are free to strive for worth-while objectives in athletics. They can teach sportsmanship, foster clean play and see that a desire for victory does not develop into a desire for victory at any cost. They do not hold their positions by virtue of having winning teams.

The adoption of high standards for the conduct and regulation of secondary athletics will come just as fast as school faculties cease to consider athleticb as a necessary evil - a mere incident in the life of students. School men must begin to concern themselves with the whole athletic situation and think of it as a moral agency that is an essential in the life and education of youth. If they approach the problem in the right spirit the school officials in the various athletically related groups have within their power the lifting of competitive athletics to a high moral plane. With the assistance of state associations the unfavorable tendencies may be entirely eliminated and the interests of athletics safeguarded. When that time comes the organization, administration and management of athletic activities will be on a plane of dignity and responsibility and rank in importance with other departments of instruction ana training.

OBJECTIVES AND COMPROMISES, PAST, PRESENT AND

FUTURE.

By Carl L. Schrader, President’s Address, Kansas City Convention, Am. Physical Education Association.

One of our staunch typical New Englanders, Edward Everett Hale, formulated a philosophy which may well be a philosophy for all phases of life: "Look forward, not backward; look upward, not downward; look outward, not inward and lend a hand.”

Yet, vision ahead is the clearer for the glances back, which enable us to evade and avoid diversions from the safe course toward our goal, diversions which we know to have been retarding influences in the past.

Our particular field of endeavor we find is no exception in this experience realm of human problems. We find in the path of physical education history the numerous milestones which were the beacons to progress in their time and which are the sources of inspiration for us today. Likewise do we find our share of millstones which have retarded much, and to no small extent still are retarding our progress.

It would carry us beyond the scope as well as the purpose of these remarks to recite in detail and elaborate upon instances so

Digitized by

Google
109

far remote that they contain merely historical value. It is rather to call attention to some milestones and millstones in the more recent history of physical education, to epochs which fall within the life time of some of us, so that we may profit by the lesson taught for our actions in the future.

If we make a study of the objectives as they have been stated at different periods in the past, we can but come to the conclusion that the differences in them are mainly found in the phraseology setting forth these objectives and also perhaps in the tools at hand and the methods employed in using them.

It was only when the students of psychology came to our aid and established the truths dealing with mental attitudes and human behavior that our objectives found a clearer and more detailed and comprehensive definition and henceforth attracted the attention of our leading and influential leaders in education. It is truly amazing how almost instinctively our fore-runners conceived the possible goals without this definite and scientific knowledge.

Training for citizenship may well be laid down as the fundamental, all-inclusive and ever prevalent objective found in all national physical education efforts of all times and in all lands. This objective surely is dignified and promising enough for the future. How much that one objective, namely citizenship, embraces. It is all stated in that one claim. It is impossible to conceive good citizenship in its entirety and leave out of consideration any one of the detailed character and health traits and behaviors now usually listed in our array of objectives and claimed as result of a well planned and carried out physical education program. We find, furthermore, upon close study this very significant fact, that every effort in the past which aimed to single out and concentrate on one special aim and on specific means as the one predominating objective in physical education, has proven a millstone and has retarded progress. Yes, in some instances we must admit, it has thrown us back many years in our efforts. The fickleness of which our work has been accused in the past, this butterfly-like lighting, first here, then there, is due mainly to these unfortunate and sporadic efforts of dissecting the one big objective and faddishly following one spur. This has been especially disastrous when such heralding of one specific aim came from someone within the ranks of the profession thus giving it momentum. Only recently a very illuminating statement was made, publicly and emphatically, this time however, not by one in the profession, namely, that the only objective possible and logical in a physical education program was health and for that reason the teaching of it belonged primarily to the medical profession. Furthermore, that the physical education teachers when they realized that the medical profession was taking over the reins, they began to look about for educational objectives in order to find a place in the sun.

Happily, we are not in any great danger today to suffer any marked setback by such opinions, altho it may cause embarrassment for the moment. Full recognition and broad interpretation of citizenship as the all-guiding objective in our special contribu-

Digitized by v^ooQle
110

tion to education will do much to strengthen our position in the field of education, to which we have been admitted, a recognition we must guard jealously, dignify at all times, and continually re-eam.

Expediency undoubtedly many times was responsible for the ardent effort of leaving the main trail in order to follow a phantom spur. What makes these departures of the past the millstones in our progress is not to be found so much in the waste of time and energy for the time being, but rather in the compromises which were entailed and which resulted in the crippling of future plans for facilities, equipment and development, which those steady pilots of ours who followed the compass unswervingly were pleading for and which the one big objective, citizenship, dictated. Physical education in public education unquestionably is the one big factor nationally which concerns us mainly as a real and vital issue. Progress in this field has been distinctly retarded by compromises made in the past, compromises which no doubt were thought expedient at the time and perhaps did seem to open the way, but which even today are difficult to counteract.

When we realize that as early as 1829 in Northampton, Massachusetts, physical education was given a place in the school program, we have reason to wonder why our progress has been so slow and intermittent, particularly in the east where it had its birth. Unquestionably the compromise made in Boston in 1889, when the question as to whether physical education should be conceived as a big life problem, that is teaching youth to live, requiring plans and money, effort, space and equipment, indoors and outdoors, and trained teachers, or whether it suffice to accept a weak substitute, feasible under the then existing conditions. That this question was settled, in favor of the latter plan, has proven one of the heaviest millstones which we have, to a large extent, hanging about our neck today. This put the stamp of approval upon a limited program plan for the school clsss room, surely a most impossible environment for a type of education such as ours. It was this compromise that gave birth to the Playground Association to which we owe much for having furnished us with more adequate facilities for our program. Our poverty today, even in school physical education equipment, both indoor and outdoor, dates back to that short sighted compromise, that dark spot in our history. What was thought to be expedient and economic then has been bitterly

froven to have been professional weakness and blind economy, t crippled our progress and invited the many fads never intended to be legitimate means toward a worth while goal. That compromise is, now that State laws have been enacted, placing sudden financial burdens upon communities which mean a far heavier mortgaging of future generations than those responsible at that time thought they were preventing.

Every school building erected since that time without proper facilities is a monument to that compromise which invited the omission of necessary equipment because of our professional approval. Even today thert are school committees and superintendents

Digitized by U^ooQle
Ill

of schools who point to this compromise as defense when admitting their reluctancy in demanding funds for providing space and equipment in order to make possible a constructive program of physical education.

At this stage again our leading educators are coming to our rescue by laying down in no uncertain terms the demands which modem education has a right to malm upon the community for efficient equipment.

A further compromise came to us when because of the crippled condition under which we were laboring, conditions which of necessity made certain phases of the program impossible, the term “phy-dical education” seemed to some not sufficiently dignified and the term "Department of Hygiene” crept in and with it the focussing on one objective in which the shortcomings caused by the first compromise were least discernible. Happily today physical education stands out as an accepted department in the big field of education, recognizing all objectives, ninctioning in all phases of education. It is under this name our work appears in the N. G. A. and it is by this name it appears in most state laws.'

With this final recognition however have come new and vital problems and obligations 'whjch must be met by earnest work and an open mind; not by new compromises; not by throwing into the discard program material which has stood the test, discarded many times merely because it required equipment; not by hastily injecting into the program features that need far more study and experimentation than has been devoted to them before being launched as a panacea, and before being urged to replace definitely something else. Any arbitrary dictation, limiting subject material, method of teaching and space for operation on the basis of economy, would be most unfortunate. Compromises and fickleness are more detrimental today than they were years ago. Today, because of State laws, it is a matter of delivering results, rather than a matter of propaganda, a matter of stability of purpose toward big objectives rather than fixedness of material and method. Any gross, selfish effort either by individual or group to curtail our program down to specific activities or specific methods,' be they what they may, would indeed force us again into insignificance.

With our objective squarely before us and general educational -progress behind us we cannot go wrong. We are forced always to recognize him whom we teach as more potent than what we teach; and how and why we teach it as more potent than whether it fits into an unbendable program. Our material in its varied forms and for its various specific purposes gives us tools which, if intelligently used, will help much in directing the restlessness of our youth of today into constructive and righteous channels. Youth today is but the product of present civilization and it behooves us to aid it in its struggle for self expression. It is an international social problem with which we are dealing.

Sympathetically guided, this craving on the part of youth for self-expression may result in a new concept of rightful living; left to itself, it may deepen the chaos. To share in this reconstruc-
112

tion is both our privilege and our duty. Let us, rank and file, use our efforts in this direction, setting aside all selfish and petty notions; let us look forward, not backward; upward, not downward; outward, not inward; and lend a hand.

MORE TEACHING OF SWIMMING.

By Lena Hoernig, Kansas City, Missouri.

The growth of cities has brought about a change in the amusements of children and adults. Communities have felt the need of sponsoring parks and playgrounds, and of supervising commercialized recreation. Among other changes w® have seen the passing of the “old swimming hole.” More rare each year is the boy who watches the spring days in order to call together the gang at the earliest possible moment for a plunge into the “old swimming hole” on the outskirts-of the town. Instead he counts the days until the parkboard, the school board, or other authority gives the signal “All in!” Or perhaps he has the privilege in elementary or high school, in the Y. M. C. A., in the church, or- club to swim at stated times thruout the whole year. Communities are quite generally putting forth an honest effort to make the swimming places safe and sanitary. Experiments and new devices for sterilization of the water are quite numerous. Much money is spent to surround the new swimming holes with architectural beauty and with sufficient conveniences and comfort to care for large numbers of recreation seekers.

However, with the teaching of the swimming we have not progressed very far beyond “the old swimming hole method.” Many of our swimming places, practically speaking, use the method of “throw him in and make him swim.” Even in swimming pools connected with elementary and high schools, and other educational institutions the instruction is little better. We do not expect a six year old child to learn to read by giving him the freedom of a library. Because a scholar has been produced in that way is no argument that the method is far reaching, effective, or economical. Proper guidance at the right moment is the best method in the end both in Teaming to read and to swim.

I do not underrate the value of the stimulus of companionship which the “swimming; hole” affords. If a boy is urged or pushed into the water he may imitate his companions, paddle to the nearest shore and consider it great fun. He may continue the sport by dropping off the diving board numerous times and heading for the nearby bank. He begins to feel at home in the little stretch of water. He is proud of his prowess and accomplishments, but his actual progress later on may amount to very little. At this point the teacher should take the boy and show him the value of good form and proper control in acquiring speed and endurance. Eventually he will develop a more lasting pleasure in swimming and diving. A self taught swimmer acquires bad habits that are difficult to

Digitized by v^.ooQle
113

change, especially so if he believes in his own ability, and has been spoiled by the praises of his admiring companions. A man may look back to the pleasures of the “old swimming hole” of his boyhood, but unless he has progressed from the first lessons the carry over value into manhood is not worth much. The dog paddle is not a service stroke. Poor form in diving does not hamper the fun of the boy. But what man will find recreation in constantly falling flat? The result is that he no longer tries to dive.

In the past swimming instructors have spent too much time arguing for the teaching of their favorite strokes. Training for speed has been considered of greater importance than training for endurance. Both objectives should be fostered in a teaching schedule. Both are needed in a program of recreation, service, and lasting value.

The best service program of swimming is embodied in the American Red Cross Life-Saving. “Every person a swimmer, every swimmer a life-saver” is the slogan. Every swimming pool that has been conducted on the haphazard plan of mere recreation would be eminently increased in value if it had as its ultimate goal the developing of members for life-saving crews, and keeping them fit. While the end value of the Red Cross program is an exceedingly serious one, every step toward that end is intensely interesting, progressive, educational, and never lacking in recreation.

If our swimming program allows a weekly lesson thruout the last three years of the elementary school, or several lessions per week during three or four summers, the average beginner’s group can be taken thru the junior life saving test at the end of the period. This program involves instruction in personal cleanliness, overcoming the fear of the water, introduction to swimming, the technique of three or four swimming strokes, elementary diving, approaches, breaking holds, towing, resuscitation and endurance swimming of at least fifteen minutes.

No teacher, not even on the playground or in the gymnasium, can so well and unobtrusively inculcate habits of hygiene and personal cleanliness, and of fair play as can the teacher of swimming. This wonderful opportunity has scarecly been used.

In overcoming the fear of the water such exercises as opening the eyes and exhaling under the water, face float, jumping into the shallow water are useful. Following immediately with the development of the puppy paddle gives further confidence. From face float to back float is a snort step. Floating on the back is readily followed by swimming on the back with the frog kick. Here we have a good place for the development of the breast stroke. This is a valuable stroke for use in crowded pools, for endurance work, and for life-saving methods. Parallel with the development of the breast stroke progress toward the American crawl can be made thru the steps of the puppy paddle and the elementary crawl. Toward the end of the elementary school period the side stroke may be taught as a preparation for the cross chest carry. But with growing children it is better to strengthen the back and breast strokes, because of their valuable effect upon the improvement of
114

posture. If in later years the side stroke is adopted as a favorite stroke there is no reason why the swimmer should not learn to swim equally well on either side.

The therapeutic value of swimming has long been recognized, but it has not yet been sufficiently embodied in a program of individual corrective work. There are splendid possibilities in administering the proper dosage of swimming to the underweight child who is lacking in muscle tonicity and vitality. Above all the overweight child should not be deprived of a pleasurable physical activity that is taken in the horizontal position. The large muscle groups receive adequate exercise and there is no strain upon the probably weak arches of the feet.

In teaching groups of adult beginners the methods must be modified to suit the needs. Sometimes overcoming the fear of the water is a much longer process than with children. Muscle coordination may be learned far more easily, or with much greater difficulty. The body build may demand a teaching procedure different from the one used with children. With the ideal of progression and usefulness in mind, the teacher should be able to modify the course of instruction effectively.

Every new water stunt brings added pleasure to a class of learners. The skillful teacher can use progression here as well as in other forms of teaching. The individuals of a group do not progress with an equal degree of rapidity. Before long some swimmers outclass others. Formal group work should continue, however, for the sake of unity in the class. But short free play periods are of equal importance. Each learner can be encouraged to practice what he needs most, or enjoys most without interfering with the rights of others. But the swimming instructor in an elementary or high school who contents himself with watching his pupils at free play, and thereby considers his duties ended has no place in a progressive school system. He is losing a wonderful opportunity for guiding his pupils toward acquiring ability for broader service.

ATHLETICS FOR WOMEN*

By E. H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven, Conn.

The title of this paper is chosen advisedly. Is it to be “Athletics for Women” or "Women for Athletics?” It would seem to the writer that if the athletics heretofore extant for the male sex are to be imitated by the female we shall have a case of “Women for Athletics.” I take it that athletics ought to be used as a means for physical, mental and moral development of the female. It would then seem that athletics are a means to an end. The end sought is the development of the female. The means must be adapted to the end sought. The present inquiry concerns itself

* Read at the convention of the Eastern Section Am. Physical Education Association, Atlantic City, April, 1924.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
115

largely with the consideration of the peculiar nature of the female ana the relation that present male athletics would then bear to such peculiarities. The suDject being a very large one and it being the intent of the writer to deal with it in comprehensive form, the

Eresent paper will confine itself to the physical side of the problem, saving the mental and moral, the psychological aspect, for another occasion.

The physique of woman is then, first to be considered. The anatomical peculiarities of the female will be stated. Physiological function as determining these anatomical peculiarities and anatomical peculiarities as modifying physiological function will be elucidated.

Looking at the anatomical peculiarities of the female we find first that generally speaking, the female is somewhat smaller of stature than the male, the average height of the American male being 5’7”, the female, 5’5”. Other things being equal, it will follow that the total absolute strength development of the female will be smaller than that of the male. Absolute strength is here taken in the sense of ability to overcome resistance outside of our own body, for instance, moving foreign bodies. Central fixation of the moving muscles being a mechanical necessity for moving weights greater than that of the part of our body trying to perform the movement it is plain that other things being equal, the larger bulk of an animal, the greater its total strength will be. It would thus follow as a first fruit of our considerations that the female being smaller in stature, lighter in weight bulk, is not suited to move large weights as the male. Strength efforts such as heavy weight lifting, (wrestling, tugs of war) are unsuited to the female amply on account of lack of stature and bulk. Looking at the length of the female and comparing it with that of the male we find that the difference in stature depends mainly upon the longer extremities of the male. Longer extremities mean peculiar movement facilities and abilities for whoever possesses them. If power and weight levers in the human mechanism are favorably arranged for the attainment of certain ends then the longer leverage of a longer extremity will give greater power. The possession of greater extremity power will give a wider range of such movement as requires great power. Note the tremendous power of the relatively long arm of the gorilla and the development of a large range of movement possibilities requiring arm power in this animal. If we find that the female has comparatively shorter extremities than the male it would be a plain indication that such forms of movement as require greater effort to be put forth by the extremities are less suitable for the female than for the male. Throwing considerable weight (shotputting) or throwing small weight with tremendous force and velocity (base ball pitching) would seem to be the province of the male. Throwing one’s own weight by means of the lower extremity, distance jumping, high vaulting, follow the same rule. The smaller stature of the female is dependent however, not on shorter extremities other things being equal. We find that the extremities are not only shorter in proportion to the general stature but are out

Digitized by C^ooQle
116

of proportion short since an unproportionately large amount of the total height of the female is made up by length of trunk. This means that added to the incapacity of total strength development as determined by lack of size or bulk is the incapacity of the out of proportion short extremity of the female. The consequence of this peculiar motor arrangement is that with the lack of bulk and extremity power goes the loss of experience in movements in which the female finds itself inefficient and which she is therefore unwilling to undertake. Lack of motor experience means lack of skill of that peculiar type. We should then, expect to find a peculiar awkwardness in the female in regard to certain types of movements. The question will present itself, “Should this awkwardness be combatted at all hazards and by all means or is it an indication of a desirable limitation of movement possibility in the female?” The aforementioned greater length of trunk is of anatomical and physiological significance and importance. The trunk houses the organs of our vegetative and nutritive life. Here are found the organs of digestion, circulation and respiration. It stands to reason that, other things being equal, he will have the best nutritive functions who has the larger nutritive organs and this is apt to be the case in him who has the larger housing, i. e. trunk. If the female has a trunk out of proportion large to her stature, it would mean that she has better nutritive functions than the male. Such is, in fact, the case. Her greater longevity testifies to it. Her greater nutritive power is a physiological necessity. She is expected at some one time in her career to nourish not only her own body but a very rapidly growing fetus of considerable dimensions ana later a babe, also of rapid growth. The greater trunk is also a mechanical necessity for the mere housing of that rapidly growing fetus.

Looking at the bony construction of the trunk in detail, we find that like the rest of the bones of the skeleton the bones of the chest are much lighter in weight and construction and much more elastic. This brings with it the greater capacity for chest breathing in the female. This again, is a functional necessity in the pregnant female, for the large and fast growing fetus will encroach and make practically impossible any large amount of abdominal breathing. Wherefore, the female will have to rely for the airation of her own body largely upon thoracic breathing. Consider that the problem is aggravated by the fact that not only need she airate her own body but a bulky and fast growing fetus. The large trunk and the flexible chest are essential. Any agent which will make the chest more inflexible will be undesirable. There is no question but what the more extensive use of the upper extremity and especially its use with greater muscular power to overcome greater resistance, makes the bones of the chest, especially the ribs, heavier and less flexible in the male. The extensive use of the upper extremity for movements against greater resistance is therefore undesirable in the female. If left to her own inclinations (and I do not claim that her inclinations are always the proper guide for the female's activities) she will desist from such exercise after puberty and with advancing years. Practically all of the exercises on apparatus

Digitized by C^ooQle
117

wherein she carries her own weight by her arms are from this viewpoint, more or less undesirable. Hanging from or resting on the upper extremity alone, would come under this heading. The female developes a pelvis that is wider and deeper but less high than that of the male. It is especially built for the housing of the fetus. The wider pelvis and the shorter lower extremity make the angle at the knee more acute than in the male, it does not approach the straight line and pillar function as it does in the male. It is less suited for carrying burdens. Standing, walking and running is more of an effort for the female than the male. She tires easier and consequently does not indulge in these exercises to the same extent as the male of her own volition. Inconsequence she develops less strength in the lower extremity and less skill. This is the reason she is unsuited for prolonged small exertions such as walking. She is also unsuited for long runs and for jumping of all kinds. Of her own will she will not engage in these things after puberty to any extent. Nor should she, for if one cultivates strength and skill sufficient for good performance in these types of exercise in her, her strength and skill for a performance comparable to that of the male will have to be proportionately greater than in the male. The muscular development needed for such performance would straighten out the knee. It would also tend to compress the pelvis from side to side. We should eventually develop a male pelvis in the female. Such a pelvis would present obstacles to uncomplicated delivery. I do not wish to be understood as attributing the increase of complicated deliveries that is noticeable in the urban population and especially among that part of the female population that indulges in male exercises to only this factor. Such influence might not exert itself sufficiently in one generation to make great difference in the individuals of that particular generation, it would undoubtedly transmit, however, to future generations. Statistics I think, will bear me out that the number of deliveries that need artificial aid are on the increase. Take the matter of cesarean section and we find an enormous increase. When I began the practice of medicine there was not one a year done in New Haven. Now there are likely a dozen or more at each one of the three hospitals. Greater surgical skill may be responsible for some but contracted pelvis is undoubtedly responsible for others. We must allow for a number of rachitically deformed pelves, and rickets have certainly been much more frequent the last few years than thirty years ago. I recall only one rickety contracted pelvis in my early years of practice. But, the rickety pelvis will deform under muscular traction much more than without. We have, however, undoubtedly a symetrically contracted pelvis that is not rickety, and this type may be brought about in due time by exercise of the lower extremity of the kind above described.

Having gone over the anatomical peculiarities of the female as determining the kind of athletics not permissble we now would approach the functional peculiarities. The most outstanding functional feature of the mature female is menstruation. This function is closely allied to ovulation and intended to furnish a raw

Digitized by
118

surface for the attachment of the fertilized ovum. Chances of fecundation are the greater, the greater the number of ovulations and menstruations. If any type of activity restricts the number and extent of menstruations it would by that much decrease the fertility of the female. In a study made at our school the results of which were presented in 1913 to the International School Hygiene Congress we gave the results of the regimen of exercise as pursued at our school as diminishing the number of menstruations, as limiting the extent of each menstruation, as reducing the amount of menstrual flow and reducing pain or discomfort. This at that time, seemed to me a desirable result. Within certain limits I still hold to this opinion and so far as our school is concerned we cling to the same practice. Economically considered, restriction of this function is profitable. If a female instead of having on the average thirteen will have only twelve menstrual periods a year, if each period is reduced from six to five days she will have gained about twenty days or three weeks of efficiency annually. This is economically of great importance. If, however, it decreases the fertility of the woman it would be undesirable from the standpoint of procreation. The question as to whether menstruation restricted from exercise will return to its former type when exercise has ceased is an open one. We have not made that investigation which must, however, be undertaken. We may postulate nevertheless, as follows: whenever economic efficiency is the deciding feature, restriction of menstruation is profitable, whenever fertility is of importance it is undesirable. This would seem to interdict a regimen of exercise which will diminish the menstrual function for that period in a woman’s life when she should be fertile. Since the aforesaid investigations have been made the regimen of our school has undergone some change. Organized games which are, when of competitive nature, always strenuous, have come in for greater consideration. They take more of the time of our school year than formerly. Athletics, especially track athletics, occupy more time in the curriculum. The effect has been unmistakaole. Previous to the introduction of these more strenuous activities the complete cessation of menses, even for one period, was a great rarity. Since that time the complete cessation of menses is becoming more and more frequent and more and more extensive so that cessation of the period from four to six months is no longer rare.

1913-	1914—40 senior students.

9 periods missed —22.5%

1914-	1915—45 senior students.

26 periods missed —58%

1921-	1922—89 senior students.

51 periods missed —57%

1922-	1923—93 senior students.

64	periods missed —64%

All these cessations practically take place after the fall athletic season which is largely given to organized games. The spring season of track athletics, on account of the vacation, we have not so far followed up but shall continue our investigations in that line. The

Digitized by Google
119

ordinary indoor gymnastic practice usually restores the lost menstrual function fairly promptly. While it, as our former investigation showed, gradually restricts menstruation it does not make it cease altogether. Competitive organized games must be said to have an influence unfavorable to the function of menstruation and therefore upon fertility. The function of menstruation however, evidently does not only serve the purpose of furnishing a raw surface for the attachment of the fertilized ovum. For this purpose a much smaller surface and perhaps a different mechanism might suffice. It is more than likely that the regular loss of a considerable amount of blood at comparatively short intervals serves to evolve in women a blood making apparatus, in excess of that established in the male. The necessity for such an apparatus can readily be seen. The provision of a fast growing fetus with blood is the first reason. The loss of a large amount of blood at parturition a second one. Medically and surgically it is well known that women stand loss of blood much better than men. They regain the amount and the quality of blood of normal circumstances after extensive hemorrhage with greater rapidity. So far as this mechanism is dependent upon the function of menstruation being regularly and liberally established it follows that any impairment of that function in amount and frequency must cause a diminution of this most desirable blood making facility in women. It is an accepted rule that function makes the organ. The well established function of menstruation should therefore, mean a well developed uterus. If the function be diminished it is logical to expect a smaller uterus. I have no statistics at hand and I do not know that any exist on this point but I am of the opinion that in my limited experience I run against the diagnosis made by others, “infantile uterus” more frequently of late. The development of the characteristic female pelvis depends upon the presence in it of mature internal genitalia. Their absence or stunting usually is accompanied by lack of the characteristics of the adult female pelvis. If athletics will diminish the function of the uterus, if the lessened function means an infantile uterus, if an infantile uterus means a small pelvis, the chain of evidence would seem to be closed. Nor are these the only consequences of increased physical exertion of the maturing female in unsuitable ways. The relation, for instance, of the thyroid gland-to the function of the internal sexual organs in the female is well known. They have a mutual influence, one upon the other. The interesting questions arise, “If the function of the uterus is interfered with is the effect felt in the thyroid gland? Do functions compensate so that if one is lessened the other is increased?” The following thyroid statistics are not based on followups within our school but on initial examinations of entering students.

Fall-1915 — 97 examined

9 enlargements 9—%

Fall-1916 — 91 examined

22 enlargements —23jl-2%

Fall-1922 —117 examined

22 enlargements —19%

Digitized by v^ooQle
120

Fall-1923 —104 examined

24 enlargements —23%

They point however to some agency bringing about these disturbances. The increase is remarkable and of late years, fairly constant. Nor has geographical distribution anything to do with the increase. Our student bodv recruits itself from the states generally, the eastern states naturally predominating, the region around the Great Lakes productive of goitre contributes now no greater percent to our student body than in former years. The goitres found are not restricted to students coming from that particular region. We have made no study so far of the functional meaning of the increased size of the thyroid. However, the undesirability of any change of the thyroid structure or function is so well known that if any agency could be proven to be a positively contributing factor it would deserve our earnest consideration and should be eliminated. Athletics being always competitive do their harm by inducing the individual to put forth the maximum physical and mental effort. The same exercises done without the competitive element are not so harmful. About the mental effect I shall have something to say in the next paper on this subject. Here I have simply recorded the effects on the anatomical and physiological function.

One more word to support the unsuitability of the female anatomy to exercise of this type, the lack of skill and proper mental attitude enters likewise. The number of injuries received in athletic practice would furnish a good measurment of whether an exercise u suited for individuals or individuals for it. Here is the record of the First Aid service at our school at a spring outdoor season comprising mainly track athletics and water sports. Number of treatments given during four weeks, 228. As there were about 225 students it would mean that on the average each student received one treatment for injury. The figures for injuries in the fall outdoor season where organized competitive games predominate are much like the ones for track athletics in the spring. Eighty-six individuals came to the First Aid station where they received 210 treatments. Both records are much higher than the injury record of the indoor gymnastic season. In the period from November 22nd to January 15th, practically two months but including three weeks vacation, 14 treatments were given making about 7% of injuries. In the four weeks following, 42 treatments or about 20% were given. Of these however, 21 treatments to one dislocated elbow. The difference in accident frequency is so striking as to speak for itself. That the pursuit of such comparatively dangerous activity will cause considerable mental agitation and anxiety goes without saying and some of the functional phenomena cited above as to menstruation and thyroid condition may have their origin in this anxiety. It seems plain to me at least that the female, after puberty, is unsuited to pursue athletics such as the male indulges in and that consequently athletics of that type are unsuited for tire female. The much lauded informal game and the athletic type of
121

physical training makes here a very poor showing. The formally regulated work, on the other hand, seems able to confer benefit without inflicting damage.

Organized games and athletics at our school are had in such a way that they represent very likely, the mildest type of competition. All games are intra-mural. Only one or two basket ball games are played in the scholastic year with outside teams. If, under these circumstances, the effect of competition is as marked as here depicted what of the effects if competition is carried on to its highest pitch? Where competition is carried from intra-mural to inter-school, to city, to district, state and national championships the deleterious effect must be increased and intensified and its arrival accelerated. It must further be remembered that at our school competition is entered by people specially trained and used to exertion. What of the effect on the practically untrained grammar and high school girls? Again, with us, these competitive exercises are interrupted, slowed up by teaching, coaching the participants in the art of teaching and coaching the games. Games are never crowded in a short period of time. What must the effect be under the trying conditions of a series of championship games? Once more, our young women being eighteen and over have practically established the physiological functions of their sexual organs. What will the effect be on girls just entering upon puberty and undergoing the developmental changes of the period. Nor is the question solved by merely qualitatively reducing the effort. It will not do to say that a girl at fourteen should only indulge in 50 yard dashes and one at eighteen at 100 yards. The competitive effort is as great in proportion for one as the other. What is needed is a restriction in quantity of competition in any form. What is further needed is to diminisn the quality of competition by taking the intensiveness of competition out of women’s athletic efforts. The exploitation of oncoming womanhood by national or inter-national competition is a menace to womanhood the magnitude of which one can only contemplate with a shudder. That the daily press, especially with its illustrated Sunday editions, lends a hand in this exploitation and increases the menace is to be expected as in line with the general tendency of present day journalism at its worst.

With all this, I do not wish to be taken for a “calamity howler” who sees nothing but disaster in this new phenomenon of women's athletics. The human race is so adaptable, has overcome so many deleterious influences that even here things may tend to work out for the best of the race. In these days of voluntary restriction of parenthood evident in all civilized people, who knows but what thru this athletic activity of women, Malthus’ Theory of the restriction of population may find a most desirable and in a measure, the most ethical expression and translation into practice.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
122

COMBINED REPORTS UPON THE CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, APRIL 22-26, 1924.

Kansas City in recent years has made wonderful progress in the health and physical welfare of the school children. A ltho the city has a population of less than 350,000, it has sixty teachers of physical education in the elementary schools and twenty-five in the high schools. This does not include a large number of hygienists, of which the physical education department also has charge.

Wednesday was devoted to the observation of classes in corrective work, in swimming, and gymnasium work. Some of the grade schools were also conducting dual and triangular meets, selecting their representatives for the general athletic meet which took place Friday and Saturday evening. Two boys and two girls were entered from each school for each event. Furthermore, a relay team represented each school. These athletic carnivals constituted one of the most interesting sights of the Convention.

The physical education work in the city is under the direction of specialists. There is a supervisor for corrective work, one for dancing, one for games, one for gymnasium work, etc.

The exhibition given Thursday evening was made up of interesting work. There were some excellent numbers shown, such as natural and clog dancing, tumbling, and work on the horizontal bar, which, altho lacking in form, was performed with considerable ease. There were two numbers presented at this exhibition which were criticized the following day during the lectures and discussions. One was a Free Exercise drill of grade seven given without music. The other was an Indian Club drill of grade seven consisting of arm and hand circles with stepping and kneeling and finishing, with snake circles, well performed and prettily arranged. The skill displayed in the performances on the whole was of a high order. A swimming exhibition given at the Kansas City Athletic Club contained a great variety of water activities. There were introductory exercises to swimming, form swimming, of various strokes (excellently demonstrated by high school girls) dashes, relays, Red Cross Life-Saving work, canoe rescue work, stunts, and diving.

The convention was only fairly well attended, four hundred and thirty-four registering. This, however, enabled the visitors to secure the one and one-half fare for the round trip. The opening of the Convention on Wednesday evening consisted of an address of welcome by a representative of the superintendent of Public Schools, Kansas City, Missouri, who was unable to be present. This was responded to by Mr. Carl Schrader, President of the National Association. A very interesting time, under the direction of Miss Burchenal, during which many new friendships were made and old ones renewed, filled the remainder of the evening.

On Thursday morning, the Convention was opened by an exceedingly interesting address by President Schrader. He surveyed the past with reference to the objectives pursued, criticizing and discussing the skill aims, health aims, folk dance aims, posture aims, and other specific aims of the past, and concluded that the

Digitized by

Google
123

training for citizenship should be the ultimate goal of our work. He appropriately referred to these specific objectives as millstones and milestones.

Dr. J. Anna Norris, University of Minnesota, President of the Medical Association Section, presided at this general session.

The next speaker on the program was Dr. Henry S. Curtis, Director of Hygiene and Physical Education of the State of Missouri. His subject was “Compulsory Athletics.” He outlined the method of making athletics and games obligatory for schools of smaller towns and of rural districts. His program of activities consists of the most usable athletic events and games. Some of the points Dr. Curtis brought out were, that children before going to school have an average of ten miles of walking per day which falls off to three miles when attending school. Further, that there is a marked decrease of action with advancing age.

An interesting paper entitled “Physical Education in the Rural Schools” was presented by Dr. A. G. Ireland, Director of Public School Section, on Friday morning. Dr. Ireland has made a thoro study, primarily of a socialogical nature, of rural districts and communities. He studied the type of people of country life-from the school and social point of view, thereform deducing the need of the rural child, which he summed up in the following:

First, health training and instruction; second, activities to counteract farm work; thud, activities of an intensely social type like plays, sings, and exhibitions.

“Tne Place of Physical Education in the Junior High School” was interestingly presented by Mr. Harry P. Clarke.

“Swimming in the Public School Program” by Miss Genevieve Jones brought out the fact that according to studies made in Baltimore most Doys and girls learn to swim between the ages of ten and eleven years of age.

During the luncheon on Friday, it was decided that the Middle West Convention is to be held in Chicago in 1925 and in Minneapolis in 1926. The present officers were re-elected, namely: Miss Norris, President, ana Mr. Rowe, who is now in Cleveland, Secretary.

The Saturday morning session brought a very interesting paper by Dr. Jesse F. Williams, Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education, Columbia University, New York. Dr. William's paper concerned itself with two well-known educational doctrines, the doctrine of Interest and the doctrine of Effort applied to Physical Education. Interest, he stated, is represented by games, athletics, and other natural forms of movement based upon instinctive tendencies. The doctrine of Effort is represented in the formal work as tactics, free exercises, wands, clubs, etc., movements invented by adults. He argued that interest in activities forms a basis for the future continuation of these activities, whereas activities inherently uninteresting and requiring effort do not carry over. This fact has its basis in the reactions of an inidivudal to stimuli which are either satis-fiers or annoyers. The nervous system establishes bonds with difficulty if the stimulus is annoying; whereas these bonds are easily

Digitized by Google
124

established if the stimulus is satisfying, as is the ease in natural activities. This is probably due to the fact that the nervous bonds for this type of activity already exist since they are based upon primitive movements. In the artificial type of movements, this is not the case. Here you may find an apparently outward obedience with an inward rebellion, and very often the movements are performed because of love or fear of the teacher. Such procedure is apt to set up very dangerous attitudes toward the teacher, the school and the work. Too frequently the teacher thinks it his duty to force children to perform tasks and activities, whereas his duty should be to merely arouse and direct the energy of the pupils. In. the discussion which followed speakers came to the defense of formal work, insisting upon the need of it under prevailing conditions.

Dr. Norris presented an instrument for women for the measuring of abdominal muscle strength and emphasized in her paper the great need of the development of abdominal muscles for women.

Professor James W. Linn, Professor of English, University of Chicago in his paper on “What Mental Training May Learn From Physical Training” would have universities proceed in the selection of certain capable individuals for advanced mental work along the same lines as a coach precedes in the selecting of his team. Professor Linn thinks it a waste of time to lecture to a class of one hundred or more individuals who, perhaps, are only attending universities for the purpose of becoming alumni. He would, of course, have those taken care of who earnestly desired to learn a profession, but the kernel should be selected from the chaff and the few superior individuals placed in charge of a professor so that they would develop high scholarship and grow into that type of excellent scientists as are at present produced by European Universities. Such a procedure might place America on the same plane in its educational achievements with regard to the rest of the world, as it holds in its athletic achievements.

During the week following the convention a Folk Dance Institute was held under the direction of Miss Burchenal that was attended by nearly 300 people (teachers of physical training, classroom teachers, social workers, etc.) As the institute lasted six days it was poss'' ’e to present a great variety of work and thoroly teach the dances.

“Growing Healthy Children” is the title of School Health Studies No. 4, published by the Bureau of Education, 1923. This is a study, with illustrations, of the health work done in connection with the Trenton (N. J.) public schools. In addition to setting forth in an interesting manner the health supervision activities of that city, the bulletin contains a considerable amount of valuable material and numerous helpful suggestions which should prove of interest to any community and to all teachers interested in providing the best possible health environment and training for boys and girls.
125

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

In a study entitled “The Health of a Neighborhood,” the New York .Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor has

Eublished the results of six years of public health work in the Mul-erry district of New York City. This survey, which was carried on from the Mulberry Health Center, embraces data pertaining to illiteracy, occupations, family earnings, unemployment, mortality and morbidity compiled for a population of approximately 35,000, living in an area of about 44 blocks, bounded by Houston and Canal Streets, Broadway and the Bowery.

The Mulberry district was selected for this study because it was believed to be typical of congested localities elsewhere in New York and in other large cities, where the preponderance of the population is either foreign bom or of foreign parentage. Among the significant findings reported in the survey of special interest to educational hygienists may be mentioned the following:	(1)

Since 1910 the proportion of children between 6 and 9 years of age attending school has increased nearly 50 per cent. (2) Practically one-half of those between 14 and 20 years of age are wage earners, with almost an equal proportion of boys and girls. (3) During the first and second years of life the sickness rate was found to be about equal to the average rate for all ages, but at about five years of age it begins to decline gradually until between 10 and 14 it reaches the lowest point: 12.4 per thousand for boys and 19.6 per thousand for girls. (4) The death rate under one year of age is unusually high for New York City, and far above the average prevailing for the city at large for every age. (5) Respiratory diseases were found to be the chief cause of death in this area, with pneumonia leading. The average death rate for pneumonia in New York City was 1.78, while that in the Mulberry district was 4.35.	(6)	A detailed analysis

was made of the causes of death of children from one to four years of age. Pneumonia was found to stand out even more prominently as a cause of death for children of this age, nearly one-half (44.6) of all deaths of infants between these years being attributed to this cause. The explanation of this unusual mortality from pneumonia in young children is offered as being traceable to after-effects of rickets, the people of the area being disinclined to cany out modem methods of treatment, particularly as regards ventilation. A plea is made in this connection for a popular educational campaign to stress the dangers of this disease and the importance of proper treatment. (7) Deaths among infants under one year of age were especially high from respiratory diseases and diarrhoea, both of which are largely preventable.

Detroit is trying an experiment. It finds that it is impossible for its medical personnel to examine more than 30 percent of the children, so that teachers who wish to volunteer for the work examine

Digitized by CjOOQle
126

eyes, ears, throat, palate, teeth and cervical glands. The doctors examine heart, lungs, thyroid and skin. They also examine for othopedic defects and anaemia, as well as those children found defective by the teacher. The teachers are given a pamphlet of instructions and a lecture with a demonstration on the right method of examination.

Virginia gives her normal school students a health course, and her teachers in the field a correspondence course in health mattere. The teachers examine eyes, ears, teeth, nutrition, and measure the children. They are made responsible also for obtaining the correction of all defects found in their children. There are some school nurses in this State, but no school physicians.

Sunbeam School, Cleveland, where 168 crippled children are taught, is now housed in a new one-story building that cost $470,000. This school cares for crippled children until their physical condition permits them to take their proper places in the regular schools. School busses transport them to and from school without charge, and free lunches are supplied at the school. The cost per pupil of the care and instruction provided for these children is nearly six times the cost of instruction for normal children. A considerable share of the money is paid by the State. This work of helping the crippled children of the city was begun more than 25 years ago, when a group of 14 girls, 8 to 10 years old, called the Sunbeam Circle, raised money thru the sale of articles of handwork to buy braces and other orthopedic supplies, toys and books for crippled children in the community. In 1900, thru the efforts of the Circle, a kindergarten was established at a community house, and a year later an elementary school, was begun. The board of education took over the work m 1910, and provided a one-stoiy frame building designed especially for the school. Sixty-three children attended the school that year, and this number was doubled between 1910 and 1922. During those years, the members of the Sunbeam Circle continued their efforts and the new school was established partly thru their influence. Only elementary school work is done in this School.

Many teachers, parents and, we fea>-, more children, have been much perplexed because the children, after following faithfully the laws prescribed for the “nutrition game,” have failed to measure or weigh up to the standards laid down in the tables and charts. Happily the teacher may have had her doubts as to the possibilities of growth, and not have made too much of the fact that the pupil is below the usual height for his age, or is 5, 10, or even a higher percentage below the ‘standard weight for his height.’ Malnutrition is the most expensive and the most serious condition with which we have to deal. It is the cause of the two most common of our diseases-rickets and carious teeth, and there is good evidence that it has very much to do with the production of adenoids and abnormal tonsils. Its influence in the causation of other diseases and deformities is probably more than we have imagined.

Digitized by t^ooQle
127

We should do everything we can to make the food of the child what it should be. However, after all is said and done, even from the child’s earliest beginning, it is impossible that he will in every case weigh and measure what the average child measures and weighs. You cannot by any means make a Poland China pig out of a razorback, nor change a thoroughbred colt into a Percheron horse. We do not recognize distinct breeds within a race of humans because the inteimediate foxms exist, and one type shades off into another, but there are different types as distinct as a draft horse from a race horse, and no amount or variety of foods will change one type into another. It would be sad if we could all be standardized. There is an average relationship between height and weight at different ages which holds very closely for all races, but it applies only to the average. Moreover, a child, may be badly nourished because his food has not contained the proper materials, and yet his weights and measurements will correspond to the average. Weight and height, then, are not, except in a rough way, indicators of whether a child is properly nourished, for he may be of average weight for his height and be unhealthy, and. he may be much below the average and yet be healthy. It depends to a large extent upon heredity and other unknown factors. The usual healthy child will measure with the average, but the uncommon healthy child may not.

The measuring rod and the scales are most powerful stimuli toward learning and obeying the laws of health, for they indicate at least progress in growth. They must be used judiciously, however, for growth is little understood and. proceeds by fits and starts. The teacher or other health worker who is wisest will see that the child has no organic disease or correctible defeat, has the right food and the right habits of feeding, and. such conditions as rest, fresh air and opportunity for exercise, without all of which nutrition cannot reach its maximum. Having thus been put on the highway to health, the child’s weight and height can be trusted to take care of themselves and to be what they should be, no matter how far they may vary from the average. (J. F. Rogers, in School Life.)

There was concluded on December 31, 1923, an elaborate experimental effort to control tuberculosis in a selected American town of about 17,000 inhabitants a short distance from Boston. This experiment at Framingham had been conducted for seven years by the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, under the supervision of a special committee on which were represented in addition to the promoting organization mentioned above the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the Massachusetts State Department of Health, various local Framingham official and civic organizations and representatives of numerous organizations in other states interested in the study and prevention of tuberculosis. The experiment, undertaken at the instigation of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, which found claims paid on account of tuberculosis amounted to over $40,000,000 annually,

Digitized by Google
128

was started with a contribution from that Company of $100,000, which was subsequently increased to about $200,000. Other contributions swelled the total expenditure represented in the seven years’ experiment to approximately $500,000. The experiment was well advertised, placed under the direction of unusually competent experts, attracted visitors to Framingham from all over the world, ana has been the inspiration of scores of other similar projects in various parts of the Country, though of course on a smaller scale.

It became evident during the early stages of the experiment that any conspicuous success in the way of actual reduction in the amount of tuberculosis would have to be brought about by a general improvement in the health of the pupil thru the utilization of all measures that tend to promote the health of people generally; whence the experiment came to be known as the “Framingham Community Health and Tuberculosis Demonstration.” The activities of local agencies interested in public health were stimulated and extended in scope; the system of school health inspection was greatly improved; school dental clinics were established; an intensive campaign of advertising was started in the local press, and kept up with the purpose of educating the public in health matters and of getting everybody to think about his physical condition; as many of the citizens as could be so persuaded submitted to comprehensive physical examinations, with the result that no less than three-fourths of the entire citizenry were medically examined not only with reference to tuberculous conditions but with reference to any kind of incipient disease or disability.

The findings of the experiment are both interesting and significant. The fact was confirmed that under present conditions in a Massachusetts city or town it is as impossible to escape infection with the tubercle bacillus early in life as it is to escape the colon bacillus; confirmation was also afforded of the belief that such early tuberculosis infection is usually beneficient in its effects, tending to confer increased resistance if not immunity to a later serious active process. One percent of the population was found in the examinations to have active pulmonary tuberculosis, while an additional one percent had an arrested condition of the disease.

Public recreation leadership, one of the newest of municipal enterprises, has now spread, according to the Playground and Recreation Association of America, to 45 of the states and 680 cities. Originating about 1885 in the “sand gardens” set aside in Boston for children’s play, it has received its greatest stimulus since 1906. The expenditure of cities for public recreation during 1923 totalled $14,000,000, or more than twice the amount spent for the same purpose ten years previously, in 1913. Last year 33 cities alone issued bonds for recreational purposes well in excess of $10,000,000. In spite of these encouraging figures in the larger cities, the Association estimates that more than 400 cities having in excess of 8,000 in population, are still without a single playground or recreational leader. Evidence that cities are rapidly awakening to the economy

Digitized by v^. ooQle
129

of year-round provision for play is to be found in the reported increase of 150 percent in the number of workers employed the year round. 774 such full-time workers were employed by 83 cities in 1913, as against 1,925 by 281 cities in 1923. The total number of part-time and full-time workers thus employed last year reached the sum of 12,282, 5,123 of them men, and 7,159 women. Aiding them were 5,285 unpaid workers who volunteered in 229 cities.

A survey recently made by the Editor of this Department of the school health personnel of Northern cities* having a school enrollment in the neighborhood of 30,000 children yielded the following results:

Name of City	No. Pupils	No. School	No. Phy-	No. Pupils
	enrolled	Nurses	sicians	per Nurse
S. Paul	33,000	20	4	1,650
Omaha	34,645	18	1	1,925
Des Moines	27,725	18	6	1,540
Providence	39,402	12	11	3,283
Springfield, Mass.	24,317	11	14	2,210
Scranton	25,500	7	21	3,643
Youngstown	27,337	6	1	4,556
Richmond	33,231	12	8	2,769
Akron	33,171	38	3	873
New Haven	32,000	12	1	2,666
Hartford	25,941	20	21	1,297
Patterson	25,658	13	9	1,974
Totals	361,927			28,386
Averages	30,160			2,365

The lighted school house is taking a larger place in America’s recreational life, as is shown by the report of 196 cities that they used 1,127 school buildings as evening recreation centers during 1923. Ten years before seventy-nine cities reported the use of 368 schools for this purpose. Community buildings used exclusively for recreation are reported by 124 cities, and number 328. One hundred and forty-six cities have community buildings which are used for both civic and recreation purposes.

Health training in schools by Dansdill, Theresa; a handbook for teachers and health workers. Prepared for the National tuberculosis with C. M. De Forest. New York, National tuberculosis association, 370 Seventh avenue, 1923. xiii, 405 p illus. 8 degrees. Presents a complete course of health lessons, based upon information, specific acts, corrective exercises, projects, stories, poems, and games. Outlines for lessons thruout the year are provided for every grade below the high school, also actual material for each lesson.

Digitized by CjOOQle
130

♦----- ■

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D ♦--------------------------------

STUNT DRILL

By OUto A. Wurl

Note.—Each school may have a group of any multiple of six, from 12 to 24 boys arranged m a column of closed ranks of three, smaller pupils in front. The ranks are numbered in twos from the front t% the rear. The lightest boy in each rank should be in the centre. The column marches forward to its place with a distance of ten feet between ranks.

Music.*—'“Spirit of Independence March”—Holzmann. Victor Record No. 18559.

Note.—The eight counts of preparation are to be divided into two parts of 4 counts each; return to position on count 1; hold counts 2, 3 and 4. Prepare for and assume the next grouping on counts 5 to 8.

Introduction. (4 measures—8 counts) Prepare for first grouping on last 4 counts.	•

1st	2nd

A

Hold first grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for second.	8	counts

Hold second grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for first.	8	counts

B

Repeat A, but during last 4 counts prepare for third grouping. 32 counts

Digitized by CjOOQle
131

A

Hold third grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for fourth.	8	counts

Hold fourth grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for third.	8	counts

B

Repeat A, but during last 4 counts prepare for fifth grouping. 32 counts

A

Hold fifth grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for sixth.	8	counts

Hold sixth grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for fifth.	8	counts

B

Repeat A, but during last 4 counts stand at attention. 32 counts

Part IV (24 counts)

Outer ones take a cartwheel outward;	centre	one	face	left	and take

cartwheel right, and face front.	4	counts

Stand at attention.	4	counts

Centre one face right and all take a cartwheel back to	position.	4	counts

Stand at attention.	4	counts

Prepare for seventh grouping.	8	counts

Digitized by
132

Part V (64 counts)

8th

A

Hold seventh grouping.

Return and prepare for eighth.

Hold eighth grouping.

Return and prepare for seventh.

B

Repeat A, but during last 4 counts stand at attention.	32	counts

8 counts 8 counts 8 counts 8 counts

Part VI (24 counts)

Repeat cartwheels of Part IV.	16	counts

Ranks No. 2 run forward to Ranks No. 1. (Outer ones of Rank 1 open outward, Outer ones of Rank 2 step between centre and outer ones of Rank 1. Centre of Rank 2 takes place behind centre of Rank 1) and prepare for ninth grouping.	8	counts

Part VII (64 counts)

r

10th

Digitized by C^ooQle
133

A

Hold ninth grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for tenth.	8	counts

Hold tenth grouping.	8	counts

Return and prepare for ninth.	8	counts

13

Repeat A, but during last 8 counts return to original column formation.	32	counts

CIRCUIT GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL FORT WAYNE, IND.,

Arranged by Henry Meyer, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Obligatory Apparatus Exercises for the Men.

LOWER GRADE Horizontal Bar.

From still hang, hip pull up frontwise backward into support. Underswing. At end of next forward swing, knee swing up outside of hands. Leg swing backward into front support, hip circle backward. Underswing mto side stand rearwise.

Parallel Bars.

With a running start, jump into support, swing forward and backward into straddle seat in rear of hands. Shoulder stand, roll forward, swing backward and forward in upper armhang into kip position, kip into straddle seat in front of hands. Swing left leg between the bars with the right hand grasping over in front of left hand, swing both legs backward and the scissors backward into straddle seat in front of hands. Swing legs forward and backward and a high front vault into cross stand sidewise.

Horse—Lengthwise.

With a running start, jump into riding seat in rear of hands on saddle, swing left leg forward and backward and the rear vault swing left into riding seat. Grasp forward, swing legs backward into front lying support, straddle dismount forward with one-fourth turn left. MIDDLE GRADE.

Horizontal Bar.

From a side stand frontwise, jump to hang upper grip, swing rise, free hip circle backward, underswing with a one-half turn L. (the R. hand releases grasp and regrasps the bar on the other side up grip), crotch-swing up L. on end of forward swing (hands are mixed grip), leg-swing R. forward with a one-half turn L. into support frontwise (hands upper grip, drop kip, free hip circle backward to a side stand frontwise.

Parallel Bars.

From a cross stand frontwise at the end of the bars, grasp end of bars, hand hang kip, to support, swing backward to upper arm stand. Roll forward straight body to upper arm hang, at end of backward

Digitized by

Google
134

swing, swing rise with straddling over the bars into straddle seat in front of hands. Leg swing R. backward between the bars, immediately side dismount R. to side stand rearwise (leg swing R. with one-half turn R. and L. hand takes upper grip on the opposite or R. bar).

Horse Lengthwise.

From a cross stand frontwise running start, long straddle vault support neck.

UPPER GRADE.

Horizontal Bar.

From a side stand frontwise jump to hang upper grip, immediately hip swing over backward to hang, at end of forward swing, back-kip to support rearwise, drop-kip (drop backward to inverted balance hang, pass feet under bar to other side, kip to support front-wise), free hip-circle backward, giant circle backward twice, on second swing to support frontwise, drop-kip, hip-circle forward, squat-vault forward dismount to side-stand rearwise.

Parallel Bars.

From a cross stand frontwise, running start, jump to upper-arm hang in middle of the bars, roll over backward to upper-arm hang. On forward swing front-rise, swing backward to hand-stand, dipswing turn L. or R. to straight arm support (Stuetzkehre). Hand hang kip, upperarm stand, roll over forward to upper-arm hang, slide-kip at end of backward swing, double rear-vault L. or R. forward to cross stand sidewise.

Horse Lengthwise.

From a cross stand frontwise, running start, long scissors-vault support neck, to cross stand frontwise (Schere Stuetzpunkt Hals).

Obligatory Apparatus Exercises For The Women.

Parallel Bars.

From a cross stand at the end of the bars, jump into support, swing forward, backward and forward, at end of forward swing, swing right leg over left bar in front of left hand, circle left leg backward, forward over left bar, then between the bars, and with a one-half turn right into straddle seat in front of hands, the hands have changed to opposite bars during the leg circle; leg swing right backward between the bars, the left hand grasps right bar ana scissors backward with a one-half turn into straddle seat in front of hands. Roll forward into straddle seat in front of hands, one-fourth turn right, bend right knee, and a leg swing dismount left with one-fourth turn right into cross stand sidewise.

Horse Sidewise.

Walking, start, jump into support with right hand on left pommel, left hand on neck, circle right leg forward, passing under right leg into side riding seat on neck, circle left leg forward with

Digitized by v^ooQle
135

one-half turn about right arm into side riding seat on saddle, circle right leg forward passing under right hand, circle left leg backward passing under left hand into side riding seat, one-half turn left in riding seat, circle left leg backward passing under left hand, jump down into bent knee stand, and immediately squat vault forward into rear support, jump down forward with swinging the legs forward into'side stand rearwise.

it	•	-	■	♦

News, notes and comments

- -------------------------------------------------------♦

Every teacher-training high school in Missouri must provide a full-time physical director by September, 1924. This director must have had a course in a school or department of physical training approved by the State department. The law requiring physical education in the schools was passed in 1921, but the first appropriation for carrying out its provisions was not made until this year.

------o------

CoUiersJNational Weekly in its issue of Nov. 24 says "Soon wefmay have to go to Church.” In an interview Dr. Worth Tippy states that "he believes it to be the Church’s function to help the individual fulfill his longing for a mqre abundant life—for the “livest life that can be lived.” And this must mean provision by the Church for the fullest expression of leisure time interests.

‘'Human beings are not longing for death. They are longing for the life more abundant. They may be trying to find it in alcohol or in self-indulgence; but the point is that they are trying to find it. They will not be satisfied with the mere opportunity to kill time; and if that is all the church can offer them they will and they should desert it.

"But the modern church is discovering this fundamental truth that man longs for a more abundant life, just as much as his physical nature longs for food. That clarifies the whole situation. The church's task, then, becomes clear. If the church is to have any influence in the community, it must look for ways in which the community can express itself most abundantly.

“A lot of churches are also going in for athletics—for the more abundant physical life that comes from clean and exhilarating play. They are going in for merry-making—for pure fun and joy. Ana, in the most deeply religious spirit, they are going in fbr a Christian management of industry—for business organized for joyous service rather than for unsatisfying gain. In the same spirit, they are going in for art, music, literature, drama and all the ways in which man seeks to express his humanity more abundantly.

In closing Dr. Tippy says: “When a church once shows a disposition to De used for all it is worth, it will have little difficulty discovering what to do. Its work will be cut out for it; for the com-

Digitized by CjOOQle
136

• munities want that sort of church. It won’t have to bid for attendance. Very soon it will become impossible to keep the people out.”

-------o-------

In order to stimulate community interest in permanent playground the Harmon Foundation of New York offers to contribute 25 per cent of the purchase price as final payment for land to be used perpetually as a playground in any growing town unde* 15,000 population where a responsible organization such as a women’s club realizes the need of setting aside land for such purposes only, and will foster a plan not only for the purchase, but its maintenance as a play place or recreation field. The maximum contribution to any community will be $1,000, and as the appropriation of the Foundation to cover such help is limited, applications will be considered in the order of their receipt.

Under a leasing plan, in any growing town under 15,000 population where for good reasons the time is not opportune for raising money locally for the purchase of land for a play field, but where a strong local group realizes the need and will guarantee to equip and maintain a play place for five years, the Harmon Foundation will buy a piece of land of not less than two acres and costing not more than $2,000, and lease it without charge or at the expiration of the lease sell at cost, plus a nominal rate of interest not exceeding 4 per cent.

There are now twenty Harmon Fields in growing towns in the United States and as the Chairman of the Playground Committee, Beliefontaine, Ohio, suggests, “They promise to be a real community awakening; a means of obliterating sectional lines and differences.”

Communications concerning the offer should be addressed to Mary L. Stoughton, Director, Division of Playgrounds. Hannon Foundation Incorporated, 140 Nassau Street, New York.

-------o-------

From an educational system, says Collier’s Weekly, unlinked with the business of life we may, by the modem multiplication of trade and industrial and commercial secondary schools, swing to one too narrowly utilitarian.

William T. Root, professor of educational psychology at the University of Pittsburgh, puts the argument this way:

It is bad, exceedingly bad, philosophy to spend all of childhood preparing for adulthood and all of adulthood preparing for the hereafter. It is like the illusive fata morgana that tricked the early emigrant. The present has a right to exist for its intrinsic worth, its intrinsic capacity to give joy, without apologies to the future. Part of the difficulty with school folk is bad philosophy; a failure to realize the justification of joy, pure joy, interest, pure interest— here and now, without any reference to future use.

The need is for education that yields the fullest and richest life values from the first day at school to the last day on earth.

Digitized by Google
i	s

In the work of the “Committee on work periods in continuous Industry” created by the Federated American Engineering Societies, the importance of property using the leisure time which might be made available thru replacing the twelve hour shift with the eight hour shift was considered. In the report of the committee, entitled “The Twelve Hour Shift in Industry,” the importance of leisure is stressed. Speaking of the report H. E. Howe, Editor of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, says "it seems to me clearly to follow that with the expansion of the eight hour day there comes an insistent demand for more recreational centers of all sorts, whether for young or old. Obviously, in addition to providing the facilities, such institutions must be properly manned, and from personal observation I am convinced that thru such activities there is a wonderful field for worth while service.”

--------o------

John Lahm, Cincinnati, 0., 16 years of age. Bom March 19, 1908. Present Height - 6 ft. 1 in. Weight - 195 lbs. Entered Rothenburg School at age of 7 years. In 1921 at age of 15 years he entered athletics.

Broke the City Championship record in Basket Ball far throwing, March 1922, distance 81 feet. Previous record 78 feet, 4 in. Feb. 1923 broke his own record, throwing 92 feet. June 1923 entered in high jump, making 5 feet 1 in. March 1924 broke high jump record of 5 ft. 4 in., making 5 ft. 7 in.

In practise he makes between 40-41 feet in the hop-step-jump, and is hoping to break the record of 41 ft. 5 in. Has been a valuable member on Soccer foot-ball, Speed Ball, Volley Ball, and Baseball Team, the school winning the championship in each of these events while he was on the Team. In the year 1923 he made 14 home runs in 7 games of baseball.

-------0-------

On May 9th twenty-eight members of the Department of Physical Education of Cincinnati made a pilgrimage to the A. G. U. Normal College at Indianapolis. We made the trip in five flivvers and two automobiles, leaving immediately after school on Friday and arriving in Indianapolis before dark.

The following forenoon under the direction of President Rath, and his assistant, Mr. Romeiser, the senior class gave a demonstration for our benefit. The conscensus of opinion of the visitors is that the work seen was excellent.

The dancing of the women was splendid, and the work of the men above criticism. One of the interesting features to those who saw Niels Bukh’s work was a repetition of that work set to music. In this way the work lost none of its strenuous character but became much more palatable to the performers. Our visit was highly profitable. I wish to say that in all probability we shall repeat this pilgrimage next year, and I should like to suggest to our colleagues In St. Louis, Chicago, and the other suburban villages of Inman-

Digitized by

Google
138

apolis, that at some future date we arrange to make a simultaneous visit to the school. This would give an excellent opportunity for a general reunion and certainly would stimulate the students to further effort.

Respectfully yours,

Carl.. Ziegler.

-------0------- •

A.

Any doubt that the warm-air furnace manufacturers mfean business in their efforts to get at the fundamental facts regarding this method of heating is dispelled by the announcement that the National Warm-Air Heating and Ventilating Association at its recent convention voted to build a $25,000 Educational Research Building to be used solely for tests supplementing those being conducted, under the auspices of the association, at the University of Illinois. So far, these tests, which are confined strictly to warm-air furnace systems of heating, have been necessarily more or less of a laboratory nature, altho, it is true, actual installation conditions have been duplicated so far as possible. Practical men, however, who compose so large a part of the furnace industry, always find difficulty in accepting the results of such tests as having some "kink” to them which might not apply in actual practice.

There is no doubt that field observations have infinitely more authority than those made under artificial conditions, so to speak, provided, of course, they are made with the same care and by equally competent men. These requisistes are met in the case of the Educational Research Residence of the warm-air furnace manufacturers so that we may confidently look forward to the accumulation of data in this field which will settle the requirements for warm-air furnace installations, as well as the comparative status of this method of heating.

-------o-------

Under the title "Athletics for All” the Nashville, Tenn. Banner recently published the following editorial.

In connection with the meeting of the National College Athletic Assdciation in Atlanta during the Christmas week, there was also an assembly of the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges. It is likely that the former almost entirely overshadowed the latter in the eyes of the general public, and that should not by any means be the case. The physical directors are the men who have the bodily destinies of the great masses of American students in charge. Tneir slogan is really “Athletics For All,” and much hinges on the measure of success or failure they attain in living up to it. They work with hundreds where the coach of football or baseball has one under bis care.

One of the really justified criticisms of American college athletic systems, as they have been in the past, has been to the effect that they resulted in turning out a few combinations of athletes superlatively skilled in four or five branches of sport and left the great majority of students to use their own small judgment about exercise or none. At present, however, the large majority of colleges demand

Digitized by v^. ooQle
139

at least three hours of supervised exercise a week and many of them add lectures on hygiene. Besides that encouraging fact, a great many of them urge sane participation in sports, which take up considerably more than the minimum time and make it both easy and pleasant for the average boy to play games. It is exactly as it should be.

From another point of view, it is easy to see that an increase in the number of boys who take part in athletics would mean a distinct improvement in the teams that represent the colleges in contests with each other. Almost any coach or physical director in the country will say that his tasks would be immensely simplified if every man who ought would come out for football, baseball, basketball, track work or what not. Then, too, more general activity in sportfe would mean raising the average of intelligence and good sportsmanship among spectators, a result much to be desired always.

The specialization theory in athletics is all wrong, and it is pleasing to be able to see a more general realization of the fact with each passing year. What the country wants and has a right to expect from its colleges is a host of young men trained and fit in body as well as in mind. As a matter of fact, a strong mind in a weak and inefficient body is a first-rate tragedy many times. The physical directors are one main hope for making things right in this direction.

In the New York Times of March 16th we read the following: Man as a race has declined, but there is no warrant in fact for the statement that civilization is plunging downward, according to Edwin Grant Conklin, head of the Department of Biology at Princeton University and world famous biologist.

Dr. Conklin replied today to statements by Albert Edward Wiggam in his new book, “The New Decalogue of Science,” that the civilized races of the world are biologically plunging downward and that the civilization of the present day is self-destructive.

“There is not sufficient evidence of the actual conditions of civilization for the period even a hundred years ago to warrant a statement that our civilization is plunging downward,” Dr. Conklin said. “In modem times we have had no such disastrous epidemics as those of the middle ages, which wiped out half the population of Westerp Europe in the fourteenth centuiy. Altho the influenza epidemic in 1918 killed about 600,000 individuals in this country, the proportion of fatalities to the total population cannot be compared to those of plagues of the middle ages.

“We are learning to control epidemic diseases and in th:s respect our civilization today is certainly in advance of the civilization of previous ages. Nor is there enough evidence to say that the number of cases of insanity, epilepsy and imbecility are increasing.

“On the other hand there is no marked improvement in our times. Compared with the period of the ancient Greeks, we may be said to have declined. We probably are less healthy of body and vigorous of mind than were the leaders of that period.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
146

“Measures which we have taken in modern times to save the weak and permit them to propagate may be lowering the stamina of our race. I should certainly say, and I believe Mr. Wiggam would agree with me, that natural selection must be replaced by intelligent human selection. Civilization can save itself only if the people themselves can be directed to make the effort and can be made aware of the dangers which threaten.”

Sterilization of individuals who are afflicted with hereditary diseases may be the answer to the human problem, Professor Conklin believes.

-------o------

The Minnesota legislature, at its last session, enacted a law which requires that there shall be established and provided in all the public schools of the state, physical and health education, training, and instruction of pupils of both sexes. The act provides, also, that colleges, schools and other educational institutions in the state giving teacher training shall provide' a course or courses in physical and health education, training, and instruction. In accordance with that act the State Teachers College at Winona announces a standarcd two year curriculum in the field of physical education. Three specially prepared teachers and a registereo nurse have been securec to take charge of that work. The Winona college is well equipped to do work in physical education. When its new college hall is completed the college will have three commodious gymnasiums. The work in physical education will be available under the same conditions of free tuition as is other work of the college. Two years of special study beyond high school will lead to a certificate or license to teach physical education in the public schools of the state. In making this announcement, President G. E. Maxwell of the Winona college says that a greatly increasing interest is everywhere shown by the public in physical and health education. Moreover, he says that the demand for teachers in this field and the personal values that come to the student, who pursues this work, render the physical education program at a teachers college unusually attractive.

------o-------

The Sunday supplements often are quite amusing. Recently a full page illustrated syndicated article made the rounds entitled “You must work to keep your figure.” It was credited to “Allan Foster, famous dance director and Ballet master.” The illustrations showed a slender girl in a one piece bathing suit in two good and two incorrect positions. The disconcerting part of the illustrations was the fact that this athlete in the bathing suit, in all her poses wore high heeled sandals.

-------o------

Resolutions on Community Recreation Adopted at Convention of United Mine Workers of America, January 1924.—WHEREAS, The organized Labor movement, in the last analysis, is ever aiming at the furtherance of human welfare in every legitimate manner, and

Digitized by CjOOQle
141

WHEREAS, The greater leisure of our time gained thru its efforts, offers increased opportunity for the enjoyment of the better things of hfe and for satisfying the natural hungers for larger living, including recreation of a constructive, wholesome kind;

BE IT RESOLVED, That the United Mine Workers ofmerica in convention assembled, in Indianapolis, Indiana, hereby records its conviction that the time is here for all our affiliated bodies to do everything within their power to get established larger facilities for recreation in all our cities and towns, such facilities to cater to the physical, social and aesthetic needs of both children and adults, understanding that such efforts will result in more playgrounds, athletic fields, community centers and the like; and in taking this position we are in happy accord with the unanimously adopted resolutions of the American Federation of Labor at its 1923 convention in Portland, Oregon, wherein it was pointed out that thru the means suggested it is purposed “to offset the strain and rush of modern life, promote national health and sound citizenship, over-cqmesomeof the evil effects of present day machine industry and provide a happier, richer community life.”

BE IT RESOLVED ALSO, That with the American Federation of Labor we approve co-operative relationship with the Community Service work of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, which is in the field to aid organizations and communities, out of its eighteen years of experience, to realize the largest possible results from efforts along the lines indicated.

MISSOURI “STATE LETTER’ IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Explanation of requirements for the State Letter in physical training.

Health. The candidate must have glasses, if needed, at least two-thirds hearing, no troublesome adenoids, or enlarged tonsils, skin in good condition. Must not have lesions of heart or lungs, round shoulders or stooped shoulders, irregular shoulders, deformities of chest, spinal curvature or flat feet. Must have chest expansion of at least two inches. Must look healthy. (See details below.)

Scholarship. For one hundred points candidate must have passing grade for the year, in all subjects. For two hundred points, must have practically Phi Beta Kappa standing for two years.

Sportsmanship. Must know five rules of sportsmanship and practice them in games and in life of the school. For one hundred points in swimming, must be able to swim one hundred yards by any stroke. To get one hundred points on games, must know the rules and be able to coach or umpire the game. Must also be a superior player.

In each of the games the player may make two hundred points instead of one hundred by coaching or umpiring a group of grammar or high school children for at least ten periods. (Not recesses.)

Digitized by UjOOQle
142

Suggestions For The Correction of Physical Defects.

1.	Round, Shoulders.

This is a common accompaniment of undernourishment and low muscular tone but is often caused by sitting and working positions. For the correction of this defect volley ball is one of the best of exercises provided the student gets the two handed return and reaches as high as possible for the ball. Other good exercises are rotation of the shoulders, forcing them back as far as possible with arms perpendicular to the body, also full arm swing, forcing the shoulders backward. Other good exercises are: lying on the face on the bed m'ght and mom;ng, lifting head and shoulders from the bed as far as possible, making a swimming movement with arms twenty times; another, to stand from the wall at arms length, put hands on the wall at width of shoulders, bend forward touching wall with chest, forcing the body forward. These exercises should be repeated for five minutes or so, night and morning, until the correction is made. It will probably take from two to six months to overcome a bad case of round shoulders.

2.	Forward Head.

In order to correct forward head, put hands at back of head forcing head back against the hands. Repeat movement twenty times night and morning. The swimming movement on the bed is also excellent. Nothing is better than volley ball if the net is kept high enough.

3.	Irregular Shoulders.

If one shoulder is lower than the other extend the arm above the shoulder as high as possible about twenty times night and morning. It will be better if a light dumb bell is used.

4.	Spinal Curvature.

Where the student’s right shoulder is low he will nearly always be found to have a curvature on that side which means that the muscles of this side are contracted. The best corrective for this is to bend the body to the other side touching the floor with the hand if possible. Repeat twenty times. It will take several months, night and morning, in order to correct this defect.

5.	Weak or Irregular Heart.

This does not indicate, unless in extreme conditions, that the student should take no exercise, it will nearly always be improved by walking, dancing and less strenuous forms of play.

6.	Insufficient Lung Capacity.

Each student should have a chest expansion of at least two inches. In the case of girls this may be the average of expansion in upper and lower chest.

Only 4,227,702 of the 24,000,000 school children in the United States received eye tests in 1923, according to a preliminary report issued by the Eye Sight Conservation Council of America embodying the initial findings of a nationwide survey of eye conservation in education and industry.

The survey, which covers the results of testing the eyes of more than 10,000,000 students extending over a period of sixteen

Digitized by v^-ooQle
148

years, discloses, it is asserted, that the eyesight of children in the public schools thruout the nationjs being neglected.

“The eyesight of children in the public schools thruout the United States is not being given proper attention,” says the report. “Even simple tests to detect the most evident cases of defective vision are not made generally. A very low percentage of the total enrollment receives eyesight tests of any kind. In the schools where tests are made there are wide differences in the results obtained. This indicates that in many schools the tests are made very superficially and that a uniform procedure is not observed in making the tests.”

Simple visual acuity tests reveal that twenty-five per cent of the school children in the United States have manifest defects of vision and symptoms of eyestrain. More thoro examinations indicate that over sixty per cent of school children have eye defects of sufficient degree to warrant correction. There is no uniform method for testing eye sight, says the report, which continues:

“The reported percentages of total corrected and uncorrected eye defects vary all the way from 3.5 per cent to 58 per cent. A city in New Jersey reported only 3.5 per cent of 42,586 school children with corrected and unconnected defective vision, a city in Missouri only 7 per cent of 97,255 and a city in New Hampshire but 6.7 per cent of 5,432. Such poorly conducted tests are of little value and the incorrect results are entirely misleading.

“Much higher percentages are revealed by more careful acuity tests. As evidence of the results of more thoro tests, a city in New York reports 40 per cent of 17,000 school children with corrected and uncorrected eye defects, a city in Louisiana, 50 per cent of 51,488 and a city in Maine as high as 58 per cent of 3,590.”	'

As the result of the systematic examination of athletes following various forms of physical exertion, it has been shown that as the body becomes fatigued the ability to distinguish colors becomes much diminished. According to Boehmig, who has ^n article on the subject in the Muenchener medizinische Wochen&chnft, certain subjects who, when examined immediately before the physical performance, were found to possess a perfectly normal ability to distinguish colors, were unable, after the body became fatiguejd, to recognize the color of very small red and green objects, and some presented transient scotomas, which, however, were of a mjld sort, so that the subjects were frequently not aware of their existence. In the case of heavy smokers and those addicted to alcohol, tjie manisfestations appeared in a more marked form. The so-callpd fatigue substances will doubtless have to be assumed to be the cause of this hitherto unobserved disturbance of color vision. I halve reference to the waste products of metabolism that collect in me muscular tissue following muscular activity and that cause the wfell known painful feeling in muscles that have been used to the Unfit. As a rule, these fatigue substances are removed from the muscular tissue thru the blood stream, the skin, the kidney and the intestine,

Digitized by v^. ooQle
144

and are eliminated from the body. If the muscular work is prolonged, large quantities of the fatigue substances collect in the muscles or the blood stream; and since in this case elimination cannot proceed so rapidly, their harmful effect is noted, and the subject feels tired and exhausted. Certain investigators have regarded lactic acid as the main fatigue substance; others have postulated phosphoric add, either free or combined, with acid salts. Tneir actual effect has been demonstrated by noting that when the blood of fatigued animals is injected into healthy resting animals distinct symptoms of bodily exertion and fatigue are produced.—From a Berlin Letter 30' The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., Sept. 9,1922.

RAWLINGS

Shur-Flote Swimming Collar

--FOR---

Safety at Camp or in Swimming Class

Camp Directors and Swimming Coaches will find the Rawlings Shur-Flote Swimming Collar a dependable protection for swimming novices and for young campers about the water. It ia also an ideal aid for the school or college swimming classes.

Light and durable, the Shur-Flote fastens comfortably around the neck. It cannot slip off, nor entangle the legs. Quickly inflated by separate bladder which fits in canvas cover, it can be blown up in a few seconds by mouth or with hand-pump. Weighs only 2 ounces; supports 260 pounds—and, when deflated, can be folded up to fit the pocket.

RAWLINGS MANUFACTURING CO.

2301 Lucas Are.	St.	Louis*	Me.

INTERNATIONAL Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE SUMMER SESSION—June 30-Auguet 1,1924

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETIC COACHING School of Coaching

Football by Roper of Princeton.

Baseball by Berry of Springfield.

Track by Otto of Springfield.

Basketball by Otto of Springfield.

Swimming, Soccer, Boxing, Wrestling.

School of Gymnastics. Tactics, Calisthenics, Dancing, Apparatus Games and Practice Teaching.

Y. M. C. A. Directors. A graded four year course began in 1923 leading to a certificate. First and second year work offered in 1924. Public School Directors. A graded four year course began in 1923 leading to a Certificate. First and second year work offered in 1924. Theoretical Courses in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Physical Diagnosis, Anthropometry etc. of an intensive, double period character giving full credit toward the Bachelor's and Master'* Degree in Physical Education.

Information and Bulletin.

Address ELMER BERRY, Director Si mmer School. Springfield, Massachusetts.

Order now for your camp or swimming classes. Ask for the Shur-Flote Circular. If your dealer can't supply you, write us direct.

Digitized by t^ooQle