MIND AND BODY

Tol. 21

NOVEMBER, 1914.

No 233

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

WHO IS AN AMATEUR ATHLETE?

The spirit with which one goes into competition should be the deciding factor in determining one’s standing as an amateur or professional. If anyone goes into a game for the enjoyment he gets out of the participation he in spirit is an amateur, while if a player goes into a game because of some reward he may get, he in spirit is a professional. And at bottom, it doesn’t matter much if the reward the latter is receiving for his efforts is a medal or cash, a sweater or something else.

As was pointed out at one of the meetings of the Athletic Research Society even the social distinction conferred upon an athlete by giving him his letters is, in a certain sense, pay for services rendered.

Why then make the receiving of money an act which bars many good men from active participation in athletics? Is a young man a worse person because he was paid for his services as a teacher in a summer playground, than he would be if he spent his summer as a coal heaver or as the pusher of a roller chair and had been paid as such? Are the mental associations of the latter occupations more elevating than the former ? So far as the physical work is concerned surely a man pushing a roller chair, or emptying furnaces or splitting wood, or painting telegraph poles, or acting as a life guard at Atlantic City, is benefitting himself physically more than the man who is managing a playground.

There is still another point. This is that if the playground man is not paid in cash for his work he still is considered an amateur. Yes, even if he is presented with a gold watch and chain at the end of his services he still is an amateur. Why this discrimination against the one who gets his pay in dollars? If a person teaching

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by
-314-

in a playground or doing some kind of physical work were barred from participating in sports as an amateur because he might have acquired strength or skill which the other man did not get there would be some reason for such rule.

But, would even this be a just rule? Isn't it a fact that a tennis player, for instance, who because he isn’t paid for his playing and therefore is an amateur, but who spends his summer playing tennis, isn’t this person acquiring more skill than the man who as a paid playground teacher perhaps spends a half hour a day trying to teach some girls and boys the rudiments of tennis?

Again, why this discrimination against the man who gets his pay in cash instead of a championship cup? For years the A. A. U. and many other organizations have been trying to regulate athletics, and have been trying to use athletic competition to further school spirit, to develop character, etc. There now are so many rules regulating amateur standing and eligibility that everybody who is interested in athletics from the highest motives feels that a change must be made. Everyone who has any inside information knows that colleges and schools must, and do, allow persons to play, who under the present laws are not amateurs, because they feel that these laws are not just.

Therefore, isn’t it about time to acknowledge that the taking of pay should not be the main criterion by which to judge one’s amateur standing. Wouldn’t a rule of this kind at once clear the atmosphere, and wipe out most of the underhand dealings now winked at?

If once the motive, the spirit is the deciding thing to be considered the problem could be attacked from an entirely different angle. We then would not witness what we now see, i. e., honest, upright men refusing to earn money teaching in boys’ clubs, in playgrounds, in settlement work etc.; refusing to teach things they eminently are qualified for because they are too honest to tell a falsehood and do not wish to give up their right to participate in athletics.

Isn’t it better to change our laws and get this type of young man and woman to help us train young boys and girls into honest and upright citizens than to drive them to accept positions as janitors, helpers at restaurants, etc., because they must earn some money?

In order to start the ball rolling we propose “that the taking of money for teaching should not be a factor in establishing one’s standing as an amateur.” Who seconds the motion?

The German Congress for Folk-games and the Play of the Young met at Altona near Hamburg in June. One report of the workings of this great educational body shows that up to this year the courses inaugurated by the executive committee for the training

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 315 —

of playground teachers had been attended by 14,990 men and 7,050 women. During this year i. e. 1914, 18 courses had been planned for men teachers and 15 for women teachers. The present war, naturally, will make the holding of these impossible.

During 1913 the state of Prussia had 29,000 teachers attend its training classes for playground leaders. The tenor of the debates during the meetings showed how much weight is placed upon the proper training of play leaders.

Compared with our American conditions two facts in the above report are very illuminative, they are: first, that two-thirds of the participants in these courses are men, and second, that Germany thinks that it can train the sexes better in separate courses.

A book just published by the U. S. Bureau of Education entitled: “The Tangible Rewards of Teaching,” offers unusually interesting reading. To teachers of physical training the tables dealing with this subject might make one wish that the “Union” idea started some time ago in Cleveland and in Chicago, might embrace the whole United States. Here is an abstract of the salaries paid supervisors and teachers of physical training in cities of different sizes.

CITIES	SUPERVISORS	(SALARIES)	TEACHERS

1) Over 250, ooo					$4000...	.. .$ 650 to $1920	
2)	100 to 250,000... .			1800...	... 600 to	135°
3)	50 to 100,000....		to	2000...	... 45° to	1400
4)	25 to 50,000.. . .		 500	to	2000...	... 312 to	1005
5)	10 to 25,000			to	1500...		1400
6)	5 to 10,000....					1800

In the last three groups the minimum salary is paid to supervisors and to teachers who teach other subjects in addition to gymnastics. We hope that the publication of this schedule may help our readers.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The Normal College, N. A. G. Uv, began work for the year on September 14th. In spite of the fact that the entering class is by far the largest ever registered, necessitating changes of the schedule and skillful management of the work, the regular program was begun immediately and the classes are now well into their work. The class numbers 75, which is a good increase over last year.

The weather being especially favorable this fall, a good amount of time is being devoted to outdoor athletics. The women have been working on the jumps, low hurdles, hurhball, basket-ball far throw, and 10c yd. dash; the men on the low and high hurdles,

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 316 —

javelin throw, hurl-ball, broad and high jumps, and sprints. Hockey tor the women and soccer foot-ball for the men are also being taken up.

Shortly after school opened, the Students’ Alliance held its first meeting with the new officers for the semester in charge. At another meeting the constitution of the Alliance was read to the new students and an invitation extended to them to join the organization. It may here be noted that the “honor system” as instituted by the students themselves several years ago, continues to be recognized and an offence of any student may be brought before the Students’ Alliance and dealt with accordingly. The Senior and Freshmen classes are both well organized now and active in the school life.

On October 9th the students of the Normal College had the opportunity of attending a lecture delivered by Mr. Sprayer in the auditorium of the Shortridge High School. The lecture, which was addressed to the school teachers of Indianapolis, dealt with the “Purpose of Social Education, in Theory and Practice.”

Helen E. Homan, Recorder.

LA CROSSE STATE NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION,

LA CROSSE, WIS.

On Tuesday, September 17th, the State Normal School opened with approxicately five hundred students. Of this enrollment the School of Physical Education has thirty-eight, seven seniors, four advanced juniors, and twenty-seven juniors. Dr. Sputh is again at the head of the department of Physical Education. Assisting him in the woman’s department is Miss Clara Scott, a graduate of Normal College N. A. G. U. and physical director in Evansville, Indiana, high school for the past two years, and Mr. Fred G. Carter, who has charge of athletics and also assists in the men’s department.

Activities were begun at once and the Physical Education Club organized for the year with the following officers: President, Arthur Strum; Vice-President, Bertha Iliff; Secretary and Treasurer, Evertt Adams. Elaborate plans are under way for interesting meetings to be held regularly throughout the year.

Among items of interest to the school comes the announcement of the completion of our $10,000 athletic stadium. Its dedication occurred on October 17th, the date of the Stevens Point Normal foot-ball game. The local team bids fair to be the strongest all-around playing eleven that has appeared‘on the normal campus.

The schedule for the foot-ball team is strong, but we hope to land an upper berth. The following games will be played:

October 13th—Kewatin Academy at La Crosse.

October 17th—Stevens Point Normal at La Crosse.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
— 317 —

October 24th—Stout Institute at Menomonie.

October 31st—Superior Normal at La Crosse.

November 6th—River Falls Normal at River Falls.

November 14th—Platteville Normal at Platteville.

Thanksgiving—La Crosse High School at La Crosse.

The faculty gave a student “Mixer” which was attended by the student body and was a great success. There was a varied program in the fore part of the evening, after which dancing was the chief amusement.

Marcus Byers, Recorder.

THE JAMES E. SULLIVAN MEMORIAL FUND.

Within the past few weeks various newspapers of the country have published announcements that contributions to the “Sullivan Memorial Fund” would be received by certain individuals.

In order to avoid contributions going to irresponsible individuals, I beg to submit the statement issued by Justice Bartow S. Weeks, Acting Secretary of the A. A. U., under date of Oct. 17:— “As a member of the sub-committee appointed by the American Olympic Committee to consider the proposed memorial for James E. Sullivan, I wish to state that the committee has not yet determined upon the form which the memorial will take, and no individual has been authorized to solicit subscriptions. The Amateur Athletic Union and its various associations have subscribed, and the Metro-nolitan Association has issued a circular to the clubs in that association, but no appeal has yet been made to the general public.”

No public appeal will be made, either, for it is believed certain that enough money can be raised within the ranks of the Amateur Athletic Union to erect a suitable monument to the deceased leader of amateur track and field sports. All the associations throughout the country are contributing to the fund, and will make it unnecessary for outsiders to contribute.

Alfred J Lill, Jr., President of the A. A. U., has appointed Justice Bartow S. Weeks as temporary secretary-treasurer of the Amateur Athletic Union. The annual meeting of the A. A. U. will be held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City, Monday, November 16th.

The Natidhal Senior and Junior Cross-country Championships will be held over the VanCortlandt course, New York City, Saturday afternoon, Dec. 5. From present indications there will be a great attendance and figuring on past performances of many of the entrants, new marks are expected to be established.

Digitized by
— 518 —

The Panama-Pacific Exposition Co. has made application to the American Automobile Association for a sanction for a 900-mile contest from ElPaso, Texas, to San Diego for a $10,000 purse. This will be the longest auto race ever fun, barring the round-the-world race won by the Thomas Flier, and exceeds in distance even the famous Paris-to-Berlin and to Madrid contests in the infant days of motor speeding. It is planned to hold it during January or February next year.

The special attention of our readers is called to the article “The Physiologic Equivalent of War,” a lecture held on October first by Dr. Walter B. Cannon of Boston before the New York Academy of Medicine.

The publishers as well as the editor of Mind and Body have received requests for extra copies of the issue containing the article on “The Cardiac Effects of Immoderate College Athletics,” by Leopold Schumacker, M. D., and William S. Middleton, M. D., Madison, Wis. Several subscribers have stated that if they had reprints of the article they could place these in the hands of faculty members, and of school board members where a dense ignorance of the effects of “Too much athletics” is very evident.

The publishers of Mind and Body, therefore, have decided to reprint the article and to supply prints to subscribers at the following rates, postage prepaid: 100 copies $2.50. Money must accompany the order, and the orders must be in by November 25th. If you can use reprints order them at once.

PHILADELPHIA’S COURSE FOR PLAYGROUND TEACHERS.

Nowhere does the advancement made by playground work during the last years show more definitely than in the character and extent of training that now is thought necessary for playground teachers. Where playground work consists of positive, constructive work the training of competent teachers always has been the aim of far-seeing supervisors.

The playgrounds of Philadelphia always have been among the first mentioned when the character of the work was considered. It will, therefore, be of interest to our readers to see what rules govern the training of its teachers.

EVENING COURSE FOR TRAINING TEACHERS FOR PLAYGROUND AND

RECREATION WORK.

i.	This special course is planned by the Department of Superintendence of the Board of Education to train its teachers for the playgrounds and recreation centers conducted by the Board of Public Education.

Digitized by
— 319 —

2.	The course lasts two years, and is held on 20 Friday evenings from 7 130 to 10 o'clock at the William Penn High School, 15th and Wallace Streets. This year’s course begins on Friday, November, 6th, 1914, and ends on Friday, April 9th, 1915.

3.	The course will embody lectures on the different phases of the work, for normal as well as for subnormal children. It also will embrace the theory and practise of games, song-games, track and field work, dances, stories, and handwork.

Each evening there will be three forty-five-minute periods, one for theory and two for practical work.

4.	A teacher’s certificate or an equivalent training is required for admission, except that students in the second year of the Board’s Normal Training Schools may enter the first year of the course.

5.	On account of the space needed for the games and plays the registration for each year will be limited to 180.

6.	Teachers and students who wish to enter this course should send for an application card; address the Director of Physical Education. If qualified to enter, an admission card will be sent, allowing the applicant to register. Tuition fees must be paid upon registration (see 7). The registrar will be in room 1221 Stock Exchange Building, Saturdays from 9 to 12 o’clock.

7.	The tuition fee for teachers employed in the Philadelphia Public Schools, also for students in the Board’s Normal Training Schools, is $1.00; the fee for a limited number of other qualified applicants is $5.00 per year.

8.	Students absent three times unexcused, will be suspended.

9.	While no regular suit is required, students must wear cos-tumues permitting great freedom of action. Rubber-soled tennis shoes are best for the games.

10.	For students who have taken the full two-year course, for principals of playgrounds, also for principals of schools interested in play a post-graduate course will be given embodying the philosophy of play and the principles underlying the selection of physical training and play materials.

This will be a short course of ten nights, from 7130 to 9 o’clock, beginning November 6th. It will consist of lectures and round table conferences. The number of participants in this course will be limited to fifty. Participants enrolled in this course may at any time enter one of the regular classes for observation or for practise.

The fees will be the same as for the regular course.

N. B. There is such a wealth of playground material that teachers who have taken the full course, and who care to re-enter the regular classes always will find much new material presented every year in the work of each class.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
— ^o —

PROFICIENCY IN APPARATUS WORK.

Every teacher knows that he can get much better work from his pupils when they know what is expected of them. This is true also in schools devoted to the training of teachers of gymnastics. The recent demand for more teachers has brought into our normal training schools many men, and still more women, who never have had much gymnasium work. How to get these students to realize that proficiency in apparatus work means a hard grind for many years, and that if they ever are to be successful teachers they must be able to control their bodies in many situations, has been a problem for some years.

Mr. Emil Rath, dean of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., at Indianapolis, for a number of years has been solving the problem in his school through the formation of “Proficiency Aims” for the students. That is, it is expected that by the end of the term every student shall be able to “qualify” in the apparatus work outlined. Knowing what is expected of them, both men and women, juniors and seniors, whenever they have spare time are seen working at the exercises they must learn. We bring the first installment in this issue, the remainder will follow.

PROFICIENCY AIMS ON APPARATUS. (MEN.)

HORIZONTAL BAR.

SEMESTER I.

JUNIOR AIM.

Strength:

Hip pull-up frontways (Felg-aufzug.)

Alternate arm pull-stem (Zug-stemme.)

Swinging:

All knee swing-ups, all grips ( Knieauf schwung.)

Swing-kipp (3-4), uppergrip ( Schwungkippe.)

Hip swing-up (Felgauf-schwung.)

Knee-circles (3-4) backward and forward.

Hip-circles (3-4) backward and forward.

senior's aid.

Strength:

Hip pull-up rearways, under-grip.

Slow hip-circle forward (Kraft-felge vorwarts.)

Lever rearways (Wage rueck-lings.)

Swinging:

Hip swing-up rearways. Swing-stem, undergrip. Turn-kipp (2) (Drehkippe.) Hip-circle (3-4) forward from fall-kipp.

Inverted hang-kipp backward. Continuous free hip-circles.
— 321 —

SEMESTER II.

Strength:

Hip pull-up rearways (Felgauf. zug) ruecklings), uppergrip.

Double arm pull-stem (Zug-stemme gleicharmig.)

Swinging:

Swing-kipn, undergrip. Swing-stem uppergrip (Schwung-stemme.)

Crotch swing-up (3-4.) Crotch-circles (3-4) backward and forward (Muehlenum-schwuenge.)

Free hip-circle backward from kipp.

Strength:

Hipp pull-up rearways, undergrip, and lower forward to lever rearways.

Lever sideways.

Swinging:

Seat (free) swing-up (Sitzauf-schwung.) Also straddle (3-4.) Swing-kipp rearways.

Turn swing-stem with arms crossed to a) mixed, b) upper grip (Drehschwungstemme.)

PARALLEL BAR. SEMESTER I.

Strength:

Alternate arm pull-stem.

Swinging:

Leg-swings forward and backward to a stand and forward to support (end) Spreizen.

Straddle-vault forward (end.) Swing-kipp (3-4.)

Swing-stem backward (3-4.) All vaults from swinging. Slow shoulder-stand.

Scissors backward (Schere.)

Strength:

Elbow-lever.

Double arm pull-stem from balance hang.

Swinging:

Inverted hang-kipp to shoulder-stand.

Glide-kipp.

Straight roll backward from support.

Free leg-swings in center (4-6.)

End straddle-vault backward to stand.

Rear vaule forward, end.

Swing to hand-stand.

Scissors forward and backward from dip-swings.

SIDE PARALLEL BAR.

SEMESTER I.

JUNIOR’S AIM.	SENIOR’S	AIM.

Rear, front, flank vault from Squat, straddle, and flank vault run to seat; over bar.	backward from center to	support

Same from support lying. lying (add); to stand.

Squat and straddle vault to cen- Fencer’s rear vault, ter from support lying; from run. Vaults over bar (progressive.)

(To be continued.)

Digitized by C^ooQLe
— 322 —

A COMPLETELY HYGIENIC PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL.

(This is the second edition of this paper. It contains the detailed plans of a small natatorium, and in addition to the matter of cleanliness these plans provide for an extremely efficient but inexpensive management of the pool.)

By W. S. FRANKLIN, Lehigh University.

When one considers how the average person hesitates to wash his hands in a basin of used water, and how almost unthinkable a second-turn bath is even in the privacy of the family, one can understand the objection of ordinarily fastidious people to the public swimming pool. And it is not merely a matter of taste, either, for accumulated evidence goes to show that the public swimming pool is a real and serious menace to health. We must therefore expect the public swim,ming pool to be definitely abolished or profoundly modified in its plan of construction and operation. One or two changes of water per week with continuous filtration which will turn over the water in the pool once in forty-eight hours is the present standard, and it is on the whole very unsatisfactory.*

Stimulated by the proposal to install a swimming pool in the new gymnasium of Lehigh University, and sensitized, as it were, by an unusual hankering for water sports I have worked out a plan which seems to me to make it commercially feasible to install a swimming pool of the largest size in any place and keep it absolutely clean independently of any specially abundant or cheap water supply.

My plan involves three distinctive elements as follows:

(a)	The installation of a large sand-filter alongside of the pool with a capacity sufficient to turn over the water in the pool from 4 to 18 times per day, depending upon the number of persons using the pool.

(b)	The use of a lightly framed bulk-head which would be pushed slowly from one end of the pool to the other by the inflowing pure water, thus entirely preventing the mixing of the inflowing pure water with the used water in the pool.

(c)	The use of a heavy padding of burlap on the bottom and ends of the moving bulk-head to provide for automatic scrubbing of sides and bottom of pool.

1.	The advantage of a sand-filter is of course evident, and the conditions of use of the filter would be extremely favorable because the used water in the pool would be entirely free from mineral sediment and only slightly polluted with organic matter as compared with the river water which is purified by sand-filtration for use in many of our cities. Indeed the sand-filter would probably operate

* See “A Study of Thirty-flve Swimming- Pools in Connecticut. New York and New Jersey under the Direction of the Col’ege of Physicians and Surgeons of New York City,” American Physical Education Review, December, 1912.

Digitized by (jOOQle
— 323—

continuously foi* three or four months before it would be necessary to scrape off the slime layer and reform the filter.

2.	The advantage of the moving bulk-head would be an enormous increase in the efficiency of the sand-filter. In all existing pools the filtered water is allowed to mix with the used water, and the water in a pool is still one-eighth old and seven-eights new after a quantity of water equal to three times the contents of the pool has passed through the filter. The moving bulk-head would certainly produce a fourfold increase of efficiency of the filter!

3.	Frequent scrubbing of sides and bottom of pool is necessary, and the only method now available is to empty a pool and wash it out by hand. My plan provides for a slight lowering of the water level in front of the traveling bulk-head, so that the bulk-head would be pushed along by the inflowing fresh water, and the seepage of water through the burlap padding combined with the rubbing of the padding against sides and bottom would provide for a most thorough scrubbing. The bulk-head is so arranged that it will be automatically raised an inch or two when it comes near to the end of the pool, thus allowing the pure water to flow under it and up between the bulk-head and the end of the pool thus sweeping out every trace of used water from the pooh At this time the inner face of the bulkhead and the end of the pool can be swabbed by hand.

A top view of a typical pool* is shown in Fig. 1, and a sectional view along the line A B is shown in Fig. 2. Large ducts underneath the sand-filters lead the pure water to a sump or well at S, from

	sand filter		i
engine-houte	pool		£  00  •tJ
			1
A  and laundry	pool	<~bulk-head 	pool	B
	sand filter		

top view

Fig. 1

which the centrifugal pump P lifts it and delivers it to a large duct D from which it can be discharged into the pool at either end through

* The novel features of this pool are covered by application for United States patent.

Digitized by Google
— 324 —

gate G or gate G\ The used water in the pool is* discharged into the filter beds through adjustable weirs at either end of the pool (these weirs are not shown in the figures.) Thus the attendant can cause the bulk-head to travel back and forth from ‘one end of the pool to the other repeatedly. The bulk-head moves quite slowly so that both ends of the pool can be used at all times except when the bulk-head approaches quite near to either end of the pool, and the bulk-head is provided with ladder rungs s othat bathers can easily climb over it. The bulk-head is controlled by a rack-and-pinion system which ensures parallel motion, and the top of the bulk-head

	r	,				
I	1	[_ water	J	L —	 — water —-	]	
II	) /			

sectional view along AB

Fig. 2

projects several inches above water level and is made very conspicuous so that bathers will not strike it in diving.

FEATURES OF A NATATORIUM AS DESIGNED FOR A SMALL CITY.

Experience shows that the greatest number of bathers can be accommodated in a given space by having separate pools of different depths for children and learners and for swimmers, as exemplified by the municipal pools at Washington, D. C. Thus Figs. 3 and 4 show the arrangement of a pair of swimming pools as designed for a town of 2,000 to 10,000 inhabitants.* Figure 3 is a top view with roof removed, and Fig. 4 is a sectional view along the line A B of Fig. 3. The medium weight lines in Fig. 3 represent corrugated steel walls and screens, and the finer lines represent structural details as explained in the following discussion. The pool as shown is for summer use, only; but enclosing walls, double-plass roof and a heating plant could be added at any time at a cost of about $2500. The design provides for the enlargement of both pools by extensions at the ends.

The engine room is placed beneath one end of one of the dressing rooms. This engine room contains a water heater, and a half-horse-power motor-driven pump for lifting the water from the filter beds to the pools. The pump is to be of the simple breast-wheel type which is the cheapest and most efficient pump for low heads. The care of the motor and heateh requires only a few minutes in the morning, at noon, and at 6 o’clock in the

* No attempt Is made to show the details of the hydraulic arrangements in these figures.

Digitized by
— 325 —

evening. It is assumed that the water for the showers comes from the city supply.

A man inspector stands on a raised floor M, and he is surrounded on three sides by low counters a, b, c. He takes in entrance fees from men and boys at a and operates an entrance stile, he looks over a and over a low splash-screen d to the shower baths, he looks into the closets and locker alleys over &, and looking over c he has a view of the whole of both pools. Similarly a woman inspector stands on the raised floor W. She takes entrance fees from women and girls at rf, she has a general view of dressing rooms, closets and showers for women and girls, and looking over c* she has a view of the whole of both pools. The inspectors also serve bathing suits over b and V when bathing suits are used, and hand wheels are located so that either inspector can conveniently operate all of the valves for controlling Jrhe hydraulic arrangements of the pools and filters. While the pools are being used by men and boys, only; the woman inspector cleans the women’s dressing rooms. While the pools are being used

Fig. 3

by women and girls, only; the man inspector cleans the men’s dressing rooms.

The pools shown in Figs. 3 and 4 have been designed for Sabe-tha, Kansas, and everything possible has been done to reduce the consumption of water. Each shower consists of a supply pail with a few feet of urbber tubing connected to it, and two showers together constitute a unit; one of the showers having a one-quart sup-

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 326 —

ply paid and the other a five-quart supply pail. The small rectangles represent soap racks. The bather removes the on-equart pail from its shelf, fills it with warm water at a hydrant (hydrants are not shown in the figure), places it on its support and soaps himself thoroughly. He then fills the five-quart paid and rinses his body thoroughly. He then presents himself for a bathing suit or goes at once to the pools by passing down the stairs at e. The closets shown in the figure are of the dry type and odors are to be eliminated by using two small electric fans and a tall ventilating flue for each set of closets.

The arrangement shown in Figs. 3 and 4 will cost about $4,000 with only 50 lockers installed at first. The floors are to be of cheap wooden construction, and the scraping of the filter beds is to be done from one end, the sand bin being made cheaply of planks without a floor.

The pools will accommodate a maximum of 30 swimmers and 30 learners, or, reckoning an average of 45 minutes in the pools for each-person with open hours from 10 to 12 A. M., and 2 to 6 and 8 to 10 P. M., a maximum of 640 bathers can be accommodated each day. The filters turn over the water in both pools in 2 hours, and with the above schedule the water in the pools will be as fresh and clean at the beginning of each of the three periods as if it were drinking water in well-cleaned glasses, and while in actual use the water will be changed and the sides and bottoms scrubbed once every two hours.

The filter beds represent a cost of about $1,000 over the cost of

the bare pools and dressing rooms, and the cost of operating the filters is $1.33 per day, counting 10 per cent for interest and depreciation, counting 10 cents per kilowatt-hour for electric energy, and assuming a season of 120 days; so that the cost per thousand gallons of purified water is anly a quarter of a cent, whereas 10 cents per thousand gallons is a very low price for city water. To run the above pools with seven changes of water per day using city water at 10 cents per thousand gallons and throwing the used water away would cost 50 dollars per day.

Digitized by
— 327 —

ESTIMATED PROFITS FROM THE COMMERCIAL OPERATION OF THE

ILLUSTRATED POOL.

Let us assume that a full equipment of bathing suits is provided and that the pool to be used to one-fourth of its capacity for a season

of 120 days. Then the costs will be as follows:

Interest and depreciation....................... $3-33	per	day

Power for pump and fans.............................70

Heat ...............................................50

One man inspector................................ 2.00

One woman inspector.............................. 1.50

500 gallons water..................................30*

Soap, wear and tear on bathing suits, and incidentals ......................................   3-50*

$11.83

Total cost for season $1419.60.

Let us assume that the charge is 5 cents for nude bathers for 6 hours each week with the pools used to one-half capacity, 10 cents for nude bathers for 20 hours each week with the pools used to one-quarter capacity, and 25 cents for robed bathers for 30 hours each week with the pools used to one-quarter capacity. Also let us assume an average of 45 minutes in the pools for each bather. Then the income each week would be:

240 bathers at 5 cents..........................$12.00

400 bathers at 10 cents..................*...... 40.00

6co bathers at 25 cents.........................150.00

$202.00

Total for 120 day season.................	$3463.00

Net profit per season.......................... $2043.40

which is about 50 per cent on the investment.

This income is based on the assumption that there are 30 bathers in the pools during the time of minimum charge, and 15 bathers in the pools at all other times during open hours. It is probable, however, that the pools would be over-crowded during the time of minimum charge, and used to less than one-quarter capacity at other times in a city of less than 5,000 inhabitants. But, on the other hand, the open season is fully 180 days in Kansas, especially if the temperature of the water is very slightly raised during May and October. At any rate it seems likhtly that a pool constructed and operated so as to be attractive to fastidious people would earn more than 10 per cent clear profit on the investment, and if this is true a community

* Estimated on the bas!s of 177 bathers per day as explained below.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 328 —

would be justified in the erection of a good swimming pool as a municipal undertaking. Indeed it seems likely that interest, depreciation and cost of operation of a municipal pool could be met by moderate fees during, say, 28 hours each week so that the use of the of the pool could be free during, say, 28 hours each week.

WHAT SUBSTITUTE FOR WAR?

By JOSEPH LEE.

If we want permanently to abolish war we must, as in the case of the saloon, find an effective substitute. And to find such substitute, or even intelligently look for it, we must first recognize how great a thing war is and how high a place it holds among the instinctive interests of the human race. For we shall never abolish war in favor of something on a lower plane. If what we have to offer is not finer, more satisfying to the ideal aspirations of mankind, we shall not succeed in having it substituted and shall not deserve to do so.

To understand our problem, to know what it is we are up against when we talk so easily of abolishing this institution upon which the human race has been hammered into shape during the thousand centuries of its development, we must feel the beauty and majesty of war; we must see the youth of Germany go singing through Belgium to its death; we must enter into the devotion, the self-surrender, the million sacrifices of love, home, ambition, of every personal and selfish plan, that this present war presents. Can we be sure to rise as high as that? Do we so rise in our daily, peaceful life? Are we living on such a plane today? If not, and if we cannot form a reasonable expectation of so living, we had better pray for war that we may touch the heights if it is only for an hour, rather than die never having reached them.

Preaching thrift, the advantages of commerce, the superior importance of business interests, will never convince the human heart that war is bad. We may think we believe it, but the conversion is skin deep; the waving of a flag, the sound of a drum, the sight of a marching regiment, is enough to shake our arguments—a wave of patriotism carries them away like a child's sand dike against the tide. Say what we like, preach and protest as we may, we are all warriors at heart; not all brave, perhaps, but it is not with our cowardice that our moral nature is lined up. The living ideal of our civilization, even to this day—or the nearest to an ideal that we have—is still the fighting man. Chivalry supplies the only code that has captured the imagination of our western world. We have not yet learned to say “the banker of the Lord," nor would doctor, lawyer, shoemaker, or

Digitized by
— 329 —

the follower of any other calling fit the place we peace lovers would have the soldier vacate.

And the instinct of mankind is right. Horrible as are many of its effects, war is not bad, but good; good in the main and as an active principle, as all real life is good, good in especial as the expression to the highest power of a constant, ineradicable ideal of the human soul.

War is an ultimate, what in lesser instances we call a sport, a directly satisfying human occupation, carried on for its own sake not for an ulterior or utilitarian end. It does not pay, and is not meant to pay, any more than any other form of heroism, and can never be discredited by reiterated demonstration of that fact. Like all the great achieving instincts, that of fighting is promulgated in us as an ideal, a call for unlimited devotion, transcending the private powers of the individual and carrying him beyond himself; and as in the case of all such instincts, obedience to it is its own reward.

To vanquish war we must find other ideal pursuits, equally satisfying, that can take its place. Man will never consent to live in a utilitarian world; and life would not be worth living if he did. If every pursuit were justified only by its contribution to something, and there were no arrival anywhere at that which justifies itself, stands by its own authority, and casts its illumination on the rest— life would have lost its charm.

Among the ideals that have occasionally made peace acceptable^ not as a sensual choice of continued physical existence but as a way of life, have been science and art—the creation of beauty and the pursuit of knowledge. What we call the professions are those ways of making a living from which these ideal elements have not been wholly banished, which are governed not only by a market, but by an inner self-justifying law. A true profession is, in the last analysis, a sport.

But for nine persons out of ten, or, more nearly, 99 out of 100, there is no place in the professions. There is no room in modern industry for more than a very small proportion of expressive lives, for occupations illuminated by the laws of art.

It is true that every piece of honest work, every whole-hearted attempt even, satisfies the great ideal of loyalty. Thus much of satisfaction no laws and no conditions whatsoever can put out of reach. But it is not enough that our civilization should perforce leave open an opportunity that neither sickness nor imprisonment nor any other misfortune can take away. It must provide true callings, occupations that make affirmative appeal to the heroic qualities, that sound' a trumpet to the latent idealism of the race, or it can never justify its abolition of the one great calling that has the assured power to do so.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 330 —

We must cultivate art and science, although for most of us our highest attainment must remain that of the appreciator or the amateur. We must develop our sports and, by shorter hours of work and adequate provision of space and leadership, make the opportunity to participate in them universal. In the Philippines, American baseball and athletics have driven out head-hunting, and they may yet perform a similar service in a wider field. For sports in this narrowed sense occupy the precise void left by war, being accurately based upon the warlike instincts and following their outline far more exactly than does modern warfare.

We must preserve and foster competition, all warlike element in modern business. Above all, we must promote co-operation; the democratization of industry through the actual carrying on of each store and mill and factory by those who work in it, so that the element of vivid, concrete membership, of loyalty in work through actual participation in its purpose, may illumine and inspire the daily task. Competition between loyal, self-governing teams of workers would preserve many of the advantages of war.

Our art and other forms of expression must be made communal so far as possible. Pasteur was inspired in his service of mankind partly by his burning desire to show Germany, after the war of 1870* that France was still to be reckoned with—truly a noble way of getting even. And Germany has shown that industrial work can be done in the spirit of service to the fatherland. But our communities must have more direct modes of utterance. We must sing and celebrate our cities, express our national soul in music, color, noble architecture.

If the German armies could have marched on Paris singing as they did, with all the rhythm and beauty of national feeling of that great movement; and if they could have been received by a French army equally inspired, but without the death-dealing machinery on either side; and if the object of the march had been the dedication of some great institution, the consecration of some noble gift of one nation to the other—in that case there might have been in the occasion something at least, some little touch, of the glory and majesty of war, without its horror and ugliness. Indeed the German civic choruses, with their progresses from one city to another, had already made war unnecessary, if the belated aristocracy of their country had been able to appreciate the fact.

But whatever the precise method—and that gradually evolved by a people’s genius, once it has taken such direction, will as far outshine a cold program such as I have outlined as the hearing of a great opera surpasses the reading of its advertisements—we may be sure that in the cultivation of the ideal alone lies our hope of superseding war. In devotion to something bigger than ourselves, in whose presence we are humble, ready to give whatever may he asked.
— 331 —

we may find a sufficient substitute. Short of that we shall not find one, and may take it as our high good fortune that such is the case. —The Survey.

SUB-STANDARD WORKERS—DR. HAUL’S ATTACK ON THEIR PROBLEM.

By RICHARD C. CABOT, M. D.

Eight years ago, Dr. Herbert J. Hall of Marblehead, Mass., first used the term “work cure” to designate the systematic prescription of work as an essential part of the treatment of functional nervous disorders. The term was epoch-making. It marked the end of the era in which a “rest cure” was relied upon to rehabilitate the “nervous prostrate” who is born tired and gets more tired the more you “rest” him. Work cure is a practical application of the newly recognized truth that “nervousness,” neurasthenia, and the other psycho-neuroses can be successfully attacked not with medicine, baths and resting, but from the mental side by psychotherapy and especially by making the sufferer use such limited powers as he already possesses, so that by their use he may develop them. This means work. Deeper still it means discovering a motive for work.

It is to this last ph;ase of the question—the motive or driving power—that Dr. Hall has contributed something which deserves the attention of all social workers, as well as of all physicians. Dr. Hall found that work for art’s sake or for work’s sake, work given merely to keep the patient busy, doesn’t interest the patient and so doesn’t benefit him. The patient must feel the “call of the job” if it is to cure him. Why should he work when he doesn’t feel like it and sees no use in it?

Dr. Hall’s answer was to establish in 1895, at Marblehead, a work shop where patients’ supervised and taught by experts, are now making articles that are salable and getting wages for their product. Weaving, cement work, dyeing and pottery have been the most successful trades. Jewelry and metal work have proved too trying for untrained and unhappy patients to carry through and sell profitably. But in the other occupations about $7,000 worth of merchandise has been made and sold each year, although the workshop has never contained more than thirty-eight workers at a time, many of whom worked only a few hours a day.

Dr. Hall adds, “My figures do not include the products of the well-to-do patients, who have for the most part disposed of their work individually. .	.	.”

In other cases, the patients are paid. They earn money, not by being sick, but despite their sickness. Their efforts supply an actual need in the community and the patients are convinced of this fact

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 332 —

(and so of their own value) by the receipt of actual wages. Some of the patients do not need the money. But their souls need it,— need its message. Money talks, and talks far more reassuringly, far more convincingly than the most skilful psychotherapeutist, sugges-tionist or psycho-analyst. For money is a symbol of value. It proves to the patient that some one needs him, that he has a place in the world and can create something worth while. Thus money and markets connect the solitary introspective neurasthenic with the real world outside him. He gets a motive, a reason for forgetting himself, a future to look forward to, a ground for self-resoect. He' is back in the working world, along with the rest of us. This is less obvious to the patient when according to the plan used in many pub-lie institutions, he merely earns part of his keep and receives no money wages.

When Dr. Hall joined his squad of neurasthenics to the ranks of the industrial army he added his contribution not only to therapeutics but to sociology. He attacked the problem of the substandard worker—handicapped in the race of industry but not necessarily excluded from that inspiring company. He attacked a problem whicn faces all who deal with the consumptive,1 the crippled, the alcoholic, the chronic insane, the cranky but not insane, and in fact all chronic invalids, no matter what their disease. Rich or poor, they all need work, for without it they degenerate mentally and morally.

The sick type of sub-standard worker differs only in minor details from the other types—the feeble-minded, the criminal in prison and above all, the slow worker who will be thrown out of work when the minimum wage gets beyond the stage of talk and inquiry, and begins to work. For every feeble-minded person there are many more not technically or obviously feeble-minded, but slow, inefficient, unreliable.

These, sub-standard workers are in the same position industrially as the neurasthenics and the cripples. They are getting squeezed out of the ranks of the standard or average-capacity workers and probably this is for the best. Since all men are not born free and equal, but variously enslaved, and superior some to others, it is very possibly best to separate them socially, industrially or both.

But this admission, this experiment, has far-reaching consequences. The first result of establishing a standard of physical fitness, of wages and of work and excluding those who fall below it, is to create a crop of beggars and parasites. The cripple usually becomes a beggar unless he can get back his old job or something like it; and this, under recent legeslation, is increasingly difficult. He degenerates morally and corrupts others—not only when he is feeble-minded but when he is blind, rheumatic or simply “slow.”

To prevent these and other evil results of standardization, we must extend and develop our present experiments in the organization

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 333 —

of sub-standard work. The best types thus far established are exemplified in the Massachusetts School for the Feeble-Minded, the Massachusetts Commission for the Blind, the various state farms for alcoholics and criminals and the better prisons of the country. That the “slow,” the chronic invalids and the chronic insane are part of the same group of sub-standard workers is not yet so generally realized as to lead us, in this country, to any satisfactory organization of workshops for the handicapped, occupations for the insane, or industries for the slow and inefficient but healthy adult.

It is for this reason that work like Dr. Hall's is of interest to social workers, as well as to physicians. In his little workshop at Marblehead he has worked out some of the essential principles which will be found, I believe, to apply to the larger experiments soon to be tried. For goodness sake, “don't say I didn't tell you!” Don't make the common American blunder of independently rediscovering, at great expense of time, money and effort, what half an hour's perusal of Dr. Hall's reports will teach! He has shown:

That the sub-standard worker should not be excluded (like the beggar and the idle rich) from the industrial system. Like the body, he should live in response to stimuli and invitations from the world outside him. Where possible, he should be paid in money. He must always be paid in some way that gives him satisfaction—else he degenerates.

That he needs more supervision, less freedom and generally more encouragement than the average worker. This has long been recognized in relation to the feeble-minded, who can be made to do excellent and valuable work under supervision, but fall into vacancy, into wandering or mischief, if left free.

This involves necessarily a new kind of boss, one very different from the eaverage foreman, very much more aware of the psychology of sub-standard workers, more possessed by the enthusiasm, the wide vision, and the durable patience of the social worker.

Let Dr. Hall himself give more detail:

“The success of handicapped labor depends upon the preparation of the work before it gets to the worker. Here design and expert craftsmanship must unite with medical experience. The field of handicapped labor is a tremendously important one—some day we shall see it organized and systematized with astonishing results. . Because a great deal of the work of handicapped people has been valuable only in sentiment is no reason why the fractional efforts of these people, should not be co-ordinated into full and adequate results, if we are wise enough to choose work which does not compete with machinery, and which has a normal market. The work of handicapped people must never be sold because it is made by them, but always because it is worth while in itself.

Digitized by Google
— 334 —

“Now the cement flower-pot industry which we kre undertaking is confessedly an experiment, but it answers the tests. It can be carried out by feeble workers almost as well as by anyone else. It does not compete with machinery, for it occupies a place by itself. It is new and pleasing, and it steps into a market already made. . .

“People are apt to suppose that the earnings and the beautiful products are all due to the efforts of untrained patients. .... The pupils alone or the apprentices alone would produce nothing worth while. The sales reported include the work of experts as well as the assistance of novices and well-trained assistants. .	.	Our

earhings are all, or practically all, made by experts who are teachers as Well as producers and by pupils Who are patients as well as assistants. That is the nucleus — that makes possible the therapeutic workshop where the paying patients build up strength and efficiency. Examples of paying patients restored to efficiency but without reference to their earning capacity might be multiplied indefinitely, but they are of therapeutic interest rather than economic value. .	.	.

“Seven years ago a young man of eighteen was working as messenger in atl office in the city. Asthmatic attacks made his work difficult and uncertain. The only certain thing about it was that he would soon have to give up his work altogether because he could not be depended upon. This boy through the influence of his employer, was given a chance to work in the new industrial system. As it happened, he had a natural ability as a draughtsman. He was given simple decorative work to do in pottery, under expert observation, and he was given systematic instruction in design. At the same time asthma was taken into careful consideration. He was sent to throat specialists who through all these years have been gradually improving a very bad nose. They have removed polypi, straightened the septum, and diminished the turbinates, until the asthma, although very stubborn, is at last a thing of the past. Meanwhile the young man has progressed rapidly, and is today a most valued designer and craftsman, earning fair wages the year round.

“Another necessary factor in the pottery work is found in the person of a woman who before coming into the system had been a full-fledged case of neurasthenia—practically out of commission for at least three years. A surgical operation helped a little and a back brace more; but the greatest thing was her gradual, very gradual, taking on of work, detail work in the pottery. It took something like two years of this, working only a few hours a day, to bring anything like efficiency. This woman had been a bookkeeper before she was sick. Besides becoming an all-day worker in the shops she has gradually taken on the bookkeeping of the place—developing a system of accounts which I have reason to believe has virtually saved the whole system from bankruptcy on several occasions. This woman is now earning a fair salary—earning more than she gets.
— 335 —

“In the weaving and dyeing work the shop owes a very great . deal to a young woman who after a half-dozen severe surgical operations had become a nervous wreck. By slow degrees and against terrible odds of weakness she has climbed up to a position of efficiency and a service of loyalty which not only means a living for her but a pride of achievement which is no small thing. This woman, who is now a dyer and weaver of distinction, had no knowledge of the art until three years ago. It is true she possessed natural taste and adaptability, but these alone might not have helped her much without the ladder of the system to climb upon.

“Another young woman who is responsible for the new cement flower-pots had been a trained designer, but had broken down completely. It has taken three years for her personal or bodily upbuilding and two years to perfect the department of cement-making. She is not by any means well, but she has achieved remarkable success as a teacher and creator in spite of severe handicap.”

Another patient was a young public school teacher with good preparation, but not really fitted for the exacting work of the schoolroom. She came to Dr. Hall in “a pretty bad state of discouragement. ... I had at that time a small charitable fund that C could use, so I looked after her board and she came daily to the shops for treatment and work. After a year of slow progress she has acquired the art of cement flower-pot making and sufficient strength to teach that work here in the shops. She has just taken a position in New York at an industrial school for convalescents where she will teach and work and where she will receive her expenses and thirty dollars a month, which is a lot better than most public school teachers earn, or rather, receive.

“None of these people are physically well now, but they are in better health—if we use the word health in its larger sense—in better health than half the people working in the shope and factories of the country. They have a pretty good kind of health themselves and they have learned how to pass it along to their pupils. This is a moral and spiritual health which is quite independent of the ordinary standards. .	.	.

“I think it is fair to say that this thing has been done by a general practitioner in the country and with very little help beyond the natural vitality of the plan. That the system could live ten years in these difficult times is to me a wonderful proof of its value. Twice during the ten years I have received a grant of $1,000 from the Proctor fund, as an aid to original research. A fund to be used in developing especial industries for handicapped people would certainly be desirable. I believe it possible to modify and control manv industries which will not compete with the regular lines, but whicii will furnish opportunity for hundreds of people who cannot finite keep up with the procession,—hundreds of people who possess ex-

Digitized by
— 336 —

cellent capacities but who have no chance at ail as the matter stands. 1 wish your paper might include a plea for the establishment of an experimental laboratory where modified industries might be tried out. Some of the great charitable foundations could do it easily. My little work is pitiful in its limitations, but I believe it points the way to very great possibilities.”

People like Dr. Femald, of the Massachusetts School for the Feeble-minded; Grace S. Harper, of the King’s Chapel Bureau for the Handicapped (Boston); Pastor Fliedner, of Kaiserwerth, in Germany; Dr. Philip King Brown, of San Francisco; Dr. Hall, of Marblehead, and Dr. Patterson, of Frimley in England,—people of this heroic mould are needed to make the organization of sub-standard workers an industrial and psychological success.

Finally, two points about the medical aspects of Dr. Hall’s work. In the first place, his principle has other and most interesting exemplifications in the unconscious sub-standard reorganizations constantly taking place in our bodily organs. The sick heart, the diseased stomach, do not stop working except for very brief periods. If they stopped work for long, they, like our souls, would decay and die. They modify their work and reorganize it on a plane of lower efficiency.

The work of the diseased heart is irregular, like the sub-standard worker; its output, like his, is often decreased; its reserve and power of adaptation is diminished, like his. But it never takes a “rest cure.” In all chronic illness the body reorganizes itself on a plane of lowered efficiency, but it never stops work until it dies. So it should be with all sub-standard workers, healthy or diseased. They must still keep their souls alive by response to psychical stimuli—to the world’s needs and markets, as the body and all nature lives by response to stimuli, physical and chemical.

It is also of interest that Dr. Hall’s work is already beginning to spread,—cautiously and experimentally, as is right One of his teachers and many of his moulds and methods for cement work are now installed in the out-patient department of the Massachusetts General Hospital and a small group of physically handicapped patients (not neurasthenics) are there earning sub-standard wages instead of no wages at all.

Another offshoot is established at Sharon, Conn., under the Burke Foundation. There are cardiac cases from three New York hospitals are received and given suitable work.

Such offshoots are sure to multiply.—The Survey.
— 337 —

THE USE OF INSTINCTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION— THE PROBLEM OF THE PHYSICAL DIRECTOR.

By CARL OTTO MEIER, Chicago, 111.

A.	HIS AIM.

The aim of education is to prepare the human being for the struggle of life. As long as success of life rested mostly on physical ability, we find that the physical education of the aristocratic class, to which alone education was confined for many centuries, consisted mainly of the so-called manly arts. When physical prowess was supplanted by a higher intellectual life, the pendulum swung back and physical education was neglected.

The beginning of the 19th-century witnessed the revival of the ideals of the ancient Greeks; but what had been the prerogative of the aristocracy became now more universal. The reconstruction of Prussia, after its degradation by Napoleon, was the first impulse for a systematic physical training of all the people. The leaders of this nation realized the economic necessity of a harmonious mental and physical- education in order to compete with other nations. Today no civilized nation denies the value of physical education, although we are by no means unanimous regarding the methods of attaining the desired ends.

There are at present several systems of physical education which differ in regard to their aims, and their methods. The German system founded by F. L. Jahn during the time of national depression owes its origin, as said before, to the conviction that a people, in order to hold its own among rivals, must be sturdy and patriotic. From the very beginning Jahn’s system was more than merely a series of prescribed exercises for building up muscle tissue and strengthening heart and lungs. His open air gymnasium in the Hasenheide in Berlin was a rallying place for the youth of the city and vicinity, who gathered there not only to develop their bodies, but to listen to their master’s fiery political talks. Jahn filled his young followers with shame for the condition of their country, with hatred for the oppressor, and with the resolution to throw off the shackles of serfdom imposed by Napoleon. He showed them that they could not hope to be victorious in the impending war, if they continued in their lethargy, but that they were obliged to make themselves strong morally and physically, and that this was their duty not only to themselves, but also to their country. Ever since Jahn’s time physical training in Germany has been looked upon as a patriotic duty and the gymnasium as a training school for patriots. The physical instructor of a German school wants to give his pupils strength, agility, self-reliance, but he also wants to cultivate comradeship, subordination of the individual to the common good.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 338 —

Contrary to the idea prevalent in the United States, German physical training includes besides calisthenics and apparatus work much work in the open air, in fact the latter form of exercise is much more common in Germany than in the United States, where outdoor sports in schools and colleges are usually indulged in by a selected feW. One feature of German physical training worth special mention is the “Turner fahrten” i. e., tours on fofot through the country which dften last several days and which afford some of the finest opportunities for moral training.

The Swedish system founded by Ling lacks all the emotional elements characteristic of the German system. Its purpose is the development of bodily faculties in the most economical manner, eliminating everything that has rio recognized value from a physiological standpoint. If followed strictly, it never is play, but always a conscious effort toward a conscious end.

The Delsarte system aims to develop graceful bearing and movements. It had its origin in a school for actors but became popular among other classes of people. Many other systems have been evolved, some of them have been discarded, many have found followers, but the older systems, the German and the Swedish have stood the test of time and have become the basis of our present system.

Physical education includes play and games, tactics and calisthenics, track and field work, apparatus work, swimming, winter sports, and tours on foot through the country. Each of these phases offers an abundance of working possibilities which must be arranged in relation to the natural physiological and psychological growth and development of the child.

The teacher must know how to stimulate and use the instincts and to bring the reaction into the desired form. Happiness is one of the most powerful tonics. A child does that which it wants to do, more energetically than that which someone else prescribes for him; and what children want to do usually has a well founded reason in an innate tendency, an instinct. If we can convince ourselves that the various manifestations of self-will are not due to perverseness, but that by studying these instincts we may utilize them in our educational scheme, we have achieved a good success.

Infancy is the time of greatest growth. During this period the young human being is to acquire considerable muscular strength and sufficient nerve and muscle co-ordinatiort to enable it to walk and perform a variety of acts necessary for its well-being and happiness. Growth is dependent not only on proper nourishment but also on blood circulation, and in the proper functioning of the lungs. If these can be stimulated to increased activity it stands to reason that growth can thereby be materially aided. The instincts of the
— 339 —

baby lead the way to its own rational education. A wise mother will not repress the creeping, crawling and other instincts though they seem dangerous at times, but will give her baby opportunities for the exercises that its innate tendencies suggest. Guarding the baby against possible dangers, she will thus promote its health and happiness and prepare it for the important lesson in walking. The movement of the legs are by far the less important factors in the act of walking. The work of the large muscle groups which hold the body in an erect position and preserve the equilibrium is much greater than that of the leg muscle. The many aimless movements of the baby, the kicking, pushing, creeping, rolling, and pulling, all tend to develop these important muscles, and therefore should not only be tolerated but encouraged.

The kindergarten, if properly conducted, should give abundant physical exercises. Unfortunately the recent dancing mania has invaded also the kindergarten. While it is of greatest importance to give the child such exercise as will develop the larger muscle groups, much attention at present is given to drill in accurately executing the steps and the gestures of so-called folk dances. In this respect a return to Froebers ideas would be extremely useful. His children’s plays are based on the imaginative and imitative instincts in their simplest forms, give plenty of exercise, are valuable for training the senses and on the other hand make no undue demand on the attention of the child.

We, however, have to do mainly with the education of the child during school years, from the age of 6 to 18 years. Since it is not the purpose of this paper to discus the relative value of the various forms of activity in physical education it may suffice to state their physiological importance in a general way. Different periods of childhood make different demands, and consequently require appropriate modifications of the work. In general, however, the aims of physical education are the stimulation of growth and development, the acquisition of strength, endurance, speed, courage and grace. Moral training and preparation for citizenship should also be important features of physical education.

PLAY.

That form of physical exercise in which the human being indulges before any other aqd which is continued in one form or another all through life is play. We play because we possess the instinct to play. At different stages of our development other instincts arise, become more powerful and determine the character of our play.

An instinct which manifests itself in early infancy and lasts often through life, is that which gives the child joy in being chased and which we might call the teasing instinct. Much of the spon-
CHART

SHOWING

THE

PHYSIOLOGICAL

VALUE

AND

PSYCHOLOGICAL

BASIS

OF

PHYSICAL'S

EXERCICES.

Copyright 1914 By Carl Otto Meier

— 342 —

taneous play of the child has its origin in this instinct and many of the popular games in the primary and grammar grades are based on it, e. g., “Come along, drop the handkerchief, three deep, last pair out, etc.”

Much of that which we learn we acquire by imitation. The imitative instinct is one of the strongest and most important in school work. It is used in every phase of physical training, and especially in games, some of which are known as imitative games. These usually require the players to imitate some movements or gestures executed by a leader to illustrate a song as in “The Farmer,” “Washerwoman,” or “Fisherman.”

Many of these games also make use of the imaginative instinct. The child in his play represents some other person or an animal, and while the play lasts he is not himself, but the imitated character.

Some garqes have a certain setting such as the sea, mountains, castles, forest, etc., which to the playing child form very real parts in the gan^e. Observation of children playing these games, show quite a difference in their attitudes toward them for the reason that in different children different instincts are more prominent. While John may play “Farmer” because of his imitative instinct, Mary likes the game because she has a strong imaginative instinct, and Jenny is the acknowledged leader because in addition she possesses the dramatic instiqct.

Children of about 9 to 10 years begin to show evidence of the co-operative instinct and lose interest in the games played formerly. Competitive games of low organization, i. e., with as few rules as possible are enjoyed and should be introduced, like simple ball games, especially those which are based on the elements of the more advanced one, such as base-ball and basket-ball, different relay races, pushing and pulling, tug of war, etc. Here the individual subordinates himself to the will of the group. His strength, quickness, or skill does not gain anything for himself, but is contributed for the common cause, and if his side wins, he is elated because he is a member of the winning team. He acts according to certain rules, knowing that a violation of a rule may hurt the chances of his team, although he may not suffer personally. Thus he begins to acquire the “esprit de corps” so necessary in his later school and community life. The team, the class, the school, or the community is strong or weak in proportion to the strength or weakness of the individual members making up the group. It is a most desirable thing that nature has given us the competitive instinct which impells us to try to excel our companions. Individual competition is an excellent means of bringing out the best there is in a child providing that the competition does not encourage hero worship or arrogance.

The co-operative instinct is more strongly pronounced in the
— 343 —

adolescent period. The youth is willing to submit to more rules and regulations in the games he plays, and is also better able to learn them. His play teaches him obedience to laws and prepares him for good citizenship. Captain ball, volley ball, basket ball, base ball, soccer, foot ball, tennis, ice hockey, etc., are excellent for the high school grades.

TACTICS, FREE EXERCISES, DANCING.

Tactics are valuable for various reasons. They provide the means of moving a large body of people in an orderly way, they give the instructor an opportunity to give his attention to the posture of the pupils, they train the individual to co-operate with others for a common end, and if executed vigorously and possibly out doors, the physiological effect of marching should not be underestimated.

Free exercises and exercises with hand apparatus are often spoken of as artificial by those who are not aware of the fact that they are the fundamental movements of the body. Their aim is the development of the finer nerve connections which enable the child to co-ordinate the work of large muscle groups. They are invaluable for acquiring correct posture, and finally they have a value in that they tend to overcome the bad habits of the school room, such as round shoulders, curvative of the spine, etc.

Dancing as a part of a system of physical education should develop co-ordination and grace of movements. In these three phases of work we appeal mostly to the rhythmic, and aesthetic instincts.

APPARATUS, FIELD AND TRACK WORK.

Apparatus work is the most efficient form of training for coordination. It also develops courage, strength, quickness and promotes a good body posture. While in free exercises the different parts of the body are exercised without any resistance from the surroundings, in apparatus work we bring the body into positions, situations and conditions, which present obstacles that must be overcome. From a purely educational standpoint the value of apparatus work lies to a considerable degree in the fact that by learning different manners of accomplishing the same end, and by forming new situations, we develop the association of ideas and volition. The practical aim of apparatus work is the acquisition of many movements useful in daily life.

Field and track work has its greatest physiological value in inducing increased activity of the respiratory and circulatory organ.* and in developing speed and endurance, while it also, though in a lesser degree and a more localized way, increases the muscle tissue.

The imitative, the competitive, the aesthetic, the co-operative and the fighting instincts are the most common impulses which may be appealed to separately or collectively in this work. When young

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 344-

children see somebody perform a “stunt” they will want to imitate him. For this reason it is of great importance that teachers be able to perform the exercises that they require the children to do.

Competition, which is really a peaceful form of fighting is a strong impulse in all forms of physical exercises. Its most primitive manifestation is probably that which makes a child wish to outrun, or outjump his companions. Just as soon as the children show any

•	group consciousness the competitive instinct should be used in the form of group or class competition in track, field or apparatus work.

•	The aesthetic instinct aids in acquiring good form in all work, especially in apparatus work.

It is unfortunate that those physical activities which from a physiological and hygienic standpoint rank the highest are under present conditions practised least. I mean swimming, rowing, winter sports and excursions. What has been said of the other activities may be applied also to winter sports, such as skating, sledding, toboggoning, ice hockey and to water sports like swimming and rowing. But in swimming a special instinct operates, a power which forces every real boy to brave untold misery at home for the sake of indulging in a plunge in the old swimming hole.

Excursions have been mentioned as forming a part of German physical education. These long tramps through the country often entail considerable hardships. Children march for hours before resting, go without food or drink beyond their usual time, sleep in hay lofts or, at best, in beds not nearly as soft as those at home. All these privations would not be endured if it were not for the strong migratory instinct.

Camping out is the nearest approach to such excursions, but it does not make the same great demands on the sturdiness and endurance of the participants.

CONCLUSIONS.

Physical education makes use of nearly all the important instincts with which nature sends us into this world. When I spoke of certain phases of the work in connection with certain instincts, I, of course, had in mind that a particular instinct was, in a majority of cases, the strongest impulse. It is impossible to tabulate all exercises and games coacrding to their instinctive impulses. Some tendencies remain through life and are the motive power in many acts, while others are temporary and appear only at certain periods of the development.

The statements given in this papper are not based on statistics, for while I have been in the work of physical education for many years, I have always been too busy to gather and compile statistics, and furthermore, I do not believe that adequate and accurate data could be obtained in a subject of this nature. Recently there ap-

Digitized by Google
— 345 —

peared an article in the “Educational Bi-monthly” and in “Mind and Body” by Miss Mabel Wright in which the author claims to have discovered that play and dancing are the most efficient forms of physical training. This conclusion is based on answers to a ques-tionaire submitted to the girls of the Schurz high school, Chicago. Such a method of ascertaining the relative value of different kinds of school work seems to me very misleading, for the reason that children and the majority of adults, rarely are able to answer theoretical questions, as the view-point changes just as soon as a theory becomes a fact. In physical education, as in all other branches, we will be obliged to force some children to submit to certain features distasteful to them because riper judgment has proven their value. A knowledge of the nature of children will enable the teacher to make the forcing process more bearable. I remember a class of younger boys the majority of whom where extremely unpleasant when asked to make an endurance run in a gymnasium or the yard. I sympathized with them and said to them one day “Now boys let us see if wc ean run to Lincoln Park.” They started out with vigor, after a few laps around the gymnasium they began to lose the make-believe idea, and I called out “Halsted Street!” and immediately revived their interest. In this manner calling the streets that they knew had to be crossed on the way to the park I turned an iiksome task into a pleasant little game.

In the spring when the snow melts and causes the streams to swell I practise the broad jump with the younger children. * The space between the take-off and the mat is the stream, at first a narrow one, over which the children must jump, but as the stream increases in width their jump must be greater. Those who fall into the water are, of course, obliged to swim to the opposite bank, i. e., they must complete the distance making swimmino* movements.

In this way a long list of simple little devices could be made by which otherwise irksome practise may be made not only easier, but really enjoyable. And here I wish to add that most of these devices have come to me not through psvchological research, but through a happy inspiration at the right moment, probably through the teaching instinct.

DISCOVERING NATURE’S CURATIVE METHODS.

The most advanced students of medical science have always maintained that among the mechanisms of the human body were devices for setting it right when it fell out of order. They have regarded human therapeutics as methods for letting nature alone, for beating back the agencies that might interfere with it, and for reenforcing its acts, if possible. Our ability to do this has been greatly

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 34*5 —

increased by the discoveries and inventions of the German physiologist Abderhalden. According to Abderhalden, the animal organism automatically finds out what ails it and proceeds to apply the remedy. He has studied nature’s processes and enabled us to understand what it is doing and to help it. In reading nature’s diagnosis by examination of the patient’s blood, the method has been particularly successful, and it seems likely to add to our ability to combat not one disease, but a great variety of different maladies. Says a writer in The Scientific American Supplement (New York, August 22) :

“Every organ of the animal organism has its own particular function; in order to properly carry out this function, it is provided with a chemical and molecular constitution of its own. The liver-cells, whose functions differ entirely from those of the lung-cells, are also constructed chemically on quite a different basis. But the blood must always remain homogeneous, if it is to fulfil its life-preserving task. Therefore, the different organs must pass on to the blood the dead cells, used up by the process of life, and their own products of assimilation and disassimilation in a chemically homogeneous form. To do so. every organ performs extremely complicated chemical decompositions, each according! to its own peculiar system.

“If any one organ gets out of order, such disarrangement seems to affect first of all this process of decomposition. Parts of insufficiently decomposed cells or of imperfectly decomposed products of the assimilation and dissimilation enter the blood and disturb or even menace its functions. The organism at once sets about to produce protective ferments capable of finally decomposing the cell-constituents of the diseased organ, ‘digesting’ them, and thus rendering them innocuous.

“It is the great, the undying merit of Abderhalden to have discovered the formation of these protective ferments, and his merit is the greater because his discovery was not an accident, but the result of many years of serious and painstaking research.

“The discovery made by Abderhalden proves that the organism diagnoses its own illness automatically. It remains for us to learn to understand its language. And this diagnosis has the enormous advantage of being infinitely more exact, more rapid, and more* certain than all that human art can ever attain.”

Each organ contains special ferments within its cells, the writer goes on to tell us. These are attuned to the particular cell-substance of the organ, and show indifference toward the cells of other organs. Under normal conditions these cell-ferments are found only within the cell itself, but as soon as there a^^ars in the blood a foreign substance still showing the “cell-characteristics,” the corresponding ferment also appears in the blood as a protection, often only a few hours after the first disturbances in the function of the organ. To quote further:

Digitized by
— 347 —

“These ferments are, as has been said already, extremely characteristic in their effects, decomposing only the cell-parts of the organ to which.they belong. Therefore, by the methods elaborated by Abderhalden, we have the possibility of diagnosing organic disorders at their very first stage, and this, as shown by experiments with chemical substances, very often after only a few days or even hours, while under ordinarv circumstances, weeks and months, even years, may elapse before the effects of the disorder have grown to the proportion of pathological symptoms. An imaginary example, anticipating the expectations placed upon Abderhalden's discovery, will show this more clearly.

“Some one comes to his doctor complaining of strong and continuous headaches accompanied by insomnia. The examination reveals no symptom permitting a definited diagnosis. The doctor takes a small quantity of blood from the patient and distributes it in a number of test-tubes. Into each test-tube is then put a piece from a different organ of the animal used for the control: a piece of brain matter, a piece of liver, of the lung, of the kidneys, of the heart, of of the thymus, and of the thyroid gland, as the patient's headaches may have the most various causes. Controlling the test-tubes twenty-four hours later, it is found that lung, liver, kidneys, and heart have not been altered by the serum, but that the brain and the thyroid gland show signs of being decomposed. This proves that the blood of the patient contains ferments from the brain and from the thyroid gland. The presence of these ferments in the blood indicates that the functions of these two organs are disturbed, thus introducing into the blood cells insufficiently decomposed.

“The secretion of the thyroid gland being of extreme importance for the proper function of the brain, the positive reaction of this part of the experiment shows that the disturbances of the brain-cells are caused by the thyroid gland supplying the brain insufficiently with this necessary secretion. Thus the doctor knows exactly where his treatment has to set in.

“One must know the difficulties that beset the timely and correct diagnosis of disturbances of the internal organs, more especially when it is a case of functional disturbances as yet not showing any alterations of the respective organ itself, to be able to appreciate the overwhelming importance of this discovery for the curing of disease.

“This importance accounts for the fact that medical authorities of universal repute have felt it their duty to draw particular attention to this discovery. Should the experiments that are being conducted in all the great centers of Europe prove the theory of Professor Abderhalden to be universally valid, based as it is already on a great number of definite facts and experimental results, then medical science enters upon a new epoch and the name of the German
— 348 —

scientist Abderhalden will have its indelible place in the golden book of humanity’s greatest men.

“It is too early to form any final conclusion as to the ultimate success and scope of the methods initiated by Abderhalden, but indications are exceedingly favorable in relation to a number of diseases, especially sarcoma (cancer), and certain troubles of the nervous system and brain.”—Literary Digest.

ELECTRICITY FOR CANCER.

During the last few days of July, a meeting of the French Congress for the Advancement of Science was held at Havre. One of the most interesting papers read during the session was one by Dr. Doyen, giving the results of his extensive study of the treatment of external cancer by means of electrocoagulation. It was in 1906 that Dr. Doyen experimented for the first time on the action of heat upon accessible cancers. The Temps (Paris) of July 31 quotes him as follows:

“Studying the action of hot water, of superheated steam, and of hot air, I determined that the virulence of cancerous cells was destroyed by temperatures of 55 to 58 degrees centigrade, while healthy cells, which are more resistant, do not die until beyond 60 degrees centigrade. In July, 1907, I determined that the best means of producing a penetrating heat was by the application of electric currents of high frequency and of low tension, which up to that time had not been employed in surgery.

“Since that time I have obtained remarkable cures in a large number of cases where all other treatments had failed, notably x-rays and radium, which, in true cancers, are not even palliatives.”

After outlining some of the technical details of the process, Dr. Doyen goes on to show the limitations of his treatment:

“It has now been demonstrated that thermic electrocoagulation, when properly applied, is capable of curing all cancers which are accessible and localized, on the sole condition of being able to heat the whole extent of the pathologic tissues to a temperature of 55 to 58 degrees centigrade. When one is operating on the tongue or on regions where a secondary hemorrhage is to be feared, it is prudent to make a ligature of the principal artery as a preventive measure.” Dr. Gaston Walch, of Havre, also gave it as his experience that electrocoagulation of cancer was the method to be preferred in many cases; it exposes the patient less to autoinoculation than does the use of the knife. Electrocoagulation, he said, gives surprising results in cases where it is almost impossible to make use of the knife. Dr. Nouenc, of Havre, also confirmed the efficiency of this new

Digitized by L^OOQle
— 349 —

method. Dr. Doyen thanked his colleagues for their confirmatory remarks, and added:

“My experience with electrocoagulation, which is now more than seven years old, shows that this method occasions far less risk to the patient than extensive surgical intervention. Moreover, it does not expose him to recurrence if the tumor is still sufficiently limited to be completely destroyed.

“Therefore thermic electrocoagulation is a sovereign remedy for accessible cancers, on condition always that the penetrating ther-mie current has been able to destroy totally the neoplastic tissues without attacking the organs essential to life.,,—Translation made for The Literary Digest.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

A PLAY FESTIVAL.

On September 8th Reading, Pa., was the scene of a very successful Play Festival. The work was divided into three parts: industrial work, games and dances. The industrial exhibit, held in the morning was a pretty sight. Various kinds of occupation work were exhibited. In the afternoon the boys played volley and basket ball, and later the folk dances were given by the girls. On the whole, the day was an unprecedented success and it helped to make the attitude towards playgrounds in Reading a very favorable one.

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO.

In the report of the supervisor of playgrounds, Mr. John H. Chase, we find a part which will be of interest to our readers. It is as follows:

At the opening of the Union Works playground there were literally thousands of people present, and Mr. Smith of the Lincoln school, among others, was present as a helper on this big day. As Mr. Smith went home he arrived at the railroad tracks just as a little child was run over by a train and killed. He did not sleep for two nights from the horror of it. The tragedy simply illustrates that even with an exceptionally large number on the playground there still were children left to play on the tracks. Nowhere in the U. S. are we really solving the playground problem in a large, complete way. In every city there are more children on the streets than on the playgrounds. One reason is that mothers like to have their lit-tlest children within sight and call. For that reason they like to have them play in the street in front of the house, or in the back yard. Therefore, would it be feasable to keep our present grounds

Digitized by U,ooQle
— 350 —

for the larger children, who can walk some distance; but have little neighborhood centers built in each block for the little people, with a kindergartener or play director in charge, and have this financed by the people of the block? The people of the block, perhaps, being called together to vote on the equipment and to help choose the teacher. In some cities such an idea is blindly working itself out now by roping off certain streets at certain hours and having paid directors. But in Youngstown many blocks do not have fences in their back yards, and certain residents might be willing to combine and have their own vards used for such a neighborhood little-children’s playground. Onlv a few yards would be needed. It would take some calling and organizing to get this started, but is you could begin even one of these block playgrounds next vear, if successful, it might spread broadcast There are often thirty-two houses in a square, and an average of fifty cents per house per week would “turn the trick.” Our association would simply be an agency to socialize or crystalize a block around its own children.

a gymnastic dance.

Arranged by H. WATSON. Minneapolis.

Music:—“Novita’s Dance,” by p. M- Say; 2-4 time. Published by J. H. Remick & Co.

I.

COUNTS

The hands are placed on the hips.

1-4 Hop right 4 times, touch and raise left twice.

5-12 Repeat twice to alternate sides.

13-16 Break: Cut backward with left; hop left pnd swing right forward ; cut backward with right; cut forward with left.

17-32 Repeat opposite.

II.

1-	4 Cross step left over right; step right sideward; cross left over right; hop left and raise right sideward.

5- 8 Cross right over left; step left; cross right over left; hop right and raise left.

9-12 Cut sideward with left; hop left; cut with right; hop right. 13-16 Break. (See I 13-16.)

17-32 Repeat opposite.

Digitized by
— 351 -—

III.

I-	4 Step backward with left over right; step back on right; step backward left over right; hop left and raise right forward.

5- 8 Repeat starting R.

9-12 Cut backward left; hop left; cut forward with right; hop right.

13-16 Break.

17-32 Repeat opposite.

IV.

1-	4 Hop right and touch left sideward; repeat; cut sideward with left; cut with right.

5-12 Repeat twice.

13-16 Break.

17-32 Repeat opposite.

V.

1-	4 Hop right and touch left toe obliquely forward; hop right and touch left heel; hop right and touch left toe near right toe; hop right and kick left obliquely forward.

5-12 Repeat twice to alternate sides.

13-16 Break.

17-32 Repeat opposite.

VI.

1-	4 Stamp left forward; touch right behind; stamp right forward; touch left behind.

5- 8 Step on left; hop left and swing right across; step right; hop right.

9-1? Step-hop left and right with full left turn.

13-16 Break.

17-32 Repeat opposite.

Repeat the entire dance.

SMALL CHILDREN IN THE SWIMMING POOL.

By MAGDALEN A. HUBBER, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

It has been my experience and it has been successfully demonstrated in the swimming pool of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde, that children, five years of age and of average intelligence are not “too young” to learn to swim.

Any child capable of understanding and obeying a given command can with patience and firmness be taught to swim.

The idea that children swim instinctively, and that the proper way to introduce them to the water is to throw them in, is far from being correct. It may work out with a few adventurous spirits, but in these modern days of 'nerves' the general result of such treat-

Digitized by Cjooole
— 352 —

ment is a fear of the water, and what is even worse, a lack of trust in any future instructor, that is pitiful to see, and that takes weeks and even months to overcome.

I	know that most of our fathers assure us that they were pushed from the dock, and perforce swam. Well—adult memories are often weak when childish reminiscences are concerned, and we may class that tale with the one that assures us that, “when I was a boy we had snow all winter long or—that the summers were never so hot or were hotter,” and so on ad infinitum.

When I say that with patience and firmness a young child may be taught to swim, I mean really, to swim, as teachers and swimmers understand the word, with good form and a correct stroke.

I	question if it is possible to teach stroke swimming to the average child of under five. The ability to properly coordinate the movements of the arms and legs and the proper sense of rhythm necessary to a good stroke seems for the most part to be lacking. Above that age, however, the matter is not so difficult. Children of from ten to twelve years probably learn more readily than people of any other age. The majority of children of that age are practically without fear and have at the same time learned to think intelligently.

It is generally not so difficult to teach a child to hold itself up in the water and to make some sort of progress. The difficulty and the necessity for firmness comes when an attempt is made to teacn a proper stroke. When one considers, however, that a proper stroke once learned, is never forgotten, then, the necessary effort is surely worth while.

This emphasis on the necessity for correct form in swimming is more necessary than it may seem to most people. Any one, whether a swimmer o rnot, who for a while has watched the swimming and diving done by men and boys of all ages, in a large public pool, can see the difference in the work of boys of ten to eighteen years and that of the older men.

The work of the younger boys is almost invariably smoother, easier and more productive of speed than that of the elders. The reason for this difference lies in the fact that until recent years scant attention has been paid to “form” in the swimming of children. Now, however, children of ten can compete successfully with men and women of older years in diving and in strokes for form.

Correct form stands for so much more than just the “right way to do it.” Form stands for ease and confidence in swimming, to say nothing of the ability it gives to go long distances without over-exertion.

In a seven mile race held in Philadelphia last year, a child of ten years came in fourth in a group of eleven women, another child of eleven finished last in this race. These children finished in ex-
— 353 —

cellent condition and in good time. They were not phenomena, but merely good swimmers, coached by careful teachers, expert in the handling of children.

The child in particular who finished fourth, started swimming only because the doctor ordered her to do so for her health. The fact that she could swim seven miles and finish in good condition testifies to the effect of the work. This holds good in many other cases.

For children with prematurely developed “nerves,” or for those who are suffering from some physical disability learning to swim is often a difficult task. But—and let me emphasize this—these are the children who need the swimming most. The most unlimited patience and the kindest firmness are necessary for such as these, but once under control of their teacher they soon learn to swim.

The necessity for proper coordination soon teaches them to control their minds as well as their bodies. The water proves infinitely soothing to the jangled nerves. At the same time it offers unlimited opportunities for exercise without too much effort, that goes far toward giving strength and control to little arms and legs, that perhaps have seemed hopelessly weak.

As swimming is admitted by all physicians to a most beneficient exercise—excellent for the nerves and for the general physical development,—it is only fair to give these children a good start in the right direction.

While I have written at great length about the advantage of swimming for the weaklings, I wish also to say that the same facts hold for the more sturdy little ones.

The swimming pool and a knowledge of the correct way to swim give opportunity for the healthiest kind of play in almost absolute safety. A well conducted pool is always under most careful supervision, so there is really less danger from accident there than in even the most carefully managed playground.

Swimming as a sport and exercise for children has in recent years been rapidly coming into its own. I think this may be attributed in great part to the higher standard that has been set in the character and ability of the teachers. The fact that men and women standing high in the physical training and recreation departments of our city schools have given their thought and time to this side of the work has gone far toward raising it to its present standard.

The greatest obstacle to be found now in the advancement of the work lies in the scarcity of pools. This need is being met to some extent in the larger cities, of public pools—where teachers have been installed whose reports testify to the general progress.

This, however, is not enough, these pools appeal mainly to the children of the poorer classes. It is for the children of our great

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 354 —

middle class that I make my plea. There should be more pools of the institute type. The type of the pool we have here in Philadelphia Turngemeinde, where for a comparatively small sum, children may be taught to swim in perfect safety and under ideal sanitary conditions.

Indeed it is my most earnest wish and that of many other Turners that, in a short time a Turngemeinde without a well equipped pool will be a thing of the past.

Indeed I may venture to hope that in years to come all high and even all elementary schools will boast a good sized pool, under the care of competent teachers.

With that day will open a new era in the school life of children. An era which I am convinced will find fewer cases of “nerves” and “over work” and a marked improvement in the general condition of our children.

THE PHYSIOLOGIC EQUIVALENT OF WAR.

WALTER B. CANNON, M. D., Boston.

My original intention was to present an account of some of the recent investigations which we have conducted in the Harvard Physiological Laboratory, but the events of the past summer have presented a practical application of their results pertinent to present interest.

The doctrine of human development from subhuman antecedents has done much to unravel the complex nature of man in solving the puzzle of the details and conditions of anatomic structure and in accounting for functional peculiarities, but in no respect has biology contributed more to clarify our views than in throwing light on the ways of human behavior. The comparative study of the behavior of men and lower animals is making it clear that the springs of action are to be found in the influence of certain emotions which express themselves in characteristic instinctive acts. The combinations, anger-emotion with pugnacity-instinct, and fear-emotion with flight-instinct, are common to lower animals and to man. The major emotions, fear and anger, are peculiar in being accompanied by bodily changes which are probably more profound than those attending any other affective states. The parts of the organism peculiarly called into action in emotional excitement are glands and the smooth muscle of viscera. The pouring out of tears, the “cold sweat,” the dilation of pupils, the erection of hairs, the pallor from contracted blood-vessels are well-known changes from the routine of life in organs not subject to voluntary control, but there are other important visceral responses in strong emotions. Observations with the Roentgen ray brought to my attention the fact that in animals any sign of rage, anxiety or distress would be accompanied by total

Google
— 355 —

cessation of the movements of the stomach and intestines. It has since been shown that the secretion of every one of the digestive glands, as well as the flow of bile, is stopped under great excitement.

These emotional alterations are directly wrought by the so-called sympathetic division of the visceral system. The adrenals are subject to the same impulses. When these glands are stimulated through their nerve supply they pour into the blood stream epine-phrin, which has peculiar properties in relation to the organs to which sympathetic fibers are distributed. It is capable of evoking in these organs all the changes that are evoked by the sympathetic nerve impulses themselves. Experiments with the blood of “quiet” and “excited” animals demonstrated that the inhibitory influence of excited blood is in fact due to adrenal secretion and that, therefore, the adrenal glands were brought into action under strong emotions. This conclusion has been confirmed both in this country and in England. For many years it has been recognized that the injection of epinephrin brings about a liberation of sugar from the liver and thereby may increase the sugar content of the blood to such an extent as to produce glycosuria. It alters the distribution of blood in the body, depleting abdominal viscera, and flushing the heart, the lungs, the central nervous system and the limbs. It seems also to be an antidote for muscular fatigue. After these investigations the question arises, “Does the adrenal secretion poured out in emotional excitement likewise produce or cooperate in producing these same effects?” We have found that from emotional excitement alone a greater or less decree of glycosuria results. The glycosuria fails’ to appear if the adrenals are removed. The establishment of glycosuria, therefore, implies help from the adrenal secretion. Epinephrin besides checking the function of the digestive organs, drives out the excess of blood no longer needed there and forces it more rapidly through the heart, lungs, central nervous system and the limbs. It is significant that- all these organs are intimately cooperative in vigorous muscular exertion. Small doses of epinephrin serve to restore fatigued muscles. These remarkable changes are involuntary, and hence it is pertinent to inquire as to their utility in either preserving the welfare of the organism or guarding it from injury. Underlying both fear-flight and anger-attack emotions is the instinct of self-preservation. Under circumstances demanding either flight or combat there is use of the great muscular masses in supreme and perhaps prolonged effort. The stored up sugar together with the adrenal secretion poured out under great excitement would place the muscles of the body unqualifiedly at the disposal of the nervous system. At the same time the difficulty which nerve impulses might have in calling the muscles into action are practically abolished. In harmony with this interpretation are the vascular changes wrought

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 356 —

by the epinephrin in cooperation with sympathetic discharges which give to the parts called on for action a bounteous supply of blood. Forced respiration and “swearing” are also adaptive reactions directly serviceable in making the organism more effective in the struggle which fear or rage may involve.

The major emotions fear and anger exert an energizing influence which may lead to the accomplishment of extraordinary feats. Periods Qf intense excitement frequently yield a sense of overwhelming strength. These moments give intense satisfaction, and there ;s a fascination found in the critical dangers of adventure. For these reasons vigorous men go forth to seek danger and to run large chances of injury. In the major sports the conditions are favorable for the development of intense emotional excitement and for the exhibition of great feats of strength and endurance. Foot ball with all the preparation and circumstances attendant on a great contest and the additional excitement furnished by the large crowds of spectators makes every member of a team realize his individual responsibility for the supreme, all important result—victory for his group. Last fall twenty-five members of the Harvard University football squad were examined directly after the game with Yale, and glycosuria was found in twelve of the men. Five of the twelve were substitutes who did not have a change to play, and it was clear in the case of these athletes that the bodily responses were wholly analogous to those previously found as accompaniments of strong emotions in the lower animals. Furthermore, the changes in the men were quite as directly adapted to the powerful muscular efforts which their game demanded as were the similar changes which occurred, in the lower animals and which were adapted to their occasional fierce struggles for existence. What is true of football is true to a lesser degree of such sports as rowing, running, and hurdling. The analogy between fear and rage as exhibited in animals in their struggle for existence is analogous to those emotions in human beings which sometimes seize on individuals in groups and spread like wildfire into larger and larger aggregations of men, until vast populations are shouting and clamoring for war. The strength of the fighting instinct in man has been one of the main arguments of the militarists. They argue that the warlike qualities are essential to human welfare, and they must be occasionally exercised lest the people sink into self indulgence and become weakened and softened. War disciplines character, teaches men to be brave and patient, promotes virility and hardihood and renews the true order of life’s values. These arguments are to-day strongly contested. War has become too horrible, it is conducted on too stupendous a scale of carnage and expenditure, it interferes too greatly with consecrated efforts to benefit all mankind by discovery and invention;
•— 357 —

it involves too much suffering among persons not directly concerned in the conflict; it is too vastly at variance with the methods of fair dealing that have been established between man and man; the human family has become too strongly knit to allow some of its members to bring on themselves and all the rest poverty, distress and a long heritage of bitter hatred and resolution to seek revenge. There is then a war against war.

The situation reveals clearly the necessity of preserving the martial virtues. What is needed is not a suppression of these capacities to feel and act, but their diversion into other channels where they may have satisfactory expression. Henry James suggested as a moral substitute for war, service for the state in hard and difficult occupations, and believed that the thing needful was to inflame the civic temper as past history has inflamed the military temper. As an alternative to these assertions, since it has been shown that as a result of excitement the body goes on a war footing, a number of fundamental physiologic changes occurring, all of them adapted to the putting forth of supreme muscular and nervous power which was what primitive battle consisted of through countless generations, I would suggest international athletic contests, such as the Olympic games, which would do for our young men much that is now maintained as peculiar to the values of military discipline. They have further to commend them the high standards of honor and fairness in sport, its unfailing revelation of excellence without distinction of class, wealth, race or color; the ease with which it becomes an expression of patriotism; the respect which victory and pluckily borne defeat inspire in competitors and spectators alike; the extension of acquaintance which follows from friendly and magnanimous rivalry among strong men.

The evidence is perfectly clear-cut that pugnacious tendencies of men are invited by primitive emotions and are supported by fundamental physiologic changes that through eons of racial inheritance have gievn the body vigor for combat. No dull routine of drill, or any other deadening procedure, will call these energizing mechanisms into action. On the other hand, the hazards of hard-fought athletic contests stir the elemental excitements and mobilize the bodily forces just as the hazards of ancient war used to do. War and the preparedness for war nowadays have become too machine-like to serve as the best means of preserving and disciplining these forces. Bending the trigger finger is too trifling a business. The exhilarating swing and tugu and quick thrust of the big limb muscles have vanished. There must be no emotion because it spoils the aim. If, then, the fighting abilities are to be continued, how much better to exercise them in natural rather than in artificial actions, how much
— 358 —

more reasonable that men should struggle in the ancient ways, one against another, body and spirit, for victory in the supreme tests provided by the great games.—Journal A. M. A., Oct. 17, 1914.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

THE CIVIL WAR PERIOD.

Those who were friendly to the cause of the Union welcomed Lincoln’s call to arms with enthusiasm, and their sentiment was echoed by the great majority of the German population of the United States. All party differences and private interests were laid aside in order to stamp out the rebellion and to ward off the great danger which threatened to dissolve the nation.

The Turners were among the first to respond to the call to arms and enlist in the Union army. In some regions where the societies were large enough, entire companies were recruited from their ranks, and in New York, St. Louis and Cincinnati regiments were formed, which were almost entirely composed of Turners. Numerous societies had to give up their gymnastic work entirely, and many were dissolved because the majority of their members had taken up the musket. Just as the period preceding the outbreak of the war had been the most inglorious, so these days were perhaps the most glorious in the history of the Turnerbund.

The committee report of the Rochester convention showed that the Bund included in the neighborhood of 10,000 members, and it is safe to assume that at least 6,000 of these enlisted in the Union army. But with these, about 2,000 men who had been Turners before the outbreak of the war must be included.

How the spirit and enthusiasm that animated the Turners in these stirring times was manifested in many ways in all parts of the country, is clearly shown by the incidents that follow.

The Turners in Kansas allied themselves with the Free State party, and stubbornly aided in preventing the pro-slavery party from making the territory a slave state. The Germans gave valuable aid to the Free State faction in their bloody encounters with the Missouri border ruffians in 1855. An interesting incident is reported in the account of the conflict between thirty-five Turners and an equal number of native Americans from Leavenworth, who under Captain Haas, wrested a cannon and other weapons from the ruffians in Kickapoo.

The national capital was not onlv threatened by an invasion by the Southerners, January, 1851, but was also endangered by the secessionist element within the city. The two Tumvereine of Washington organized a company of sharpshooters, composed of eighty-

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 359 —

one men, and offered their services to Colonel Stone to aid in defending the city. They also gave valuable service upon the arrival of Lincoln in Washington, and on the day of his inauguration they formed a part of his body-guard during the ceremonies.

In beginning of January, 1861, the Turners of St. Louis passed a resolution by which the Turnverein was dissolved and in its stead a military organization to guard the Union and the cause of freedom was established. It was further resolved to sacrifice life and property, if necessary, to keep the county of St. Louis loyal to the administration in case the state of Missouri should decide to secede. These steps were taken at a time when the magnitude of the danger which threatened the country was barely realized. It was prompted purely by patriotism and by the enthusiasm for the cause of freedom. The Secessionists had made every effort to win the Turners over to their side, for they were fully aware of their influence over the rest of the German population; and when they did not succeed in this effort they persecuted the “white jackets” to the limit of endurance. At the time of Lincoln’s call to arms three complete and well drilled companies of Turners in St. Louis were ready for immediate service. These were incorporated in the ist Missouri Regiment and took part in the campaign in southern Missouri. When, at the end of their three months’ military service they were dismissed, they joined the 17th Missouri Regiment which was made up almost entirely of Turners and became known as the Western Turner Regiment. They took part in numerous battles and accompanied Sherman on his march to Atlanta.

The Turners of St. Louis were undoubtedly the first to come to the protection of the Union in the hour of danger, and it is due to their influence and that of their German compatriots that the state of Missouri did not secede from the Union. How prompt and effective their action was is shown by the capture of Camp Jackson, May 10, 1861. This act disheartened the Secessionists, and kept the city and county of St. Louis from throwing the weight of their influence to the southern cause.

When the president; of the New York Turnverein issued a martial proclamation, 1,200 men responded and were enlisted for two years in the service of the Union. Of these, three companies were made up of New York Turners, two from Williamsburg and one from Newark, N. J. The remainder of the regiment was supplied by the gymnastic societies from Boston, Philadelphia and other cities. Under command of Coloned Max Weber they were sent to Fortress Monroe, Virginia, June 1, 1861, and took part in the capture of Norfolk. As part of the army of the Potomac, the regiment fought in the battles of Savage Station, White Oak Swamp, Malvern Hill, Fredericksburg, South Mountain, Antietam and Salem

Digitized by
-360-

Heights. On May io, 1863, the regiment, now numbering only 460 men, returned to New York.

The Turners of Cincinnati were also among the first to take up arms. The men were recruited from the gymnastic societies all over Ohio, and for this reason the regiment was known as the Ohio Turner Regiment. Under the leadership of McCook and Willich, it took part in the siege of Corinth, in the battles of Perryville, Chickamauga, Chattanooga, Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge. This 9th Ohio Regiment, which was composed of 1,135 men, was considered one of the fittest of the Union army, and during its three years’ service earned undying fame.

Four hundred men responded to the summons of the Philadelphia Turngemein.de for volunteers, and, forming four companies, they placed themselves at the disposal of the governor. Pennsylvania had, however, supplied its share of men before these volunteers could be mustered into service, and so they turned to New York, where they joined the Astor Regiment. A fifth company of Philadelphia Turners traveled to St. Louis where they enlisted in the Western Turner Regiment.

The Turner Union Cadets of Chicago, composed of 105 men, organized themselves on April 17, and were ready to go into battle within four days. A second company, organized after the departure of these men, joined the 24th Illinois.

The Milwaukee Turnverein organized a battalion of sharpshooters, and their forty members were augmented to 105 by Turners from other Wisconsin societies. In the beginning of May they joined the 5th Wisconsin as Company C, Turner Rifles.

When the Turners of Indianapolis returned at the close of their three months’ service, a desire was urgent among them to organize a wholly German regiment, and with the approval of Governor Morton this was accomplished. The regiment was placed under the command pf August Willich, and the ten companies were recruited from Indianapolis, Madison, Aurora, Lawrenceburg, Terra Haute, Lafayette, Laporte and Evansville. The regiment, which departed September 6, 1861, for Louisville, was enrolled as the 32d Indiana Regiment, and gained for itself a well-earned reputation in the battles of Rowlett Station, Shiloh, Stone River, Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge and on the march to Atlanta.

Although it is practically impossible to determine the exact number, there was hardly a gymnastic society in the Union which was represented by at least several Turners on the field of battle. In view of the disorganized condition of the	no record of

the Turners who enlisted in the army was kept, and, consequently, the names of those men who sacrificed their lives in the cause is, to a great extent, unknown.
— 361 —

An account of the civil war period in this limited history of the Turnerbund is necessarily brief, but it is well, perhaps, to enumerate the more important regiments which were composed wholly or in part to Turners

“From Missouri the ist (Colonel Blair), the 3d (Colonel Franz Sigel), the 12th (Colonel Osterhaus), the 17th (Colonel Hassen-deubel, later Colonel Kramer), and the 41st (Colonel Wiedemeyer) ; from Wisconsin the 5th, the 9th (Colonel Salomon), th$ 26th (Colonel Hans Bobel) ; from Ohio the 9th (Colonel McCook), the 28th (Colonel Moor), the 37th (Colonel Siebert), the 106th (Colonel G. Tafel), the 108th (Colonel Limberg); from Illinois the 9th (Colonel Mersy), the 24th (Colonel Frederick Hecker), the 43d (Colonel Engelmann), the 82d (Colonel Frederick Hecker) ; the ist and 2d Kentucky; the 47th of Pennsylvania; the 20th of New York (Colonel Max Weber, later Colonel Engelbert Schnepf) ; the 2d Cavalry Regiment of Minnesota (Lieutenant-Colonel Pfander) ; the Artillery Brigade of Ohio (Colonel Max Hoffmann), and the Artillery Brigade of Minnesota (Colonel Wm. Pfander*).”

During the early part of the war many unsuccessful attempts were made to infuse new life into the Turnerbund. The Turner societies of New York, which had been strengthened by numerous immigrants, formed a close alliance in February, 1863, and when they had gained a firm foothold they made an attempt to call the Turnerbund back into life. A general gymnastic festival, to which the societies from all over the country were invited, was determined on as the best means to effect this end.

Over 800 visiting Turners took part in the festival, September, 1864, and every one of these evinced a desire for the reorganization of the Bund, and at the convention which was held at this time it was decided to retain the platform of the old Bund, and to give the title of Amerikanischer Turnerbund to the new organization.

A proclamation was issued by the central committee to the gymnastic societies of America calling upon them to group themselves into districts and to join the new Turnerbund. This met with general approval, and the beginning, made by Cincinnati with five societies, was rapidly followed by the districts of New England, West New York, St. Louis, Connecticut and Wisconsin.

The convention in Washington, April 3, 1865, is of primary importance in the history of the North American Gymnastic Union, for at this meeting the unfortunate period of factional strife was terminated, and the cause of German gymnastics was taken up with renewed vigor. The friendly spirit shown by all the delegates contributed greatly toward the amicable readjustment of affairs, which furthered the revival of the Bund. The general enthusiasm, how-
— 362 —

ever, can no doubt be attributed to another cause which aroused great rejoicing at this memorable meeting.

Dispatches telling of the glorious victories of the Union arms, which culminated in the capture of Richmond and promised the total suppression of the rebellion in the near future, arrived in Washington during the session of the Turner delegates, and were received with unabated enthusiasm. The city became a scene of joyous festivities, into which the organizers of the new Bund entered with great enthusiasm, and the spirit of the occasion manifested itself within the convention hall. They had good reason to rejoice, for the defeat of the Confederacy, with its great national significance, came simultaneously with the formation of the vigorous, reunited Turnerbund.

THE TURNERBUND AFTER THE CIVIL WAR.

The gymnastic societies, which had managed to exist through the turmoil of the civil war, flourished rapidly after the Washington convention of the re-united Turnerbund. It was, indeed, a period of enthusiastic activity. Upon returning from the field of battle, the Turners resumed the work in their societies, which had been neglected for such a long time, with renewed vigor and interest, and they found new and valuable allies ift the numerous German immigrants cf that day who had received a thorough gymnastic training in the mother country. The New York executive committee did everything in its power to encourage the work of rejuvenating and strengthening the Turnerbund. It planned the establishment of a normal school for the training of teachers of gymnastics in order to supply the societies and schools with competent men who had enjoyed the benefit of a complete theoretic and practical study of gymnastics. It may be of interest to note that at the Turnfest in Cincinnati, in September, 1865, a national meeting of the teachers of physical training, the first of its kind in the history of German-American gymnastics, was convened in that city. Furthermore, an effort was made to gain the interest of prominent educators and their co-operation in the publication of a series of non-sectarian German school books to be used by the societies and German academies. The ultimate am-b:tion was to introduce the teaching of German into the public schools of the country. The Turner societies evinced a decided interest in all intellectual Questions, and prominent lecturers were engaged to address their members.

Aside from matters concerning p*vmnastics and other educational questions, the solution of the political problems of that time was foremost in the minds of the Turners. In their national convention in St. Louis, 1866, the following resolutions were adopted and forwarded to the United States congress:

Digitized by A^OOQle
— 363 —

(1)	“The constitution of the United States provides that congress shall make all those laws and provisions necessary for the general welfare of the nation; therefore, it should be its duty to pass such laws as will insure the future, and shall enforce those republican provisions of the constitution which will extend to every citizen of the United States his rights as such in each state of the Union.

(2)	“The constitution shall be amended in such a form that the cardinal principles of the Declaration of Independence will have a legal status.

(3)	“The convention advises the Turners and all friends of freedom to be alert and manifest an active interest in all public questions, so that congress may realize that it will be supported by a loyal body of citizens only when it makes an honest effort to smother the national turmoil by instituting energetic provisions to eradicate certain existing evils.”

The New York district added the following:

“It shall further be the duty of this organization to support all attempts to raise the intellectual standard of the people, and to promote a non-sectarian education of the youth by establishing and furthering good schools.”

It is significant to note that the manifesto was issued at a time when the promise of the civil war for a true democracy was in imminent peril, and this, as the Turners stated in the preamble to their resolution, was due to the fact that President Andrew Johnson did not redeem his promises and was sacrificing the interests of the country.

In 1867 the effort was made by the executive committee to form an independent progressive party. Although the attempt failed because the Turners were unwilling to divert their activities into partisan political channels, the movement retains an historical interest. The leading spirits of this proposed organization felt that a true democratic republic could be attained only when the demands of their platform were carried into execution.

The most significant paragraphs of this platform call for the impartial administration of justice without discrimination as to race, color or nationality; for the protection of life and property; for an enumeration of the uniform legal qualifications for voters in the national elections; for a general and uniform distribution of taxes and the maintenance of the principle of a -ressive capital and income tax. The platform also demanded that free entry should be given all raw products which could be produced only in insufficient quantity within the United States; that better national support should be given to the department of education; that its work should be extended farther, particularly in the South; that compulsory school education be introduced as a necessary guarantee against the misuse of the vot-

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 364 —

ing privilege; that all monopolies should be restricted and that the employee should be protected against the unjust demands of his employer. Furthermore, a national standing army was advocated on the basis of compulsory military service; laws protecting and encouraging desirable immigration were urged, and, in conclusion, the Turners advocated the abolishment of the existing presidential system, declaring it to be an unrepublican institution, and advised in its stead a national executive committee, to be elected by congress, and the separation of the military authority from all political power as more expedient and more in harmony with the spirit of the time.

At that time the Turnerbund was composed of 18 districts and 148 societies, with a total membership of 10,200.

In 1871 the executive committee published a manifesto addressed to the oeople of the United States, in which the attitude of the Turners toward the public questions of the day was defined at length. It is hardly necessary to enumerate the specific clauses of this manifesto, since the political oolicy advocated by the Turners has been set forth in the above account of the platform of the free progressive party. However, one paragraph dealing with socialism as it was understood by the Turners at that time, is of special interest. The manifesto makes the following statement:

“Socialism of to-day, in which we Turners believe, aims to remove the pernicious antagonism between labor and capital. In endeavors to effect a reconciliation between these two, and to establish a peace by which the rights of the former are fully protected against the encroachments of the latter.

“In short, socialism wishes to actuate business honesty. There is no doubt that the next European revolution will primarily exhibit a social character, and it is difficult to foresee the outcome. However, since self-preservation is the inherent impulse of the human race, the ultimate solution of this vital problem will be in the final victory of the oppressed classes. They, in their turn, must not violate justice in their demands. They must not endeavor to build up some sort of a new aristocracy of the working class upon the ruins of the old aristocratic class, with its manifold privileges and numerous monopolies and its unwarrantable advantages—a heritage bestowed by the blind accident of birth.

“We wish all men to be working men, sustaining themselves by the product of their labor, but by no means do we favor the creation of new class distinctions upon the overthrow of the present controlling class.”

(to be continued.)
— 365 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

School Hygiene.—School hygiene is a complex problem. It is generally conceded that our knowledge Of its principles is greatly in excess of their practical application. The position of school medical officer presupposes, in addition to thorough training in physiology and psychology, a practical working knowledge of the physics of heat,.light and ventilation, and an ability to recognize and coordinate the physical condition and educational needs of the developing child.

The need of skilled services and the expense incident thereto have been instrumental in restricting the practice of school hygiene largely to urban communities. This is unfortunate, because the great bulk of the school population of this country is as yet scattered over

the rural districts.....

The necessity for specialized medical services and the rather chaotic tabulation of the results of medical school inspections are largely responsible for deductions that do not bear analytic scrutiny. There is necessity for uniformity in methods of examination and of classifying the results for collective statistics to be of value.

The object of school hygiene is primarily to place the impressionable child in the most favorable environment for physical and mental development and secondarily to detect and correct remediable defects which may impede intellectual training. The medical supervision of schools may, however, be further utilized by the state in the determination of the prevalence of communicable diseases, especially in rural communities. The ultimate control of malaria, trachoma, tuberculosis and. typhoid fever in these communities must be largely through educational methods. For these reasons the combination of the duties of the health officer with that of the medical supervision of schools appears eminently practicable. Furthermore the health officer would have statutory authority to inspect premises, to abate nuisances and control foci of infection indicated by school medical inspections.

Intensive studies of the mental capacity of American school-children, at varying ages, should be undertaken, in widely separated

communities, with a view to the establishment of the normal mental

7 /

standard, thereby rendering possible the study of the impress of immigration, and the effect of a changed social environment on the mental processes of the immigrant child, as revealed by similar examinations at the ports of entry.—Abstracted from Editorial,

A.	M. A., 9-12-1914.

The Adjustment of the Dietary to Economic Conditions.—The migration of a large fraction of the population of the civilized parts

Digitized by

Google
— 366 —

of the world from the country to the cities is one of the phenomena attending the “industrialization” of modern nations. Whereas formerly the city was essentially a center for trade and office life, of late the factory with its large working population has become an adjunct of city life.

With an impending rise in price and increasing scarcity of meat making itself felt throughout the country, and with the growing tendency of the industrial workers coming from the country to the cities to try to provide the table which is demanded by their well-to-do neighbors, a household problem inevitably arises.

At present the cheapest articles of food include potatoes, peas and beans, and certain cereals in the form of coarse bread; cabbage forms a cheap green vegetable; among animal products, milk and cheese are comparatively inexpensive; fish furnish the cheapest forms of flesh foods; and dried apples are among the cheapest fruits. Expensive butter can be in part replaced advantageously by less expensive, yet thoroughly wholesome animal and vegetable fats. Beef, which is always expensive, might well be replaced more liberally by fish than it has been in the past. Potatoes are not yet competing with the cereals as extensively as they might well do; but cheese is likely, as we have intimated before, to find increasing favor.

The adequate dietary is a decidedly flexible affair, and it is well that this fact should become widely inculcated. The idea that even radical departures from acquired food habits are likely to lead to nutritive disorder and decreased efficiency needs to be eradicated. The foods of nations vary widely and yet support creditable human specimens. When once this fact is thoroughly appreciated there will be less dismay when a rise in the price'of some supposedly indispensable product is announced. The adjustment of the dietary to the pocketbook will be further facilitated when intelligent marketing becomes recognized as a household art that deserves cultivation.— Abstracted from Editorial, Journ. A. M. A., 9-19-1914.

Industrial Health.—The importance of the problem of industrial sanitation is gradually becoming more fully realized. Some employers, indeed, even yet apparently take the ground that, if workmen are willing to labor under insanitary conditions, it is no concern of their employers. On the whole, however, we believe that with each year employers tend to appreciate more and more the commercial value to them of sanitary working conditions for their employees.

B.	S. Warren of the United States Public Health Service, who has been deputed as sanitary adviser to the United States Commission on Industrial Relations, points out that the false economy involved in neglect of sanitation inevitably leads to greatly lessened efficiency and is thus really expensive for the employer in the end.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 367 —

The highest efficiency is possible only when the health of workers is favored by good air and light, proper arrangement of hours of labor and the maintenance of the safeguards of health.

With regard to hours of labor particularly, some recent experience is valuable as indicating that shortened hours of labor may actually conduce not only to the health of employees but also to greater production. In the Engis Zinc Works the hours of labor were cut down from twelve to eight per day, yet the men earned as much and did as much work in eight hours as they did formerly in twelve. Besides there was a marked decrease in the calls on the sick fund, the men no longer felt the need of stimulation, and sobriety was markedly increased. Almost the same thing happened at the Zeiss Optical Works in Germany. Abbe kept a careful record for the years wfien the plant was operating on a nine-hour day. When the working day was reduced to eight hours, the record showed the men earned over 3 per cent more than during the previous year, the output of the work was increased 3 per cent and the power-plant was able to shut down an hour earlier, thus effecting a very material saving in fundamental expense. The record was for 233 men at an average age of 31 years, and many different occupations on a piecework basis were represented in the shop.—Abstract from Editorial, Journ. A. M. A., 9-29-1914.

The Individual Responsible.—That which is a common concern to all is very generally neglected. The energies of man are stimulated by that which depends on himself alone, and of which he only is to reap the whole profit or glory. In concerns common to him with others he employs with reluctance as much attention and activity as his own interest requires. He neglects that of which he thinks other men will take care, and as other men prove equally negligent, the common interest is universally abandoned.—Aristotle.

BOOK REVIEW.

Manual of Exercises in Physical Training.—Two new handbooks of physical training for the Cincinnati public schools have just been issued by Dr. Carl Ziegler, Director of Physical Education and Hygiene of that city. The books have 168 pages of 6 by 9 inches in size. Price: one volume 60 cents, both one dollar.

One hundred different lessons with five hundred small line engravings, illustrating the correct execution of exercises, are contained in the two volumes. The lessons cover the whole year’s work for the eight school' grades and include free exercises without and with

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 368 —

hand apparatus such as dumb-bells and wands, the description of the most practical games for the school room and yard, and a list appropriate folk dances. Twenty-four pages are devoted to detailed explanations, which together with the illustrations will be a great help to the class teachers and avoid misinterpretation of the exercises.

I	believe that this manual will be of value to every physical director, for it is the result of the life’s experience of some of the leading men in our professions.—Adolph Picker, Director of Physical Education, Baltimore public schools.

((The Social Emergency” edited by W. T. Foster, President of Reed College, Portland, Oregon; 224 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by Houghton, Mifflin Company, Boston. Price $1.35 net.

The volume is a study in sex hygiene and morals. In the introduction Dr. Charles W. Eliot says:.“This book is a sincere effort, first, to supply the needed knowledge of terrible wrongs and destructions; and secondly, to indicate cautiously and tentatively the most available means of attacking the evils described. It is an attempt to enlighten public opinion on one of the gravest of modern problems—indeed, the very gravest, with the exception of the warfare between capital and labor. The book is not intended for children, or even for adolescents, but rather for parents, teachers, and ministers who have to answer the questions of children and youth about sex relations, or deal sympathetically with the victims of sexual vice.

“This book is intended to arouse public sentiment, spread accurate knowledge, check rash enthusiasm, and promote well-informed and resolute action.”

“Stammering and Cognate Defects of Speech,” by C. L. Bluemel. Two volumes, each 5 by 8 inches; 365 and 391 pages respectively. Published by G. E. Stechert and Company, New York. Price for both volumes $5.00 net.

Volume 1 consists of the psychology of stammering and of h discussion of the causality of this defect. In volume two the author reviews and criticizes the systems at present employed in treating stammering in Europe and America.

In these two volumes the author exhaustively treats the subject in a scientific and easily understood manner. Any parent, or teacher can find the reasons for stammering, and, having found these, correct the speech defect. The books are warmly recommended.

Digitized by Google