Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, Sec'y. of the Technical Committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd a Chestnut 8t»8, St.I_OUI8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., Managing Editor, 760 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE, Wl8.

THE IMPORTANCE OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By J. J. MAAS, Principal Second District School, Cincinnati, O.

PHYSICAL vigor is the basis of all moral and bodily welfare and a chief condition of permanent health. Like manly strength and womanly parity gymnastics and temperance should go hand in hand. An effeminate man is half sick; without the stimulus of physical exercise the complex organism of the human body is liable to disorders which abstinence and chastity can only partly counteract. By increasing the functions of the circulatory system athletic sports promote the elimination of effete matter and quicken all the vital processes till languor and dyspepsia disappear like rust from a busy plow-share. “When I reflect on the immunity of hard-working people from the effects of wrong and over-feeding” says Dr. Boerhave, “I can not help thinking that most of our fashionable diseases might be cured mechanically instead of chemically, by climbing up a bitter wood-tree or chopping it down, if you like, rather than swallow a disgusting decoction of its leaves. It would be a remedy ad principium, curing the symptoms by removing the cause, for some of the besetting vices of youth can with certainty be ascribed to an excess of that potential energy which finds no outlet in the functions of our sedentary mode of life. In large cities parents owe it their children to provide frequent opportunities of active exercise, as they owe them an antiseptic diet in a malarious climate. Nor can this obligation be evaded by depreciating the importance of physical culture as distinct from that of the mental faculties. Neither can the progress of our mechanical industries be made a pretext for undervaluing the advantages of an athletic education. Active exercises confer beauty of form and a natural grace of deportment. “By their system of physical

Digitized by	le
-46-

culture,” says a Scotch author, “the Greeks realized that beautiful symmetry of shape, which for us only exists in the ideal, or in the forms of divinity which they sculptured from figures of such perfect proportions.” That a man’s'welfare in every sense of the word depends upon the normal development of his body might, therefore, seem an axiom whose self-evidence could be questioned only in a fit of insane infatuation. The physical corruption of the Non-Mohamedan inhabitants of Southern Europe and Southern Asia has reached the incurable stage of complacent effeminacy: their indifference to the vices of indolence precludes the possibility of reform. Indifference to physical degradation is, indeed, a symptom of deep-seated disease.

Mental inertness- is often but a dormant state of the intellect, a state from which the sleeper may be roused at any moment by the din of war, by the light of a great discovery, by the voice of an inspired poet. Ph}rsical indolence is the torpor which precedes the sleep that knows no waking.

The civilization of Greece, Dutch art, the science of Bagdad and Cordova, sprang up, like water from the rock of Moses. Can historians point out a single instance of an unmanned people regaining their manhood ? The bodily degeneracy of a whole nation dooms it to a hopeless retrogression in prosperity and political power. The first use we should make of our regained liberty is, therefore, the re-establishment of those institutions to whose influence the happiest nation of antiquity owed their energy and their physical prowess, their martial and moral heroism, their fortitude in adversity. The physical constitution of man was never intended for the sluggish inactivity of our sedentary and Sabbatarian mode of life. In a state of nature, the faculty of voluntary motion distinguishes animals from plants, and our next relatives in the great family of the animal kingdom are the most restlessly active of all warmblooded creatures.

The children of Nature-hunters, shepherds, and nomads—pass their days in out-door labor and out-door sport; physical exercise affords them at once the necessaries of life and the means of recreation, and secures them against all physical ills but wounds and the infirmities of old age.

Gymnastics—the training of the whole body—is of the utmost importance, not only to insure symmetrical physical development, but to aid in the establishment of good order.

Mental action, as you know, depends largely upon physical conditions, and therefore we should train the body that the mind may act.

The necessity of physical culture is so generally recognized at the present day, that no system of education is considered complete without it; that most states of this union have adopted it as a branch of our compulsory education. “A sound mind in a sound body” has passed into a proverb; we could as well add: The first fundamental requisite for true happiness is a good digestion. Health and good carriage are the absolute requirements for beauty.

Novel-reading girls can generally be cured with a butter-fly-catcher; entomology and sensationalism are not concomitant manias. The dull and gloomy slavery of (the monastery as well as the) wrong applied,
—-47-

artificial educational influences become the chief cause of physical degeneracy, and the superficialness of our reformatory measures proves that we have not yet recognized the root of the evil.

But the voice of nature has repeated its protest in the yearnings of every new generation. Our children are longing for out-door life, for active exercise for the free development of every bodily faculty; and if we cease to suppress those instincts, the regenerative tendency of Nature will assert itself and the time must come when man will be once more the physical as well as mental superior of his fellow-creatures.

Civilization i. e. life on the co-operative plan, exempts many individuals from the necessity of supplying their daily wants by daily physical labor; wealth removes the objective necessity of physical exercise, but the subjective necessity remains; millions of city-dwellers, in their pursuit of artificial-luxuries, stint their bodies in the natural means of happiness; they increase their stock of creature-comforts and decrease their capacity for enjoying them; religious and social dogmas pervert their natural instincts; their children are crammed with metaphysics till they forget the physical laws of God.	(To	be	concluded.)

AN AFTERNOON OF GYMNASTIC GAMES.

By CHR. EBERHARD, Director Gymnasium, Boston Athletic Association.

(Concluded.)

NO. 7 a and b. Black Man and Circle Touch Ball have already been mentioned above.

No. 7 c. Fist Ball (German, “Faust-Ball”) is a game which has become quite popular in parts of Germany during the past few years. It is described in the volume for 1895 of the “Jahrbuch fur Jugend- und Volksspiele” by Director G. H. Weber of Munich.

Mr. Boos kindly furnished the following explanation and rules of the game :

“The playground must be as even as possible ; at least one hundred feet long and 60 feet wide. The side and end boundaries must be clearly defined. Straight across the centre of the same a line of about the thickness of one’s little finger is drawn at the height of 7 to 8 feet. The ball used is round and hollow (same material as in foot-ball) and has a diameter of 9 to 16 inches.

The players, 10 to 12, (with a greater number one can take two or more balls), are divided into two sides and are placed facing each other. Every player is enjoined to leave his post as little as possible. The manner of the game is as follows: The ball is hit from the opposite side over the line and hit back by an underblow from the fist or forearm over the line again in such a manner that it can be hit back again over the line. Only a returned ball counts. A ball which bounds over the side or rear boundaries of the playground is not counted. Such a ball is rolled back into the ground of the side which made the mistake and is thrown again over the line without being counted.

A throw is made as follows: The player lifts the ball over his head and hits it, as it falls, with his fist or the fore-part of his arm. If such

Digitized by G-ooQle
-48-

a thrown ball conies down on the ground in the home field it must be played again. If it goes over the line one of the players on the other side tries to hit the ball back before it touches the ground. Or the ball may bounce once and then be hit back in the already described way. Every player has the right of hitting the ball from underneath as many times as he likes, nursing the ball till he has it in a proper hitting position. The ball may also touch the ground after every hit. As already said, the player may continue this manner of hitting till he gives the ball the final hit, or else he may play the ball into the hands of another player who has a better position for hitting it.

The chief rules are :

1.	The ball must be hit only with the tightly clenched fist, right or left, or with the under part of the forearm (in this case, fingers also clenched to a fist).

2.	The ball does not count :

a)	When the player touches the same with the palm of his hand, or

with both fists or arms at the same time.

b)	When the ball is hit over the line by a blow from above or from the

side, or with a fist raised above shoulder.

c)	When the ball touches the ground twice in succession.

d)	When the ball is hit under the line or touches the same.

e)	When the ball touches the ground beyond the boundaries of the field.

3.	The side which has made the mistake must “play” the ball anew.

4.	The ball, when hit before touching the ground, counts two points ; if it touches the ground once, before being hit over the line, it counts one point.

5.	A certain number of points, generally 30 or 40, or more, decided upon beforehand, wins the game.

6.	The ball counts only when thrown over the line according to rule.

7.	A ball which is rolled back must not be hit, but must be played anew.

8.	It is not allowed to enter the field of the opposite side.

9. If 30 points or any other number win the game, the thirtieth or last ball must be a direct one, that is, to be hit before touching the ground.

10.	After every game the sides change their positions.

The winning side plays off the ball first. If two balls are used each side plays off one the same time. It is advisable to appoint a counter for every ball which is played in the game. This game is admirably adapted to both sexes from 14 years upward.”

No. 8 a and b. Bean Bags and Cross Sticks. I should hardly call either of these two productions a game, but both were very excellent exercises, especially the bean bags.

The pupils, a class of ladies, were drawn up in four files, two and two facing each other. They began by first passing one bag to each other in a number of different ways; from the shoulder, from above the head, from near the floor after bending trunk forward, under the raised right and left leg, backward over the head (turning the backs to each other), backward between the legs, etc., etc. Then they added a second, a third and finally a fourth bag. A profuse perspiration will soon result from this apparently light exercise.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-49-

Cross Sticks was the exercise of tossing willow hoops back and forth with the aid of two short sticks. (German “Reifenwerfen.”)

No. 9 a. Pass Ball is played with a basket ball. The players form a circle, facing inward, and have their legs straddled, the feet touching those of the two neighbors. One player in the circle tries to pass the ball out of the circle between the legs of some one of the players, which these latter try to prevent with their hands. The one through whose legs the ball has passed takes the place in the circle. It is a lively game for a number up to about twenty four. If there are more players, two or three may take the inside of the circle with a ball each.

No. 9 b. Hop and Follow is a form of the familiar game generally known under the name of “Follow Me” (German “Komm mit”). In this instance the one touched had to execute a hop and then follow and try to catch the runner. Another form of this game is described under the name of “Skip Away” in “German American Gymnastics.”

No. 10 a. Right Hand Tag is also described in that book under the,, name of “Beetle-Goes-Round.”

No. 10 b. Medicine Ball was a game in which the participants were formed in two files, with a distance of about two yards between each 2 boys. At a given signal those in front start a medicine ball (a large stuffed ball) rolling backward between the straddled legs of the boys behind, of whom each must give the ball a new impetus. When the rear player gets the ball he runs forward with it, while the other players back up one space, and sends it on its backward journey again. This is repeated until the original front player has become the rear one, when one round of the game is ended. The file getting through first, wins.

No. 11. Battle Ball is the game originated by Dr. Sargent a few years ago. This is one of the few antagonistic games entirely free from any inducement to roughness, is very simple, readily learned, and affords plenty of work and incentive to do one’s best. Dr. Sargent in a little pamphlet describes the game as follows :

Digitized by LaOOQle
-50-

courts OR PLAY GROUND.

The size of the court may be regulated by the amount of space at the disposal of the players. The following measurements and arrangements, with the diagram, may suggest proportions suitable to a satisfactory playing of the game. A court of a length twice its width makes an exact square for each side—50x25 feet having been found to give the amount of space most desirable for teams of five on a side. The lines should be marked on the floor or ground as shown on the diagram. The full lines on the side, with the broken lines at the ends, give the limits of the space enclosed for playing; the broken line in the centre is the centre foul line, while the broken lines at the ends are the end foul, base or goal lines; the border beyond represents the stop nets, which may be set five feet behind the goal lines; over the goal lines, and seven feet above them, cords should be stretched from posts, (jumping standards will serve the purpose) set at the corners of the court. On each goal line place three pairs of bowling pins or Indian clubs of two or three pounds weight, one pair in the centre and the others three feet from the posts, the pins of each pair being eighteen inches apart. With teams of five, the three stationed in front of the pins serve as guards or goal tenders, while the forwards act mainly as throwers.

When the game is played out of doors, and a larger number than usually make a team wish to play, several courts can be laid out side by side, the right side line of one answering for the left side line of another. Goal pins may be substituted by wand or sticks projecting about three feet above the ground; and in place of the back stop nets, substitutes, or shacks, may be employed to chase the balls that pass the goal lines.

A round rubber ball, filled with air and covered with leather (same material as a foot-ball), nine inches in diameter and weighing about a pound, has proved to be the most satisfactory missile and completes the outfit.

DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING.

While five make the best number, three, four, or six on a side may play the game comfortably and to advantage. The positions of the players may be changed about, but in a close contest it is desirable to have the best throwers in front, and the best catchers for guarding the goals.

The side having the ball, which may be decided by the toss of a cent or other means, tries to throw it between the goal posts of the other side; if it succeeds in doing this, ten points are scored in its favor; failing to make a goal, but hitting a pin or post instead, five points are counted; if the ball only passes the goal line under the cord, three points are made. Should the ball go over tne goal cord, it is a foul and counts one against the side throwing it—this the goal tenders will try to cause by pushing the ball up instead of stopping it. If a thrower steps over the centre foul line, two points are counted against his side.

The game may be played five, ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, according to the condition of the players. Two ten minutes innings, with a five minutes’ rest between, makes a short, sharp and exciting

s

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
-51-

game, and seems best suited to the interest and power of endurance of the average student.

There should be a referee, two judges, and one or two scorers, though all of these functions may be performed by one person in practice games. The referee keeps the time, starts the game, announces its progress, and settles all disputes. The judges watch for fouls, and report the points made by their respective sides to the scorers. If the score is posted oil a blackboard in view of the players, the interest is much enlivened.

POINTS OF INTEREST.

In order to realize the best physical results from the game, the ball should be folded on the wrist and bowled with a straight arm, while the weight is thrown forward on the opposite leg and the body swung nearly half round from the waist. By this movement the muscles of the chest, abdomen, loins and legs are brought into powerful action, and the ball can be thrown with greater speed and accuracy.

The ball can be best stopped by blocking it with both arms, legs, and body, if necessary.

When acting on the defensive, the throwers usually fall back to within a few feet of the goal tender so as to cover the gaps between them—but no too far back, as this tires the players and gives no opportunity for the guards to stop such balls as pass the forwards.' Nor should the guards play too far in front of their goal pins except when running to the front to throw the ball, at which time the exposed pins should be covered by one of the forwards.

The constant aim should be to throw the ball through the pins or an opening between the players instead of at the players who are prepared to catch it.

In this game, as in foot-ball, skill may be shown in attacking or defending weak points and in so conducting the game that the most points are made just when they are most needed.

An interesting feature of the game is the frequency with which the score is changed, first one side and then the other being ahead; which, with well-matched teams, leaves the final result uncertain until the last moment of play has expired.

No. 12. Basket Ball. This now well known game, the revised rules . of which were only recently published in the form of a little pocket manual by Coop & Borns of Providence, R. I., formed the closing feature of the exhibition.

In the game between the teams from the Posse and the Sargent Normal Schools the often previously noted fact was agai apnparent that the game needs considerable toning down, before it is well fitted to be played by teams of young women, between whom a strong rivalry exists. To confine the players within their specified fields, as was also illustrated by two teams from Dr. Sargent’s school, seems to have the desired restraining effect.

Now why could’nt the various physical training societies, or other organizations in their respective cities, arrange similar exhibitions of games, charge a small admission fee and thereby serve the double purpose of helping to popularize this form of physical education and of replenishing their usually meager treasuries at the same time ?
-52-

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(All rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

Question: 53. How is the “cut over” from either quarte or tierce engagement executed ?

Answer: From engagement quarte elevate the point and pass the blade over the point of your opponent’s, lower and direct the point to the nipple by extending the arm, then lunge, with opposition to the right.

From the engagement tierce, the same to the inner line with opposition to the left.

Question : 54. When can you attack an opponent by a straight thrust, a disengage, or cut over ?

Answer : We can attack an opponent by a straight thrust when the engagement is taken too loose, or the point of the sword is too far on the opposite side where the engagement takes place.

A disengagement we can use when the engagement is well taken, so that the opponent is fully covered where the engagement takes place.

A “cut over” we can use when the point of the opponent’s sword is held low, or when he presses your blade to hard; we can also use the cut if the distance of the two fencers is too close, and as a return attack.

Remark: Whenever the point of the sword meets the body of the opponent, relax the grasp of the fingers and allow the hand to rise as high as the forehead.

This means a free and light hand.

In resuming guard after a touch we must not press on the opponent’s breast ; the hand must be drawn in by relaxation after the delivery of the touch. This stands good for every attack which terminates in a touch.

All other necessary explanations will be given in the Course of Practical Instruction.

PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION IN FENCING.

The practical instruction in fencing is the execution of the art in all its simple and compound movements of attack and defense.

The best practical instruction is undoubtedly possible where the instructor has a single pupil before him, so that he can turn all his attention toward him alone and guide him in the beginning, wherever it is necessary, with hand and sword.

But it often happens that an instructor has to instruct too many pupils at one time, so that it becomes necessary to instruct them by classes; true, it is not very likely that an instructor can give a complete course of instruction in fencing entirely in classes without taking each pupil singly, because such class-taught pupils would have a poor show against others. I am, therefore, willing to write down a number of lessons which will be most beneficial to the pupils, provided correct instruction accompany the execution.

Digitized by c^ooQle
-53-CLASS LESSONS.

HOW TO DEPLOY THE CLASS FOR INSTRUCTION.

The pupils align in single rank, facing front. When they are dressed, they count off by twos from the right to the left and the instructor commands :

1. In two ranks form company: 2. March!

At the first command each man faces to the right, except the first man on the right. At the second command the No. ones march up to the first man on‘•the right and come to a front, while the No. twos march in succession behind No. one and face front.

The class being in double rank, the instructor commands :

1. By the left (or right) flank two paces take intervals: 2. March! 3. Halt!

At the first command each man faces left (or right), except the right (or left) file. At the second command the leading file steps off, followed by the next file by a distance of two paces, and so on. At the third command all come to a halt and front.

Having taken the intervals the instructor commands :

1. In rear open order: 2. March!

At the first command the rear men on the right and left wing step four paces back. At the second command the front rank will stand fast, the rear rank will step to the rear and align themselves on the right guide.

The instructor will place himself on the right flank in order to observe if the alignment is correct. If so, he commands :

1. Front! 2. Rear rank one pace left (or right) sideward: March!

If the instructor wants to dismiss the class after instruction he commands:

1. Rear rank one pace to the right {or left): March! 2. Close order: March! 3. By the right (or left) Hank close intervals: 4. March !

At the first command the rear rank steps one pace to the right (or left). At the second command the rear rank will close up in quick time to the front rank. At the third command all face to the right (or left), except the right (or left) file. At the fourth command all march off together till they come to their proper places, then come to a halt and front.

CALISTHENICS, CLUB, AND DUMB-BELL EXERCISES,

SUITABLE FOR EXHIBITIONS, BOYS AND GIRLS, 12—16 YEARS OF AGE, IN THREE GROUPS.

By ROBERT FISHER, M. D., Instructor of Turnverein “Vorwaerts,” Cleveland, O.

1	2	3	4	5

Girls. Boys. Girls. Boys. Girls.

Files one and five (girls) should do the calisthenics; files two and four (boys) should do the dumb-bell exercises, and file three (girls) should execute the club exercises.

Digitized by
Calisthenics.

EXERCISE i.

a.	Raise arms forward—i !

b.	Raise arms to a circle overhead-2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Lower arms—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE II.

a.	Raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Raise arms to a circle overhead-2!

c.	Return to position a—3!

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE HI.

a.	Step position forward left and raise arms forward—1 !

b.	Step position backward left and raise arms to a circle overhead—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE IV.

a.	Step position sideward left and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Step position backward left, bend right knee and raise arms to a circle overhead—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4!

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Calisthenics.

EXERCISE 1.

a.	Lunge sideward left and raise left arm to half circle overhead—x !

b.	Change to lunging position right and raise right arm to half circle overhead (lowering left)—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—19.

EXERCISE II.

a.	Lunge obliquely forward left and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Kneel on right knee and grasp hands back of head—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE IB.

a.	Lunge left sideward and hands on hips—ri!

b.	Change to lunging position right and arms to a circle overhead—2 !

c.	Return td position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE IV.

a.	Bend knees and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Rise on toes and grasp hands back of head—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 9—16.

-54-

Group I.

Indian Club Exercises. exercise 1.

Arm circle, both arms outward, r—16.

EXERCISE II.

Arm circle, both arms inward, 1—16.

EXERCISE ID.

Arm circle, both arms to the left, 1—16.

EXERCISE IV.

Arm circle, both arms to the right, 1—16.

Group II.

Indian Club Exercises.

exercise 1.

yK arm circle, both arms outward —1!

Tip clubs on forearm—2 !

Return 3—4.

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE II.

M arm circle, both arms inward—1! Tip clubs on forearm—2!

Return 3—4.

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE III. yK arm circle, both arms to the left —1!

Tip clubs on forearm—2 !

Return 3—4.

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE IV.

y arm circle, both arms to the right—1!

Tip clubs on forearm—2!

Return 3—4.

Repeat 5—16.

Dumb-Bell Exercises.

EXERCISE 1.

a.	Step left sideward and place hands on hips—1!

b.	Bend left knee and place bells over shoulders (elbows sideward)—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right s—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE n.

a.	Raise arms forward—1!

b.	Bend knees and arms sideward —2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

EXERCISE HI.

a.	Lunge sideward left and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Straighten left knee and raise arms upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXEECISE IV.

a.	Hands on hips—1!

b.	Rise on toes and swing arms sideward upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4

Repeat 5—16.

Dumb-Bell Exercises.

exercise 1.

a.	% turn and raise arms forward —1!

b.	Bend trunk forward and arms down—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE II.

a.	y turn left and raise arms forward—1!

b.	Bend trunk backward and raise arms upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3!

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right s—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE III.

a.	y turn left, step left forward and raise arms forward—x !

b.	Bend left knee, bend trunk forward and swing arms sidew.—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE IV.

a.	y turn left, step left forward and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Kneel on right knee and raise arms upward—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Calisthenics.

EXERCISE I.

a.	Step position forward left and raise arms forward—i!

b.	Step position backward left, bend trunk forward, raise left arm to half circle overhead and place right hand on hip—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE II.

a.	Step position backward left and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Step position forward left, bend trunk backward and grasp hands back of head—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE III.

a.	Step position sideward left and raise arms sideward—1 !

b.	Cross step position left, bend trunk sideward left and arms to a circle overhead—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE IV.

a.	% turn left, step position left forward and raise arms to a circle overhead—1 !

b.	Kneel on right knee and arms sideward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 1

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

-55-

Group III.

Indian Club Exercises. exercise 1.

Arm circle outward, both arms, with hand circle back of shoulder, 1-16.

exercise II.

Arm circle inward, both arms, with hand circle back of shoulder, 1-16.

EXERCISE III.

Arm circle, both arms to the left with hand circle back of shoulder, 1-16.

EXERCISE IV.

Arm circle, both arms to the right, with hand circle back of shoulder, 1-16.

Dumb-Bell Exercises. exercise 1.

a.	Step left sideward and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Bend left knee, bend trunk sideward right, raise left arm obliquely sideward up, and right obliquely sideward down—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE II.

a Step left forward and raise arms forward upward—1!

b.	turn right and arms sideward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position-v-4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE HI.

a.	Step left sideward and raise arms sideward—1 !

b.	turn left, and raise left arm obliquely upward and right arm obliquely downward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

EXERCISE IV.

a.	Step left forward and raise arms forward—1!

b.	y turn right, bend right knee . and raise arms upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

For exhibition purposes it would be well to have files I and II begin all exercises with or to the right.

CORRESPONDENCE.

D.t Dayton, O.—That interesting report on “hand-ball” will appear in the June issue. We are short of space this time. The same holds good in regard to other contributors.

Gilb. Getz, Hartford, Conn.—Vie shall publish in one of our next issues an Indian Club-Drill.

K. C. M. Sch., Baltimore, and S., Tiffin, O.—We are sorry to lack sufficient space for publishing the report of your undoubtedly creditable exhibitions. Under present circumstances we can take note only of affairs of extra ordinary dimensions.

J.	J. M., Cincinnati.—We accept your article with our best thanks.—Would there were many more such contributors from among the ranks of the teachers!

Cleveland, 0., May 3rd, 1897.

Editor “Mind and Body!”

Thinking you might like to publish a report of the Cleveland Physical Edw-cation Society, the following is sent:

The Cleveland Physical Education Society held its annual meeting on the 24th of April and the following officers were elected: President, Karl Zapp, M. D.; 1st Vice-President, H. L. Anderson; 2nd Vice-President, Mrs. Payson-Tucker; Secretary, C. G. Lang; Treasurer, L. K. Baker, M. D. Additional members to Council: W. H. Kinnicutt, R. Anna Morris, Dr. Fischer.

An interesting meeting was held, the special feature being a stereopticon lecture by Dr. Wirt, in which he illustrated his methods of Orthopedic treatment. Several new members were added, and reports for the year showed the society to be in a healthy condition.

Digitized by
-56-

MlSP ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

audl-wau-uJcAe, 'Wlaicoaajulaa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE ST. LOUIS FESTIVAL.

THE National Festival and Tournament of the North American Gymnastic Union for 1897 is a thing of the past.

A sad feeling comes over the writer when he thinks of the hopes that had been entertained and of the glory that had been anticipated; a glory which would shine all over the world wherever physical training is given its due place. The St. Louis Festival was intended to outshine all the preceding national tournaments in and outside of our organization, not even those of Germany excepted. But Fate was against the N. A. G. U. this time. We claim that at no other time and place had a larger and more variegated program been prepared and offered for a similar occasion. But to everybody’s disappointment only the first part of it could be carried out as scheduled.

The festivities commenced on Thursday, May 6. The Parade was a very imposing feature. The Mass Flag Exercises of the boys from the gymnastic schools were as unique as they were well executed; so was the work at the 30 bucks.

But the crown of fame for the first afternoon belonged in everybody’s estimation to the girls for their well arranged and finely executed Ring Exercises (or rather Ring Roundel). Very few mistakes were discernible, although over 500 girls took part in the exercise. Then followed the Relais Race which brought with it the first break in the program. For some reason or other this event was delayed for over an hour; but after it got started the race ran without breaks, thanks to the new electric timing machine.

The evening of the first day (Thursday) was spent by the guests and hosts in the Exposition Hall which—though a monster building—could not hold the immense throng of people. Speeches by the mayor of the city and by the president of the Turnerbund, several pieces of vocal music by the combined St. Louis singing societies, and gymnastic work by the students of Washington University and the St. Louis turn-vereins formed the main part of the evening’s program.

Friday morning, May 7, was devoted to Class Contests, consisting of broad high jump, putting the shot (16 pounds), 100 yard run, and wand exercises. The customary apparatus work was missing here, but, in our estimation, surely not to the detriment of the development of the individual athletes. Add rope climbing, and a happier combination of exercises for an all-round development could not be selected. Of course, since the Model Work Exibition had to be dropped on account of the rain, the lack of apparatus work at a festival of the N. A. G. U. made a somewhat curious impression.

Digitized by Google
-57-

The only model work (so called because it is self-selected and therefore meant to represent the best a class can offer) presented was that of the senior classes on Friday afternoon and, indeed, the spirited enthusiasm of these men in advanced years was well manifested.

The juniors followed the seniors. They range from 14 to 18 years and are expected to form the recruits for our army of Actives, those proud young men from 18 to 30 years of age. Their Dumb-Bell Drill was very good and executed with vim. Next cam£ the pride of the festival, the ladies’ classes. About 600 ladies marched upon the held with firm but graceful step. They were dressed in blue bloomer costumes and each armed with Indian clubs. The applause from the 50,000 spectators which spontaneously followed those Club Exercises was something tremendous, and the ladies had to respond with an encore.— Some fast riding was seen during the execution of the next number of the program, consisting of Bicycle Races of one and five miles respectively. The number of entries was unusually large; it would have done credit to a big bicycle meet.

In the meantime in other parts of the park Fencing and Wrestling Contests were carried on.—The Mental Contest, including recitations, chorus singing, and impromptu speeches began also on Friday.

Friday evening was again spent in the Exposition Hall with Singing, Declamation, Music, etc.—So far everything on the program was carried out fairly well, despite of occasional delays which were caused by the great throng and the almost too extensive territory occupied.

Saturday, May 8, opened with a complete change of scene. Jupiter Pluvius no longer favored the Turnfest ; the admirable weather which had prevailed during the first two da}Ts now changed for the worse and it kept pouring down. The only hope for still executing the program was that the rain might last but a short time. But this hope was vain, although a short interval permitted the mass-exercises of the children and of the actives to come off on Saturday afternoon. The participants numbered only a little over half of the number that were expected to turn out, the rest were absent, having been told that on account of the weather no mass-work would be performed during the afternoon. Great credit belongs to the St. Louis school children and teachers and especially to Mr. Wittich for appearing on the scene in spite of the ever threatening showers. Part of the children actually arrived on the grounds in the middle of a rain-storm. About 8000 of them, girls and boys, took part in the Mass-Exercises, which were executed with such brilliancy as though a class of 12 were doing them; it is hard to imagine any more imposing and more magnificent spectacle. The ranks of the seniors, whose Mass Dumb-Bell Work was to come immediately after the children’s exercise were sadly decimated for the above mentioned reason. The veterans present, however, did admirably and showed great enthusiasm.

The following number on the program had formed the climax of the two previous national festivals. It was demonstrated in St. Louis that the immense masses of children, ladies, and seniors somewhat detracted from the Mass-Wand-Exercises of the Actives. The latter were greatly outnumbered by them, a fact which in former years was thought to be

Digitized by CaOOQle
-58-

impossible. Nevertheless nothing can compare with the good impression those difficult wand-exercises made. They formed a part of the contest for the class-work, manifesting an execution reaching almost perfection.

No more touching scene could be imagined than to see the thousand boys at the conclusion of their drill raise the nickel-plated wands with the hats on top of them and utter their wild cheers for the Turaerbund. They wound up with intuning the song “Columbia, the gem of the ocean.”

Here, strictly speaking, ends the story, for the rest was rain and nothing but rain. Thousands and thousands of people were there waiting on the grand stand for the weather to clear up; but instead of that the rain floods redoubled.

The Individual Contests had to be carried on in some of the pavilions on the Fair-Grounds. So also the Club-Swinging-Contest. The Swimming took place in the Natatorium and the Sharp-Shooters were just lucky enough to finish their contest in time.

The Model-Work of the Actives of all societies would surely have brought out the greatest variety of gymnastics of all kinds possible. It was scheduled for Sunday, May 9th, but was dissolved in water, as was also the largest and grandest number on the whole program, the Combined Mass-Exercises of the Ladies, Seniors, Actives, Juniors, Boys, and Girls.

Monday and Tuesday, May 10th and 11th, were devoted to excursions to the Jefferson Barracks and Meramec Highlands.

The various sections of the Arrangement Committee had done their duties, with the probable exception of the Press-Committee, which evidently was not prepared well enough for the pccasion and justly received a great deal of adverse criticism from the press-correspondents. Whose fault some of the delays were, we don’t undertake to find out, but, had sun-shine kept on, it might have been possible to “catch up” in those events which had been postponed and everything would have been perfectly well.

It would be unjust to hold the Technical Committee responsible for what has been spoiled by the rain and one must always be indulgent toward shortcomings manifest on such grand and extensive festivities.

Still an important factor causing delays in the program seemed to us that the Actives and their teachers were not quartered directly on the grounds, as had been provided both in Cincinnati and in Milwaukee, but distributed all over the city. The “Fair-Grounds,” although an ideal place for such an occasion, were too large to afford leaders efficient control over the young men. If the actives and the leaders are quartered on the grounds, they have a quasi natural headquarter, and teachers with their classes, and individuals as well, can be reached in the shortest time; changes can be announced without delay, etc.

Miss Ellen Le Garde, Dr. E. M. Hartwell, Dr. D. A. Sargent, Dr. F. E. Leonard, Dr. Luther Gulick and Chaplain P. S. Chaplin had been invited to act in the capacity of a Committee on Observation and, of course, we expect some time to publish a report from this committee. But we are afraid, their field of observation has, through the interference of the bad weather with the program, been considerably narrowed.



Digitized by <^.ooQle
-59-

St. Louis as a city has taken much more interest in the affair than either Milwaukee or Cincinnati, for sometning like 60,000 people were on the grounds during the first few days, and even on Saturday and Sunday an immense audience had occupied the grand stand and was patiently waiting for the weather to clear up.

The enthusiasm of those that took an active part in the tournament was of the highest order and the best of spirit existed throughout; it was that spirit which made each participant feel that he is part of the whole; the spirit that would not rely upon single stars and shift the responsibility of defeat on them; some of the elderly gentlemen gave an admirable example in that respect. Mr. Wm. Stecher, the Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. G. U., himself was one of the actives and ran and jumped with his class like a youth of 18.

Such immense festivals must necessarily tax to the utmost the administrative power of the societies of the respective hospitable cities as well as the treasurers of such societies as send classes from a distance of hundreds and even thousands of miles. There is quite a financial problem involved in the carrying out of these tournaments, and rainy weather will not only spoil the grandeur and the fun, but also cause great pecuniary losses. On the other hand the North American Gymnastic Union will gain a great many friends and admirers among those that have seen or heard little of it so far and will have a demonstration ad-oculos of the progress made.

The St. Louis tournament was a progress indeed, in many respects. First of all there were the performances of the immense children’s classes. In the second place there was the again enlarged scope of our contests, which, while it is trying to prevent the cultus of specialism, is constantly extended, including almost everything that is worth of consideration in view of scientific training and of athletics at the same time.

Whether it is wise and will be possible for the future to keep together so many things on one single occasion we do not venture to say. The convention of teachers of the N. A. G. U. to be held in Milwaukee this summer will surely take this question under consideration.

We find ourselves in disagreement with the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung” in its criticisms in several respects, although we are perfectly in accord with it in most of the other points set forth.

The “Amerikanische Turnzeitung” pleads for a return to the Apparatus Work, which formerly in the Class-Contests had been obligatory, on the ground that* we did not get an equivalent substitute, and that “Model-Work” means too much “drilling” and consequently a disintegration o the regular gymnasium work. We have pointed out in this article that had the rain not prevented the exhibit of “Model-Work” we would have seen plenty of apparatus work. It is just the apparatus work, while it was compulsory, that demanded so much drill and was discarded on that account. The “model-work” really does entirely away with the time-consuming drilling of a class. Something out of the general curriculum is taken into this work and classes are prepared for it in less than half a dozen hours.

The “Amerikanische Turnzeitung” further demands that the field-

Digitized by LiOOQle
—CO-

sports should be judged from the standpoint of beauty of execution rather than of records.

No other special beauties can be displayed in such events as broad-high-jump, running, and putting the shot, than those demonstrated in the natural effort: to use all the force which man is capable of exercising. We do not think apparatus work was neglected; we simply did not have a chance to see it. We do not regret that there were only one hundred contestants for the Individual Apparatus and Field-Sport Contest. The compulsory exercises were quite difficult and our boys have not the time necessary for the extraordinary practice in higher apparatus work. The all-around developing class work takes up all the time alloted.

On March the 15th, 1897, the Prussian Minister of Education fan officer who superintends the entire educational sytcm of Prussia) who has done a great deal for physical education, has issued an official circular, demanding more time for field-sports and less for higher apparatus work. We believe in apparatus work and so do all the teachers of the N. A. G. U. There is no evening spent in any one of our gymnasiums without apparatus work. But for cultivating apparatus artists we do not feel justified to allot any more time.

In conclusion wc are sorry to state, that not a single “Turner” from Germany has been with us in St. Louis, the “Deutsche Tumerschaft” has boycotted us, because—we are true republicans and our love for “Wilhelm” is of the Platonic kind only.

The following is the list of the First Prizes won at the St. Louis Festival. The entire list of societies and individuals that were successful and received prizes is too long for publication in our columns.

FIRST PRIZES IN CLASS-COMPETITION. Classes with from:

8—io men :	Turnverein	Plattsmouth, Nebraska,

io—12 “	“	Holyoke, Mass.

12—15 “	“	Denver, Col.

15—18	“	Philadelphia (Pa.) Tumgemeinde.

18—38	“	Central	Turnverein, Pittsburg, Pa.

38—58	“	South	St. Louis (Mo.) Turnverein.

INDIVIDUAL ALL-AROUND.

1.	Prize: George Vervalin, Denver, Colo.

2.	“	Ed. George, “Vprwaerts,” Milwaukee.

3. “	Rob. Hermann, “	“

APPARATUS WORK.

1.	Prize: Rob. Hermann, “Vorwaerts,” Milwaukee.

2.	“	Geo.	Ehrlich,	“	“

3.	“	Geo.	Vervalin,	Denver,	Colo.

GROUPS OF FIELD-SPORTS.

WRESTLING.

Heavy-Class:	F.	G.	Eisner,	Aurora	Turnverein,

Chicago.

Middle-Class:	H.	W. Abecken, Concordia Turn-

verein, St. Louis, Mo.

Light-Class:	Dr.	Theo.	Koeppen,	South	St.	Louis

Turnvesein.

CLUB-SWINGING.

Fred. Metz, Newark (N. J.> Turnverein.

FENCING.

a)	Floret (foil): Arthur Seeger, Chicago Tumgemeinde.

b)	Broad-Sword: Ferd. Tumt, “	“

SWIMMING.

J. T. Taylor, Central Turnverein, Pittsburg, Pa.

SHOOTING.

W. F. Roessler, St. Louis Turnverein.

a)	Pole-vaulting, broad-jump, rope-climbing, i. Prize : Albert Graeber, “Vorwaerts,” Denver, Colo.

b)	Broad-high-jump, putting the shot, ioo yard run.

1. Prize:	G.	C.	Zernitz,	Chicago Tumgemeinde.

c)	High-jump, hop, step and jump, weightlifting.

1. Prize:	Chas.	Wedell,	Buffalo (N. Y.) Turnverein.

RELAIS-RACE.

North St. Louis Turnverein.

ONE MILE BICYCLE-RACE.

Felix Gast, North St. Louis Turnverein.

FIVE MILE BICYCLE-RACE.

Felix Gast, North St. Louis Titrnv-rein.

CHORUS-SINGING.

1.	Group : Chicago Tumgemeinde.

2.	Group: Davenport Tumgemeinde.

IMPROMPTU-SPEECHES.

Leopold Saltiel, Turnverein “Garfield,” Chicago.

DECLAMATION.

Ernst Gichner, St. Louis Turnverein.

ESSAY.

a)	On principles: Dr. Geo. Richter, South St. Louis Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo.

b)	On‘technical question:	Dr.	E.	H.	Arnold,	New

| Haven, Conn.

\

Digitized by C.ooQle
-61-

Closing Day Exercises in the Chicago Public Schools.

By HENRY SUDER, Supt. Phys. Culture.

THE closing day exercises of the graduates of the Chicago Grammar Schools will take place on Friday, the 25th of June.

The program consists of patriotic songs, essays, declamations, physical exercises, etc. The latter are generally wand, dumb-bell, or Indian club exercises, arranged by the supervisor of physical culture in different sets, for boys and girls respectively.

Such is the ambition of the graduating classes to excel in these exercises that in addition to the time daily devoted to physical training the drilling of the closing day exercises is frequently continued after school-hours.

In several of the larger schools as many as three numbers are on the program. The selection of the groups of exercises to be performed is usually left to the members of the graduating class; thus, for instance, Indian clubs have been chosen for this year by a combined class of boys and girls, dumb-bells by a class of boys, and wand exercises by girls.

Upon reaching the stage of the assembly hall a few introductory evolutions in marching are executed by the pupils, whereupon, having saluted the audience, they will begin the regular drill. A few of the boys’ salutes are here indicated:

A. DUMB-BELLS

Raise both arms sideways................

Place right bell under left shoulder.......

Lower left arm..........................

Lower right arm (bell is held^by left arm)

Raise right arm sideways................

Bend right arm to salute................

Stretch right arm sideways..............

Lower right arm.........................

Raise right arm to the left and seize bell....,

Raise left arm sideways.................

Move right arm sideways with bell.......

Lower both arms.........................

Rest in position (4 counts).............

........ 1st	count.

......... 2nd	“

........ 3rd	“

........ 4th	“

........ 5th	“

........ 6th	“

........ 7 th	“

........ 8th	“

........ 9 th	“

........10th	“

........11th	“

........12th	“

,13th to 16th	“

B. WANDS. (Wand carried at the right side).

Grasp wand with left hand below right	shoulder (knuckles forward. 1st count-

Lower wand to left side........................................ 2nd	“

Raise right arm sideways....................................... 3th	“

Bend right arm to salute......................................... 4th	“

Stretch right arm sideways.............. ........................ 5th	“

Lower right arm................................................ 6th

Raise left arm to the right and carry	wand	right............... 7th	“

Lower left arm................................................  8th	“

Raise left arm sideways........................................ 9th	“

Raise left arm upward..........................................10th	“

Grasp wand with the left hand at the	upper end.................11th	“

Lower wand forward.............................................12th	“

Rest in position (4 counts)...........................13th	to	16th	“

The various parts of each set of exercises conclude with a pose. Poses are arranged with reference to the number of files and ranks and embrace three positions, each of 8 counts’ duration (24 counts all told) with a rest of 8 counts’ added for the purpose of better conforming to the musical accompaniment.

/

Digitized by Google
-62-

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES (TWO CLUBS) FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

Part I.

1.	Small arm-circle outward (cross arms in front of body).

2.	As Exercise 1, with step backward and forward left.

3.	Large arm circle outward.

4.	As Exercise 3, with side-step left and right.

5.	Small arm-circle outward with placing clubs on upper arms and bending

trunk forward (at 1 execute arm-circle, at 2 place clubs on upper arms and bend and raise trunk).

6.	As Exercise 5, but bend trunk backward.

7.	Small arm-circle and hand-circle outward.

8.	Small arm-circle and three hand-circles outward (executed twice).

9.	Four hand-circles outward right and four arm-circles outward left and vice-

versa.

10.	Arm and hand-circle outward alternately.

11.	Four hand-circles right outward and arm and hand-circle left outward and

vice-versa.

12.	Hand-circle right outward twice and arm and hand-circle left outward and

vice versa, 1, 2, 3, 4, and repeat 5, 6, 7, 8.

Remark—Execute all exercises 8 counts.

Pose.

Part II.

1.	Half arm-circles from right to left (dubs not higher than shoulders).

2.	As Exercise 1, with bending of trunk to opposite direction.

3.	Small arm and hand-circle to the right (hand-circle behind shoulders). Remark—With the right arm execute arm and hand-circle outward and at

the same time with the left arm inward; with the last count swing clubs over to the left.

4.	As Exercise 3, but to the left (with last count swing clubs over to right).

5.	Large arm and lower hand-circle to right.

6.	Large arm and lower hand-circle to left.

7.	Large arm-tircle to right (take two counts for each circle but the last two

circles must be executed with one count for each circle).

8.	As Exercise 7, but to left.

9.	Large arm and upper hand-circle right.

10.	As Exercise 9, but to left.

11.	Small arm-rircle right and swing-over to the left and arm-circle left and

swing-over to the right alternately.

12.	As with Exercise 11, but with rising on toes.

Remarr—Execute all exercises 8 counts.

Pose.

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES FOR GIRLS.

Part I.

1-a. Place hands on hips (bells on hips) and place left foot backward—1.

b.	Place on shoulders and left foot forward—2.

c.	Stretch arms forward and cross left foot forward—3.

d.	Place bells on shoulders and foot forward—4.

e.	Stretch arms forward and cross left foot forward—5.

f.	Place bells on shoulders and left foot forward—6.

g.	Place bells on hips and left foot backward—7.

h.	Lower arms and replace foot—8.

The same exercise, but place right foot—9 to 16.

2.	As Exercise 1, but at c, d, e and f, bend trunk forward and cross foot back-

ward (twice).

3.	As Exercise 1, but stretch arms sideways and place foot sideways.

4.	As Exercise 3, but with c, d, e and f, bend trunk sideways twice.

5.	As Exercise 1, but stretch arms upward.

6.	As Exercise 5, but with c, d, e and f, bend trunk backward twice.

Digitized by Google
-63-

7. As Exercise 1, but stretch arms to left (right) and place foot sideways.

8. As Exercise 7, but with c, d, e and 1, turn trunk left (right) and cross foot

backward.	Pose.

Part II.

(Divide the class in two divisions.)

1-	a. Raise arms forward and place outer foot backward.

b.	Place hands (bells) on shoulders and ^4turn outward (turn on toes).

c,	d, e and f. Swing and place outer and inner arm forward alternately in two

counts, and cross foot forward and return, g. Return to position a; and h, lower arms and replace foot—1 to 8.

The same exercise to opposite direction—9 to 16.

2-	a. Raise arms forward and place outer foot backward.

b.	Place hands (bells) on shoulders and *4turn outward.

c,	d, e and f. Place hands on hips, bend trunk forward, cross outer foot back-

ward twice in 4 counts (3, 4, 5, 6). g. Return to position a; and h, lower arms and replace foot—1 to 8.

The same exercise to opposite directiorv—9 to 16.

3.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms sideways and swing arms sideways.

4. As Exercise 2, but raise arms sideways and bend trunk sideways.

5. As Exercise 1, but raise arms upward and swing arms upward.

6.	As Exercise'2, but raise arms upward and bend trunk backward.

7.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms sideways outward (inward) and swing arms

downward.

8.	As Exercise 2, but raise arms sideways outward (inward) and turn trunk

and cross foot backward.

Pose.	(To be concluded.)

GAMES AND PLAYS.*

99-102.

DUCK-STONE.

The playground for this game consists of an open space about 20x40 feet in size—in the centre, and running parallel with the short sides, of which are marked the goal and the ‘duck-perch,’ both about 20 feet apart. The duck-perch is placed opposite the centre of the goal-line,

Players—any number from 6 to 20—are provided with ‘duck-stones’ of a size easily handled and hurled from goal-line to duck-perch. Any hard stone of the size of a base-ball or a little larger will answer the purpose. The duck-perch is a large rock about a foot square and high, with a round-top surface to enable the players to easily distinguish the ‘duck-on-the-rock’ placed upon it.

The play is begun by forming on the goal-line, from which position the players, at a given signal, hurl their stones toward the perch. The player whose stone lands farthest away from the perch becomes ‘duck-guard’ and places his stone upon the perch. This stone is the ‘duck-on-the-rock.’ The other players in the meantime having regained their duck-stones, align on the goal-line for the opening of the game.

The object of the players now is to displace the duck-on-the-rock by accurately aiming their stones at it and to regain the goal-line before they can be caught by the guard, who must replace his duck on the perch each time it is displaced, before he may catch the respective player or players who displaced it.

* The numbered series of “Games and Plays,” published in this magazine, has been elaborated and compiled by Mr. Carl Kroh of the Cook County Normal School, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—64—

To avoid too much confusion in the beginning, as well as accidents, it is well for the players on the goal-line to play, one at a time, frbm or near the centre of the line.

Players who have had their turn at the duck-on-the-rock, but missed displacing it, and whose stones have landed in such a way that they cannot safely regain them without being caught, must await a favorable opportunity to run ‘home’—i. e. when some other player has displaced the duck-on-the-rock. During such interval they must remain well outside of the ‘put-line’ and not touch their ducks. If the guard detects a player touching his stone, he may attempt to catch him. Again, if players find that they cannot regain their ducks by picking them up, they may attempt to push or kick them toward the goal-line, provided, however, they touch the goal-line after such attempt, the guard always being on the look-out for such players.

The object of the players on the goal-line is, of course, to keep the guard at the rock and to insure as many “home runs” as possible by displacing the duck-on-the-rock, thereby ‘freeing’ the players in the field.

The play is most interesting when played by not too large a number, it frequently occurring that all players are in the field and in close proximity to the guard, when attempts to make the goal-line will require adroit playing and lively running. * ‘Touches’ (catches) count outside of the goal only.

If the guard at any time during a play or run should fail to notice that his duck is ‘off,’ all players advise him by calling out'‘duck’s off.’

Players caught before reaching the goal-line, always provided the guard’s duck is on the rock, exchange places with him.

The game can also be played in the following way :

The guard, upon catching a player, may be required to say ‘guard duck’ to make his play count. If the player caught, however, can shout ‘double duck’ before the guard makes his challenge, both players can occupy the perch, each guarding his own duck. In like manner four guards can be secured upon failure of the original guards to cry out first ‘guard duck.’

Players having practice in this game need not be restricted to toeing the mark to hurl their stones, but can play immediately upon reaching the goal-line, always taking precautions not to hit any of the players in the field.

NUTS AND MAY.

The players are divided into two parties with a captain or leader on each side. They draw up in line facing each other, at a distance of ten or twelve feet between the lines. A boundary line is drawn in the centre of this space. The side which is to open the game advances, all holding hands, singing,

“Here we come gathering nuts and May,

Nuts and May, nuts and May ;

Here we come gathering nuts and May On this fine summer morning.”

They then stand still and the other side advances in the same order, singing,



Digitized by C^ooQle
—65—

“Whom will you gather for nuts and May,

Nuts and May, nuts and May;

Whom will you gather for nuts and May On this fine summer morning.”

The leader of the first party thereupon selects one of the opposite side, and they again advance, singing,

“We’ll gather Mary Smith for nuts and May, etc.”

The second party replies :

“Whom will you send tp take her away,

Take her away, take her away;

Whom will you send to take her away On this fine summer morning?”

Selecting one of their own side, the first party sings :

“We’ll send Johnnie Brown to take her away,

Take her away, take her away;

We’ll send Johnnie Brown to take her away On this fine summer morning.”

The two thus chosen advance from the ranks and stand each on his or her own side of the boundary line. They grasp one another’s right hands and pull. The one who is pulled over the boundary line into the enemy’s territory must then join their ranks, and the game is continued until one side has succeeded in pulling over the majority of the opposite side. In singing, the whole line marches backward and forward, in step, always regaining their original position at the end of the verse. The real name of the one chosen is aways sung.

ROUNDERS.

The players are divided into two sides. A large circle is marked out with flat stones or blocks placed at intervals of from twenty to thirty yards. Having decided which side is to be in, the others are posted in different parts of the field to act as scouts. The players stand at the starting post. Number one has a bat and ball. ‘Hitting the ball as swiftly as possible he drops the bat and runs to the next station. If he is touched with the ball before reaching it, he is out of the game. The rest of the players follow and the players run from station to station as they have opportunity. If a complete circle is made in one run it counts double. The players must stand with one or both feet on the station, or they may be ordered out after being hit with the ball. When the players on one side have all played, the opposite side enters, and the side which has the highest number of runs wins the game. It is advisable to have a captain chosen for each side.

TICKY, TICKY, TOUCHWTOOD.

One of the best runners in the group is chosen as catcher. The remaining players must each take their stand by a piece of wood, a tree, or post, or window frame, door, etc. The catcher stands in a central position and cries out, “Ticky, ticky, touchwood/’ Immediately every player must leave his place and run for another piece of wood. If the catcher succeeds in catching one before the latter reaches wood, that one must take the catcher’s place. Any player who is not standing upon wood or touching it with his hand, may be caught.

Digitized by	Le
-66-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Mr. Ellery H. Clark has an article “The Olympic Games” in the “American Physical Education Review” which is quite interesting. We are no advocate of that sort of bodily training, which has for its aim records or record-breaking, but quite agree with Mr. Clark that participants in such affairs should be properly trained, avoiding thus any serious consequences in regard to health which might endanger the unprepared. We repeat here that the “Deutsche Turnerschaft” was not represented in the Olympic Games. Of the few Germans, who took part in the games last year individually, Mr. Clark has the following to say, “The German athletes were entered indiscriminately for about every event on the program, and in consequence some of their team made a rather ridiculous showing. Two of them, however, Messrs. Hofmann and Schumann, proved really fine athletes. Schumann was very short and stout, but immensely strong and active. He was a member of the winning team on the parallel bars, competed in the jumping events with fair success, and finally took the crowd by storm by winning the wrestling, defeating his opponent, a huge Englishman, in a most surprising manner. The Englisnman stood six feet four inches and had a splendid physique, while Schumann stood about five feet four inches. The contrast amused the spectators, who always saw the laughable side of everything, but their laughter was changed to a storm of applause when Schumann closed with his adversary and threw him flat on his back before he fairly realized what had happened.”

—“The College Athlete” is a new monthly, which made its first appearence this month.—As the name indicates, the publication is devoted to college athletics. It is profusely illustrated and presents itself in good form.

—Mr. Heinrich Huhn, the Assistant-Editor of the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung,” celebrated on April 20th the 50th anniversary as a Turner. Our heartiest congratulations! Mr. Huhn has done much for the introduction of physical education in this country. He surely deserved the profuse congratulations, diplomas, and presents, which he has received from all sides. The Milwaukee turners celebrated the occasion in a fitting manner.—If we inaugurate the celebration of Fiftieth Anniversaries, (and there will take place a number of them in a few years) we are reminded of the fact that the introduction of physical training is not of any recent date in this country at all and that we may be proud to register a full half-century of ardent work in the physical, intellectual, and moral development of the present, past, and future generation of the United States.

—A Training School for Athletes. Phenomenal foot-ball or baseball players, record breaking sprinters, etc., do not, as a rule, spring into blossom during the freshman year, but are a product of cultivation of some preparatory school.—Although we are not in favor of a school where crack-athletes are being fondled and “starred” just for the sake of breaking a record at some future time or of some renowned college, yet we must confess, that there appears to be nothing wrong in the proper
-67—

encouragement of proficiency in field-sports and games, as long as these are the outgrowth of some system of physical training and in intimate connection with it. One such school is, for instance, the University School of Cleveland, which has sent many reputed athletes to college, but there a regular course of physical training forms the basis of the athletic education of the young men. The following records are rather high for a preparatory school: Running high jump 5 ft. 5% in., running broad jump 18 ft. 5 in., pole-vault 9 ft. 9*4 in., putting-shot 36V2 ft. etc.

—Mrs. F. J. Harvey, of the Physical Training School and Gymnasium, Exeter, read a paper, on March 29th, in London, on “The Physical Training of Young Children/’ to the members of the National Froebel Society. The paper touched upon the objects and necessity of physical training, the educational and hygienic value of games, questions of seating, light, ventilation, also upon the superiority of the German system for little children, owing to the attractive features it possesses in the use of light forms of apparatus and music.

—It is to be hoped that all the mass-exercises for the St. Louis festival, furthermore the most interesting class-model-exercises, and some of the self-selected individual exercises at the tournament will be published in the English language in pamphlet form, and that the pamphlet be placed on the market.

—The Wisconsin Branch of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education held its bi-monthly meeting on Saturday, May 15th, 1897. The program was as follows,

1. Serenade (Vocal), Quintette.—2. Outlook and Aims, Mr. C. H. Doerflinger. 3. Alto Solo, Miss Harriet Siefert.—4. Spinal Curvature, with Illustrations, Dr. F. Pfister.—5. Piano Solo, M.r Hans Koenig.—6. Expression with Relation to the Laws of Health, Miss Marion J. Craig.—7. Soprano Solo, Miss Anna Wald-bart.—8. Suggestions for Future Work.—9. Frogs’ Singing School, Nevin Quartette.—10. Business Meeting of the W. A. A. P. E.

About 60 persons attended the meeting which was the best this young society has held so far. A respectable number of new members was added.

—Summer-School for Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union at the Normal School of Gymnastics, Milwaukee, Wis. A Six Weeks Graded Course, from July 6th to August 14th, 1897.

Faculty: George Wittich, Director. (Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools of St. Louis, Mo., and of South St. Louis Turiiverein). Theory and Practice of Gymnastics.—Emil Dapprich. (Director of National Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.) Anatomy and Physiology.—Dr. Franz Pfister. (Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, Milwaukee Medical College, Editor of “Mind and Body”.) Orthopedic Gymnastics and Massage. Anthropometry. First Aid.—Dr. William 0. Krohn. (Professor of Experimental Psychology, University, Champaign, 111., Editor of “The Child-Study Monthly”.) Psychology.—Dr. C. Herman Arnold, Associate Director Anderson Gymnasium, New Haven, Conn.) Comparison of Systems of Gymnastics. Applied Physiology. History of Gymnastics.— George Brosius. (Director Normal School of Gymnastics of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Milwaukee, Wis.) Advanced Work on Apparatus.—Gustav Bojus. Director of Physical Training, Elizabeth, N. J., Tumverein.) Fencing, Wrestling, Boxing. Dr. Karl Zapp. (Director of Physical Training, Germania Turnverein, Cleveland, Ohio.) Informal Talks on School and Society Gymnastics.—Miss Emma Shrieves, (Director of Physical Training, State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.) Theory and Practice of Swedish Gymnastics.—Dr. Hans Rasmussen, Fencing.
-68-

—Mr. W. C. Schaefer, one of our collaborators, will give private or class-instruction in the German language during the whole term of the Summer School. Terms moderate.

LADIES’ COLUMN.

THE HEALTH OF GIRLS.

By Charlotte B. Brown, M. D., San Francisco.

During the last two years I found that one-sixth of the new cases in my practice were girls and single women under 23 years of age. One-fourth of this number were teachers, typewriters, telegraph operators, and dressmakers ; the rest mostly school girls under 19 years of age. The cases are similar in type and general history ; tall and thin or overgrown in flesh, but languid, easily tired, irritable, with backache, irregular menses, anaemic and sallow, capricious appetites, dyspeptic, constipated. The needed local treatment in such cases is brief, but much time and thought should be expended to procure the proper adjustment of the whole machinery to prevent these girls from lapsing into special invalidism for years. I was of opinion that the foundation for this ill health lay somewhere in the schools. A list of questions was therefore prepared for the ninth grade of the grammar schools and the first year of the high schools and the following-questions were submitted to the girls, it being understood that their replies were optional: Do you eat breakfast ? What does your breakfast consist of generally ? Do you have a warm lunch ? At what hour do you go to bed at night ? Do you often go to bed later ? What regular duties, if any, do you have at home daily in connection with housework, or anything else, and how much time do they take ? These were answered by 287 girls in Oakland and 1000 girls in San Francisco. In reply to the second question 389, or more than 33 per cent., answered “Coffee and bread or rolls and hot cakes.” Thirty said, No breakfast or “a glass of hot lemonade,” or “coffee and cod liver oil,” or “hot gruel.” The rest detailed the usual American breakfast. Four hundred and ninety-three, or nearly half the girls, eat a warm lunch and 10 p. m. was the average hour of retiring for 1000 pupils, 206 retiring after that hour. Three hundred and fifty-nine girls carry on special studies in music, French, etc. Is it surprising that a sensitive girl after studying too late at night, eating a poor breakfast, a cold lunch and having but a small amount of exercise, should begin to suffer with the symptoms already recounted ? All the more will this state of things obtain if a girl go once or twice to the theater or to a surprise party and then try to adjust lessons in study by taking time needed for exercise and meals. Two needs in this connection are, first: The establishment in all towns and villages of outdoor gymnastic fields, especially for women; second, a building near large grammar and high schools to which shall be admitted girls from these schools for training in physical, manual, and domestic sciences as part of their regular school work.

In conclusion I would present the following points for general dissemination by school boards, of which physicians are so often members:	Rising early

enough to fill one’s lungs with pure air after a suitable toilet ; a cheerful, generous breakfast of material chosen on which to do four good hours’ work before noon ; a brisk walk to school, with three hours of study ; a warm lunch, even if but a cup of cocoa or hot milk, or a bowl of soup warmed up, with the lunch basket meal. Convenience for preparing such a dish should be provided in every school, office, or factory where human beings eat the noon meal, unless a place nearby offers such food for a few cents. In some cities this want is filled by the New England kitchen, which sends large receptacles of hot soup to the schools. The contents, too, of the lunch basket are worthy of inspection. There is a great need of exercise and besides the morning duties an hour at least after school should be devoted to outdoor sport. Errands (which were many times noted on my list of answers) are good, so is a bicycle ride or outdoor gymnastics, or a good walk, which should be felt not a duty, but a pleasure. No study should be allowed after 9 p. m. Every girl of fifteen years should be asleep at 9.30 p. m., a later hour being permitted Friday or Saturday nights, even then not very often. Urge upon parents that the social life of school girls should consist of afternoon entertainments and almost never of evening parties.

The Health Magazine.

Digitized by Google