MIND AND BODY

Vol. 16.

HAT, 1909.

No. 179

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM, A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil,, Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wit.

THE RELATION OF EXERCISE TO HEART DISEASE.

By D. M. F. Krogct, M. D., Philadelphia.

Misunderstanding, lack of knowledge, ever-readiness of the family physician to write a certificate for a child to be excused from physical exercise, are common factors encountered by the teachers of physical training when the question arises whether it is advisable or not for a child to take part in physical exercise. The fault very often is found to be on the part of the overanxious and overcareful mother of the youngster; or, the ever-ready physician who is over-anxious to please his patrons instead of making a careful and thorough examination and familiarizing himself with the kind of exercise intended for the child, writes and signs a certificate that the child should be excused from all forms of exercise just because “Mamie is so delicate and she doesn't like the exercises anyhow, because they make her so warm and cause the perspiration to run down her Cheeks.”

In adults, especially if obesity exists, the shortness of breath produced at the first attempt at a little more severe exertion than his everyday life necessitates, very frequently causes withdrawal from gymnastics. Lack of knowledge on the part of the physical director may also, under certain circumstances, be the cause of some abstaining from physical training, which might prove to be of the greatest benefit to the individual.

Our students, in the institutions for their training to become teachers of this branch of education, are taught physical diagnosis, to enable them to ascertain whether there is any physical abnormality; but this is not enough for them to know, they should be enabled to understand the nature of the abnormal condition found. We cannot do too much in this line; one who has the physical welfare of the human race at heart and the physical education of some of the race under his care should know all pertaining to the human mechanism whether normal (anatomic-physiological) or abnormal (diseased or pathological). The study of pathology should therefore be included in the physical diagnosis, or form a separate branch in the curriculum of our Normal Schools for the training of teachers of physical education. In fact, I believe

Digitized by

Google
— 82—

it were well if the physical director knew all a physician knowB concerning the human body barring Therapeutics, Materia Medica and the treatment of disease. Really, in some things he should know more. We have arrived at the stage in education that school teachers study abnormal children and teach them according to their psychical capacity, etc., etc. We have special schools and institutions for such who are backward, feebleminded and idiotic, etc. The progressive teacher studies psychology in its so-called normal state and the deviation from the normal, whether based on physical abnormalities or on purely psychical. Why then should not we study everything pertaining to the individual so that we may be better enabled to be directors of the physical welfare of our fellowbeings ?

Heartdisease is the most common affliction reported by physicians in certificates excusing pupils from all forms of physical education and yet physical exercise proves one of the best tonics for the heart, although usually tonics like digitalis, strychnin, nitroglycerine, convalaria, brandy, ether, ammonia, etc., are given to a patient suffering from heart disease when compensation fails. Why then should we not in appropriate cases, keep up the tone of the heart and thus keep up compensation, prevent compensation to rupture? Physical exercise is a natural tonic for tfre heart muscle.

But, before going any further, let me recall to your memory the circuit of the blood through the heart, the pathological condition in various affections of the heart and the advisibility of exercise in each.—

The heart, an involuntary muscle, governed by its inherent ganglia and the pneumogastric nerve, is divided into four compartments. A longitudinal partition divides it into the left and the right side, and each of these are divided by a transverse partition into an upper and a lower chamber, the auricle and the ventricle. The blood coming from the various parts of the-body is poured into the right auricle by the inferior and superior (or lower and upper) vena cava, the auricle contracts and sends it on into the right ventricle while the tricuspid valves in the transverve, partition of the right side of the heart open. As soon as this chamber is filled these valves close to prevent the blood from regurgitating back into the right auricle and at the same time the heart contracts and the blood is forced out into the pulmonary arteries which convey it to the lungs. The pulmonary veins transmit it from the lungs back to the heart and empty it into the left auricle. At the junction of the pulmonary arteries and the heart we also find valves which prevent the flow from going back into the channel from whence it came. The auricle contracting, the blood passes through the left auriculo-ven-tricular opening and the left ventricle is filled with blood. At the contraction of the heart the mitral valves close the left auriculo-ventricular orifice, so that the blood cannot get back into the auricle, and, at the same time, the aorta, the largest artery in the body, is filled with blood, regurgitation into the left ventricle being prevented by the aortic valves.

Any of these valves may become diseased and interfere with the mechanical onflow of the blood in the proper amount or direction. This may be due to rheumatism, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, diphtheria, cere-

Digitized by AjOOQle
- 8

brospinal meningitis, hardening of the walls of the bloodvessel or calcareous deposits in the arteries or valves, or scar tissue forming in the valves after inflammation or ulceration, thus narrowing the orifice or preventing the complete closure of the valves.

The most common affection encountered is regurgitation, a flowing back of the blood into the left auricle from the left ventricle on account of an incomplete closure of the mitral valves. The heart, when it contracts, forces some of the blood from the left ventricle into the auricle instead of all of it passing into the aorta to be transmitted to the various tissues of the body for their nourishment. The sequelae are dilation or hypertrophy of the left auricle or both. The diagnosis is usually easy. There is a murmur, heard at the fourth intercostal space on the left side on a vertical line drawn from the middle of the left clavicle downward, directly over the apex of the heart. This murmur is blowing and loud in character and transmitted to the left axilla and sometimes heard as far back as the shoulderblade. A murmur due to anemia and dilatation of the left heart may be mistaken for a mitral regurgitant murmur, but it is soft and blowing in character and transmitted up the neck.

In such cases exercise is a very good remedy; although by stimulating the contractions of the heart mote blood is forced back into the auricle^ a greater volume is also forced out into the aorta and compensation is established. If, however, the damage to the valve is so great and an aortic stenosis coexists and more blood is forced through the mitral orifice than into the aorta, death occurs.

On the other hand, if there is an aortic stenosis alone, increased heartaction forces more blood through the narrow orifice.

In aortic regurgitation, due to atheroma (hardening of valves), ulceration, rupture, or scar-tissue, at the dilation of the heart, there is a long-drawn murmur, called bruit, at the second costo-sten^l articulation on the right side of the breast-bone, transmitted down to the lower part of this bone, the xiphoid cartilage. Drawing the thumbnail across the forehead shows a white line, turning, red on account of capillary pulsation. The blood in this affection flows back into the left ventricle when the heart dilates and the system is deprived of its nutriment and death occurs. In such cases of heartdisease exercise should be avoided. The chief point in the treatment is rest and stimulation of the heart by drugs increasing its contraction without prolonging dilation. This condition sometimes leads to great hypertrophy of the left ventricle and forms what is called the “athlete heart” or the “ox heart.”

Dilatation of the right ventricle leads to tricuspid regurgitation on accouht of the stretching of the valves between the right auricle and ventricle. In this condition exercise is of value to increase contraction and strengthen the heart muscle.

A very rare condition is tricuspid stenosis; this is usually congenital. There is marked cyanosis (blileness of the face and hands etc.) and the pulse ia small. An insufficient amount of blood is poured into the right ventricle and the auricle dilates, the blood being held hack in the system. Exercise should be of a mild nature.

Digitized by A^OOQie
-84-

Other affections of the heart than valvular disease are: Angina pectoris, a neurosis with great pain over the area of the heart. The patient may die in the first attack or have quite a number of attacks. It usually occurs in lawyers, physicians and bankclerks, people leading a-life with sedentary habits and mental worry. Moderate exercise, especially out of doors, is a very important adjunct to other treatment.

In so called fatty heart, where there is a true degeneration of the heart muscle-fibres, exercise is harmful, hut if, in a corpulent person, there is infiltration of fat between its muscular fibres, exercise is of paramount importance. A person thus afflicted will, upon least exertion, get out of breath, but, by constant exercise, gradually increasing in severity, the patient will be benefited so that he may perform great feats with marked improvement in the heart action. Of course, in such cases the diet plays an important role, fat and rich food, sweet wine and malt liquors, sugar and milk should not be taken. Outside of this no treatment is necessary, except baths.

If hypertrophy of the heart is acute, as may occur from prolonged physical exertion, such as I saw at a clinic at the Jefferson Medical College Hospital, Philadelphia, some years ago in a sailor, who, after shipwreck, rowed a boat consecutively for 72 hours on the ocean, eventually bringing his comrades to safety, absolute rest is essential.

Exercise is also contraindicated in all acute and active inflammations, such as endocarditis, myocarditis, pericarditis. These, however, do not come within the scope of this paper.

In conclusion it may be said, that, usually, exercises of a mild type are beneficial in most of those forms of heart disease encountered, particularly where compensation is not ruptured.

Professor Hare, of Philadelphia, says in regard to this: “Destruction of this or that valve has little to do with the treatment. Tt matters not wither the leak in the valve is minute or huge, provided the heart can still do its work; the condition of the cardiac muscle is the important factor to be considered. Find out whether the tissues of the body receive their normal blood supply .”

Although in children the prognosis, the outlook, is worse than in adults, a great many cases would he benefitted by taking some mild physical exercise, such as free-exercises.

Dr. Geo. M. Gould, Philadelphia, in “A Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine and Surgery” says: “In all chronic lesions obey strictly the rules of hygiene. Excess of food, exercise and mental toil should be avoided.”

If a child gets well from endocarditis—an inflammation of the lining membrane of the interior of the heart—as a sequence to rheumatism, scarlet fever or some other infection, it should not exercise at all for six months, and after this period take exercise of a very mild type, very gradually increasing the difficulty of the exercises.

The question of exercise in heart disease has been thoroughly applied, studied and demonstrated by Dr. Schott, of Nauheim, Germany. He says that massage is the only form of exercise permissable in some cases, which later on may be followed by restricted movements, such a&

Digitized by L^ooQle
-85-

free-exercises. In conjunction with this he also corrects the diet and prescribes saline baths. Massage is particularly recommended for those convalescing from acute endocarditis when there is a tendency to livid-ity (blueness of the skin), cold extremities, and local stases; or, when bodily weakness is extreme. Massage and exercise promotes the arterial flow, the venous return, and the interchange of lymph, thus stimulating metabolism and assisting absorption and circulation.

Schott's treatment is based on the systematic exercising of every set of muscles in the body by means of resistence exerted by attendants or by overcoming weights. The periodic stimulation of the heart increases its action, and, as a consequence, the cardiac muscle regains some of its natural power and its nutrition and tone are improved. Dilatation is diminished, pulse improved, shortness of breath alleviated. The effect produces a more vigorous heart action, more complete contraction, more rapid and perfect circulation with less tension on the right side of the heart. This is especially valuable in fibroid heart, fatty infiltration and idiopathic hypertrophy.

Dr. Oertel strongly advises exercise out of doors, first on level ground, later, mountain-climbing.

Dr. Powell advises golf, cycling, tennis, fishing.

Of course, if at any time compensation is ruptured and shortness of breath, with blueness of skin, swelling of ankles and a rapid irregular pulse set in, rest is necessary.

Dr. Bezley Thorne advises the following instead of the natural batlis in Germany.

Take 40 gal. of water and add 3 to 10 pints of sea salt. Then take 11 to 15 oz. of calcium chlorid, pure, and dissolve this in the bath. Now add Sodium bicarbonate \ pound and finally | of a pound of hydrochloric acid (25%) or add 1 to 2 lbs. of the bicarbonate of soda and; 1$ to 3 lbs. of the acid. This latter procedure will generate C02 and make a saline carbonated bath. The bath should be taken for from 5to 20 minutes.

To recapitulate: Take exercise in a mild form in all affections of the heart except active inflammations and aortic regurgitation or acute hypertrophy of the heart muscle. It may also here be stated that in functional heart trouble, heart consciousness, depending very often upon digestive disturbances, exercise does a great deal of good, provided no acute disease accompanies it.

Space does not permit of an exhaustive presentation of the subject; my-object being to outline it and stimulate others to look up the matter.

WE OFFER $1.00 CASH

OR ONE YEARS’ SUBSCRIPTION FOR EACH COPY OF NOS. I, 2, 9 and 24 OF “MIND AND BODY.”

MIND AND BODY Herald Bldg., Milwaukee, Wia.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—86—

THE ETIOLOGY OF SPINAL CURVATURE.

Robert Fischer, M, ft., Indianapolis, Ind.

Spinal curvature^ hl most casea, a-disease- of school life. It is very prevalent both in this country and in Europe, in some localities as high as 25 per cent, of the pupils being afflicted. Girls are more often affected than boys. An important fact in the development of the disease is that in many cases a high degree of deformity is attained before treatment is resorted to. Parents and teachers seem to be totally blind to the serious condition which is gradually being produced, in womanhood often making it impossible to carry out the normal functions of child-birth. This is probably accounted for by the fact, that even in serious cases, no pain or great physical discomfort ia felt. In diseases and ailments where pain or loss of function are predominant symptoms, prompt relief is sought, while in those in which no aggravating aepte phenomena are present, little is done until a complete cure is beyond all question.	»

Before speaking of the etiology it may be well to say a few words about the bony structure of the spine. In the infant the spinal column is straight, but as the child begins to assume the upright position, four physiological curves are formed, namely, the cervical, dorsal, lumbar and lateral. In the cervical and lumbar regions these curves have their convexities forward and in the dorsal region backward. The lateral curve is usually not pronounced. The pathological curves are in most cases an exaggeration of the normal curves. Antero-posterior curves with the convexity posteriorly are called Kyphosis (round back); anteroposterior curves with the convexity forward are called Lordosis (saddle back); lateral curves are termed Scoliosis. There may be a combination of two forms of curvature in a single case, and one deformity often predisposes to another.

The causes of spinal deformity are many. They may be divided into two classes, those capable of producing all forms of curvatures and those peculiar to special deformities. In times past many theories have been advanced by prominent surgeons as to the manner in which spinal curvature was produced. Guerin claimed that it was caused by active muscular contraction on the convex side and therefore advocated severing the contracting muscles; Malgaigne believed that lax ligaments and muscles on the convex side formed the predisposing cause; Bernard Both thought it due to weakness of the spinal muscles; Sayre believed that rotary spinal curvature depended entirely upon spinal muscular , contraction; Lorenz adhered to the theory of muscular weakness. Most of these theories have one after another been abandoned, and the best orthopedic surgeons to-day are practically unanimous in declaring that curvature is usually produced by two principal causes,—first, abnormally soft texture of the bony structure with muscular weakness, and second, habitually bad and improper posture for which the bad hygienic conditions of our schools have furnished plenty of opportunity. The theory^ that muscular, contraction was the initial factor has given way

Digitized by L^ooQle
-87-

to the more modern view that faulty posture is the primary and excessive muscular contraction is the secondary cause.

Among the other prominent causes, Pott’s disease is undoubtedly one of . the most frequent, especially in younger children, in whom it affects principally the antero-posterior curves. Rhachitis i3 often fol-. lowed by spinal deformity in those cases in which the primary disease is slow to cure. Displacement of the center of gravity, for instance the shortening of one leg, is followed by deformity. The various occupations furnish a large percentage of deformed individuals. Predisposing factors are lack of physical exercise; improper dress, where the muscles of the back are practically put out of commission, or the suspension of heavy clothing from the shoulders or hips; insufficient or faulty nutrition; deficient light and lack of fresh air; mental depression; the practice of allowing children to enter the work-shop at too early an age, etc.

As stated before, certain causes and occupations predispose to and produce a particular form of curvature, and it will be necessary to dis-. cuss the various types in detail, even at the risk of repeating previously mentioned factors. One of the most common varieties of spinal deformity is Kyphosis or round back. It may exist either as a harmless physiological condition or as a grave pathological one. Among the causes which may produce kyphosis are rhachitis, Pott’s disease, old age, muscular weakness, occupation and posture. Occupations that{ cause this deformity are piano playing, needle-work, type-setting, tailoring, cotton-spinning, molding, book-keeping, mining, brick and cement carrying, etc. Postures that tend to produce round back are, excessive stooping forward while reading or writing at faulty school desks or when not having proper facilities for doing this work at home.

A depressed mental or moral state, overwork, habitual muscular and mental fatigue, may cause the individual to relax and droop his shoulders. An acquired shiftless attitude on the part of childen who come from homes where parental training is almost unknown or of the wrong variety, is frequently the first impetus toward a grave curvature,

Lordosis is usually a deformity of the lumbar vertebrae, often accompanying and compensating kyphosis and scoliosis. I believe this form of curvature is far more frequent than is generally believed, especially among girls in the poorer districts. It is that form of curvature which least often receives attention, and still these girls with their protruding abdomens, flat chests, and heads forward need treatment as well as the boys with the round shoulders. Lordosis is caused by rhachitis, pregnancy, habitual faulty posture, lack of physical exercise, and the carrying of weights in front of the body. Under the latter head may be mentioned the carrying of infants by young girls. Usually the child is* supported by one arm and hip. Tailors acquire lordosis from the peculiar sitting position which they assume.

Scoliosis is a deformity of the spine characterized by a lateral deviation and is the most complicated of the spinal curvatures. We have a pimple and a compound, a right and a left scoliosis. In simple scoliosis the entire spine is bent to one side, or only a portion is involved, and It is usually present only in the early stages. When double or triple

Digitized by v^ooQle
—88—

curves (compensating curves as they are called) are present, we have the condition called compound scoliosis. A double curve is formed when a right convex dorsal curve is combined with a left lumbar, and a triple curve is produced when a primary right convex dorsal is compensated by a left convex lumbar curve and a left convex cervical curve. The scoliosis takes the name of its direction from the dorsal curve since the compensating curves are really physiological ones, the body making an effort to maintain its proper equilibrium. Muscular activity plays a large part in pulling the bony structure toward the compensating side, The etiology of scoliosis is manifold. In young children, and especially those with a large head, rhaehitis may cause it. Shortening ci one leg produces a tilting of the pelvis and a secondary scoliosis. Careful investigations have established the fact that by far the largest number of cases are brought about by faulty positions assumed and maintained during the growing age, and very often fostered by improper school conditions. Many of the schoolroom cases are brought on by allowing children to stand on one leg while reading or reciting, this position tilting the pelvis and pushing the spine to one side. Children acquire curvatures by being placed in school desks that are too high. The pupil in this case slides to the forward edge of the seat, raises the right shoulder and pushes the right hip outward in order to facilitate his writing. A desk may be too low or the distance between seat and desk may be incorrect. The seat may be too high so that the feet do not touch the floor, and in this manner no support is given the body from below. Many teachers are negligent in that they do not insist upon the children assuming proper positions while working at their desk. The book and paper are often held at an improper angle, also while writing the head is too close to the paper, and both arms are not kept on the desk.

A system of penmanship which calls for more than a fifteen degree slant causes children to rotate the spine. Bilateral lighting in many of oiir older schoCl buildings is an active factor in producing spinal deformity. The children sitting on the far side of the room do not get sufficient light from the left and consequently rotate the body to the rear. In doing so, they sit on the left thigh, drop the left arm below the desk, and push the right hip outward, certainly an ideal condition for the development of a lateral curvature. The carrying of heavy school books continuously in one hand or under one arm will eventually produce a deformity. Some of the worst cases seen in boys are those brought on by the carrying of heavy newspaper bags. Innumerable boys have been crippled by this meahs and how easy it would be for a teacher to caution them to alternate each week the shoulder from which the bag is suspended.

School children have in the past been made to sit in cramped inactive positions for two and three hours. This is certainly too long and tends to produce muscular atrophy. Mental study periods and physical activities should alternate at short intervals.

Various trades produce lateral curvatures, among the most common being book-keeping, tailoring, machine work, wood-turning, press-feed-

Digitized by Google
—89 —

ing, shofem^gjag, ;dre8s-m«Jqbag,'- blacksmithing etc. This is especially true where children are allowed to enter the shops and business places during the adolescent and growing period before the bony and muscular structure has attained the full strength and compactness necessary to withstand the consequences of these occupations.

The teacher of physical training, in making physical examinations of students in high schools, often meets a class of cases which upon first examination appear to be true scoliosis. The deformity disappears after a few* vigorous lessons in the gymnasium. Such cases may be termed pseudo-scoliosis, being temporary in character and due to the spasmodic contraction of the back muscles after long continued sitting in a fixed posture. In these cases there is no deviation of the bony structure,

In conclusion I may state that in my opinion the largest number all spinal deformities are preventable. Oareful attention on the part of parents and teachers to the positions assumed by the child during the growing period, the frequent correction of faulty carriage, the breaking up of long sitting periods by physical work, a liberal amount of healthy, vigorous play, and the passing of child-laws which will prevent the^ employment of children under sixteen years, will materially decrease the number of persons afflicted with spinal troubles and aid in the development of a healthier face.

WELLESLEY GYMNASIUM.

The Wellesley girls are delighted at the prospect of the new gymnasium on Central avenue, but they realize that the whole Wellesley atmosphere will be changed by the advent of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics. Wellesley was struggling for a gymnasium when this school offered to furnish the building and apparatus if their students might be admitted to Wellesley College, which request was finally

Digitized by Google
-90-

granted. The students of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics will be required to take the Wellesley College entrance examinations, and, after next year, will live in the dormitories with the Wellesley girls. i:. Two courses will be possible. A student may take five years for her college course and graduate with a degree from Wellesley College, in which her gymnastic work will be accounted as a major study, exactly as a girl, who is now making music her major takes five years to complete her course. The alternative plan is for the girl to take three years for her course, devoting herself exclusively to gymnasium work and gaining her degree from the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics. The regular Wellesley students will meanwhile be permitted to enjoy the advantages of the new building.	.

The new building is 1000 feet west of the “Quadrangle,” by the playground familiarly called “The West Woods,” and can be easily seen from the Boston & Albany railroad. In style it will be an adaptation of the Elizabethean, to harmonize with the four dormitories, and the material will be, as in them, red brick, white Indiana limestone and slate.

The headhouse, or the front section, is 45 feet high, consisting of three stories and a basement. On the first floor there are entrances at the east and west ends, connected by a corridor from which opens a reception room, an anthropometry room and a cloak room on the east side, and the medical director's suite, men's toilet rooms, and room for corrective gymnastics on the west side.

In the second story of the headhouse is a library, appropriately furnished with tables and bookcases, and two lecture rooms with offices. On the third story on the east side are the office of the assistant instructor, two laboratories—research and physiological—and a lecture room, and on the west side a large anatomical laboratory with a cold room for the preservation of live specimens.

The gymnasium proper, which is behind the headhouse, is 103x34 feet, and is 46 feet to the roof. It is two stories high, and on the first floor are 120 dressing rooms, 60 on each side, 60 marble shower baths, and 120 movable steel lockers. It is finished with enamelled brick walls and a granolithic floor. The direction and control of the warm and cold water and warm and cold air are of the latest order, and connected with the room is a sanitary hot room in which the gymnasium suits are thoroughly dried after use.

On the floor above is the gymnasium, 100 feet by 70 feet, finished in hardwood, with maple floor, an open steel truss roof, and a gallery for visitors at one end. It is to be equipped with all the latest and best approved gymnastics apparatus.

.... “Dt Bleuler in the Muenchener Med. Wochenschrift, Dec. 29, '08 states he has noticed that shortly after certain persons have spoken of feeling particularly well they were attacked by an infectious disease, and questions whether this is not an initial symptom of the infection.”

(N. Y. Med. Journ.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
-91-

GUTSMUTHS TEN COMMANDMENTS.

SIXTH COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt be shield and shelter, strength and defence of thy family; defender of thy home and of thy fatherland; thou shalt protect and guard thy weaker brother; thou shalt give succor to thine own defenseless enemy.

Interpretation.—Courage and strength shall serve thee only in aid of the needy and helpless. Thou shalt comfort, not only with speech— a noble Christian virtue, when prompted by sympathy—but also with thine act, as the valiant swimmer, who not merely calls to the struggling one, but who also brings him ashore. Fortunate one, who canst do that! To arm thyself with force and skill toward that end/ may thy mind grow through exercise, as becomes a noble German.

30TH NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION AT CINCINNATI, 0., JUNE 23 TO 27, 1909.

Tactics and Free Exercises for the competetive class work. Arranged by N. C* ,	Sbuss,	Cincinnati, O.

A. Tactics.

Preliminary to the Calisthenics.

The class is arranged in a front line composed of ranks of four.

1.	The line four steps forward.................................  1-4

The ranks % wheel left.....................................• 5-16

Eight steps fyrward and with the last step left about face... .17-24

Repeat 17 to 24...............................	•........	•	• .25-32

Note—The class is now in a column of fours.

2.	The ranks ^4 wheel left...........................  •........ 1-4

Four steps forward.........................................^ 5-8

Repeat 1 to 8, three times.................................. 9-32

3.	(In the ranks), form	in	front of	left, obliquely............ 1-4

(In the ranks), form	to	the left,	obliquely................  5-8

The ranks *4 wheel left.........................^	   9-12

Four steps forward......................................    13-16

Repeat 1 to 16, three times.................................17-64

4.	(In the ranks), form to the left, passing by the rear........ 1-8

The ranks y2 wheel left................................      9-16

Four steps forward and with the last step left about face..17-24

Repeat 17 to 24.............................................25-32

Repeat all .............................................   .33-64

5.	(In the ranks), form	in	front of left, passing by the rear...1-10

The ranks 14 wheel left.................................   *11-15

The ranks % wheel left.................................    .17-28

Four steps forward.....................................    .29-32

Repeat all ...............................................  33-64

6.	Open the ranks to the left, two steps distance, by marching

forward 1-6, right face 7, halt 8............   -........ 1-3

Digitized by v^.ooQle
B. Free Exercises.

When performed by all participants in mass, there is an introduction of

eight counts.

GROUP I.

EXERCISE 1.

1.	Bend right knee, place left foot forward (bentkneestep) and raise arms forward Pig. 1, side view).

2-4. Hold position.

5.	Replace the left foot and bend arms (Pig. 2).

6.	Raise heels (toe stand) and straighten arms "upward.

7-8. Hold position. 9. Lower heels and bend arms.

10. Lunge left sideward and straighten arms sideward (Fig. 3). 11-12. Hold position.

13. Straighten left knee, turn trunk left, swing left arm obliquely backward downward, raise right leg backward and swing right arm downward, then obliquely forward upward (Pig. 4).

14-15. Hold position.

17-20. Return to position 10 in reverse order (Pig. 3).

21.	Replace the left foot and bend arms.

22.	Raise heels and straighten^anjis upward.

23-24. Hold position. 25. Lower heels and bend arms.

26. Bend right hnee. place left foot forward and straighten arms forward.

27-28. Hold position. 29. Iteplace left foot, and lower arms.

30-32. Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right.

65.128. Repeat left and right.

EXERCISE 2.

1.	Bend right knee, place left foot sideward and raise arms sideward (Fig. 5).

.2-4. Hold position.

5.	Replace the left foot and bend arms.

6.	Bend knees and straighten arms forward (Fig. 6, side view).

7-8. Hold position. 9. Straighten knees and bend arms.

10. Lunge, left sideward and straighten arms sideward right (i. e., right arm sideward, left hand in front of right shoulder (Fig. 7).

11-12. Hold position.

13. Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward, turn trunk left, swing arms downward, then forward (Fig. 8).

14-16. Hold position.

17-20. Return to posititon 10 in reserve order (Fig. 7).

21.	Replace the left foot and bend arms.

22.	Bend knees and straighten arms forward.

23-24. Hold position. 25. Straighten knees and bend arms.

26. Bend right knee, place left foot sideward and straighten arms sideward.

27-28. Hold position. 29. Replace the left foot and lower arms.

30-32. Starti^,poaition. * 33-64. Repeat right.

65-128. „ Repeatleft and right.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Digitized by v^ooQle
EXERCISE 3.

1.	Bend right knee, place left foot backward and raise arms forward (Pig. 9).

2-4. Hold position.

5.	Replace tbe~left foot and bend arms.

6.	Lower trunk forward and straighten arm sideward (Fig. 10). 7-8. Hold position. 9. Raise trunk and bend arms.

10. Lunge left forward, straighten left arm obliquely forward upward and right arm obliquely downward (Fig. 11).

11-12. * Hold position.

, 13. Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward and change position of arms (Fig. 12).

14-16. Hold position.

17-20. Return to position 10 in reverse order (Fig. 11).

21.	Replace the left foot and bend arms.

22.	Lower trunk forward and straighten arms sideward.

23-24. Hold position. 25. Raise trunk and bend arms.

26. Bend right knee, place left foot backward and straighten amte upward.

27-28. Hold position.

29. Replace the left foot, and lower arms forward downward.

30-32. Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right.

65-128. Repeat left and right.

INTERMEDIATE EXERCISE (BETWEEN GROUPS I AND II).

1-16. Mark time, beginning with the left foot; on 15 and 16 quarter turn left.

17-64. Repeat three times.

GROUP II.

Introduction (at the Mass Exercises), eight counts. EXERCISE 1.

1.	Bend knees and raise arms forward (Fig. 13, side view).

2-4. Hold position.

5.	Straighten knees and bend arms.

6.	Lunge left forward and straighten arms sideward (Fig. 14).

7-8. Hold position.

9.	Straighten left knee, % turn right on heels and bend arms.

10.	Straighten arms upward (Fig. 15).

11-12. Hold position.

13. Lower trunk forward and swing arms down and backward (parallel with the trunk, Fig. 16)

14-16. Hold position.	.	*	'	•

17-20. Return to position 10 (Fig. 15).

21.	14 turn left on heels and bend arms.	-	!

22.	Bend left knee and straighten arms sideward.	1

23-24. Hold position.	25.	Replace	left	foot	and	bend	arms.

26. Bend knees and straighten arms forward.

27-28. Hold position. 29. Straighten knees and lower arms.

30-32. Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right.

65-128. Repeat left and right.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Digitized by

Google
EXEECISE 2.

1.	Bend knee? and raise arms forward (Fig. 17, side view).

2-4. Hold position.

5.	Jump to side stride position and bend arms.

6.	Straighten arras upward (Fig. 18).

7-8. . Hold position. 9. Bend arms.

10. Bend left knee, bend trunk left sideward and straighten arms sideward (the left hand to touch the floor (Fig. 19).

11-12. Hold position.

13.	Straighten left knee and trunk and bend arms.

14.	Quarter turn right, bend right knee, straighten left arm obliquely

forward upward and the right obliquely backward downward (Fig. 20).

15-16. Hold position.

17.	Straighten right knee, turn trunk left and bend arms.

18.	Same as position 10.

19-20. Hold position.

21.	Same as position 13.

22.	Straighten arms upward.

23-24. Hold position. 25. Bend arms.

26. Jump to bent-knee position and straighten arms forward.

27-28. Hold position. 29. Straighten knees and lower arms.

30-32. Starting position. 33-64. Eepeat right.

65-128. Eepeat left and right.

EXEECISE 3.

1.	Bend knees and raise arms forward (Fig. 21, side view).

2-4. Hold position.

5.	Straighten knees and bend arms.

6.	Place left foot obliquely, crossed in rear, straighten right arm

obliquely forward and left arm obliquely backward downward (Fig. 22).

7-8. . Hold position. 9. Eeplace left foot and arms.

10. Lunge obliquely left forward, straighten left arm obliquely forward upward and right arm obliquely backward downward (Fig. 23).

11-12. Hold position.

13. Kneel on right knee, swing left arm obliquely backward downward and bend righirarm overhead (Fig. 21).

14-16. Hold position.

17-20. Betum to position 10 in reverse order.

21.	Eeplace left foot and bend arms.

22.	Same as position 6.

23-24. Hold position. 25. Eeplace left foot and bend arms.

26. Bend knees and straighten arms forward.

27-28. Hold position. 29. Straighten kuees and lower arms.

30-32. Starting position. 33-64. Eepeat right.

65-128. Eepeat left and right.

INTEBMEDIATE EXEECISE (BETWEEN GBOUPS II AND III). 1-16. Mark time, beginning with the right foot; on 15 and 16 quarter turn right.

17^64. , Eepeat „ three timea.

Digitized by L,ooQle
Digitized by
1.

2-4.

5.

6. 7-8. 10.

11-12.

13.

14.

15-16.

17.

18. 19-20.

21.

22.

23-24.

26.

27-28.

30-32.

65-128.

1. 2-4. *	5.

6. 7-8. 9. 10. 11-12. 13.

14-16

21.

22.

23-24

26.

27-28.

29.

30-32.

_65-128.

GROUP III.

Introduction (at the Mass Exercises), eight counts. EXERCISE 1.

Lunge left forward, bend left arm over head and raise right arm obliquely backward downward (hands closed tightly (Fig. 25).

Hold position.

Close right foot to left, straighten the left knee and bend arms. Bend knees and straighten arms sideward (Fig. 26).

Hold position. 9. Straighten knees and bend arms.

Place left foot obliquely, crossed in rear, and straighten arms upward (Fig. 27).

Hold position.

Replace left foot and bend arms.

Bend the left knee and place right foot obliquely, crossed in rear, bend trunk obliquely left forward, and place the hands on floor (Fig. 28).

Hold position.

Replace left foot, straighten trunk, and bend arms.

Same as position 10.

Hold position.

Replace left foot and bend arms.

Bend knees and straighten arms sideward.

Hold position. 25. Straighten knees and bend arms.

Place right foot backward, bend left knee, bend left arm overhead and swing right arm obliquely backward downward. Hold position. 29. Replace the left foot and lower arms. Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right.

Repeat left and right.

EXERCISE 2.

Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward (Fig. 29).

Hold position.

Replace left foot, % turn left and bend arms (Fig. 30).

Bend knees and straighten arms forward.

Hold position.

Place hands on floor (arms between the knees).

Straighten backw’ard to front leaning rest (Fig. 31).

Hold position.

*4 turn right, place right foot backward and swing right arm upward (Fig. 32).

Hold position. 17-20. Return to position 10.

Jump to bent-knee position, hands on floor.

Straighten the trunk and raise arms forward.

Hold position. 25. Straighten knees and bend arms 14 turn right, place right foot sideward, bend left knee, and straighten arms sideward.

•Hold position.

Straighten left knee, replace left foot and lower arms.

Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right.

Repeat left and right.

Digitized by LjOOQie
Digitized by
2-4.

6.

7-8. ■ 10. 11-12.

13.

14. 15-16.

17.

18. 21. 22.

23-24.

26.

% turn left, bend right knee, place left foot backward (foot to rest on toes), raise left arm obliquely backward downward, bend right arm, hand in front of left shoulder and hands closed (Fig. 33).

Hold position. 5. Eeplace the left foot and bend arms.

Lunge left forward, straighten left arm obliquely forward upward and right arm obliquely backward downw. (Fig. 34).

Hold position. 9. Eeplace right foot and bend anas

Bend knees and.place hands on floor (Fig. 35).

Hold position.

Straighten backward to front leaning rest.

Bend arms and raise left leg backward (Fig. 36).

Hold position.

Straighten arms and lower left leg to leaning rest.

Eeturn to position 10.	19-20.	Hold	position.

Straighten knees and bend arms.

Place right foot backward, bend left knee, straighten left arm obliquely forward upward and the right obliquely batik-ward downward.

Hold position. 25. Eeplace left foot and bend arms.

y8 turn left, bend right knee, place left foot backward (foot to rest on toes), straighten left arm obliquely backward downward, bend right arm, hand in front of left shoulder and hands closed.

EXEEC1SE 3.

Digitized by
-101-

27-28. Hold position.

29.	% turn right, replace left foot and lower arms.

30-32, Starting position. 33-64. Repeat right. 65-128. Repeat left and right.

DETERMINING PRINCIPLES WHICH SHOULD DECIDE THE CONTENT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL CURRICULUM IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

fly William A. Stecher, Director Physical Education, Philadelphia Public

Schools.

Man received his present form and faculties through growth directed by natural forces. Nature compelled him to adapt himself to surrounding conditions, to conquer obstacles or else to degenerate and perish. •From the remote past up to the present, the same law that shaped his. course and eventually placed him where he now is has been at work. Under its influence he has developed from a lower to a higher being. All parts of his body, he they large or small, simple or complex, have developed from a lower to a higher plane. What at the beginning of life was simple in respect to structure and function, developed into later complexity, completeness and perfection.

^ One thought, therefore, must always be foremost in our minds, and that is, that man has his present form and structure because by the struggle for existence he was forced to do certain things in an effective manner, or perish.

If, then, forced occupations gave us our present organs, it is reasonable to expect that movements of a similar character (even if not of the same kind) will preserve them in a healthy state, and non-use or misuse of these organs will bring about deterioration.

We have, therefore, throughout life the need for much muscular exertion of a beneficial type so that our organs may develop and remain healthy.

All organs, however, do not grow equally at all times of one's life. At birth the proportions of a child's body are entirely different from those at fourteen, or at seven years of age; and so are the stages of development of his internal organs. Separate organs have a time when they develop most rapidly. If at this time of their most rapid growth they receive the proper amount and kind of exercise one has reason to expect a better developed individual than if this had not been the case. Different ages will, therefore, demand different forms of exercise.

Besides these demands from a biological and physiological point of view the physical education for pupils of public (or private) schools must also be considered from the pedagogical view point, i. e., the training for effective citizenship. The modes of exercise must, therefore, be useable in the school as generally organized, must work for

# Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association Philadelphia, April, 1909.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—102—

increased hygienic modes of living, and must stimulate normal development.

If, now, we seek for the types of bodily exercise which were most potent for development during pre-historic years, we find such forms as running, jumping, climbing, throwing, striking, lifting, digging, carrying etc. Increased skill later varied those types and made them more effective. By the use of a sling, a stone could be thrown with much more force than by free hand. A pole gave the user the power to jump much higher or farther. A tree-limb just within reach gave a chance to get up a cliff more quickly. A swinging vine offered the opportunity to jump over a wider stream.

These instances could be multiplied, illustrating, as in every other form of human endeavor and activity, that also in muscular activity there was a natural growth from the simple to the complex.

When improved devices yielded greater returns in sustenance, and man found more leisure, he developed these natural forms of movement still more, and playful experimentation made him more skillful and eventually gave him many varieties of the fundamental movements spoken of above. A fallen log was useful not only for firewood, but it' also gave the means* for balancing movements, for the different kinds of vaults, and for hurdling. A convenient limb challenged the ability for chinning and for many of the simpler forms of movements now practised on the horizontal bar. A swinging vine produced the prototypes of such exercises as are now seen on the giant stride, the swinging rings, the trapez etc. Different kinds of racing, and also a variety of games developed because of the same kind of interest in a more complex use of the primitive types of body movements. Physical and mental development are closely connected. It is this interest in developing and improving fundamental body-movements that is at the foundation of mental growth by means of physical training. We have here also an explanation of the interest every healthy child, adolescent, yes, even mature man has in games and in doing “stunts.” It is the gratification of this desire for playful experimentation, for a testing and increase of bodily strength, skill, endurance and agility that has led to all the manifold exercises we now see on all kinds of apparatus and in all kinds of games.

The question now arises, what comparative biological, physiological and pedagogical value have the different forms of bodily exercise common with us, and which forms would be of greatest use to us in. school work?

This may seem a new problem, but it is not, for in Europe these questions have been before teachers, physicians and physiologists for many years. Some twenty years ago Dr. F. A. Schmidt of Bonn, undertook to classify all forms of bodily exercise as to their effect, and as to their value as a means of body training for the different ages. Having had a thorough training from youth in all the forms of exercise he studied, his prominence as a practising physician and as a physiologist made him an intelligent and sympathetic investigator. The results of his researches, and his charts are safe guides showing the effect

Digitized by v^ooQle
-10:5-

of all forms of exercise, and at what age they are of the greatest use, or of greater danger, for physical education.

Schmidt divides all body-movements into three groups: 1st, exercises requiring strength and skill; 2nd, exercises requiring quickness and endurance; 3rd, exercises requiring attention and alertness.

Positive, independent forms of exercise form the first group. In exercises on this type, the mechanical exertion begins from a comparatively passive state, then rises to the desired height and again relapses into the original state of the muscles. Included in this group are the various forms of apparatus work, some forms of calisthenics, wrestling, shotput, throwing, pole vaulting etc.

The second group embraces such forms of movement as have an endless repetition which may be interrupted at any time without causing the exercise to lose its character. For instance, running will be running if only ten steps are taken or a thousand. While the first group has an endless number of movements, this second has a rather limited number of forms, like walking, running, skating, swimming, rowing, bicycling, dancing, games of motion, etc.

The third group calls for the quickest mastering of unforeseen movements, like—wrestling, boxing, fencing and the highly organized ball games.

Based on these fundamental view points the physical training work of the school ages under discussion should be as follows:

6-9 years, simple games of motion, easy forms of tactics, calis-. thenics and of apparatus and field work; also exercises of quickness.

9-14 years, more intricate games, especially ball games, more difficult forms of tactics, calisthenics, apparatus and field work. Exercises of skill and quickness; also easy and moderate exercises of endurance.

14-20 years, all forms of exercise that strongly stimulate the activity of heart and lungs. Development of skill, daring and courage by means of apparatus work and intricate ball games; also the lighter forms of exercises of strength and endurance.

Summarizing we will say that the determining principles which should decide the content of the public school curriculum in physical education are to be found in the biological, physiological and pedagogical foundations as outlined above. In order to realize the best results, and based on these foundations, there arise the following demands:

1st—A careful selection of exercises, including games graded to suit the ages of the pupils.

2nd—Well prepared teachers, gymnastically trained, who understand the value of the physical training materials, and can intelligently apply them.

3rd—Suitable places for exercises. Large sheltered places for inclement weather, and large school yards for fair weather.

4th—The necessary time for body training. “It takes intelligence and time to develop a healthy being.”

pgr* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by uooq Le
-104-

Mmp ftND BODY.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Pubhnbed Monitor •

BY

8ibseriptioa Price, $1.00 per Year.

Y»e, Wlecordt).

09- Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Addrees alt editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomooa St., Germantown PW„ Pa.

—THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION celebrates its national festival at Cincinnati, Ohio, June 23th to 27th. These festivals take place every four years and bring together in active competition over 2000 men, besides thousands of children and women participants. The obligatory gymnastic work for the coming festival will consist of, first Tactics and free exercises, 2nd Exercises on the fixed apparatus, horizontal and parallel bars, side and long horse, 3rd Fieldwork, running hop, step and jump and putting the shot. The tactics and free exercises will be executed as classwork and judged as such, while in the apparatus work and in the field exercises each man works singly and the points he makes are credited to his society.

According to their membership the societies forming the Union are divided into six groups, the societies in each group being required #to appear with a minimum number of active Turners. The minimum attendance for the first group is 28 men; for the second, 24 men: for the third, 20 men; for the fourth, 16 men; for the fifth, 12 men, and for the sixth group, 8 men.

Societies appearing with less than the minimum number lose % point for every man, while societies that appear with more than the minimum required in their group are credited with an additional % point for every excess man up to 5 points. The exercises on the fixed apparatus are in three degrees of difficulty. Every society is credited with the points ,each man in the class makes. In addition to this every society receives an extra one point for each man that competes in the third grade (the most difficult exercises) and an extra point for each man competing in the second grade.

Eight weeks before the festival sets of exercises in the three grades on all the apparatus are published. The required exercises are selected from these sets during the judges’ meeting immediately preceding the contest.

This concise statement of the main competetive event will show that the Union has held fast to its ideal of all around development formulated at its organization nearly sixty years ago. Here is a working plan showing how any society, association, school, college or university can have a competition that allows its weakest pupils or students as well as its most expert to compete for the glory of its organization. By a wise combination of exercises on fixed apparatus, various forms of track and field work, marching and free exercises a test for all around

Entered at the Milwaukee Port Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
—105-

development is given. By requiring a minimum attendance, based on the size of the different societies, groups are formed that work under approximately the same conditions. By having exercises that are performed by all a class-spirit, a team-spirit is developed that is helpful, and by having individual exercises on apparatus the highly skilled apparatus expert is given a chance to make high points for his class. The same is true in the field work where each individual's efforts with the number of points made, are credited to his class.

But besides working for the glory of his society every man competing in the highest grade is at the same time ^making points for himself, as all third grade men making 75 per cent, of the highest number of possible points are awarded single honors.

Then come the chances of competing in such single events as weight-lifting, wrestling in three weight groups, clubswinging, 220 yards run, 120 yards hurdle, fencing and swimming. Besides these single events there is a group contest in five track and field events (Broad-jump, Hand-climbing, High-jump, 100 yard dash, Pole-vaulting) with chances of winning in the single events as well as in the group. But, we hear some one say, this gives the specialist a chance. Yes it does, and it should, for there is no reason for not allowing a man to specialize in one or two things provided he does not neglect the other parts of his body. This all around development is, if needs be, secured for unwilling men .by the rule that no one can compete in any special single or group event unless he is a member of the competing class.

Besides the competitions spoken of there will be two competitive games: Captain-ball by teams of ten men, and Prisoners Base by teams of twelve men.' Other games may be shown during the model exercises. These model exercises show the greatest and most interesting variety of gymnastic work from the simplest exercises by older men up to tbe highest forms of classic dancing by women's classes. No limit is put upon the skill or originality of any teacher of gymnastics to show the very acme of gymnastic ability and accomplishment. To see these exercises is worth crossing the continent for any progressive teacher or student of physical training. No amount of money or time invested in any other manner will yield such rich returns in new ideas and inspiration.

But there is still more. The mass exercises have, as yet, not been mentioned. There will be mass exercises by boys and bv girls by the thousands; mass exercises by the combined women's classes (club-swinging); mass exercises by the seniors (men over 35' years of age— wand exercises); and, lastly, the mass exercises by all the actives who have competed in the different events. Surely a wonderful program for those who want to study physical training methods and results. Now, we suppose, that we will again hear the “old gag," not to say, something harsher, that these forms of exercises are all right for the stolid Germans, but they will never do for our American boys, girls, men or women. More than 75 per cent, of the participants in Cincinnati will, however, be Americans of the second and third generations.

Athletics in our schools, colleges and universities has gone wild.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-KMi—

As now conducted they might he called professional exhibitions given by the physically best for the benefit of a great paying majority. It is self-deceit when we try to make ourselves believe that we are a great sport loving nation.

The system in vogue, which is understood to be adapted to American youth, is being condemned by most thoughtful teachers. It is a system that eliminates all but those physically nearly perfect. It encourages specialization. The man who needs exercise and encouragement most receives little recognition. Judging by the efforts made in recent years by earnest men who are not blinded to its utter uselessness as a means for encouraging healthy recreation and sport, the system is practically a flat failure. Now, isn't it worth while to view in an unprejudiced manner a system developed along somewhat different lines and see if these “hyphenated Americans" haven't, perhaps, got exactly what our unhyphenated Americans are badly in need of? Students may find some things they will condemn, but we venture to say that the general effect of the work seen at the festival will be such as to inspire all who come with hope, and to encourage them to work with all their might for the day when such rational recreation and sport shall be the aim of every teacher in America.

—LOOKING BACK upon the recent convention of the American Physical Education Association one is impressed by the smoothness of the proceedings, by the lack of that combative spirit that swayed the last Philadelphia convention in 1892. Well, seventeen years is quite a long time, and during this time the supporters of the. two great systems have found out that the “other fellow" was also striving for the same end, hut by a different road. If any fight at all was to be noticed it was the stand taken against pushing special gymnastic or dance activities too prominently into the foreground so as to lead an indiseriminating public into the belief that this one particular phase of physical training was “the whole thing."

Some useless debate was also caused by a rather vague understanding of the meaning of some terms. The rather loose use of the term “athletics" for instance, is responsible for some of these misunderstandings. Some teachers understand under athletics practically every bodily activity possible, even dancing and games being so classed. Others group under this term only such forms of bodily activity as are undertaken for the sole reason of winning a prize of some value. Others again say that athletics are such forms of physical training activity as are usually undertaken on the running track or on the field. We find, therefore, divisions made according to the activity, and also according to the incentive, and this naturally must lead to confusion and to disagreements.

It makes a great difference, however, if a school encourages an activity for the sport, for the fun, for the recreation there is in it, or if this same activity is looked upon as a means for winning a prize. Let us be clear about this. If the sole aim of any physical activity, be this an exercise on the parallel bars, a 100 yards dash, a ball game, a folk

Digitized by v^ooQle
—107-

dance etc. is to win a medal of any specific value, a traveling bag, a watch, or even a banner then it would be foolish to have any one enter into this competition except those who by nature or by long specific exercise have trained themselves for this particular event. If, however, any of these activities are encouraged and practised for the enjoyment which the activity gives to the participant, the performance is at once put upon an entirely different plane, for this will allow the participation of aTI, not only of the best.

Here, then, we find the distinction between athletics and sports. It is not competition, or the form of the activity (running, jumping etc.) that makes an exercise an athletic event or not, but it is the incentive, the end in view. If, for example, the object is to win a prize a folk-dance is as much an athletic event as a high jump. Conversely, if a whole class tries to get its record in a high jump this is no more an athletic event than if a class learns the Irish jilt. Let us get away from “fuzzy-mindedness,” the new word coined by Dr. Gulick, and think things out to their ends. One will then know, when a program is published, what is meant. If, at the same time, such definite terms or divisions of physical training activities are used as “tactics,” “free gymnastics,” “work on fixed apparatus,” “track and field work,” “dancing,” “games,” etc., we can at least have that fund of common knowledge Dr. Brumbaugh spoke of, and can proceed. We are safe to assume that we all agree that exercise for the fun and recreation there is in it (sport for sport’s sake), is good. Some of us seem to believe that by means of athletics (as formulated above) much good can be accomplished. Some again seem to believe that sport with a proper amount of athletics at opportune times and suited to local conditions is what we should strive for. Why, then, not adopt these terms and clear the way for work, instead of useless wranglings. The coming committee on a physical training nomenclature could also take up this question.

—AT ITS MEETING, the National Council decided to hold the next meeting of the American Physical Education Association at Indianapolis, Ind., next February at the time of the convention of the superintendents of schools. The reason for this decision was that in all probabilities the next meeting of the School Hygiene Association as well as of the Playgrounds Association would be held there. This would be an excellent opportunity to acquaint the superintendents with the work done by these three national organizations in the interest of the physical welfare of schoolchildren. It would also give the members of the middle West a convention in their midst, and so would work for an increased membership and interest in that territory.

Another far reaching step undertaken by the council is the appointment of a committee to consider a change of the constitution allowing the affiliation of organizations whose aim is either exactly like that of the local societies of the association (see the report, Mind and Body, in February, of the meetings of the teachers of gymnastics in the South) and also of such organizations like the Physical Directors’ Society of the Y. M. C. A., the Teachers’ Society of the North American Gymnastic

Digitized by (^.ooQLe
-108-

Union. Then there are numerous other organizations like the Playgrounds Associations, Fencers* and Swimmers* Leagues that ought to he in the close touch with the National Association. The action of the council is opportune and should result in an increased growth and interest in the Association.

—THREE NEW MEMBERS at large were elected during the business meeting of the Association. They are Dr. Theodore Toepel of Atlanta, 6a., Dr. Robert Fischer of Indianapolis, Ind., and Mr. C. B. Powter of Montreal, Canada.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

(Complying with the wishes of many readers this department will hereafter bring news notes from schools, associations, societies, clubs etc. Teachers, secretaries, also active participants in any branch of physical training are requested to send news of general interest to Mr. Haug.)

—West Point’s fencing team, composed of the same trio of swordsmen that carried off the title a year ago, again won the annual intercollegiate championship last month. The Army won 29 bouts out of a total of 33 in which they participated. Of those O. N. Sohlberg won 9 and lost 2, R. Sears won 10 and lost 1, while R. Cocroft duplicated Sears’ performance.

The other teams finished as follows:

Annapolis, second, with 21 bouts won; Yale, third, with 16 wins; and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, last, with 9 victories.

—The Intercollegiate Football Rules Committee at its meeting in New York last month decided on two very important changes in the rules. The most important change was the reduction of points for a goal from the field from 4 to 3. The object of this change is to prevent two goals from the field counting more than a hard won touchdown and goal. Two goals from the field now will count the same as a touchdown and goal.

The second change was in relation to the infliction of penalties. During the year there was frequent confusion over their infliction when two penalties had been incurred by one team for the same play. The rules now provide that in case of two penalties being incurred the offended team will have the option of saying which penalty shall be imposed.

—90,000 people recently witnessed the semi-final rounds of Football in England on one day. In the top half 40,000 persons witnessed the defeat of the leaders in the Football League; the Newcastle United, by the Manchester United by 1 goal to nothing. In the lower half, Derby County met Bristol City before 50,000 people. The game ended in a sensational draw of one goal each.

—Edward Fayson Weston the veteran pedestrian started from New

Digitized by CjOOQle
—109 —

York March 15 to walk to San Francisco in 100 days, Sundays excepted. The post-wad distance is 4300 miles.

—The New York Turn Verein fencing team, after trying for four years to capture the Saltus Cup, symbolic of the National fencing team championship with dueling, swords, won the trophy'last month after a series of closely contested bouts in the rooms of the Fencers’ Club.

Three clubs entered teams of 3 men each, the Turn Verein, Fencers’ Club and the New York Athletic Club. The results: Turn Verein won 10, N. Y. A. C. 7 and Fencers’ Club 6.

The Turn Verein was represented by John Allaire, Paul Benzenberg and H. Reimheer.

—On April 3 Oxford won the 66th Annual boat race from Cambridge on the Thames by 3V2 lengths in 19.15. The course was about 4 miles from Putney to Mortlake. The best previous performances were by Oxford in 1893 and Cambridge in 1900 covering the distance in 18.4-7.

SUCCESSFUL DRILLS AND MARCHES

By Gertrude Wflliams-Liwdgreit,

Send to	#. £nn*0V«tt, 428 S. Garfield Ave., BURLINGTON, IA

—I have been using “Marching Calesthenics and Fancy Steps” for a long time and have found it very helpful, and now am sending 50c for a copy of your new book, “Successful Drills and Marches.”

ALICE C. HAWKINS,

Physical Director of Y. W. C. A.,

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

AN ENGLISH CRITICISM ON ATHLETICS IN AMERICA.

An English Collegean signing himself “An Occasional Correspondent” writing to the London Times says: “In America-neither the colleges that give, nor the students who receive, extensive learning, render their names famous until they ‘take up’ and excel in football, baseball, or some other form of sport, and prove their prowess in intercollegiate contests by the results of which the relative merits of the colleges are determined from year to year. Prof. Simon Newcomb, one of the foremost of living American men of science, in answer to his own question why students of Harvard and Yale join the athletic teams of their universities, replies that for the most part the game is not a pleasure to them, but a severe strain which they undertake in order to command the esteem of their, fellows, and excite the admiration of the public. If they devoted themselves to purely intellectual improvement, they would have to wait long years before getting into the limelight, while in the athletic team they find themselves there at once.

“Perhaps it would be more correct to say that it is to get their college into the limelight that students join the college teams. I happened to be in residence at one of the best colleges in the Middle West

Digitized by Google
-110-

when its students were victorious in the annual State intercollegiate contests. Yielding to the generous insistence of the students, who were celebrating their victory round a huge bonfire in the college campus, I said a few words of congratulation which were sincerely spoken, though it would have been impossible for me to utter them had I then known one-half concerning athletics in American colleges that I have since learned, I had my first nibbles at the tree of knowledge, and my eyes were partially opened, at that very college. The students recognizing my surprise at their extreme elation, explained that it was due to the fact that one of the competing colleges, had meanly enticed their trainer from them by the offer of a higher salary than their college could afford to pay. Later, a professor said to me that the faculty and trustees rajQiced with exceeding joy because the enhanced renown which, by the victory, the college had gained would attract many new students who otherwise would have gone wherever, elsewhere, success had gone,

“This spirit of rivalry between the various colleges is one of the most obvious and most repugnant features of American academic life. T came here from Germany. There, all the universities are parts of one great government system, and are in large measure considered to be equal; and it is the ambition of many students to take each of their six semesters in a different university, passing freely from one to the other. In America, however, excessive devotion to one seat of learning-is mingled with a hostile and depreciatory spirit toward all others, and any student who may migrate from one college to another has to bear the imputation of disloyalty. Even graver misdemeanors are apt to be imputed to him, should he have the misfortune—I must use the terms of the market place, which alone are appropriate here—to be good athletic material which it would pay another college to buy in order to ‘render its name famous* by achieving superiority in intercollegiate contests. At a meeting of college presidents held recently at Cornell University it was stated by one of the presidents and contradicted by none that the various league teams of the colleges are ‘bought and sold in the open market/

“I met a pupil of an Oklahoma high school who, having proved himself good athletic material, had received from athletic managers of more than one college in other States competitive offers of board, tuition, books, ‘coach/ and other inducements to aid him in determining the choice of his college on leaving school. I am told that the great private schools even send agents to the elementary schools to buy up athletic material with which to build up the reputation of the school.

“Much has been heard of the physical and intellectual evil of modem athletics. In American colleges, as in England outside of the colleges, the chief evil is moral. Of recent years, in order to repress professionalism in college games, a rule has been adopted by which no student is held to be eligible for admission to a college team who does not declare that he has never in his life received any compensation, direct or indirect, for the use of athletic knowledge or skill. The declaration is

Digitized by Google
-111-

solemnly made; and yet no college team ever meets another with actual faith in the other’s eligibility.

"Athletic managers of American college teams have been known to make wagers with, and lose them to, students who afterward have enrolled in the colleges from which the agents came. Who doubts, and yet who can prove, that these athletes were bought? By these and other equally disreputable methods the rules against professionalism are systematically circumvented; and, of course, athletes who are thus dishonorably secured must in honor play to win, even though they play in dishonorable ways. I have heard certain college athletic trainers described as ‘great’ in teaching the art of dexteriously maiming an opponent; and a college president has publicly stated that to deceive the umpire, to wrangle over a doubtful decision, to rattle the pitcher (i, e. to confuse the thrower at baseball), to disconcert the fielder who is trying to bring off a catch, and many other formtS of discourtesy and fraud, are * openly practiced and unblushingly condoned.

"That the demoralized athletics of American colleges have left American students as a body undemoralized is due to three facts, each of which, however, is itself a misfortune, if not a fault, in academic life.

(1) Few students take an active part in athletics. All are interested, but few play. The great majority are mere spectators of the game. I was astonished by the numbers of students whom I found at all colleges content to sit, day after day, on the ‘bleachers’ and see their fellow-students play; and they, on the other hand, were astonished by the statements of the American Rhodes scholars at Oxford that there so many students take part in college sports that ordinarily none are free to be spectators.

“More than once I have been asked whether it is the case, as an American has declared, that the average for boating, which in American colleges is one man in 70, is at Oxford one in 7, and whether the average Oxford College of 150 men maintains two football teams, an eight and two torpids, a cricket eleven, and a hockey eleven, and has, besides, the men who play golf, lawn tennis, court tennis, racquets and fives, and the men who swim, box, wrestle and shoot?

"Such statements, made by Americans who are suspected of having become too much Anglicized, I have almost persuaded some American students to believe, but I do not believe that I have succeeded in convincing one that there is no organized and systematic coaching of athletic teams such as is practiced, in American colleges, where professional trainers ordinarily receive for a few months’ work more than the best professors get for a year’s academic service.

"First, then, few students play, and of these few some are ‘bought and sold.’ 2. Of the members bf the athletic teams few achieve other than athletic distinction. Such severe training as the modern college athlete gets is not shaped in reference to and is not a basis for mental training. It is not easy to make the transition from excessive physical activity to intellectual activity or to reverse the movement. The two forms of expenditure cannot go on together, or be added to each

Digitized by booQle
-112-

other, without an excessive drain on vital forces. Thus, the athlete becomes a mere athlete and rarely gains a position in the commercial, political, literary or educational world in which he can make his influence widely felt.

“The American Rhodes scholars at Oxford are athletic, # but they are not ordinarily chosen from their college athletic teams. Thus the corrupted men do not greatly corrupt, and the incorrupt represent worthily American academic life. 3. Others than the corrupt few have little knowledge of the corruption that prevails.

“The president of Clark University has said that one of the greatest dangers of the play of American students is that, instead of being a school of honor, it will be a school of dishonor. It is such to those who are bought and sold, and it would be such to all the students were it, as so large a part of students’ activities ought to be, within their ken * and did they yet tolerate and condone the evil. Recently some professors and alumni, as I have intended to show by frequent references to their utterances, have courageously set themselves to the ungrateful but most necessary task of exposing the evil, and that makes the beginning of its end. Such defects as I have cited are incident to the youth and rapid growth of American institutions, and they are being overcome.”

Well, this is rather plain language, and it is interesting, although not always pleasant, to know what your neighbor thinks of you. So American college men in general, and college presidents and professors in particular, should be glad to read the above article, the writer of which says he has spent a year among Americans. He apparently has been cpnnected in some capacity with one of the big universities of the Middle West, where athletic abuses reached the high water mark a few years ago, but some of the things he says could at one time very likely have been applied with truth to every big university in the country. The desire to win became abnormal, and even now, after great effort has been made to down this feeling in college athletics, the rank and file.of students at all the big institutions of learning feel more aggrieved over an athletic defeat than the death of a relative.

Some years ago it became evident that some of the universities were reaching out after athletic material in such a systematic way that the best boys all headed in one direction for the reason that some one convinced them that it was to their best interest to go that way. Then all resorted to the same methods in regard to the preparatory school boys, and some went so far as to corral matured men of exceptional strength and athletic ability from all walks of life, regardless of their fitness to receive a college education. These men as a rule entered one of the professional schools, and have sometimes profited by their opportunities and actually graduated, but much oftener they have proved utter failures as students, although they may have been stars in athletics.

The unfairness of playing such men against bona fide students never seems to have entered the heads of the men who secured them, nor of the persons who paid their way in college, for some one has to foot the bills of these procured athletes. Of course, they are not paid salaries

Digitized by v^ooQle
-313 —

openly, like ordinary employes, but they get their money just the same, and if they make good at football they gain wide reputation as well, and in the end quit big winners.

President Eliot, of Harvard, started a movement for college athletic reform which is having its effect, and in time the professional athlete hiding under the guise of an amateur, now so common, should be a rarity. “An Occasional Correspondent” tells some very plain truths, however, and it is just as well that the ones who are responsible for bringing about the conditions he refers to, as well as the public in general, should see the matter in print. The best way to correct an evil is to expose it.	PHILA.	LEDGER.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

Send all communications to W. A. Sticher, 120 Pomona Terrace, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

Base Ball Game.

See how their eyes are bent,

All of the one intent,

Watching the batter, ready to strike.

Ready to grasp the ball Where it should hap* to fall Ready to dart and sprawl After the sphere.

Muscles contracted firm,

Players with impatience bum,

For any moment the ball may come near.

The pitcher’s brawny right,

Sends them with alt his might • Over the plate.

A straight and sturdy frame

*S gained by our healthful game

Base ball has grown quite dear to our hearts.

Full of life, full of joy.

Game fit for man or boy,

You are the best of all.athletic sports.	E.	R.

Field Day of the Philadelphia Public Schools, Grades 5, 6, 7 and 8, Saturday, May 29th, 1909.

GENERAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

The work will consist of Mass Exercises (Free Exercises) and Team Competitions.

1.	Any boy or girl in good standing in the 5, 6, 7, or 8 grade may enter the mass exercises subject to the rules governing this event.

2.	In order not to add work for the schools entering the field day, the mass exercises and the other events will take the place of the regular formal gymnastics.

3.	Preceding the field day there will be a number of district rehearsals and preliminary meets. Time and place will be announced later.

Crack! Thru the air resounds.

With most terrific bounds Over the ground flies the ball to its fate.

But a good stop and throw Has laid the runner low.

Runner is out.

Hark! There’s another crack. Cutting an aereal track Swift as a comet’s flight, List to the shout.

Loud applause strikes the ear, Fielder has caught the sphere, Runner is out.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-114-

4.	A pupil not up to the standard in conduct or scholarship will not be allowed to enter any event of the day.

5.	Schools entering the field day will elect a captain and a lieutenant for the boys and also similar officers for the girls. These officers need not be pupils, they may be teachers.

6.	Special instructions in all events "will be given to these officers.

7.	No pupil may enter more than two competitive events. If a pupil enters two events they must be either Nos. 1 and 3 orUos. 2 and

4.	This is important because events 1 and 2, also 3 and 4 will be “runoff” at the same time. (See Competitive Events.)

8.	Every competitor must take part in the mass exercises.

9.	AH competitors must wear clean suits of a pattern approved by the principal of their school.

10.	No school may enter more than one boys’ and one girls’ ieam for any one competitive event. (The mass exercises do not count as a competitive event.) No school may enter more that eight (8) teams.

11.	A program will be published later showing a plan of the field, the exact place where all events will be held, as well as the time when each event occurs.

12.	All competitors will be divided into three groups.

GROUP A. Will consist of pupils in grades 5 and 6 who on May 29th 1909 are under 13 years of age and under 5 feet tall. GROUP B. Will consist of pupils in grades 7 and 8 who on May 29th 1909 are 13 years but not over 16 years of age.

GROUP C. Will consist of Grammar school pupils over 13 "years and not over 17 years on May 29th, 1909.

COMPETITIVE EVENTS FOR TEAMS.

13.	FOR GROUP A (under 13 years ana under 5 feet),

1.	Standing Broad Jump for boys (16 to a team).

Standing Broad Jump for girls (16 to a team).

2.	Basket ball Far-throw for boys (16 to a team).

Basket ball Far-throw for girls (16 to a team).

3.	Dodge ball for boys (16 to a team).

Dodge ball for girls (16 to a team).

4.	Relay race for boys (16 to a team), each boy to run 75 yards.

Relay race for girls (16 to a team), each girl to run 50 yards.

14.	FOR GROUP B (13 years and under 16 years).

1.	Standing Hop, step and jump for boys (16 to a team).

Standing Broad jump for girls (16 to a team).

2.	Hurlball Far-throw for boys (16 to a team).

Basketball Far-throw for girls (16 to a ieam).

3.	Captain ball for boys (10 to a team).

Captain ball for girls (10 to a team).

4.	Relay race for boys (16 to a team), each boy to run 110 yards.

Relay race for girls (16 to a team), each girJ to run 60 yards.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—115—

15.	FOR GROUP C (13 years and over and under 17 years).

1.	Relay race for boys (6 to a team), each boy to run 110 yards.

Relay race for girls (6 to a team), each girl to run 60 yards.

16.	The prizes will consist of Diplomas suitable for framing, with enough space to insert the names of pupils comprising the winning teams. Ten points will be credited to the first with one point less for each succeeding winning team. This will give the tenth team one point.

17.	In case of ties the number of points won by these teams will be equally divided among them. Example: Three teams jump the same distance. This would give them 10, 9 and 8 points, i. e. 27 ~ 3 = 9 points for each. The next team in order then would get 7 points, etc.

18.	Prizes will be given for each event and also for groups.

19.	Schools receiving at least 50 per cent of the possible points in single events or in groups will be declared winners.

Single teams making 5 points or over in an event would receive diplomas, and schools that had four teams competing in the group contest making a total of 20 points or over would receive diplomas.

A school attended by boys and girls could also win a group prize by having the boys win points in some events and the girls win points in the other events of the same group, or of both groups.

IMPORTANT:—In the sixteen events no school may enter more than eight teams. To compete for a group prize, schools must have entered one team in each of the events numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 of either groups “A” and “B”. That is, out of a possible 8 events that a school may enter it must have one team in event 1 of either group “A” or “B”, one team in event 2 of either group “A” or “B”, one team in event 3 of either group “A” or “B”, and one team in event 4 of either group “A” or “B” in order to have any points scored to count toward a group prize.

RULES FOR CONDUCTING THE EVENTS IN DIVISIONS

“A” AND “B”.

Events in division “A”.

DODGE BALL for boys. This event shall be conducted according to the rules as revised by the Dodge Ball Committee (see special pamphlet or Mind and Body).

DODGE Ball for girls, as above.

RELAY RACE for boys. In the relay race for boys each team shall consist of 16 boys and each boy shall run 75 yards. Eight runners of a team shall be arranged behind a post at one end of the lane and the remaining eight behind a post at the other end. Several teams will run at the same time. At the crack of the starter’s pistol the first runner of each team will begin the race and run in a straightaway course to the post behind which the other half of his team is arranged. On arriving there he hands a small flag to first runner for that half who immediately runs to the other end of the course and hands the flag to the second runner, etc. This plan is followed until each man of the team has run his 75 yards. Efficient timers will be at the starting point

Digitized by v^ooQle
—11G—

to take the time of each team and this will be recorded. Each team furnishes its own flag.

RELAY RACE for girls, as above, except that the distance each girl must run is 50 yards.

STANDING BROAD JUMP for boys. Each team shall consist of 16 boys and each boy is allowed two jumps, the best to count. Each competitor must take his two jumps in succession. At the conclusion of each team’s jumping, the best jump made by each pupil on that team shall be added together and the result recorded. Prom Sec. 6, Official Athletic Rules of the Amateur Athletic Union. “The feet of the competitor may be placed in any position, toeing the scratch line, but shall leave the ground only once in making an attempt to jump. When the feet are lifted from the ground twice, or two springs are made in making the attempt, it shall count as a trial jump without result. A competitor may rock forward and back, lifting heels and toes alternately from the ground, but may not lift either foot clear of the ground, nor slide it along the ground in any direction.”

STANDING BROAD JUMP FOR GIRLS, as above.

FAR-THROW OF A BASKETBALL for boys. Each team shall consist of 16 boys and each boy shall be allowed one throw. The ball must weigh not less than 18 nor more than 21 ounces. (A. A. U. Rules.) It shall be thrown from stand from behind a line known as the scratch line. The feet may not be moved during the throw nor until the ball falls to the ground. Raising the heels shall not be considered moving the feet. To be a fair throw the ball must fall inside a lane ten feet wide running in the direction of the throw. Lines at right angles to the direction of the throw shall be drawn across the lane one foot apart. The distance of these lines from the scratch shall be distinctly marked to assist the judges in scoring. Credit will be given for whole feet only.

FAR-THROW OF A BASKET BALL for girls, as above.

Events in division “B”.

CAPTAIN BALL for boys, 10 to a team. Rules as revised by the Captain Ball Committee (see special pamphlet or Mind and Body).

CAPTAIN BALL for girls, as above.

RELAY RACE for boys, 16 to a team. Each boy shall run 110 yards, method of running same as for Division “A”.

RELAY RACE for girls, 16 to a team. Each girl to run 60 yards, method as for Division “A”.

STANDING HOP, STEP and JUMP for boys, 16 to a team. Each boy shall be allowed two trials and these must he made in succession. The competitor must begin his trial by standing on one foot, toeing the scratch line, then take the hop and land on the same foot. The other foot shall be used for the second landing and both feet shall be used for the third landing. The best result of the two trials shall count.

* STANDING BROAD JUMP for girls, ‘6 to a team. Each girl shall be allowed twro trials, the best of which shall count. Rules the same as for division “A”.

' HURL-BALL THROW FOR DISTANCE for boys, 16 to a team.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-117-

Each boy shall be allowed one throw. The hurl ball shall be a sphere the circumference of which shall be not less than 24 and not more than 25 inches, with a handle so attached as to keep the backs of the fingers not more than one inch from the surface of the ball. Its weight shall be at least 2 pounds and not more than 2% pounds. The ball shall be thrown with one hand from behind a scratch line and with unlimited run. Crossing the line makes the throw without result. It shall, however, count as a try. The ball must fall between two lines fifty feet apart and parallel, drawn at right angles to the scratch line in the direction of the throw. The scoring for this event shall be the same as for far throw of a basketball.

—WE HAD HOPED to present the program of the Pittsburg meeting of the Playgrounds Association, but nothing definite beyond what we printed in our last issue can at present be had. The meeting takes place May 10. to 14. and will present all phases of playground work both theoretically and practically.

—MR. G. E. JOHNSON of Pittsburg delivered an address before the principals’ section of the Northern Indiana Teachers’ Association on “Supervised. Play.” “Playgrounds,” he said, “in order to be effective must be supervised. Playgrounds that are supervised are always better attended than those that are not. Unsupervised playgrounds are apt to fall into the hands of hoodlums who run things and make the grounds unsafe for younger children. The grounds finally become a nuisance rather than a help. The supervisors of playgrounds should be trained teachers of play. It is best to have women teachers for the younger children. The little folks ought to have, of course, their sand piles and building blocks. The older boys should have swinging rings, ladders and the usual gymnastic apparatus, also ball games. The older girls ought to play tag and have folk dances and singing games. Mr. Johnson held that the playgrounds should be as much a part of the school plant as the school room.

—THE TEACHERS attending the meetings of the Northern Indiana Teachers’ Association had an instructive afternoon during the recent convention, at the Teachers College in Indianapolis. A “game festival,” representing the songs and games taught the children, followed by folk dances of different nations was conducted with much success.

SPECIAL NOTICE.

▲ COMPILATION OF VIGOROUS GAMES

FOR TOOTHS AND ADULTS.

SOCCER FOOTBALL in three forms, DODQEBALL in three forms, and CAPTAIKBALL, revised rules.

The roles for these games, with diagrams, as they have been printed recently in Mind and Body have been reprinted in pamphlet form for the Philadelphia •qhfifrfs.

' Copies may be had at 10 Cents each, hy addressing

“MIND AND BODY’’ Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—118-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

— The Mmreh meeting of the Marion County Medical Association was held in the Auditorium of the German House in response to an invitation of the trustees of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. The following program proved of much interest to the large and representative gathering : “Curvatures of the Spine, with influence of the Muscular Elements, and demonstrations” by Dr. J. E. Morris; “Etiology of Curvatures” by Prof. Robert Fischer; and “Effects of Forms of Physical Exercise upon Curvatures,” by Prof. Carl J. Kroh. The program was followed by an illustration of the various modes of procedure suggested in the treatment of curvatures, participated in by some twenty-five students of the college under the direction of Prof. Kroh.

—Messrs Henry Meyer, ’06, Edward Koenig, ’86, and Julius Doerter, ’91, and Miss Carrie Alice Snively, ’07, visited the college during the first week of the month. They represented school systems of three cities and one Normal School in the state of Indiana.

—Dr. Robert Fischer, Superintendent of Physical Education in the Indianapolis School System, is conducting a special course in “School Gymnastics” with the students of the college. The course is a profitable one insofar as it brings the students face to face in their practice work with some of the conditions, with’which they will be confronted in the direction of school room gymnastics.

—The annual gymnastic exhibition of the Sociale Turnverein took place April 2nd under the direction of Mr. Carl Sputh. It was a very creditable and enjoyable affair. The large auditorium was thronged with an appreciative audience, which gave unstinted and well deserved praise to the several numbers of the skillfully arranged program, consisting of plays, games, dances, drills with wands, rings and Indian Clubs, and most effective groupings. The characteristic of the evening’s performance was the “progressive” development of the different numbers, illustrating in a profitable manner the pedagogical progression in gymnastics as it should be exemplified by the student of German Gymnastics. The whole performance was characterized by dash and brilliance. •

Mr. Sputh is a member of the Normal College faculty, conducting courses in track and field work, gymnastic and “esthetic” dancing, wrestling and boxing

—The news of Prof. Kroh’s resignation of the Presidency of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. has come as a great surprise to all who were not familiar with Mr. Kroh’s intentions. Announcement of his resignation was not to be made until the close of the college year. The unusual interest shown by Mr, Kroh’s large circle of friends, in the inquiries received, however, shows that his conclusion to resign intimated to the president of the Board of Trustees during the Christmas holidays has become generally known. Prof. Kroh assigns no reason for his sererance of connections with the college-having also included the deanship of the Department of Physical Training in his resignation—other, than that he intends to give himself entirely over to a period of needed rest from the arduous duties, to which he has been so long devoted. Students as well as faculty members have expressed to Prof. Kroh sincere regret over his resignation which was accepted in the last March meeting of the Board of Trustees, to go into effect in the early summer.	_

—As a result of the vote of the resident and non-resident trustees of the i Normal College, announced at the last meeting of the trustees, there will be no summer session of the college in the year 1909. The college sessions, however, will be made continuous with the year 1910, and will extend well into the summer. The respective plans, which were to have gone into effect this year; will be announced in due time.	»

Digitized by L^ooQie
-119-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

Py D M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

“It is given to very few men to celebrate their seventy-fifth birthday in good health, surrounded by a large circle of admirers and holding a position in which they have for nearly half a century played a leading role in the scientific world. Professor Ernst Haeckel, Jena, was bom on Febr. 16, 1834, in Potsdam, near Berlin. He soon became an ardent admirer of Darwin, who was only twenty,five years his senior (Darwin was born on the same day on which Lincoln was bom, the 12th of Febr., 1809). In 1865 Haeckel was appointed Professor of zoology at Jena, which position he will resign at the end of the semester.

Since 1863 Haeckel has supported Darwin, whose Origin of Species appeared in 1859, while the Descent of Man was published in 1871; and since the death of Darwin, on April 19, 1882, Haeckel became the leader of Darwin's “school.” whose theory he fully developed. One of Haeckel's important doctrines is his biogenetic law, the statement that the em-bryological development of the individual is a condensed reproduction of that of the family to which it belongs, his gastraea theory. He has been very successful in formulating his ideas on embryology, although his theories have often been attacked. In his “Weltraetsel” he described his views of the universe, which, according to him, has a causal but not a teleological origin, and which therefore must exclude the personal immortality idea and the “sittliche Weltordnung.” Haeckel has many followers and perhaps as many opponents. We hope that it will be granted to Professor Haeckel to be able to enjoy the days of rest which he has well earned after so many years of arduous labor.”

New York Med. Joum., Febr. 13, 1909.

CATCHING COLD.

Dr. Robert Curtis Brown says that before the human race had become accustomed to clothes and overheated houses, colds were probably infrequent Exposure to cold and catching cold are by no means synonymous. When the body is put to an effort to conserve its heat, as in exposure-to cold, there is not much danger of catching cold, but when the body is put to an effort to lose its heat, or is, in other words, overheated, there is great danger. It is when the body is at one time overprotected and at another underprotected, that there is the greatest likelihood of colds. When a skin area, which is usually overprotected, is exposed to a draft, an overimpulse is conveyed to the vasomotor centre, an exaggerated response is sent out, and the peripheral blood vessels are contracted over a large area. If, under these conditions, the temperature is taken, it will be found to have risen slightly. The body, which was attempting to lose heat, finds itself further embarrassed as the radiation from a considerable portion of the skin has been shut off. The turbinates (in the nose) being a means by which heat is lost, it is not strange that, under the circumstances, vasomotor impulses should be

Digitized by v^ooQle
-120 -

sent to them and that the tortuous bloodvessels of the turbinated bodies should be dilated to the point of overcongestion. On this theory, both the socalled habit of taking cold and treatment for prevention of colds can be explained. If a common cold is, in its inception, a vasomotor congestion, caused by the exposure of sensitive skin areas, why does the process continue unnecessarily and run its usual course If the congestion and increased secretion rendered the nasal mucous membrance moTe liable to infection, the mechanism would be easy tp understand, for nature would naturally keep up the depurative process as long as the microbes were attempting to enter, or their toxines acted as an irritant, but the very conditions of congestion and increased secretion are admitted to be those under which infection ordinarily is least likely to occur. Although the nasal mucus is not bactericidal, yet Metchnikoff and others show conclusively that it rids the nose of a large number of germs in a mechanical way ”

(“Med. Record”—“H. Y. Med. Joum.”)

PULSE RATE. Before birth, 140-150 per minute; of newrbora, 130-140; first year, 115-130; second year, 106-115; third year, 95-105; fifth to twelfth year, 80-90; thirteenth * to twenty-first year, " 75-85; twenty-first to sixtieth 70-75; in old age, 75-85.

Sullivan, Murphy and Cronin observe that, although Boston is the pioneer city in the establishment of medical inspection of school children, there are many defects. Our authors are of the opinion that the system of medical inspection, including physicians and nurses, should be placed under the control of the Board of Health. A chief medical inspector should be appointed, with deputies, if necessary, to have full authority over all, his function being to direct and control the work of the district inspectors and to see that each performs the duties required; also, through a supervising nurse, to direct the work of the nurses. The medical inspector’s powers should be definitely determined and specifically set forth, and a proper compensation, should be given. The nurses should be subordinate to the district medical inspectors .and should work only under their directions. A card system of records should be devised, to be filled out by physicians and nurses, one set to be kept at the schools and the other set at the office of the chief medical inspector. The Board of Health and the School Committee should cooperate in bringing about such needed reforms.

(Boston Med. & Surg. Joum.—Hew York Med. Journal.)

—Dr. F. W. Sears, Binghamton, H. Y., at the annual meeting of the Medical Society of the State of Hew York, held at Albany Jan. 25.-27., 1909, said “that every child over twelve years of age should have the benefit of systematic physical training. Athletics are all right, as far as they go, but they do not reach all.	Military training is by far	B

the best for boys, and it would be advisable, both for the physical culture involved and for other reasons, that all young* lads should be required by law to have such training for a period of four years. That a

Digitized by v^ooQle
-121-

thorough physical training does not interfere with the attainment of a high class of scholarship is amply attested by the United States Military and Naval Academies. A military training also includes the principles of sanitation and preventive medicine.”

Dr. Sears evidently loses sight of the fact that military training pure and simple does not involve a thorough “systematic physical training,” and also, that physical training is an essential and separate part of the training at Annapolis and, especially at West Point, where a thorough course is given in physical training by Captain Herman Koehler, G. G., a graduate of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U.

CAUSE OF RICKETS. A more plausible theory has been put forward recently by Dr. Leonard Findlay. He suggests—and supports his suggestion by some interesting experiments on animals—that an important aetiological factor in the causation of rickets is confinement, or the lack of exercise and free movements allowed to infants. By feeding puppies on a diet deficient in proteid and fat, such as would be considered likely to produce rickets, he is unable to produce the disease. The disease is, however, easily developed by confinement, although a proper diet be prescribed. Control animals fed on the same food, but allowed free exercise, do not develop the disease. Among the many theories and views that have been put forward, lack of fresh air and sunlight have generally been held as contributing factors, but the actual Condition of confinement, involving deficient exercise and movement of the infant’s limbs, has not received much consideration.

!	“The	Hospital.”—“Dietetic & Hyg. Gaz.”

—THE CONVENTION OF THE AM. PHYS. EDUC. ASSOCIATION in Philadelphia April 7.—10. was well attended. Mr. Elmer Berry of Springfield, Mass., read a paper on the effects of diet on physical efficiency and drew the following conclusions:

First, that a diet containing 50 to 75 grams of proteids, 1 gram or less per kilo of body weight, is ample for all ordinary needs of the organism;, second, that bodily strength is not affected by high or low proteid diets; third, the effect of high or low proteids upon speed is not known; fourth, endurance seems to be increased by a low proteid diet; fifth, weight is not altered by a high or low proteid diet, unless the individual is already overweight, in which case a low proteid diet acts as a weight reducer; sixth, the heart rate and blood pressure of young men with sound kidneys is not affected by high or low proteid diet, though with older men who are overweight, a high heart rate and blood pressure is lowered by a low proteid diet; seventh, that clinical evidence indicates a greatly improved condition of general health in middle-aged men in sedentary occupations on a low proteid diet; eighth, the effect of purins in the diet is not known; ninth, the diet giving the greatest bodily efficiency for the average man would be moderately low proteid, about 1 gram per kilo of bodily weight, but for an athlete in training this would vary chiefly by raising the energy content through fats and carbohydrates.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—122-

In the discussion about the results of “Fktcherism” which followed, Mr. Fletcher, who was present, said:	“I become sleepy,-but, while I

ant awake, I never become tired.”

In the therapeutic section Dr. J. M. Taylor of Phila. said^^he-^Swo-boda system of physical training is the most foolish system there ever was. He called it “the utterly foolsystem.” He also said the pure Swedish system implies a state of overattention, which is harmful.

Dr. Seaver- of Yale said educational gymnastics must be practiced in rhythm. Therapeutic gymnastics are applicable to the deformed and physically defective. Form is important in any kind of exereise, but in therapeutic gymnastics it is especially needed.

Dr. McKenzie said that of the 3000 students of the University of Pennsylvania 150 take prescription gymnastics for round shoulders, drooping of one shoulder, curvature of the spine, flat feet etc. Students with weak abdominal muscles take special exercises to strengthen them. This is a good preventative of hernia.

Dr. Goldthwaite of Boston gave a lesson in orthopedic gymnastics, especially such as are productive of a good posture. He pointed out the importance of an exact knowledge concerning the three pelvic joints, that of the pubes and the two sacro-iliac joints, particularly the latter. The movability of the trunk and legs depends to a great extent on the flexibility of the ligaments of these joints and the mobility of their muscles. The sacro-iliac mobility is a forward and backward movement. In pregnancy there is a relaxation of the ligaments of these articulations, this is also the case during the menstrual period and therefore exercise should be of a minimum quality and quantity during this time. The muscles of the abdomen and the back are attached to the pelvis and bad posture is due tq weakness of these muscles and a relaxation of the ligaments* of the joints. The erect posture is the eaeiest there is, and, when we assume a position of rest, allowing the weight of the body to sag down we are in reality taking a- position easiest to produce fatigue. The thing to do is to get used to the erect position and teachers of physical education should frequenlty have their pupils make themselves “as tall as they can by straightening out.” Flatfoot is often due to nothing but faulty posture. Again it must be remembered that the vital organs of the abdominal cavity are displaced by a faulty position, interfering as it does with their proper function.

In our study of human efficiency in attitude we go back to the epoch of the Spartans. It is seen that their body is so poised that it is ready at any moment to move in any direction. There is no bracing up and getting ready, the body is always ready, always on the alert for any emergency.

The doctor showed various figures to illustrate this, especially that of a greek youth, that of the empress Elizabeth of Austria and that of Mr. Weston, the pedestrian, showing the perpendicular line from the hips up to the shoulders. Mr. Weston in liis walk across the continent lost only 18 lbs. in walking from Portland to Chicago.

Taking the sagging posture there is a waste of energy and strength, this is particularly noticable in consumptives, who, on account;.of the

Digitized by t^ooQle
—123-

weakness of their muscles assume a faulty attitude and thereby become still more enfeebled. Dr. Goldthwaite also called attention to the faulty corsets of to-day. He said they produce a faulty posture and take away the natural beauty of women's form and what is still worse, they are unhealthful, they cause a bad stoop of the shoulders and make a correct position in walking or sitting impossible.

Dr. J. K. Mitchell of Phila. then read a paper on “The Treatment of Ataxia by Reeducation." The treatment of locomotor ataxia, which is a disease of the nervous system with loss of coordination, consists to a great extend of exercise, massage, bathing, diet and hygiene. The doctor outlined the exercises for the various stages of the disease, some cases having to be treated by practicing legmovements while lying, others while having some support while standing, and some mild case* needing no support, but in every case massage is of great importance.

Speaking of Physical Training for Girls of High School Age, John

M.	Tyler, Professor of Biology of Amherst College, said that the goal of education in our public schools is not merely learning and mental discipline, but power and efficiency. A century or less ago the home through the training of the farm could furnish these latter qualities. The disappearance of farm-life has crippled the educational efficiency of the home, and has thrown the whole burden of education upon the school. The strain of modern life and work, mostly done indoors and under unhygienic conditions, makes a tough body absolutely essential.

The first essential is healthy growth of all the organs. Growth is the chief business of the child. This must be fostered by the exercise of the heavy muscles of the legs and trunk. Hence the vast importance of play in the open air throughout the lower grades. About ten or eleven, earlier than most suppose, the girl begins to change into a woman. These changes affect nearly every organ of the body, and are almost as profound and thorough as the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly. The girl also gains rapidly in height, and later, in girth. All these changes result in large amounts of waste'being thrown into the bloodv This clogs and threatens to poison every organ. Hence during these years of puberty or metamorphosis the amount of physical disorder rises to a maximum, though the death rate remains very low. The girl suffers from poor blood, loss of appetite, headache and nervousness; from general depression and dulness of brain. If this condition continues, a period of invalidism will surely follow, or some fatal disease may gain a foothold.

The waste must be removed and the blood purified by physical exercise resulting in increased lung capacity. The average girl during these years needs more lung capacity than her brother of the same age, but usually has only about two-thirds as much. She sadly needs open-air games such as her more fortunate brother continually plays. In lack of these, gymnastics are necessary. Both should be suited to her age, condition, and needs, not to those of adults. They must be attractive and stimulating, but not too strenuous or severe. They must be recreative after ,the strain of study ,and the monotony of long sitting, Often they. must, correct the .ill. effects, of bad^habits of posture and work con-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-124-

tinued through previous years. She must have a place where she can play with entire freedom from observation though careful supervision is very wise. During the later years of school life the play or gymnastics may well be made somewhat more strenuous, but it should never lead to severe weariness or fatigue or to overstrain, much less to partial or complete exhaustion. Too much or too severe exercise is almost as bad as too little.

Finally, if we are to have a healthy, vigorous race of women, play, or some suitable form of physical training, must find its place and definite time in the lower grades of all our schools.

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN PERIODICALS.

By CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass,

' PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN JAPAN.

Lafcadio Hearn writes in his book about Japan as follows : The prominence of Physical Education in Japan was brought to my notice very vividly by a demonstration I had the opportunity to witness. The annual festival of the schools of Shimaue-Ken were held in the Courtpark in Ninomaru and consisted of a variety of games, races, field events and Gymnastic Exercises. A great multitude was present to watch these competitions and exhibitions of about 6000 children, which came from villages and cities within a radius of 25 miles. Among the races were some rather unique ones, as for example the three legged race, and a race consisting of partly crawling, climbing, vaulting and jumping. The races for the girls were very attractive; in their picturesque costumes they appeared like butterflies fluttering about. One of the competitive games consisted of each girl having to pick up from the ground three different colored balls of a great number scattered about while racing. A flag race was another of the races. Several hundred prizes were distributed by the Mayor of the town. The climax of the festival was the mass performance of all these 6000 children with dumb-bells, accompanied by their own singing.

FOREIGN VIEW OF GYMNASTICS IN OUR AMERICAN SCHOOLS.

' A former student of Berlin writes in a New York schoolpaper among other things the following paragraph concerning gymnastics: “There is one feature in the school that strikes ~Uiemost unfavorably and that is the gymnasium and the method of teaching gymnastics. There are a number of post6 practically in the centre of the hall, something I have never seen before. Then I am amazed to notice how little conception the American youth has of gymnastics. The same I experienced in the club, which I joined soon after my arrival. Discipline and respect seem to-be unheard of things in a gymnastic lesson.”

DECORATIONS FOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN SPORTS IN SWEDEN.

In order to promote sport in this country the leaders offered the happy suggestion to adopt a definite decoration consisting of bronze,

Digitized by	*	le
-125-

silver and gold medals, to be awarded to such competitors that pass certain tests before officially recognized judges. The first test successfully passed entitles one to a bronze medal. After two years a second test may be taken, which then gives to the successful one the silver medal, and finally after four more years the gold medal may be thus earned. These medals are eagerly sought, every one seems anxious to be a recognized sportsman. The tests are divided into five groups; in each of which the applicant must make a creditable showing.

SCHOOL HYGIENE WITHOUT THE TEACHING PROFESSION.

The “Vierteljahresschrift fur Korperliche Erziehung” offers the following remarks concerning a conference dealing with public hygiene: During the session several times, relations to physical education were presented. We feel, that these discussions show plainly how such questions and problems are handled when they are brought before the wrong persons, and how it results that participants return home without having learned something new. It could hardly be otherwise when we look at the list of representatives. According to a local report there were 352 participants, 247 of whom were executive and municipal officers, 87 building commissioners and 118 physicians.

This body undertook to settle school hygiene questions without a single teacher being present. “Fundamental principles for building public schools.” “Cause of nervousness and its prevention.” —(Another paper remarks, that meetings where school gymnastics are discussed and settled without the presence of teachers of gymnastics, are also on record.)—(Wonder whether such things have ever happened in our country ? ? ? ?)

ECHOS OF THE FRANKFURT FESTIVAL

Christian Eberhard, Boston.

The financial report of the great gymnastic festival at Frankfurt, that had been awaited with much interest, has now been published.

The festival was as successful financially as in every other respect and the surplus amounts to 156,380 Marks. (4 marks about $1.00.) This sum seems all the larger, when compared with previous festivals, all of which, with the exception of the one at Nurenberg, resulted in a deficit.

The receipts at Frankfurt were as follows:

Turners (Gymnasts) festival cards, entitling to free admission during festival1

privileges for reduced railroad fares, etc.

Mens’ cards 43,627 @ 5 Mark..................................218,135	Mk.

Womens’ cards 921 @ 3	“	  2,763	“

Juniors “	382 @3	44	  1,146	“

Local district turners cards 10,018 <$ 1.50 Mk............... 15,027	“

Total number of festival cards to Turners 54,948 ......... 237,071	Mk.

SEASON TICKETS.

Men 11,029 @ 5 Mk...........................................55,145	Mk.

Women 12.871 @ 3 Mk.........................................38,613	44

Children 3170 <§> 2 Mk.....................................  6,340	44

Total number season tickets................................100,098	Mk.

Digitized by

Google
—12»i—

SINGLE ADMISSION TICKETS.

ChHd^n229,992}^^ persons.......... ......................154,954	Mk.

Total number of visitors 393,594 and receipts for cards of

admission.............................................492,123 Mk.

Receipts from other sources .............................117,602 44

Total receipts...........................................609,725-Mk.

Surplus.....:............................................156,380 Mk.

This surplus was divided as follows :

1.	To the sixteen Turnvereine (Gymnastic societies of Frankfurt)...................................................... 95,000 Mk.

2.	Dr. Ferd. Goetz fund (for founding of Gymnasia)........ 5,000	44

3. Festival Hall Association............................  30,000	44

4. Relief fund of electric car men........................ 8,000	44

5.	Charitable Association...............................  4,000	44

6.	Relief	fund	of the	Police............................. 2,000	44

7.	44	44	44	44	Garrison................. 2,000	44

8.	44	<4	44	44	Firemen.................. 1,000	4«

9.	Life	saving and samaritarian society ................. 1,000	44

Turners part of surplus..................................100,000 Mk.

City’s ............................  .............-...... 48,000	44

8000 Mks. are still kept on hand to meet belated bills or other eventualities.

The division of this surplus certainly seems commendable and compares favorably with the disposition of the surplus of the Olympic Games at London, which, as report states, has been set aside for the purpose of sending English Athletes to future international competitions.

BOOK REVIEW.

—MIND AND ITS DISORDERS, by W. H. B. Stoddart, M. D., F. R. C. P. Assistant to the Bethlem Royal Hospital, London, S. E. Published by P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Phila., Pa., 1909., pp. 288. Price $4.00 net. To be had from “Mind and Body.”

This book, which is dedicated to the author’s teacher, Dr. Hughlins Jackson, F. R. S., is a textbook on diseases of the nervous system for students and practitioners.

It is, however, of value to teachers in as much as the entire first part is devoted to a cbnsise and comprehensive description of the nervous system and treats up-to-date physiological psychology.

The second part treats of the psychology of the insane;, and the third section gives a classification of mental diseases, their symptoms and treatment.

The book contains 74 illustrations, which well serve their object, viz.: that of giving more clearness of conception to the reader.

The writer in the preface states that his “endeavour has been to induce the reader to think neurelogically of mental processes, normal and morbid.”

Chapter VI is of particular interest to teachers of physical training, it treats of action, and the author speaks of reflex, instinctive, volitional

Digitized by L^OOQie
-127-

and automatic action, separately. Volitional action is the result of ideation and physical basis of volitional action is in the ideation centres, in the cerebral cortex. The idiometer centre is in the left prefrontal lobe, here movement-ideas arise. This lobe is regarded as the physical basis of volition. The function of instinct is to give the cue to volition. The essential feature of a man with a strong and stable character is that he has complete control of his instincts.

A movement-idea precedes a volitional act but not an automatic movement. The first necessitates attention, the second does not. Therefore the idiomotor centre has nothing to do with an automatic act. After frequent repetitions of the same movement consciousness of the movement is no more needed, it gradually vanishes. This “demonstrates that consciousness is mainly aroused by the formation of unusual interneuronal associations.”

Attention is defined as being: “a motor reaction placing the organism in an attitude whereby a percept attended to rises rapidly, clearly and intensively into consciousness, and whereby the organism is placed in a state of alertness which may be of vital importance to the individual.

The 8th chapter treats of fatigue. Experiments with a muscle from the, frog show that there is a progressive increase in power during the first 10 to 12 electrical stimulations of the muscle but after these a progressive decrease in the muscular contractions is noticed until they cease altogether. Left alone the muscle revives itself in an hour, but if a normal salt solution is washed through the muscle it will regain its power immediately. There are, therefore, evidently poisonous substances formed during excessive ativity, which must be eliminated before the muscle is ready to again respond to stimuli. A fatigued -muscle is found to contain lactic acid and C 02 and Mossa states he has also found some leucomaines. Fatigue of the nerves does not last as long as that of the muscles, recovery taking place in a few minutes. Fatigue seems to be produced by some paralysing substance formed during activity, whether neural or muscular.

Regarding the heat production during various states of the individual, Stoddart says, that it is roughly during sleep 40 kilo-calories, during rest 100, during moderate movement 150 and during active exercise 300 per hour.

Excessive activity of the neurons causes a disappearance of the chromatoplasm within the nerve-cell-body. Rest seems to give opportunity for its reaccumulation.

The author concludes the first section of his book by stating that “all mental processes considered in this first part of the volume are connected together indissolubly; and this is no more than might be surmised when we reflect on the enormous wealth of association fibres existing in the central nervous system between and among the physical bases of all these mental processes.”	Rr.

—CONTROL OF BODY AND MIND. Volume V of the Gulick Hygiene Series by Mrs. Frances Gulick Jewett. Published by Grim and Co. 267 pages, illustrated, 5^x7% inches. Mailing price 60 cents.

Digitized by
-128-

What nerves are; how they do their work; what gives them vigor; what does them harm; how they may be taught lessons; how they form habits; how their power may be increased and how it may be lost, are the topics which Mrs. Jewett takes up in this latest volume of the Gulick Hygiene Series. “Control of Mind and Body” is written with the conviction that such subjects as Attention, Choice, Will-Power, Habit, and Character should be made and can be made both interesting and inspiring to young people.

Emphasis is laid on the care and cultivation of the special senses; on the importance of rest and sleep; on the relation of health to happiness, to efficiency, to mental clearness, and to memory; on the influence which worry, fear, anger, hope, and joy exert over circulation, respiration, and digestion; *on the effect of fatigue on body and mind; on the power which alcohol and narcotics have to damage the nervous system and to destroy character.

In the treatment of each subject, function rather than nerve anatomy receives the most attention.

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—CIVICS AND HEALTH. By William H. Allen. 5y2x8 inches. Cloth. 432 pages. Illustrated. Mailing price, $1.40. Published by Grim and Co.

This handbook on getting things done shows how to detect and remove the elements in school, home, and street environment that manufacture physical and moral defects. It gives the why and the how for the physical examination of school children, of applicants for work certificates, and of adults.

It is a call to efficient citizenship through social cooperation in securing an environment of things and of men that will permit, promote, and compel obedience to health laws. When others live unhygienically they invade our rights and reduce our safety, comfort, and capacity for work. Unhealthy living is antisocial, unpatriotic, immoral.

Although addressed particularly to teachers, “Civics and Health” presents a constructive social programme for public official, social worker, and parent.

The author’s intimate connection with constructive social and educational work is reflected in such chapter titles as Indexes to Health Needs, Seven Health Motives, Dental Sanitation, Mental Hygiene, Germ Sociology, Heredity Truths and Heredity Bugaboos, The Fight for Pure Milk, The Last Days of Tuberculosis, Health and School Reports, State and National Boards of Health, each subject being carefully illustrated.

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Lateral Curvature of the Spine $ Round Shoulders

CLOTH, BOUND $1.75.

By ROB. W. LOVETT, M. D.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c.	o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by v^ooQie