MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31	MARCH, 1925 No.	336

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE VVM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 h. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

* niered as Jtcor/j^/a^s matter October 14, /q/6, at the postoffice at New U!m% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

THE DARKER HALF OF THE YEAR AND NUTRITION How Diet May Supplement Winter Sunlight

H. J. Gerstenbeiger, M. D., Medical Director, Babies’ Dispensary Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.

Little thought has been given to the deleterious influence of the “darker half of the year” on nutrition. “The darker half of the year” is harmful to the maintenance of normal nutrition principally as a result of the increased absence of sunlight from practically the middle of October to the middle of April.

This relative absence of sunlight acts in a direct and in an indirect manner. Directly, it is responsible, without question, for the development of rickets and most forms of spasmophilia. In all probability, also, it is a factor in aiding the development of dental decay in older children and adults, especially in women during the period of pregnancy or lactation. Spasmophilia is characterized

Reprinted from “Child Health Magazine'’. This address was given during the Cleveland Community Chest’s Conference on Health.

Digitized by LjOOQle
434

principally by the development of spasms of the entire group of muscles of the body or of localized groups, and rickets shows itself mainly by changes in the bony structure of the human body. Bowlegs, ioiock-knees, misshapen chests and heads, and swollen wrists are the forms in which it is seen quite regularly by the laity.

Absence of Sun Causes Rickets.

In the rays that come from the sun is a certain group called the actinic rays or the ultra-violet rays which have a peculiar power in controlling the putting down of lime and phosphorous especially in that part of the human body which contains the greatest percentage of these, namely, the skeleton and the teeth. How these rays operate, no one knows. We are, however, aware that their effect is not local but general. It is now a settled fact that rickets will develop in practically all infants and young children in a more or less severe degree if their bodies are insulated for a sufficiently long time against these rays. It is possible to produce these rays artificially and the most liberal artificial source at the present time is the Quartz Mercury Vapor Arc Lamp. The same results can be obtained by eating certain food substances which also possess this peculiar power. The most powerful food substance in this respect known at the present time is cod liver oil. The yolks of eggs also contain it but in a much smaller amount. The latter are of course, much more expensive than is the former. This is an economic fact whose consideration is of great importance from the standpoint of preventing rickets on a large scale.

Certain Foods Make up for Lack of Sun

One might think from the fact that cod liver oil and egg yolks contain this substance that rickets is a disease that is produced in the human being by the intake of an inadequate food. In the strict sense of the term, however, this is not so, and for the reason that even with human milk, which without question is an ideal food for the human infant, rickets cannot be prevented. In other words nature evidently expects human beings besides taking a natural diet to expose themselves in addition and in a sufficient degree to the sun’s rays. We will be closer to the truth, then, if we state that the taking of cod liver oil and egg yolks does not so much improve the food as it does make up for the insufficient exposure to the sun’s rays.

During the summer time rickets is extremely rare because most human beings are forced into the open air and consequently are exposed in a liberal fashion to the sun's rays. During the winter, however, the temperature gets cold; heavier and darker clothes are put over the entire body except the face and neck, and these protective measures against the cola still more limit the number of rays that can reach the skin of the human being during the time of the year when naturally the sun is farther away ana the skies are more clouded than during the summer. Colored babies and young children are especially predisposed to rickets, because the large amount of pigment in their skin limits decidedly the ab-

Digitized by Google
435

sorption of these rays. Italian and Syrian infants are similarly handicapped in our climate.

Windows Must Be Open

It is important and interesting to realize further that ordinary window glass filters out these rays. Therefore sitting in the sun on a porch enclosed in window glass is absolutely useless from the standpoint of absorbing through or into one’s skin the effective ultra-violet rays.

Diet, however, does play its important part in determining the degree of rickets that will develop. The combination of food substances as it exists in human milk limits the development of conditions in the human body that aid the development of rickets. Cow’s milk, especially when it is but little diluted, has not nearly the same beneficial effect and, therefore, artificial foods and mixtures that resemble breast milk more than does whole cow’s milk will be important factors in lessening the degree of rickets at the rime of the year when the sun’s ray are not present in sufficient amount to overcome the deleterious effect of an improperly balanced food mixture.

Cod Liver Oil Is Most Valuable

In many cases this handicap of improper food mixtures can be overcome by giving larger amounts of cod liver oil. It, therefore, should be the rule to give an adequate amount of this substance, in some form or other, to every infant and young child and for that matter to adults as well, but especially to the mother who is to be or who is nursing her infant.

Whenever rickets develops the individual seems to be more predisposed to the development of infections of the nose and throat and lungs, and this is often a serious matter because one of the effects of rickets is the production of a deformed chest which handicaps the ventilation of the lungs. A vicious circle established here because the inflammation of the respiratory tract handicaps the inflow of air into the lungs and in this manner aids in increasing the deformity of the chest and this again lessens ventilation and enhances and increases the respiratory infection. A third factor that makes this vic>ous c;rcle still more dangerous is the fact that at that time of the year, namely, at the end of winter and the beginning of spring, during the months of January, February and March when rickets appears in its severest forms, infections of the respiratory tract become very common in our midst.

The absence of sunlight also influences the state of nutrition in an indirect manner and practically no attention is being paid to this fact. Let me explain this to you veiy briefly. There is a disease called scurvy that develops especially in infants and young children, characterized, when it is fully developed, by changes in the bones, but especially by hemorrhages at the gums and into the skin and elsewhere. This is the same disease that the sailors used to get on their prolonged voyages during which they received no fresh foods. Until it appears in its advanced form it can\hardly be differentiated from other forms of jnild malnutrition and for reason is often overlooked.

Digitized by
436

Many men are of the opinion that this disorder in its so-called latent form is very common in artificially fed infants who do not receive orange juice or tomato juice. Its presence in the child seems to predispose it to the development of infections. It is produced by the absence in the diet of a sufficient amount of what is now called the water soluble C vitamin or the antiscobutic vitamin. This vitamin is present in liberal amounts in oranges, lemons, strawberries and cabbages. It is present also in medium amounts in potatoes and carrots. It is finally present in relatively small amounts in cow’s milk and the amount that is present in cow's milk depends upon the amount that is present in the food of the cow and the amount present in the food of the cow depends upon the condition and age of this food and the manner in which it has been dried and kept.

Milk contains this substance in liberal amounts when the cows are on pasture and it has been found to be present in especially large amounts in clover and alfalfa. When, however, as winter proceeds and the cows are fed on food materials that are dry and are getting older and older the amount of this vitamin in the milk diminishes decidedly. In other words, if our climate here were different than it is, the cows would be pasture-fed over a larger period of time and the milk, as a result, would contain more of this substance. Likewise, our vegetables, such as potatoes and carrots, would not be old and we could have fresh berries and fresh fruits at all times. In other words, it is clear that the absence of the sun, especially at the end of the winter, is a big factor for making us subsist on food materials whose content of the water soluble C vitamin has been reduced by exposure to air and because of age.

As a result of these facts I have personally come to the conclusion that it will be wise to guard against taking an insufficient amount of the antiscorbutic vitamin by increasing the dosage of this substance and possibly other vitamins as well during this particular part of the year, namely, at least from January to April. And let me say in passing in this connection that the canned tomato is a very excellent source of this substance and of another vitamin that in all probability is not taken in sufficient amounts at this time of the year, namely, the so-called water soluable B vitamin which prevents a certain form of neuritis and has to do with increasing our appetites. I think it is a common experience that most human beings are more “down” at the end of the winter than they are at any other time of the year and it seems to me that this is due, in a large degree, to the cumulative effect of the various factors that in the end come back to the relative increase in the absence of the sun during the "darker half of the year.”

There are, of course, other factors besides the relative absence of sunlight that predispose the human being in our climate to the development of infections. I refer especially to the common practice of keeping, during the winter, the temperature of our homes too high and the moisture too low and as a result the air

Digitized by v^.ooQle
. 43?

too dry. Dr. E. Huntington who has studied the ch'matic conditions that were present at the time of 6,000,000 deaths throughout the different parts of the world, has pointed out that keeping the air moist in the rooms during the winter will enable us to be comfortable at a lower temperature and both conditions will keep in a more normal state the mucous membranes of the nose, throat and bronchial tubes.

In Cleveland the infant death rate has been reduced to a gratifying low level by lessening sickness and death during the summer months. We must now succeed in lessening those diseases that occur during the winter months. If you will keep in mind what I have indicated to you regarding the importance of making up in the various ways suggested during the winter months for the loss of the beneficial effects of the sun’s rays you will do much towards improving the health of the human being in our community and towards lowering the death rate.

STORY OF THE EIGHTH OLYMPIADE

Jess T. Hopkins, B. P. E., Continental Y. M. C. A. Director of Physical Education for South America.

There is no doubt but that the 1924 Olympics were the greatest spectacle of the kind which has ever been held. The following forty-five nations took part: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Chile, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, Ecuador, Spain, South Africa, Esthonia, United States, Finland, France, Great Britain, Greece, Haiti, Holland, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lethonia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Mexico, Monaco, Norway, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Roumania, Sweden, Switzerland, Czecho Slovakia, Turkey, Uruguay, Yugo Slavia.

In round numbers, there were 5,000 athletes entered; the best of each nation gathered together to dispute the World’s Championships, in twenty different sports: Cycling, Gymnastics, Weight lifting, Fencing, Wrestling—(Greco-Roman, Catch as Catch Can), Boxing, Classic Pentathlon, Tennis, Rugby, Water Polo, Shooting— (Shot Gun, Rifle), Rowing, Swimming, Yachting, Equestrian Sports, Polo, Modem Pentathlon, Soccer, Winter Sports, Track and Field Sports.

Perhaps the most inspiring phase of it all was to see the great number of new and smaller countries which appeared for the first

The following report was prepared by Mr. Hopkins for the Y. M. C. A. constituency in South America. It is so complete and inteiesting that permission was requested to publish it for the benefit of the readers of “Mind and Body/'—Editor.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
438

time in an Olympiade. It is true that few of them won points; never* thelesB their participation is considered by all, to have been very worth while. There is no doubt but that most of them will appear at the next Olympics, and that they will make a better showing then, by virtue of this year’s experience.

The following list indicates the winners of most of the major championships:

First

Second

Winter Sports

Soccer.......

Gymnastics..

Swimming.....

Tennis.......

Fencing—

Eppe....

Sabre....

Water Polo

Rowing.......

Polo.........

Boxing.......

Norway	Finland
Uruguay	Switzerland
Italy	France
United States	Sweden
United States	France
France	Belgium
Italy	Hungary
France	Belgium
United States	Switzerland
Argentina	Un'ted States
United States	Great Britian

Third

Great Britain Sweden Switzerland Great Britain Great Britain

Italy Holland United States Great Britain Great Britain Denmark

Points Won in Swimming by Each Country

	Points		Points
1. United States	...		217	9. Hungary			6
2. Sweden			 58	10. New Zealand			2
3. Great Britain			 50	10. Switzerland 			2
4. Australia			 35	10. Holland 			2
5. France			 17	10. Czecho Slovakia..		2
6. Belgium			 13	14. Austria 				1
7. Japan			 8	14. Luxemburg			1
8. Denmark			 6		

Points won in Track and Field Events by Each Country

	Points		Points
1. United States			 253	10. Canada			6
2. Finland		166	10. Norway			6
3. Great Britain		...... 85 1-2	13. Argentina			5
4. Sweden			 31 1-2	14. Esthonia			4
5. France 			 26 1-2	14. Holland			4
6. Italy			 19	14. New Zealand		4
7. Czecho Slovakia			 16	17. Denmark			3
8. South Africa			 11	18. Japan 			1
9. Hungary			 10 1-2	18. Chile			1
10. Australia 			 6		

Digitized by LjOOQle
Following are some interesting points in connection with the Track and Fields events:

Winners of Events by Countries

First	Second	Third

Javelin Throw.........

10.000	meters.........

400 meters Hurdles....

Running High Jump.....

100 meters............

Pentathlon............

Running Broad Jump ....

Shot Put..............

800 meters............

110 meters Hurdles....

200 meters............

3.000	meters Steeple

Chase................

Hammer Throw..........

Pole Vault............

1,500 meters..........

400 meters............

Running, Hop, Step

and Jump............

Cross Country

(Teams).............

Cross Country

(Individual)........

Decathlon.............

Discus................

400 meters Relay......

10.000	meters Walk....

Marathon..............

Great Britain (Fourth);

3.000	meters Team Race

1,600 meters Relay.....

Finland Finland United States United States Great Britain Finland United States United States Great Britain United States United States

Sweden

Sweden

Finland

United States

United States

Hungary

UnitedStates

UnitedStates

Switzerland

South Africa

UnitedStates

United States Finland United States France New Zealand United States Norway United States United States Sweden Great Britain

Finland United States United States Finland Great Britain

Finland

UnitedStates

UnitedStates

Switzerland

UnitedStates

France Great Britain United States Great Britain Great Britain

Argentina

Australia

Finland

Finland

UnitedStates

France

Finland Finland United States UnitedStates United States Finland United States Switzerland Italy	Great Britain

Finland Italy Finland (Fifth); Chile Finland Great Britain United States Sweden

United States Esthonia United States Great Britain South Africa United States (Sixth).

United States Great Britain

As you will see it was a race between the United States and Finland, not for total points, but for first places, resulting in the United States winning twelve firsts and Finland ten.

It is interesting to note that the United States won but a single flat race—the 200 meters, the 100, 400, 800, 1,500,10,000 and Marathon being won by other countries. The greatest surprise of the whole games was that the United States should fail to win the 100 meters. Equally as great a surprise was that the winner of the 100 meters should fail to capture the 200, for usually those two events go to the same man. The United States had fully expected to win the 100, 200, 400, 800 and possibly the 1,500 meters; but Great Britain and Finland spoiled her plans, taking between them every-

Digitized by CjOOQle
440

thing except the 200 meters. The United States showed supremacy in practically all of those events which required high grade skill ana technique—such as the jumps, weights, relay races, etc: but in the middle distances, Great Britain had some wonderful men and Finland has in Nurmi, Ritola, and Stenroos, three of the greatest distance runners the world has seen.

The track events were filled with great surprises; day afer day world records were broken in spite of the fact that many athletes criticised the track before the games began, predicting that it was a slow track and that no records would be broken. Worlds records were made in the following events:

10,000 meters.............. Ritola, new record 30’ 23 1-5"

Finland old record 30’ 35 2-5”

Running Broad Jump......... Le Gendre, new record 7m 76.5

United States old reord 7m 69.5 Running Hop Step and Jump Winter	new record 15’ 25’'

Australia old record 15’ 19” 400 meters—This record was broken three times: first by Inbach in 48”, then Fitch clipped off another 1-5 second, and in the finals Liddel, the preacher Scotchman, made a new record of 47 3-5”; old record, 481-5”

400 meters Hurdles....... Taylor,	new	record	52	3-5”

United States	old	record	54”

Decathlon................. Osborn,	new	record	7710	points

United States old record 7781 points

It is well to remember that at Stockholm, Thorpe made a record 8412 points, but that he was later disqualified for professionalism and on that occasion Wieslander, Swede, won second place with 7724 points.

1,600 meters Relay........ United States new record 3’ 16”

old record 3’ 16 2-5”

400 meters Relay.......... United	States	new	record	41”

old record 42 1-5”

Here again the record was broken several times; first in the preliminaries by Great Britain, whose team made 42”; then Holland equalled Great Britain; the United States clipped off 2-5 seconds in the semi-finals and established in the finals a still faster record of 41”.

New Olympic Records were made in the following events: Running High Jump; 1,500 meters; 5,000meters; Running, Hop, Step and Jump; Discus, 3,000 meter team race; Pentathlon, and the 3,000 meters Steeple Chase.

There has been much speculation as to the difference in the athletes from Finland and those from the United States. The analysis of the events won by each country, shows that the Finns are supreme in distance running, whereas the United States is strong in those events which require short bursts of speed, or mechanical perfection and technique. One has only to consider the

Digitized by LjOOQle
441

different customs found in these countries, to gain at least a slight understanding.

In Finland the youth of the country think nothing of walking or running long distances, for transportation by mechanical means is not common; whereas in the States, one never thinks of walking, much less running, if they can find a tram, railroad or automobile. The school and university life is markedly different from that of Finland. Our students have ample opportunity from childhood on to participate in all kinds of sports, whereas the Finnish boy, if he goes to school at all, spends long hours in the class room and when he reaches the university at Hellsingford, he will spend the entire day, from morning to night, at his studies. He has few athletic facilities, much less coaches, to aid him in perfecting whatever native athletic ability he may possess.

One of our physical directors in Europe states that in his physical examinations he found that the Finns have a larger lung capacity than our young men in the States. Of course such observations have been made upon too small a group to be able to accept it as a scientific conclusion; nevertheless it is suggestive. I think the temperament of the people, their long, cold winters, the lack of modern means of transportation and difficult school facilities all tend to make the Finn turn to distance running, when he takes up athletics, rather than to those events which require early participation, great skill and technique.

Nurmi’s great qualities are not due to race, but rather that . he is simply one of nature’s super men, in the physical sense. He runs with a stop watch in his hand, paying absolutely no attention to his competitors, knowing just how much time he should employ on each lap of his race; when he arrives at the last lap, he throws away his watch, puts into the remaining four or five hundred meters whatever speed is necessary and wins with ease. In most of the races in which I saw him participate, he did not come in greatly fatigued. The newspapers say that he is rather morose ana taciturn—quite unsocial. This is probably due to great self-consciousness rather than a studied and deliberate attempt to avoid people.

The difference in the methods of training between the Finns and the Americans was quite apparent in the way which their delegations lived while in Paris. The Finns rented a small villa near the Stadium where they lived in great simplicity. Their diet consisted chiefly of fish, vegetables and fruit. They had no social entertainments to interfere with their full ten hours sleep each night. Contrast that with the lives of the American team, installed with cooks, trainers, coaches, managers, etc., in the magnificent chateau of one of the French nobility at Rocquencourt. Not only did they live upon the very elastic and varied diet which is common to the American athlete, but there was every conceivable luxury for bodily comfort and entertainment. Elsie Janis, then playing in London, came over by aeroplane to put on a special entertainment for the American athletes; Douglas Fairbanks and Mary P:ckford went out to Rocquencourt several times to take

Digitized by

Google
442

to our boys their latest films; and a social committee of prominent American women in Paris labored hard to provide a continuous program of amusement. It is quite all right to distract the athlete in order that he may not worry about his events, but I think many will agree that th’s phase was carried to the extreme in Paris. Many critics have stated that the American athlete does not work hard enough.

South American Countries

Seldom did any of our athletes from South America get into the finals, but on one or two occasions they placed in their preliminary heats. In the final analysis but two countries secured points: Plazas came in sixth in the Marathon and the Argentine, Brunetto, b”oke the Olympic record in the Running Hop, Step and Jump only to be surpassed by the Australian who made a new world’s record. The Argentine got second place.

Uruguayan Soccer Victory

The greatest glory of all came to South America when the Uruguayan football team won the Olympic Championship on June ninth by defeating the Swiss team. This marks the highest point in the history of international athletics for Uruguay. The victorious team is now having a hard time to live up to the record made in Europe. Argentina claims to have a team equally as good.

Argentine Polo Team

That this championship should have come to the Argentine is not surprising, for this team has been playing together for several years and has created quite a name for itself in international competition.

Olympic Village

The plan of the French Olympic Committee to provide suitable quarters for all the visiting delegations was splendid, and in fact the preparation of the Village itself was quite acceptable, rustic of course and much like a summer camp, and yet it might have been a very successful arrangement had they not turned over the operation of the dining room and quarters to a concessionaire who quite naturally sacrificied service to profits. As a consequence delegates left Paris with a bad taste in their mouths, feeling the French Olympic Committee had not treated them fairly. Those teams which had funds and brought their own food, cooks, etc. got along quite well; they have a different story to tell. It was a great opportunity for the mingling of the athletes of the world which should have done much to enhance the cause of international friendship, but the commercial atmosphere which surrounded the Village dissipated in grand part the possibilities of such benefits.

Coiombes Stadium

The stadium with its 500 meter track, satisfied both competitors and spectators. It is one of the finest stadiums in existence. The Track is near perfect; it is possible for the spectators to have a clear unobstructed view of the whole field from any part of the

Digitized by

Google
443

stadium. The arrangements for entrance and exits made it possible for the very expedient handling of great crowds. Of course the distance between Colombes and Paris made the cost of transportation rather serious for the French. Rapid service was available for those who had five or ten francs necessary for each trip. The mechanical arrangements on the field, that is the score board, the telephoning system from the field to the announcer who spoke through a loud speaker, the supply of all material necessary for the rapid and efficient conduct of the games could not have been better. On the whole the organization was very good in spite of the fact that many complaints have been made. As a rule these complaints were made by those who have little understanding of what is involved in the organization of such a great event as the Eighth Olympiade.

International Federations

The defects in organization which were apparent could easily be traced to the fact that the responsibility for the technical administration of each sport was in the hands of the International Federation which controls tht sport. The French Olympic Committee’s responsibility practically ended when the material arrangements such as the Stadium, Olympic Village, etc., were provided. With so many different administrative groups, that confusion resulted is not at all surprising. Many delegations complained that there seemed to be no hosts, and it must be admitted that an International Committee makes a poor host. However it is quite evident from the meeting and conferences which took place that the International Federations will more and more have control of future Olympics. The International Olympic Committee does little more than convoke, fix dates, decide upon places, and give name and prestige to the Olympics. The National Olympic Committee responsible makes the material preparations for the Games and then the International Federations step in and run, each, their particular championship.

The International Olympic Committee has called a congress of the International Federations to take place in Prague in May, 1925. It is at these post-Olympic Congresses that rules are modified and legislation enacted. The Prague congress promises to be a very important event in the history of international sport.

Conduct of the Public

There has been much newspaper comment upon the unsportsmanlike conduct of the public which attended the Olympic Games. So far as I have been able to ascertain, the worst incident of this character took place in connection with the Rugby Matches. I understand that the French public became quite violent in their manifestations against the American team in the final game. So far as I was able to observe during the Track and Fields event there was no undue violence or criticism from the public. It is true that there were times when perhaps they were a little more emotional than a similar gathering would have been in England or in the States. There were great differences in the classes of people which

Digitized by t^ooQle
444

attended the various championships. For instances the spectators at the Tennis matches were very courteous in all of their manifestations; whereas the public at the Boxing and Wrestling and even at the Swimming Matches was a much lower order. They expressed their approval or disapproval in language and actions much less refined than the spectators at the Tenrns and Fencing.

The decisions of the judges in the Wrestling and more partic-cularly in the Boxing were considered by nearly every one to have been very unfair, in many instances. The very fact that there were judges of thirty or forty different nationalities would make it almost impossible to secure uniformly acceptable judging. Boxing fans the world over are noted for their violent methods of expressing their approval or disapproval of what happens in the ring.

So far as can be learned the relationships between the competitors could not have been better. There was evident at all times sportsmanlike courtesy and friendship between rivals. I think it is generally conceded that the holding of such meetings is conducive to a better understanding between the athletes themselves and therefore conducive to international friendship.

Tennis

The Tennis Stadium near the main stadium was rustic, but on the whole quite adequate, and fairly comfortable for the spectators. The handling of the crowd was beyond criticism. The matches themselves could not have been better conducted. It was soon very evident that the American would win practically everything, although in the finals the French contended very bitterly each set. It was quite thrilling on the last day to watch two eighteen year girls, Helen Wills, and Mademoiselle Vlodsta—fighting for the championship. Queen Eugenia Victoria of Spain was present at this match. Helen Wills was quite easily the most popular player in the championship. On the same day two boys of twenty-two years of age, Richards for the United States and Cochet for France, fought for victory, the Olympic laurels finally going to the former.

Swimming

The swimming pool at Tourelles is one of the finest in existence. The construction is entirely of concrete. The seating arrangements are not particularly comfortable because of the very steep inclination on which it is constructed and the fact that they are of concrete. There were one or two interesting features which were used in connection with the swimming and Polo: First, the system used for laning; a cork rope was strung on top of the water tnus clearly defining the limits of each competitor’s lane. For Water Polo the Ball, instead of being thrown into the water by the Referee, was placed in a small floating receptacle something like a sponge holder and thus when the whistle was blown and the competitors were swimming towards the ball the floating container disappeared under the water. It was evidently attached to ropes

Digitized by LjOOQie
446

from either side, which were drawn taught by a windlass causing the container to disappear.

The Referee judged the games from a stand something like that used for Tennis umpires. By means of flags he indicated the teams which had fouled.

General

It is generally considered that Paris was too large for the Olympic Games; distances were so great and the program so crowded that it was impossible for a person to see everything. It is thought that the Games in the future should be held in much smaller cities. Antwerp in 1920 was not bad from this standpoint; it is expected that the games in 1928 in Amsterdam ought to be free from embarrassments such as were found in Paris; and how Los Angeles will serve as a host city in 1932 no one can say.

POSTURE A CAUSE AND A REMEDY IN ENTEROPTOSIS.

William Gilbert Anderson, M. Sc. M. D. Dr. P. H.

I sometimes wonder if it is worth while presenting arguments favorable to voluntary neuromuscular training to our readers because of the general lack of interest, or at least moving interest, in the subject. It is quite safe to say that eight out of every ten persons claim they have no time for such forms of physical activity, and that their faith in the efficacy of this work is in corresponding ratio to their belief. However, if the remaining two are willing to improve their efficiency, then I am glad to write a short article on the possibility of restoring certain bodily organs to almost their pristine virtue as working machines.

The word ptosis has become so well known that it is like a bird leaving its nest, for it has departed from the medical confines and is used understandingly by the layman.

Of the four forms of ptosis, the skeletal, visceral, circulatory, and emotional, I will attend to only that fom known as enterop-tosis, which, for the benefit of the non-medical man who may read these lines, means the falling or displacement of any or all of the vegetative organs; and while visceroptosis and splanchnoptosis may be preferred, we at least understand that the condition is a sagging of tne abdominal organs to such an extent that their normal functioning is no longer of 100 per cent value, and, as the body depends upon energy for its efficiency and any displacement detracts from tne working value of the machinery which turns food into energy, we may admit without further discussion that if ptoses exist there will be a lessening of the amount of energy stored or used as there would be in the case of any mechanical contrivance that was neglected.

Reprinted in an abbreviated form from the Therapentic Gazette.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
446

Of several factors which cause enteroptosis namely, posture, lack of exercise, too abundant deposit of fat, unhygienic dress, and other predisposing pathological conditions, I will write of posture and exercise as agents of worth in preventing or remedying these displacements.

Incidentally I [want to refer to what may seem irrelevant topics, because I ‘wish to call attention to unfortunate existing conditions which militate against a more widely spread and more acceptable gospel of health.

If the lack of exercise is the cause, then exercise is indicated, but unfortunately people will not exercise; they will not go to gymnasia, they fail to join institutions where physical training may be had, and .they will not continue the exercise at home; so we will try another plan.

If posture is the cause, then posture may be adopted as a remedy, and as this is a form of physical training that can be easily done at home or on the streets, we will amplify the value of personal bearing, of proper carriage.

The questions of diet, rest, play, relaxation, will for the present be omitted, but at any rate we must remove the cause, whatever it may be, before attempting to build up the ruins.

Good posture or position, and this includes the replacing of the bodily organs, is of such vital worth that I am going to refer to the findings of a few others who have made a careful study of the subject.

Goldthwaite refers to the results of investigations made by Scholder and Weith in Lausanne, which showed that, among 12&4 school children, in over 20 per cent, albuminuria could be obtained by putting the children in certain definite postures.

Jones has shown that the vertical posture is better for action and the discrimination of pitch, the horizontal better for memory and adding.

He studied the reports that came to him from 350 distinguished men, and of this number 65 per cent reported that their position for writing or doing their best thinking was either horizontal or semi-horizontal. One well-known writer did his best work when lying flat, face down.

When studying conditions among college men he found that out of 81 men 35 preferred the semi-horizontal position or the use of a Morris chair, or with feet resting on a table.

In referring to Sir Lauder Brunton, he stated that this eminent scholar was unable when seated to think or write after a hard day’s work, but if he placed his head on the desk on a level with the paper he was able to collect his thoughts and the ideas came faster than he could pen them. If he raised his head he was utterly incapable of carrying on the work. In other words, if the blood would not go to the cerebrum he would take the brain down to the blood.

Dr. W. H. Burnham of Clark University says: “Good posture represents one of the habits of prime significance. This is emphasized, first, by the fact that such posture tends to preserve the

Digitized by CjOOQle
447

individual from many physical disorders; second, many ordinary reflexes are connected with posture which conduce to poise, dignity, self-reliance, and efficient and healthful work; and third, because the study of conditioned reflexes suggests that in subtle and unimagined but significant ways conditioned reflexes of the utmost significance to physcial and mental health may be developed in connection witn posture.”

Dr. C. Ward Crampton in his paper entitled “Good Posture” gives well illustrated exercises which are highly recommended.

Thirty years ago Dr. J. H. Kellogg of Battle Creek, Mich., read a paper on the “Physical Decadence of American Women.” His views received the hearty indorsement of Professor Meinert of Dresden. The cuts clearly showed the displacement of the abdominal viscera. He recommended certain exercises in addition to postural improvement.

Those wishing to pay more attention to the subject than I will here are referred to the findings of Glenara in 1881 in France, of Keith, the English investigator, in 1903, to Goldthwaite’s writings in 1910, ana to the discussion by Dr. J. H. Kellogg as far back as 1893, when he made plain by his paper how much the working value of the abdominal viscera was reduced by these conditions. The Roentgen rays have further proven to what extent the organs mentioned have departed from the positions which for years were so artistically shown in our standard text-books. These unhygienic conditions exist, and they are productive of harm greater than is usually credited to them.

Is it not a sad commentary that to-day there is not in this country a single large isolated gymnasium devoted to physical education? I am not referring to those found in our Y. M. C. A.'s and Y. W. C. A's in colleges, secondary schools, or like institutions, but to a well-regulated edifice devoted entirely to the rational physical uplift of the human body. Such a center, under the supervision of medical men having the sympathy of the medical profession, offering careful and scientific examinations, medical, orthopedic, and anthropometric, and with a teaching force well trained and competent. There are reputable institutions which will give careful somatic tests, but what I refer to is a health center to which any one may go for treatment as veil as a diagnosis.

Again, I know of no school in this country where bodily training of the most comprehensive, complete and scientific kind is first and foremost, and where the development of the mind has a secondary place.

The wealthy man who will start such a school for boys or girls and stick to it will be doing a great good to very many who need a sound basis for psychic activity.

I hope these ideas will fall on fertile soil, and that in the not too dim future some one may endow a school of this kind. We know only too well that many young men with brilliant minds have fallen by the way-side because of frail bodies.

The main object of this paper is to describe one posture that will go far toward remedying the abdominal ptoses mentioned,

Digitized by LjOOQle
448

which can be taken by young or old, either sex, will cost nothing, and does not require one to go to a gymnasium.

It may seem strange that the first appliance is a good looking-glass; this will be found in most homes, and if it is not there I hope one will be secured, for it is before the mirror that we want our patient to stand and honestly study his body. He cannot but be unfavorably impressed with the unsightly appearance, especially with the sagging abdomen, the fiat chest, the round shoulders, the drooping head, and the growing curves of a spine that like the camel groans under the increasing load. It may be that the esthetic sense is not aroused, but surely the person who suffers or pays the price of carelessness or ignorance would like to be freed from the aches, pains, and inefficiencies which follow the enterop-tosis trail.

How many of my readers can honestly say that they do not even know that they have a stomach or liver or spleen or pancreas because they function so normally? How many can, week after week, pity their neighbors who resort daily or nightly to laxatives, because they themselves know not what it is to be irregular in eliminating the ashes of the body? I fear very few, and, what is more, the number who do depend upon aperients is growing, not lessening.

Our lady who studies her body honestly before the mirror will become disgusted with the reflection, but she can hide the defects with the help of her corsetiere, and if other portions of her anatomy need camouflaging there is the corner drug store where certain toilet articles will help. But do these contrivances cure or even remedy? Why won’t this woman take just a little of the time required to make her facial, skin or hair toilet and assume a good standing position? Because she does not believe in such procedure or because the results come too slowly.

What does our man do when he finds the chest taking the place of the abdomen? Too often resorts to a “vitality belt”; but the fat remains, only it is pushed farther up against the heart and lungs, and he knows he has difficulty in breathing. He will take pills, but he won’t exercise, and so the ever-increasing pressure of the adipose deposits against the walls of the waist line cause a bulging and sagging that is at once unsightly and unhealthy.

The accumulation of weight due to this deposit of fat and weakening muscles, causes the organs to “slip from their shelves” and fall, and thus to become incapacitated for their best work.

Fat seems to go over the lines of least resistance, and we find it generously deposited on the muscles of the abdomen and around the organs of this cavity. If it finds a resting-place at the uttermost parts of the body it may be more easily removed by certain exercises combined with careful eating, but when one tries to get rid of the fat that has made a home for itself around the great omentum, which seems to have an affinity for such substance, it is the task of Hercules to get rid of it, but it can be done.

In carrying out some research work in which I was interested I raised my weight from 135 to 155 pounds, then later ran it up to

Digitized by Google
449

175 pounds, and was for the first time in my life ready to look with faVor upon self-destruction on account of suffering caused by the fat. There was of course ptosis, with accompanying unrest. Continuing I reduced to 148 pounds, and then was certain that only the grave held peace and rest for me; now back at 160 pounds the sun shines in my life, but the main fight has been with the reduction of fat in the abdominal cavity.

May I sound this warning? Do not put on too much weight, and under no conditions try to reduce too much, for nature demands payment in either case, and her bill will be receipted; there is no exception.

No attempt will here be made to discuss the diet, and no long list of exercises will be printed, for that would be a waste of time and effort, but I will mention one posture which is most helpful and must be taken if enteroptosis is to be remedied. There are also two exercises I will describe, both excellent, but if our corpulent, ptosic patient will not do this much he will find the income tax modest and shrinking alongside of the demands of Dame Nature.

Our patient with the sagging abdomen and falling vegetative organs must stand erect and pulling in his abdomen as much as possible do this many times daily. At home, on the streets, in the car, at the office, theatre, or church, while sitting or standing, and on every occasion. I promise without hesitation that the results will be excellent.

Mantegazza once said that if a person wished to feel like a fool it was only necessary to stand and look like one. May I add that to feel wide-wake and “chipper” it is only necessary to assume and hold an alert, energy-full position?

So far as possible never bend the spine in the thoracic region when the hinge can be put at the pelvis—i. e. in leaning over a table or desk.

Grasp every opportunity to strengthen the spinal machinery.

Arching the chest brings into action the erector spinae muscle; at the same time the abdominal contractile tissues are shortened.

Exercise No. 1.—Intended to widen and deepen the thorax, to give greater space for the heart and lungs, to overcome round and stooping shoulders and to strengthen the abdominal muscles and spine.

With the feet apart sidewise bend the elbows smartly, place the finger-tips over the top of the deltoid, elbows back, and the scapula flat against the posterior thorax. Arch the chest to its utmost, draw in the abdominal muscles, and hold the position five seconds.

Next thrust the anns slowly upward and at the same time bend the body backward slightly, and look up. Hold this position five seconds.

Next return to the first position and hold for five seconds; then lower the arms to the side and relax, but do not assume an unhygienic attitude. While in the relaxed state breathe deeply,

This exercise has taken only twenty seconds, or one-third of a minute. Take it twice more, and the wonder will grow that it

Digitized by L.ooQle
450

actually tires one. Consider how many groups of large muscles * have been brought into action: those on the back of the leg, on the front of the thigh, the back and sides of the hips, the entire erector spinae group, those across the shoulder-blades, all the abdominal muscles, and every small one used in raising the ribs.

Holding a position five or ten seconds causes both destruction and accretion in the tissues, or chemical changes, which are desirable in securing growth and development. The deep breathing aerates the blood.

Now it will be necessary to quicken the action of the heart and lungs, and this is done by the following:

Exercise No. 2.—To quicken the action of the heart and lungs. With the hands on hips, fingers forward, feet apart, rise on tiptoe then half bend the knees, lowering the body; next extend the knees and lastly lower the heels. This takes at first two seconds, but should be done in one second. Take it five times. It will be found that the pulse-rate will jump from seventy-five to ninety or even more, depending upon how much active leg work our subject is in the habit of doing in his daily life.

It is not essential that the rate be advanced to one hundred and twenty or more, because what we are striving for is the change which will take place when there is a rational balance between the constuctive and destructive metamorphosis of tissues.

Before closing let me suggest that rapid walking is a splendid exercise for the adult. Increasing the speed when going up-stairs greatly quickens the heart action. Sauntering or strolling along the streets is not good exercise; it is a highly reflex act, hence eco-npmical and conserves energy.

Another suggestion that is worth while: When in your office lean against your desk and gently bend the body backward and forward. This brings smartly into action the abdominal muscles, which, in enteroptosis, are losing their resistive strength.

The whole matter may be summed up in these words: “It has taken months or years for the changes to insidiously come and for the enteroptosis to interfere with the production of energy, so it will take time to remedy; but what I most want is the formation of a habit of standing well and almost continuously bringing into action the waist line and spinal muscles.

It may occur to the reader that we are placing too great stress upon the spinal column, and we are, for figuratively and literally we want men and women with “backbone" of the best quality.

It is interesting to know that of all animals man is the only one whose spinal axis is vertical, and that being the case man’s best work is done when the vertebral column is kept in its normal state.

If we change these lines he becomes to a greater or less degree incapacitated for high-grade work. It is just as true if we modify tne obliquity of the spinal column of animals; a dog on two feet is useless, the ape when straightened out like a man apparently suffers.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
451

Regarding the verticalness of the human spine Turner says: “But man possesses certain special or distinctive anatomical characters. The most noticeable, as seen on an external examination of his body, is his erect position. He is, indeed, the only living creature that can walk or stand erect—i. e., with the axis of the spine vertical, with the hip and knee joints capable of being fully extended, so that the leg is brought into line with the thigh.”

WHERE WE ARE AT IN PRESENT-DAY VENTILATING

PRACTICE

Comments on the Conditions Now Sought Through the Installation and Operation of Properly Designed Air Supply Systems.

Nelson S. Thompson, Chief Mechanical Engineer, U. S. Treasury Department.

The writer’s views on the subject of ventilation for schools and other public buildings come at a time when as is well known, the whole matter is "up in the air.” Our dear old former standards:

Uniform temperature, 68 degrees to 70 degrees F.

Freedom from dust and odors,

Uniform relative humidity, 43 per cent approximately.

Low air velocity and no appreciable air movement in rooms,

30 cu. ft. per occupant per minute, no longer seem to have full authority, especially the last, which was truly our sheet anchor to windward, but which, under a moderate gale of real investigation, has dragged so badly that now more than 6 parts of CO2 in 10,000 are no longer a bugaboo. Dr. Vernon Hill, the late John R. Allen, Dr. Henderson of Yale and others-here and abroad have laid the ghost of C02 as a real measuring stick in ventilation.

The Humidity Standard

Dr. Henderson, Professor Sheppard and many other authorities are agreed that reasonably high humidity is of great importance. Dr. Henderson goes so far as to recommend 80 per cent. The consensus of opinion seems to be that it should be kept as high as possible, say 45 per cent to 50 per cent, or at such point as will not cause deposit of moisture on windows and cold walls.

Unquestionably a high percentage of humidity permits the maintenance of a lower temperature in the room and greater movement of cooler air without discomfort than would be the case with drier air, say with 25 per cent relative humidity, such as is found in the usual unventilated room with direct steam or water radiation during the major part of the heating season.

At this point it is pertinent to direct attention to the following statement, taken from a pamphlet issued by the Department of

Reprint from “The Heating and Ventilating Magazine”.

Digitized by v^ooQle
452

Health of the City of New York, No. 68, February 1918, by S. Josephine Baker, entitled “Classroom Ventilation and Respiratory Diseases among School Children.”

"It was found in this investigation that the relative humidity of classrooms, whether ventilated by natural or mechancial means was not a causative factor in the occurrence of respiratory illness in school children.*'

From a medical standpoint it may be absolutely certain that high humidity is desirable, but I think we all will agree that it should not be uniform; it should follow Nature and vary slightly from hour to hour.

Importance of Reducing Dust.

Dust in the air is of fundamental importance from the standpoint of health, and in this connection everyone should read that celebrated volume, "Fragments of Science,” where amidst much valuable information will be found John Tyndall’s investigation of the subject of “Dust and Disease.” Attention may also be directed to the last addesss of the late John R. Allen, bearing on the imperative necessity of removing so far as possible the dust from the air in order to prevent pneumonia and other strictly dust-borne diseases so fatal to older people. In connection with this subject, and also for its most able analysis of ship ventilation, the paper presented at the recent annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, in January of this year, by Dr. R. C. Holcomb, U. S. N., should be carefully read and digested.

Effect of Odors.

Odors are psychological. They must be reduced to a minimum or entirely eliminated if we are to have satisfactory ventilation. In this connection Dr. Vernon Hill’s paper on this subject should be carefully read.

Fallacy of Low Air Velocity and Uniform Temperature.

In regard to air movement in rooms, supply and exit duct etc., the old idea of extremely low velocity and nearly stagnant air has been as fully exploded as the CO2 fallacy.

The old standard of maintaining an absolutely uniform temperature of 70 degrees F. in an apartment has also been fully exploded, and the tendency is now downward. With proper humidity a temperature as low as 65 degrees is entirely satisfactory. Dr. Henderson has, I believe, convinced most people that uniformity of temperature and humidity is not desirable, but rather the reverse. As John R. Allen said: "we want the sudden changes in temperature and humidity which energize our skins.” Allen further pertinently remarks in regard to temperature:

“The most important function is the control of temperature in the body; there is no function more accurate in the human system than temperature control. If our temperature rises more than 4 degrees or 5 degrees they put us to bed; if it rises 8 degrees or 10 degrees they put us in a coffin.”

Digitized by
m

Energy of the Solar Beam the Foundation of the Universe.

I fully agree with Dr. Allen that temperature, humidity and circulation are the three most important things in ventilation, and of these three temperature is of paramount importance. As I view Nature, temperature or rather heat—the energy of the solar beam—is the foundation of the universe.

I have very gmve doubts as to the advisability of using ozone, notwithstanding the seemingly good results reported in connection with its use in the St. Louis schools. I feel that the highest grade of medical men, or at least, highly-trained physicists, are alone competent to pass upon the introduction of chemicals into the air.

The Palmer Arraignment.

The severest arraignment of the prevailing methods of school ventilation has been made by George T. Palmer, Epidemiologist of the Detroit Department of Health, based on a study made by himself, together with Dr. S. Josephine Baker, chief of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, New York City Department of Health, in 1916-1917, acting jointly with the New York State Commission on Ventilation. He states, in part, as follows:

“There appears to be something inherent in the indirect method of ventilating schoolrooms by means of forced draft and gravity exhaust, as practised in this study, that is productive of respiratory affections; some thing which is not present in rooms ventilated with windows and gravity exhaust.”

A part of the harm he attributes to high temperature of the air, and another part to the uniformity of the temperature and the air flow. He tells us that the temperature of window-ventilated schoolrooms may be reduced to 59 degrees F. without increasing the prevalence of colds. He admits that window ventilation is not entirely satisfactory, though it is more nearly so than mechanical ventilation. Respiratory sickness is greater in fan-ventilated rooms than in window ventilated rooms, even though there is not more than one degree difference in temperature and the fan-ventilated rooms are more spacious. It is low temperature rather than chemical purity of the air which conveys the sensation of freshness, he states. He does not condemn alone, but advances the following:

“For theaters, assemblies, and such large rooms and more uniform crowds there is no escape from mechanical ventilation.

“In window ventilation there should be ample exhaust outlets and ducts placed on the inside walls with proper regard for the location of windows as well as their size. The radiators should be placed beneath the windows. Eveiy window and other inlet should be provided with a deflector. If the teachers will maintain the temperature of the air in a schoolroom somewhere between between 64 degrees and 70 degrees F., changing the air constantly, but without strong drafts, it matters little what other standards are met. However, the air should be kept reasonably clean and sunlight should be given a chance to sterilize things.”

Digitized by kjOOQle
464

In his judgment the conditions of the weather are more important in causing colds than is the ventilation of the schoolroom.

The writer’s own observations bear out the foregoing. We find that the consensus of opinion among the teachers in our schools is that the standard fan blast type of heating apparatus, with automatic temperature control, is decidedly uncomfortable and unsatisfactory as far as they are concerned, and that they will do all they can to be detailed to a school, even one with direct radiation only, where they have full control over the temperature.

In this connection, especial attention is directed to an article by Dr. William E. Watt in “The Nation’s Health’’ (Chicago), entitled “Process of Building up our National Resistance,” in which he places great stress upon the evil effects of high temperature generally maintained in the “perfectly mechanically-ventilated schoolrooms,” etc. He more or less excoriates the mechanical systems installed in late years by the average engineer as representing the last word in ventilation. He makes this pertinent statement:

“TheJNew York State Commission on Ventilation says that temperature between 68 degrees and 75 degrees induces a strain which adds 23 pulse beats per minute, while the body averages 1.5 degrees above normal.

And further:

“Few teachers—very few—are sound after 20 years in school air. Life insurance companies jiut teaching down as a hazardous occupation, next to saloon keeping and marble cutting.”

Outdoor Conditions During the Heating Season.

Before we proceed to discuss standards for the ventilation of schools and public buildings, let us ascertain what conditions Nature maintains during the heating season, and keep in mind that the temperature, humidity, and velocity of air, dust content, etc., vary each day from hour to hour. Let us consider the following table, giving careful attention to the broad averages shown. It would seem axiomatic that Nature has adapted us to meet conditions as they naturally exist. She has not had time to adapt us to the artificial conditions imposed by man.

Temperature, Relative Humidity, Deg. F.	Per	cent

Cities between

Latittude 39 deg. and 43 deg. Winter Spring Fall Winter Spring Fall Longitude 71 deg. and 125 deg. Mean Mean Mean Mean Mean Mean

Boston, Mass...................29

Buffalo, N. Y..................26

Albany, N. Y...................25

Ithaca, N. Y...................26

New York, N. Y.................32

New Haven, Conn................30

Atlantic City, N. J............34

46	53	73	69	77
42	51	77	73	75
46	51	82	76	83
45	50	83	75	81
49	55	75	72	78
46	53	74	74	76
47	56	82	81	83

Digitized by
	455					
Philadelphia, Pa			34	51	57	76	70	77
Harrisburg, Pa.			31	51	54	76	70	79
Pittsburgh, Pa.			33	51	55	81	76	79
Baltimore, Md			35	53	57	74	68	75
Washington, D. C			35	53	57	76	73	80
Parkerburg, W. Va			34	53	56	82	77	82
Columbus, Ohio			31	51	54	83	76	80
Toledo, Ohio			28	47	52	84	76	80
Cleveland, Ohio			28	46	52	79	76	77
Cincinnati, Ohio			34	54	57	80	73	78
Indianapolis, Ind			31	52	53	81	73	78
Detroit, Mich			26	46	51	84	76	81
Chicago, 111.			26	46	52	84	77	77
Springfield, 111			29	52	55	80	76	79
Sioux City, Iowa			21	47	50	84	78	80
Des Moines, Iowa			23	49	52	81	77	79
Kansas City, Mo			31	54	57	79	77	76
Omaha, Neb			24	50	53	81	76	76
Lincoln, Neb			25	50	54	82	78	77
Denver, Colo			31	48	51	59	63	57
Cheyenne, Wyo.			27	42	46	60	67	59
Salt Lake City, Utah. Pocatello, Idaho			31	50	52	75	60	56
				28	46	49	79	73	63
Carson City, Nevada.		34	47	51	72	62	63
Eureka, Calif				47	50	54	89	90	92
Average mean			30.0	48.8	53.1	78.3	73.7	76.0
General average of temperature of Winter, Spring				and Fall means		
respectively, 30.0 47.3 degrees F.	plus 48.8 plus 53.1		divided by		3, equals	

General average of relative humidity of Winter, Spring and Fall means, respectively, 78.3 plus 73.7 plus 76.0 divided by 3 equals 76.0 per cent.

*	Variations in Dust Counts.

The dust count undoubtedly varies materially, probably between wide limits on mild and windy days. It also varies widely in different localities, when such cities as Washington, Denver, etc., are compared with Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville, Chicago, etc. Dr. R. C. Holcomb has the following to say on this subject:

“City air is rich in dust. According to Aitken there are between 300 and 3,000 dust particles in a cubic centimeter of country air about Argyllshire whereas that of London was found to contain between 48,000 and 150,000 in the same volume. In this connection it should be borne in mind that though dust forms a vehicle for bacteria, dusty air is sometimes comparatively free from bacteria. Ash cart men, for instance, from investigations in New York City, appear to suffer less from bronchial affections than one would at first imagine, but ash dust is sterile.”

Digitized by
456

In regard to bacteria in the air of cities he states as follows:

"The dust of city streets, contaminated by sputum of diseased human beings and the discharges of animals, has been investigated again and again, and perhaps needs no extended comment. Prud-den in 1890 shows that the amount of bacteria in the dust clouds of ill-swept cities is startling. After five-minutes exposure of 3 3-4-in. culture plate, clean dust gave 10 to 35 colonies to the liter, Blowing dust gave from 214 to 941; and following the street cleaner gave 5,810 colonies to the liter.'

And again:

"It should be understood that all bacteria upon dust do not come from the streets and the outside air. Since Eberth, in 1875, demonstrated the presence of various bacteria in normal perspiration and described the colonies which they form on hairs, a number-of investigators have interested themselves in bacteria and moulds of the surface of the body, and as a result have discovered a profusion of organisms----Based upon the investigation of the bac-

teria of the skin was evolved the present surgical technic of skin preparation of the patient and the surgeon before operation.”

It should be borne in mind that only those bacteria which can resist long periods of drying, like the bacillus of tuberculosis, are of first importance. Further, Nature has for many centuries labored more or less successfully to protect the human mechanism from dust and bacteria.

Air Should Not Be Heated Above 100 Degrees F.

The late Alfred Wolff made a statement some years ago which should not be forgotten, to the effect that under no circumstances should air be heated in excess of 100 degrees F.

The writer feels that no medium used to heat air should ever have a temperature in excess of 100 degrees F.- but it is realized that the cost of attaining this ideal is prohibitive.

We should remember that the studies of Mr. Fred R. Still led him to report that in the part of the United States covered by the foregoing table, fo*- approximately 83 per cent of the time during the heating season the outside temperature is 35 degrees F.

Influence of High Cost and Operating Cost.

We should also keep fully in mind the economic and financial sides of the problem; i. e., first cost and operating cost, and remember that both of these costs are constantly rising. With present cost of material, labor, fuel, etc., the taxpayer is making some drastic inquiries into the matter of ventilation of schools and public buildings, and is entirely within his rights in doing so. With the old style fan-blast system of heating and ventilating in the majority of cases many of the teachers and all of the taxpayers were certainly not satisfied. How the children felt this deponent sayeth not.

Most of the Mechanical Heating and Ventilating Systems Installed in Cities

Let us further consider that practically all of our heating and ventilating apparatus is installed in schools located in the larger

Digitized by ^ooQle
467

cities where dust exists in the atmosphere more or less continually, and where the pupils are in the classroom only about 850 hours out of the total of, say 6,000 hours in the school year. Further, fully 50 per cent of the pupils, from some very poor families, are of a low order of intelligence (some never took a bath in their lives.) The balance live in homes heated by stoves, latrobes, and furnaces, with possibly 10 per cent in homes heated by water or steam.

Comparison of Average Conditions in Homes and in School

Rooms

No attempt is made in any of the homes to wash or alter the air or control the humidity, and very little attempt is made to control the temperature. When the children and teachers are not in their homes or at school they .are subjected to the conditions prevailing outdoors, where humidity, temperature, <>ir velocity, and dust content are controlled by Nature and certainly do not approximate the conditions we have attempted to maintain in our schools and public buildings. The writer considers it most pertinent to ask why we should spend money and effort in attempting to produce theoretically perfect conditions for about 15 per cent of the school life of the child, while for the balance of the school year and for the entire non-heating season the pupil is left to the tender mercies of Nature or to the conditions provided by its parents. The whole idea is to the writer on a par with the now thoroughly exploded practice of providing sterilized drinking water for the pupils for the five hours they are in the schoolroom, while for the remaining nineteen hours of the school day and the entire time during vacation they must drink water from the faucets in their homes, without any attempt being made by 99 per cent of the parents to boil or otherwise sterilize the water. The pure water only serves under these conditions to weaken the resistance of the child to disease. The French Navy at one time provided sterilized water in its fleets for all sailors, who upon arrival in port drank what pleased them, with the consequence that the navy was, it is said, decimated by diseases due to impure water.

The writer has dwelt thus long upon elementary principles because they are of the first importance, and it is the temptation of this age of unhealthy cramming to neglect them.

The Larsen Tests with Recirculated Air Passing through an

'Air Washer.

After a full consideration of the foregoing let us see if we can raise our minds to clearness and establish at least one or more tentative standards, which preferably should be expressed numerically. In this connection let us give our attention first to the able investigations of Professor G. L. Larsen, associate professor of gas and steam engineering in the University of Wisconsin, conducted on school rooms in actual use (see Journal, American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, October 1915, Vol. 22, No. 1). These point the way to a new standard, using recirculated air in combination with an air washer, without any pro-

Digitized by Ujooole
468

vision at all for admixture of outside air. Professor Larsen’s investigations show that satisfactory ventilation is obtained by recirculating only 15 cu. ft. of air per minute per occupant, provided it enters the rooms earning the proper amount of moisture and at fairly high velocity. With this amount of recirculation be found that the CO2 averaged approximately 13 parts in 10,000.

He further found that as high as 20 parts of CO2 in 10,000 do not have a sensibly bad effect on ventilation. Using recirculated air under the conditions noted, he found that with a relative humidity of 50 per cent to 75 per cent a temperature of 65 degrees F. or less is perfectly comfortable; and he further found that with 60 per cent humidity, air may enter the rooms at 60 degrees F. without creating discomfort. He reports no trouble with condensation on the walls and windows with this high humidity, although the outside temperature recorded during the tests averaged around 30 degrees F.

Suggested Standard for Supplying Washed Recirculated Air.

The conclusions of Professor Larsen are, we believe, sufficient to establish with confidence a standard for guidance when washed air is circulated without the addition of any outside air, and we quote them as follows:

1.	The tests show that it is both unnecessary and uneconomical to supply large volumes of air to obtain good ventilation.

2.	That 15 cu. ft. per student would be ample, providing it enters the room at a fairly high velocity and carries the proper amount of moisture.

3.	With humidity ranging from 50 per cent to 70 per cent the occupants of the room are perfectly comfortable at a temperature of 65 degrees or even less.

4.	With humidity of about 60 per cent, the air can enter the rooms at a temperature of 60 degrees without creating any discomfort; in fact it seems to give life to the air and aids in the effciency of ventilation.

5.	Carbon dioxide content as high as 20 parts in 10,000 does not have a bad effect upon the ventilation.

6.	Ventilation by recirculation is both efficient and economical. At the end of a year’s run the teachers are almost unanimous in their praise of the system.

7.	With a recirculating system such as this, it required from 40 per cent to 50 per cent less steam to heat the building while the fan is in operation than would be required if the air was drawn from outdoors for the same length of time.

8.	Air movement keeps the temperature uniform in various parts of the room and decreases the amount of steam required for heating. The tests show a minimum saving of about 8 per cent due to this air movement, and this would be true whether the system is a recirculating one or otherwise.

Digitized by LiOOQLe
459

9.	The air washer absorbs a considerable amount of the carbon dioxide contained in the air passing through it.

10.	The air washer is apparently quite efficient as a dust remover, but does not remove bacteria from the air when the washer water is recirculated. The tests show that it actually supplies bacteria to the air under such conditions.

11.	In spite of the poor showing of the washer, the air entering the room carries no more bacteria than outside air when the relative velocities in which the plates were exposed are taken into account.

The question in the writer's mind is whether equal or superior results can be obtained at equal or less first cost, cost of operation, etc., in schoolrooms by means of (a) window ventilation and direct steam or water heat; (b) direct-indirect steam or water heat supplemented by a positive fan exhaust; or (c) by the split system;

i.	e., direct radiation for heating, and air tempered for ventilation only.

Suggested Ventilation Standards When Using Fresh Air

Only

In order to have something tangible for discussion, the following tentative suggestions are advanced for standards of ventilation on the basis of admitting fresh air only into the apartment.

(a)	The writer does not believe that satisfactory ventilation can be secured by means of window ventilation alone in a schoolroom or any similar room so densely occupied, even if supplied by ample exhaust ducts acted upon by powerful exhaust fans.

It is important to keep in mind that approximately 80 per cent of the complaints relative to lack of ventilation are caused by excess temperature and humidity, rather than lack of fresh air. Further, it can be demonstrated that a well-designed window plus one or more good thermometers, in combination with com- * mon sense, will insure satisfactory ventilation in any apartment not occupied more densely than one person to 1,900 cu. ft. of space. The CO2 can be maintained at approximately 9 parts in 10,-000, humidity at approximately 25 per cent during average winter weather (80 per cent of the heating season), and the temperature at 65 degees to 70 degrees F. without undue attention. (See the article entitled “Efficiency of Various Ventilating Systems,)” contained in Public Health Report, Vol. 37, No. 6, dated February 10, 1922. which contains data submitted by Professor Winslow of Yale and Sanitary Engineer Leonard Greenburg of the U.

S.	Public Health Service, which data are of great value to the ventilating engineer.)

Surgeon General Gorgas has stated that 50 sq. ft. of floor area per man in barracks with a ceiling height of 9 ft. should be the minimum, although many of the war-time cantonments had only 259 cu. ft. of space per man. This latter was found to be unsatisfactory, and 450 cu. ft. per man is now considered the minimum. It should be kept in mind that the men are in vigorous health and are not to be compared with the average citizen in resisting power.

Digitized by v^ooQle
460

Present Practice in the Design of Equipment for Federal Buildings.

The writer’s practice in connection with the design of heating and ventilating apparatus for Federal buildings under control of the Treasury Department has been roughly as follows:

Window ventilation is used in all office rooms; no vent or exhaust flues are used in any of these rooms. Practically all office rooms in such buildings contain at least 1,500 cu. ft. per occupant and the exposed windows and doors equal roughly one-fourth of the floor area of the rooms. A generous number of glass window-ventilators and deflectors is provided on request for any and all apartments, and for summer use a liberal number of desk fans is provided for the various buildings.

In postoffices the workroom and the adjoining public lobby are frequently flushed out; the workrooms by the opening of doors to receive and dispatch the mails, and the lobbies by the opening of the entrance doors by the public. In the larger workrooms, and, in fact, in any room deeper than 30 ft. from the outside wall and without cross ventilation, the air is stagnant in the inner part and some method of inducing a flow of air at that point is desirable.

If we could only impress upon the architects the necessity of providing properly-designed windows, and especially the necessity for cross ventilation, about 50 per cent of all ventilating problems would be solved.

High Temperature on Mezzanine Floors

Of course all mezzanine floors or half stories in a high ceiling workroom, if not entirely isolated from the main room, are very uncomfortable. This is not due, however, to bad air, but to high temperature; and the remedy is either to seal them off from tne main room or to force fresh air into these spaces and keep it stirred up with ordinary oscillating desk fans.

Court rooms must of necessity be equipped with some kind of ventilating apparatus. In the smaller ones unit systems, direct-indirect or gravity-indirect, are used as conditions demand, while in the larger buildings the court rooms are treated from the general ventilating system.

The split system of ventilation is used i. e., air is admitted for ventilation only and no exhaust or vent flues are used except in the court room, post office workroom, and toilet rooms. Direct radiation is installed to heat the rooms.

Automatic temperature control is used in the largest buildings when funds are available, and an air washer is installed unless the atmospheric conditions permit its omission, which is seldom the case. So far, no special humidifying apparatus has been installed.

When Direct-Indirect Systems Can Be Used.

(b)	In buildings containing not over sixteen schoolrooms, in clean cities like Washington, Denver, Seattle, etc., when no industrial odors exist near the school site, and when first cost is

Digitized by v^-ooQle
461

of paramount consideration, the writer believes that satisfactory ventilation may be secured by use of the direct-indirect system with the air passages properly designed and arranged to be readily cleaned, if supplemented by properly-designed, windows which will admit air without drafts, and especially if supplemented by a. positive exhaust system using an exhaust fan designed to remove 30 cu. ft. of air per minute per occupant.

The basis of this design should be a low-pressure two-pipe vapor or vacuum system with hand operated graduated inlet valves located at top of radiator. The radiation to be designed to heat the room as usual from the lowest outside temperature plus sufficient additional surface to heat 10 cu. ft. of air per minute per occupant from the lowest outside temperature to 70 degrees F. The windows are to be used at all times, when weather and temperature permit, to supplement the air entering through the radiators.

Albert Harris, Municipal Architect of Washington, D C., has worked out details in connection with inlets to direct-indirect radiators which are worthy of note, and which permit fairly ready access for cleaning, etc. He has also worked out a very satisfactory window to supplement the direct-indirect system.

This system is not brought forth as ideal, but it has the virtues of simplicity, low first cost, and low operating expense; which in a large measure offset its objectionable features.

Dr. Vernon Hill’s investigation and report of recent date entitled “Weak Spots in Direct-Indirect Heating” (published in The Heating and Ventilating Magazine for January, 1922) is illuminating on this subject. The waiter feels that if the apparatus be properly operated the following results may be obtained during 70 per cent of the heating season:

Temperature: 65 degrees to 72 degrees F., controlled by teacher. (Consider this of prime importance.)

Relative Humidity: 35 per cent to 45 per cent.

Dust-Not perceptibly greater than exists in outside air if air passages and radiators are kept fairly clean. In this connection do not overlook the fact that in ventilating systems using a fan without air washer the duct systems are in a large majority of cases receptacles for dust and dirt.

Odor: Not perceptibly greater than exists in outside air if air passages and radiators (and the pupils) are kept fairly clean.

Air Movement and Distribution: Fairly satisfactory if inlet and outlet openings are properly designed.

Bacteria: Not perceptibly greater than in outside air, unless some abnormal condition exists in the school or schoolroom.

CO2: 15 parts in 10,000 approximately, when air is being taken through the radiators only. Say 9 to 10 parts per 10,000 during 70 per cent of the heating season.

Certainly it will be conceded that the air conditions above noted, to which the pupils are subjected for 20 per cent of the heating seasons, are better than, or at least comparable to, conditions existing in the homes of the school children or the occu-

Digitized by v^ooQle
462

pants of public buildings, and certainly not materially worse than the conditions maintained by Nature outdoors.

Comparative Cost of Direct-Indirect System and Split System

Upon actually similar eight-room school buildings designed by Mr. Harris, the bids for a well-designed direct-indirect system with positive fan exhaust, exceptionally well-designed air inlets, etc., were $10,000 less than for an equally well-designed split system of heating and ventilation with gravity exhaust and without an air washer. The two systems have not as yet been placed in service, so that relative operating costs have not been determined; but they do not differ materially. The direct-indirect system is designed to introduce through the radiators 30 cu. ft. of air per pupil when the outside temperature is 35 degree F. and above; for the 20 pe* cent of the time when the outside temperature is below 35 degrees the air admitted through the radiator will be curtailed. The split system is designed to deliver 30 cu. ft. per minute per pupil irrespective of the outside temperature.

Split System Most Satisfactory For Large School Building

(c)	In school buildings containing more than sixteen rooms, in cities where much smoke and dust and many industrial and other odors exist, such as Pittsburgh, Concinnati, Chicago, New York, etc., and when first cost is not paramount the writer believes the split system to be the most satisfactory, using direct two-pipe low-pressure steam, automatically or mechanically controlled, the air to enter rooms at a temperature not exceeding 65 degrees F., and to be properly washed and humidified. During recess all rooms to have windows opened and to be flushed out as much as possible, with the plenum fan shut down. The following standards, we believe, may be obtained with this apparatus, if properly designed and operated:

(a)	15 cu. ft. of fresh air per pupil per minute, which will give approximately 10 parts of CO2 per 10,000.

(b)	40 per cent to 50 per cent humidity (to be varied through the day by the engineer.)

(c)	Temperature in rooms, 64 degrees to 68 degree F., to be varied by teacher.

(d)	Air movement, vigorous; high velocity in ducts and flues through net area of registers.

(e)	Dust content, (f). Odors, (g) Bacteria. These, it is believed, would be considered satisfactory by Dr. Vernon Hill, based on his system of rating, unless some abnormal condition exists in school or schoolroom.

Method Suggested Of Admitting Air Into Rooms At High

Velocity

The writer is very strongly of the opinion that the method of admitting the fresh air from the plenum fans into the rooms as now practised will prove to be unsatisfactoiy when we attempt as we should, to admit the air at a high velocity and low temperature. From personal observation of two or three very success-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
463

ful ventilating systems installed under the writer’s direction, he feels that we should discharge from the inside wall flue at the ceiling of the classroom into a system of sheet-metal ducts or similar devices with perforations on the sides. This cool air, if at proper temperature, will descend without objectionable draft and find its outlet through the usual vent flue. He further believes that the usual vent flue could be dispensed with in this system and the air discharged into the corridor, where it may be exhausted through one main vent shaft. The writer intends to put the foregoing into practice at the next opportunity.

Importance Of Simplicity In Operation

A point of great importance which is overlooked by engineers who merely design heating and ventilating apparatus ana who have no experience with the construction, and especially with the operation of the apparatus after completion, is that the operator has no interest whatever in giving attention to a lot of details and fine points that are necessary to. achieve the results in the mind of the engineer; and thus much money is spent for apparatus which is wholly or partially neglected in actual operation. The gist of this observation is that practical results must be aimed at in the design and must be carried out in a simple manner.

♦----------------------------------------------♦

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

♦ ■ -	— ■ »

BOWL CLUB BALL

Rosalie Keen, Hollywood, California.

I.	The Field.—the shape and size may be the same as a Base Ball Diamond.

II.	Equipment—One soccer ball and one Indian Club.

III.	Players—One pitcher, one catcher, one baseman, and any number of fielders. The baseman is about 10 feet behind the pitcher, there being only the one base.

IV.	The Game.

Place the Indian club on the base behind the pitcher.

The object of the game is for the base-runner to reach the base, secure the Indian Club and return home before either he or the Indian club have been hit.

The pitcher bowls the ball to the kicker who kicks the ball into the field. If it be a fair ball he runs to the base behind the pitcher, secures the Indian club, before it is knocked down by a fielder with the ball, and returns home without being hit by the ball scoring one run.

If while running to the base a fielder knocks down the club with the ball, or if he be hit with the ball before or after securing the Indian club, he shall be out.

Digitized by L^ooQle
464

The fielder must threw the ball from where it is fielded. He cannot hold or run with the ball. Violation of these rules entitle the runner to a score.

A player is out on a fly caught, if hit by the ball while running bases, or if the Indian club be knocked down before he reaches the base.

Three men out constitute an inning.

V.	Score.

One home run scores one point.

VOLLEY BASE BALL.

Rosalie Keen, Hollywood, California.

I.	The Field—Regulation Indoor Base Ball Diamond.

II.	Equipment—An indoor Base Ball Bat and a Regulation Volley Ball.

III.	Players—Ten to thirty.

IV.	The Game.

The object of the game is to run as many bases as possible without being put out.

The pitcher tosses the ball to the batter who strikes, or attempts to strike, the ball into the field. If a fair ball is hit he runs to 1st base, then to 2nd base, then to 3rd base, and then home. If he makes the complete circuit of bases, without being put out, he shall score a home run.

The fielders try to hit or tag the base-runner with the ball while he is running from one base to the other. At no time may the field hold the ball or run with the ball. Violation of the above gives the base-runner a “free run”.

If the base-runner is forced to stop at a base, for fear of being put out, he may continue his run home as in base ball but it cannot count him a home run.

The base-runner is “out” on a fly caught, when he is hit or tapped by the ball, or when he runs outside the base-line to avoid being tagged or h<t.

The side is out when three outs have been made.

All other rules are the same as Base Ball.

V.	Score.

Home run.....................................................5	points

Free Run .............................................3	points

One base run and home........................................2	points

Two base run and home........................................3	points

Three base run and home......................................4	points

Each base made in succession scores one point, i e., if a base runner succeeds in making 2nd base without being stopped he shall score two points, if he succeeds in making home he shall score one point extra, making three points for a two base run and home. If he is put out before reaching home no points shall be scored.

Digitized by LjOOQle
466

SHUTTLE BALL RELAY

The object of the game is to throw a basketball rapidly to and from a leader to the first player of the group, then to the second, third, etc. The leader stands about 8 to 10 feet in front of the group which is composed of six or more players, see diagram.

hhl-hhh •	»	H

As soon as this first player of the group receives the ball he immediately returns it to the leader. At the same time he takes one step to the left. This side stepping brings the next player in line at the head of the group. He now receives the ball, quickly returns it to the leader and steps to the left. This receiving the ball, returning it and stepping to the left continues until every group member except the last has received and returned the ball.

When the last group member receives the ball he does not return it, but runs around the squad and places himself where the leader originally stood. This leader in the meantime has gone over to the group and places himself at its head.

The play then continues as described until every player has been leader. The play ends when the player who begun the game is again leader. The game is played with interest by pupils of all ages. When used in team competition the interest is greatly increased.

Variations

1.	The player who receives the ball instead of stepping to the left when returning it to the leader, bends his knees, thereby giving the team member standing behind him a chance to receive the ball.

2.	The last player when running to place himself at the head as the leader must first throw the ball into a basketball goal.

3.	The last player must dribble the ball forward and then shoot for the basket.

4.	The last player may be asked to perform any other kind of stunt before being allowed to shoot for the basket.

MARSOV1A WALTZ, A FIELD DAY DANCE FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS

Janet B. Walter and S. J. Judelsohn, Philadelphia, Pa.

Music “Marsovia Waltz”-Belcher-Lampe, Victor Record 16069.

Formation. Each school must enter 48 girls, arranged in fours, the taller ones on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks and upon command will open ranks left sideward in 12 counts.

Part I. (32 Measures.)

A. 1. Step on right foot crossing front of left, step on left (arms sideward), balance hop right forward (left arm overhead), 2 measures; repeat opposite, 2 measures. •

Digitized by Google
466

2.	Swing hop right backward (arms sideward on step, left arm lorward^on hop), swing hop left backward (opposite arm positions), 2 measures; pirouette right (arms forward and sideward), 2 measures.

3.	Polka obliquely right forward (right arm forward, and left arm sideward), 2 measures; same left (opposite ann positions), 2 measures.

4.	Two glides right sideward (arms sideward), 2 measures; step and curtsey right, sideward (left arm forward on the curtsey), 2 measures.

B. 1. 2, 3- repeat 1, 2 and 3 of A, opposite, 12 measures. 4. Two glides to the left sideward (arms sideward),2 measures;

Eirouette left (arms forward and sideward), 1 measure; alance hop left forward (right arm overhead), 1 measure.

PART II (32 measures)

A. 1. Double balance hop turn right (right arm overhead, and left arm sideward), 2 measures; balance step left and right sideward with opposite foot placed in front (opposite arm forward), 2 measures.

2.	Balance hop left forward, right arm overhead (left arm side ward), then swing hop right backward (left arm forward, right arm sideward), 2 measures; repeat, 2 measures.

3.	Repeat 1 opposite, 4 measures.

4.	Two two-step-turns right sideward (arms forward and sideward), 2 measures; step right sideward (arms sideward), place the left foot in front (left arms forward), 2 measures. B. Repeat A opposite, 16 measures.

Part III (32 measures)

Same as Part 1.

Part IV (32 measures)

All face right.

A. 1. Balance hop right forward (left arm overhead, right arm sideward), and swing hop left backward (right arm forward, left arm sideward), 2 measures; repeat, 2 measures.

2.	Four skips forward (arms sideward), facing left about on last skip, 4 measures.

3.	Repeat 1, 4 measures.

4	Repeat 2, 4 measures, facing front instead of left about and Files 1 and 2, 3 and 4 face each other. Those facing are partners.

B. 1. With right hands joined (left arms sideward), balance hop right forward and swing hop left backward, 2 measures; repeat, 2 measures.

2.	Four skip steps in a circle clockwise, partners changing places, 4 measures.

3.	Repeat 1, 4 measures,

4.	Eight running steps in a circle clockwise back to place facing front. 4 measures.

Digitized by Tooele
467

Part V (32 measures)

A.	1. Place right^footiforward, sideward, backward and feet to-

gether! (rignt^arm^forward, sideward, overhead and sideward, left arm sideward), 4 measures,

2.	Repeat opposite, 4 measures.

3.	Three step turn right and raise left leg sideward (arms forward and sideward), 2 measures; same in oppositie direction, 2 measures.

4.	Balance hop right forward (right arm sideward, left arm overhead), 1 measure; balance hop left forward (opposite arm positions), 1 measure; repeat right and left 2 measures.

B. 1. 2, 3, Repeat 1, 2, and 3 of A, 12 measures.

4.	Swing hop right backward (right arm	sideward,

left arm forward), 1 measure; swing hop left backward (left arm sideward, right arm forward), 1 measure; repeat right and left, 2 measures.

Part VI (37 measures)

A.	As A of Part 1, 16 measures.

B.	1. 2, 3, as B. 1, 2, 3, of Part I, 12 measures.

4. Two glides sideward (arms sideward), 2 measures; two steps forward, left, right (arms sideward), and balance hop left forward (right arm overhead), 2 measures; two steps forward, right, left (arms sideward), and balance hop right forward (left arm overhead), 2 measures; swing hop left backward (right arm forward) 1 measure; swing hop right backward (left arm forward), 1 measure; step left backward (arms sideward) and place the right foot backward (right arm overhead), 1 measure.

A FIELD DAY DRILL FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS

Janet B. Walter and S. J. Judelsohn, Philadelphia, Pa.

Music: “Moon Winks" Three-step, Stevens-Frey. Victor Record 16069.

Record is played through once for each group.

Formation: Each school must enter 48 boys arranged in a column of fours, the taller boys on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks, and upon command, open ranks left sideward in 12 counts.

Note: The music is written in 3-4 time. Where one measure is allowed for an action, the movement is taken on the first count and held for counts two and three.

FIRST GROUP (Free Exercises and Marching).

PART I (32 measures)

A. 1. Raise arms sideward, 1 measure; move arms upward, sideward and side-downward, 1 measure; repeat all, 2 measures; face left and three steps forward, 1 measure;

Digitized by LjOOQle
468

two steps in place and hold, 1 measure; face front and two steps nght sideward, 2 measures.

2.	Repeat 1, but marching steps in opposite direction, 8 measures.

B. Repeat A, 16 measures.

PART II (16 measures)

A.	1. Jump to side stride and raise arms sideward, 1 measure;

turn trunk left and immediately bend trunk right, 1 measure; straighten trunk and face front, 1 measure; return to position, 1 measure.

2.	Face left and jump to squat stand, 1 measure; extend legs backward, 1 measure; return to squat stand, 1 measure return to position, facing front, 1 measure.

B. 1. Repeat 1 of A, but opposite, 4 measures.

2.	Repeat 2 of A, but to the right, 4 measures.

PART III (16 measures)

A. 1. Jump to side stride and raise arms sideward, 1 measure; move arms upward, sideward and side downward, feet together on last count, 1 measure; repeat the preceding two measures, 2 measures; face left and threej steps forward, 1 measure, two steps in place and hold, 1 measure; face front and two steps right sideward, 2 measures.

2.	Repeat 1, but marching steps in opposite direction, 8 measures.

PART IV (32 measures)

A.	1. Lunge left sideward and bend arms to thrust, 1 measure;

turn trunk left and thrust forward, 1 measure; reverse, 1 measure; return, 1 measure.

2.	Raise arms sideward and hop three times on left foot, 1 measure; hop three times on right foot, 1 measure; four cuts sideward and close, lowering arms when closing, 2 measures.

3.	As 1 but to the right, 4 measures.

4.	As 2 but opposite, 4 measures,

B.	1. Lunge left sideward and bend arms to thrust, 1 measure;

turn trunk left, bend trunk forward and thrust downward, 1 measure; reverse, 1 measure; return, 1 measure.

2.	Hop three times on the left foot, raising the left arm obliquely sideupward, 1 measure; repeat opposite, 1 measure; four cuts sideward with corresponding arm raising and lowering, finish with feet together and arms at sides, 2 measures.

3.	As 1 but to the right, 4 measures.

4.	As 2 but opposite, 4 measures.

SECOND GROUP (Athletic Activities)

PART I (32 measures)

A. 1. Pitching (right hand as though holding a baseball), Raise right arm sideward and immedicately 1 3-4 right arm circle outward, hands meeting overhead (“Wind up1')*

Digitized by kaOOQLe
469

1 measure; raise left knee high, bring hands down toward right hips, 1 measure; with a quarter turn left, lunge left forward and throw ball forward, swinging left arm backward, 1 measure; return to position, facing front, 1 measure.

2.	Batting (hands as though grasping a baseball bat). Stride left sideward, bend slightly forward (touching bat on home place three times), 1 measure; bend right knee, swing bat over right shoulder, 1 measure; change knee-bend and stride forward, the body making a quarter turn left (the bat shoulder high in front). 1 measure; return to position, facing front, 1 measure.

3.	Repeat 1, but Pitch left handed, 4 measures.

4.	Repeat 2, but Bat left handed, 4 measures.

B.	Repeat A,	16 measures.

PART II (16 measures)

A.	1. Ballthrow overhead.

Stride left sideward, lower trunk and arms forward (as though grasping ball) 1 measure; raise trunk and swing arms foreupward, ball overhead, 1 measure; throw ball forward, arms obliquely foreupward, palms front, 1 measure; return to position, 1 measure.

2.	Standing	Broad Jump.

Face left, raise arms obliquely foreupward and rise on toes, 1 measure; bend knees, swing arms down and back, 1 measure; jump forward, landing on toes with knees bent and arms forward, 1 measure; return to position, facing front, 1 measure.

3.	As 1, but stride right sideward, 4 measures.

4.	As 2, but to the right, 4 measures.

PART III (16 measures)

1.	Catching	ground ball and	Throwing.

Stride left sideward and place hands on knees, 1 measure; bend left knee, clap hands to catch ball outside left knee, 1 measure; lunge obliquely right forward with the left foot, throwing ball in same direction with right hand, 1 measure; return to position, 1 measure.

2.	Running,	catching high ball	and	Tagging.

Run three steps forward, beginning left, 1 measure; jump upward, clap hands to catch ball overhead, landing with slight knee bend, 1 measure; lunge right sideward, bend trunk right sideward, and tag with ball in right hand, 1 measure; return to position, 1 measure.

3.	As 1, 4 measures.

4.	As 2, but running steps backward instead of forward, 4 measures.

PART IV (32 measures)

A.	1.	Sprinting	(on a square left.)

"On your mark," right knee on the ground, 1 measure; “Get set," 1 measure; run three steps forward, 1 measure; face left and 3 running steps in place, 1 measure.

2, 3 4 Repeat 1 three times, 12 measures.
B. 1.

470

Boxing (Files 1 and 2,3 and 4 immediately face each other). Lunge right backward, extend the slightly bent left arm forward, right arm bent at right angles against the waist, 1 measure; attack right, 1 measure; quickly attack left, right, left, 1 measure; attack right and return to position, 1 measure.

2.	Lunge left backward, extend the slightly bent right arm forward, left am bent against the waist, 1 measure; attack left, 1 measure; quickly attack right, left, right, 1 measure; attack left and return to position, 1 measure.

3.	As 1, 4 measures.

4.	As 2, but immediately after attacking left (last measure) step left forward toward partner and grasp right hands, 4 measures. Hold until signal to face front is given.

Note: Attack right means to vigorously extend the right arm forward, slightly bending the trunk forward and turning the right shoulder forward (punching), and bringing the bent left arm against the waist (guarding). Attack left means the opposite movements.

♦-------------------------------------------------------*

Study of Malnourished Children. In a study of 6,150 children at Gary, the children’s bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C., found undernourishment and physical defects in a large percentage of the children, it was announced, September 29. The Gary study is the first investigation by the bureau of the “neglected age of childhood”—between babyhood and school. Less than 10 per cent of the children studied were receiving diets that appeared adequate to their needs; 29.2 per cent whose inadequacy was highly questionable, and 60.5 per cent of the entire group had diets plainly incapable of supplying their bodily requirements. Only 18.9 per cent of all the children were getting a pint of milk a day, and 57.6 per cent had no milk at all. Two thirds of the group were found to drink coffee habitually, and 40 per cent to have it more than once a day. Vegetables, fruits, cereals and eggs were likewise conspicuously lacking. Following a physical examination 64.7 per cent were found to have decayed teeth, while 14.9 had bone defects as the result of inefficient diet. Only 4.8 per cent had no defects at all.

National Congress of Physical Education. The National Congress of Physical Education which has just been held at Bordeaux, under the chairmanship of Prof. C. Sigalas, dean of the medical faculty of the University of Bordeaux, was of interest for the reason that consideration was given to the much neglected medical side of physical training. The congress was divided into three sections: physiology, physical education and sport in general.

P

HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

E

D. M« F. KROGH, M. D.

Digitized by

Google
471

The Physiology of Physical Exercise. Dr. Maurice Boigey, an army physician, discussed exhaustively the effects of quantity and quality of exercise from the standpoint of respiratory exchange. He first referred to the estimations of energy made by measuring the loss of heat with the calorimetric apparatus of Atwater, Benedict, Cathcart and their co-workers, and then discussed simpler methods that measure the intensity and rate of exchange by determining the oxygen consumed and the carbon dioxid eliminated. With this method Boigey has studied the expenditure of energy during rest and during various forms of exercise, in subjects with and without athletic training, in walking, running, swimming, rugby football, rowing, pedaling on an ergographic bicycle, and bicycle racing. His researches show that the variations in carbon dioxid output parallel the intensity of the work, and afford an index of the quality of the muscular machine. For a given amount of work, the carbon dioxid eliminated is greater if the subject has received no previous training. In other words, the trained subject works more economically; his physiologic expenditure measured in terms of combustion is less than that of the man who is not trained. For a given exercise or game, the subject has reached the optimum of training when his physiologic expenditure is at a minimum.

The mechanism of shortness of breath in the runner or other athlete deserves particular study. The dyspnea is not closely correlated with the oxygen consumed, the carbon dioxid eliminated or the pulmonary ventilation. The stimulation of the bulbar respiratory centers, with which the dyspnea is associated, is related not only to the carbon dioxid content of the blood but also to products of incomplete oxidation liberated by the muscles under conditions of great effort. The most important of these products is lactic acid, which acts as a poison to the respiratory centers and gives an added effect to that of the carbon dioxid. Elimination of such acid bodies is slower than that of carbon dioxid. This explains why the dyspnea persists after the work is finished, and in spite of the fact that the percentage of carbon dioxid in the blood returns to normal after a few seconds. According to H. Magne, all that is necessary to diminish greatly the dyspnea is gradually to accustom the respiratory center to acid excitation. Some athletes make a practice of every now and then holding their breath as long as possible while working. Exercises of this kind tend to increase the resistance of the nervous centers to carbon dioxid, and are consequently of great advantage in athletic work. Magne has suggested that race horses might be" trained to breathe mixtures of air with increasing percentages of carbon dioxid. In this way they would be immunized against the effects of acid intoxication of the res-

Eiratory centers, and the appearance of dyspnea during work would e postponed. Boigey raised the question whether this method of respiratory training might not be tried on human subjects.— Physiologic Classification of Sports. Boigey has endeavored to classify the various sports according to the expenditure of energy, measured by the respiratory exchange that each requires. Such a classification can be only approximate; it is not so much

Digitized by kjOOQle
472

the form of movement or the time required for its accomplishment that determines the intensity of the respiratory exchange, but rather the speed with which the muscular action is effected, together with the resistance to be overcome. With these reservations, we may consider the general findings that Boigey has reached:

One hundred yard swimming races seem to require the most intense respiratory exchange. The 100 yard dash causes also elimination of much carbon dioxid; less, however, than the swimming races. Wrestling, long distance running and English boxing make essentially similar physiologic demands. French boxing, rowing, rope climbing, and rugby football constitute a group of exercises that cause the elimination of similar amounts of carbon dioxid, definitely less, however, than the last group. Tennis, bicycling, association football and punchball form another group somewhat lower in the scale of energy expenditure.

For an adult, forty-five minutes of gymnastic drill, such as is described in the army manual of physical education, is equivalent to the energy expenditure of a game of volley ball or a line march with a sixty pound load of the same duration.

Hypertrophy of the Heart. From time to time, sport and athletics have been charged with causing hypertrophy of the heart. To what extent is this true? Chaillet-Bert pointed out that the heart will react to training like the biceps muscle; its walls will become thicker and stronger. In order to deliver a larger volume of blood at each contraction, the heart will also become dilated. But this dilatation is active and not passive or pathologic; it can occur without danger because the walls are hypertrophied and are elastic; they, therefore, permit a return to former size when training is finished. This preliminary hypertrophy has been rightly termed “providential hypertrophy,” as it protects from danger. But, while it is true that the heart, especially the left ventricle, may dilate without danger, this is not true for the valves. When the heart becomes dilated during training the inelastic valve cusps are drawn too far apart and do not readily retract again. Slight insufficiency results, and may give rise to a murmur. In a trained athlete such a murmur is a normal phenomenon, and it disappears when training is abandoned. On the other hand, if the heart is called on to make a supreme effort without previous training, the danger is considerable, for the walls, not having become previously hypertrophied, will become distended, just as does a weak abdominal wall, and may not be able tb resume their former state. There will then be pathologic dilation, which must be distinguished from the physiologic dilation that occurs in the heart of the trained athlete.

The Abuse of Athletics. At a recent session of the Academy of Medicine, Dr. Maurice Boigey presented an interesting communication on the duration of cardiovascular disturbances produced by exercise. He noted the changes in arterial tension during intensive effort and during rest. He made a vascular trac-
473

ing during repose, during exercise and after exercise. A series of tracings at intervals was made until the stylet recorded a graph similar to that secured in repose. The time that elapsed between the end of the intensive effort and the moment when the graph had become normal again showed the duration of the vascular disturbances. From observations carried out for years at the Ecole de gymnastfque at Joinville, on the most diverse types, it appears that the cardiovascular system is affected much longer by exercise than is commonly believed. As a rule, the recumbent position after violent exercise shortens perceptibly the duration of cardiovascular disturbances. The habit of lying down after contests should therefore, be encouraged. Progressive training for severe exercise and athletic events likewise shortens the duration of circulatory disturbances following exercise. The duration of exercise has a more disturbing influence on the circulation than the intensity of the exercise. Games characterized by intermittent muscular effort, in which intervals of rest are frequent—very short but sufficient to prevent undue heart strain—appear as the most salutary form of exercise from the standpoint of the circulation; they affect the heart in fractional doses, as it were. They have not the disadvantages of athletic contests, which demand a maximum effort without any respite.

As the result of this report a committee on athletics and physical education has been appointed. The committee is composed of ten members, two of whom are physiologists (Gley and Hallion) and one a physician (Broca).

From Paris	Letter: The Journ. Am. Med. Assoc.

Department of educational hygienic

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL	Fv

< ...

There was no speed limit in America when the Pilgrims established them colony at Plymouth, more than 300 years ago. * They landed from their ships without a vehicle or a horse. They began life so simply that the accidents that threatened them in their daily lives did not go much beyond the axe and the fish hook. For many years they did not have even their share of what passed, in those days, for the comforts of civilization.

Yet they widened the trails that the Indians had made across meadow and through forest. They built rough roads and crossed great rivers and the plains beyond. The years passed, and highways of steel carried them from the Atlantic, across the continent to the Pacific. Then they met a new age, and turned back to build great highways that surpass the Roman roads of old. The era of motorized transport had come.

•Abstracted from an address entitled:: Living Beyond the Speed Limit, given recently by Lewis E. MacBryne, general manager of the Massachusetts Safety Council, before the Massachusetts School Masters’ Club.

Digitized by

Google
474

We count, in the United States, only about a seventh of the population of the world. Had we only a seventh of the world's applied science—its machinery, its controlled horse power, its transportation—we would not have achieved the reputation of being the most careless nation in the world. It is true that our industries kill and maim twice the number of those who are injured per thousand workers in Great Britain and Europe. It is true that our casualties on highways are greater than our armies would suffer in war. It is equally true that we are living beyond the speed limit of a safe civilization.

Our seventh of the world’s population possess 40 per cent of its railroads; 50 percent or more of its bathtubs; 60 per cent of its cotton; 75 per cent of its copper; 85 per cent of its lumber; and 86 per cent of its motor vehicles. We have behind each workman in factory and mine twice the horsepower that any workman has in Europe. We produce twice as much in our day's work, and injure double the number of workmen in it. But because of this increased horsepower, wages and purchasing power are greater, and we have a distribution of new inventions, washing machines, electric flatirons, radios, automobiles—unknown elsewhere in the world. Things that kings and their nobles would have claimed, could they have obtained them, in that year when the Mayflower sailed for Plymouth—telephones, electric lights, automobiles— are in the hands of 17 million people in the United States. If they share them with four members of their family, we have 68 million people equipped to live at the top speed, on the telephone. We market a million automobiles in a year, and accept the death of a thousand more citizens as incidental to fast driving, and ignorance of brakes and lubrication.

A test similar to that of the army was recently given to 2,000 commercial vehicle drivers in Chicago, and 18 per cent of them failed to pass. Their records were investigated, and it was discovered that every one had been involved in a highway accident. But what is more important, this 18 per cent had been responsible for nearly 50 per cent of the accidents involving the 2,000 drivers.

We have, then, not only the largest volume of quick transportation that the world has ever known, on highways inadequate to take care of it properly, but in the almost universal distribution of the motor vehicle, it has passed into the hands of crooks, drunken drivers and mentally incompetent drivers. This is not a criticism but a statement of fact of what is more or less inevitable in this rapid exhaustion of distribution among a people able to purchase anything within their fancy.

If we are to understand why motor vehicles killed 709 persons and injured 19,579 in Massachusetts in 1924, we must give thoughtful consideration to the fact that while defective brakes and steering wheels may be responsible for some accidents, it is the man at the wheel who is usually to blame, and the pedestrian, and especially the child, cannot depend upon the motorist in every case to prevent the accident.

Digitized by LjOOQle
475

The fact that nearly 11,000 pedestrians were injured in Massachusetts last year makes it apparent that in many instances the reckless pedestrian must have met with results unsatisfactory to both.

About half of these accidents happened to children, and they present a definite problem. You cannot classify them as reckless to the same degree as careless pedestrians. Their little world of play has never been bounded by sidewalks. They have not given special thought to the rapid duplication of street hazards, due to an increase of 100,000 motor vehicles each year. But we must organize them to give up the highway as a playground, and we must teach them how to cross it in safety, or we will kill 260 more of them in 1925. In a city suburban to Boston, motor vehicles injured 40 children in a single month recently. In a half hour before sunset one of our investigators found 420 children still at play in these streets where the accidents had occured. There is only one answer to such a situation.

The State Department of Education, in its recent bulletin on safety instruction in the public schools, recommended the Junior Safety Council as a plan for enlisting the children in a highway safety campaign. The Massachusetts Safety Council now has ready for free distribution to principals and teachers, a leaflet giving the necessary details for the organization of the Junior Safety Council, and will later provide copies of the pledge and the safety code. The reduction in accidents to children in cities where this organized safety work has been done leads us to believe that we are working along the right lines. The quick reaction of parents to it indicates that they look upon it as the effort of the modem school to educate its pupils against perils that are peculiar to the age. Science has prolonged human life by at least 13 years in the past ten decades. We must not sacrifice this saving to the excessive speed of our civilization.

Snow sculpture is a sport which has been developed to an unusual degree on the board of education’s playgrounds in Chicago. All playgrounds competed in modeling snow figures, and the results were judged by the city’s distinguished sculptor, Lorado Taft.

Water was mixed with the snow to form a heavy slush. The work of modeling was done with wooden paddles, the snow first being packed on a framework of sticks tied together. Pieces of tin ana heavy pocket knives were used to carve away excess and secure the lines and contour desired.

Left to their own devices to select subjects, the children worked out a variety of figures. Included in the sculptural productions was an elephant holding his own against an attack by three wolves, various other animals, a set of overstuffed furniture with a fireplace, battleships, and castles.

The Layman, who ponders the matter, must often be puzzled, if not dumfounded by tne large percentages of physically defective

Digitized by
476

childrenjreported by medical inspectors of schools, and he is apt to consider these findings as greatly exaggerated. The layman has his right to an opinion on the subject, for he has eyes and ears, but he is likely to be biased in his opinion toward the side of an unsafe conservatism or even nonchalance by that innate optimism regarding the high and mightiness of the human race which characterizes too many of us.

The statement that 75 per cent of school children have physical defects may startle him a little in his smug content with the idea that we are made in the image of God, but he is too prone to remark without further investigation that the figures are false. In fact, if it were not for the inertia begot of this age-long habit of mind, he would be more active in getting something done about these defects. If he will with his own untrained sense organs examine the eyes, ears, and mouths of a hundred children, he will come near agreeing with the examiner, and he may be shaken out of his lethargy on the subject by what he discovers in his own child.

There are defects and defects—trifling ones and serious ones. It is often difficult for the examiner to know just where to draw the line, and some may include in their findings those of slight moment. As a matter of economy of time and effort only such defects should be recorded as need to be corrected, helped, or kept from growing worse. Using this standard, the average, examiner, whether medical man or layman will find, when he looks into the mouths of most school children (unless dental work has already been pushed in the schools) that some 75 per cent of them are defective.

When all is considered, it must be admitted that the highest percentages of physical defects found in school children are hadly exaggerated, while the number, as estimated by the most conservative standards, are startling enough and should be considered with a concern that will lead the school authority and the parent to see that everything possible is done to remedy the defects.

While the examination should be as thorough as possible, the object of the examination, as already suggested, should not be merely to find defects (for every child will be found wanting from an ideal point of view) but to note those defects for which something can and ought to be done. When such defects have been reported the efforts at relief, on the part of school authorities, can not be too earnest and persistent. After all, it is not the defects discovered that count, but the defects which are corrected.

SPECIAL NOTICE TO READERS OF THIS DEPARTMENT

The Editor of this Department in Mind and Body is pleased to announce that he will devote his portion of the June issue exclusively to a review of recent books published in the general field of Ed-cational Hygiene. These reviews will be reasonably brief, but concise and definite. Teachers, physicians, nurses, parents, and

Digitized by v^ooQle
477	■

others interested in the school health movement will find these summaries helpful and suggestive. Reviews sent in by readers will be welcomed provided they are in the hands of the Editor before May 1, and bear in all cases the signature of the writers. Publishers desiring any of their books included should have them in the hands of the Editor by April 15.

Address: Dr. Lawrence Augustus Averill, Worcester, Massachusetts.

| News, notes and comments

Our readers should remember that there will be three physical education conventions before the end of the present school year.

1)	Rochester, New York, April- 2, 3 and 4th.

2)	Chicago, 111., April 9. 10 and 11th.

3)	Los Angeles, Cal. June 22 tc 27th.

The convention of the Mid-West Section of the American Physical Education Association will be held in Chicago, April 9, 10 and 11, at the La Salle Hotel.

The Publicity Committee of the Eastern Section meeting sends us the following notices.

All roads will lead to Rochester, N. Y. on April 2nd, 3rd, and 4th, for the annual eastern states convention of the American Physical Education Association. Extensive plans have been made for the convention, and every possible detail is being looked after by an organization possessing plenty of pep, punch and persistence under the general direction of Herman J. Norton, Director of Health Education in the Rochester Public Schools, who is general chairman of the local arrangements committees.

Convention headquarters will be at the Hotel Seneca, and the meetings will be held at the Hotel and at the new Monroe Junior High School. The convention will afford all who attend an opportunity to observe what is being done in Rochester in the field of Health Education and hygiene work. The Rochester system is known throughout the land as a leader in the work, and everyone will be interested in looking over the actual work being done in the schools.

The program includes several national figures in the health field; a banquet; a dance; an opportunity to see the sights of Rochester, the convention city; visits to the schools to observe teaching and methods; alumni luncheons for the graduates of the various colleges; and a chance to meet old friends and renew acquaintances.

The demonstration on Saturday afternoon will be of especial interest, inasmuch as it will include all parts of the seven phase program in effect in Rochester. Health Inspection, organized re-

Digitized by Tooele
478

creation, relaxation drills, hygiene classes, gymnastic drills, problematic child study, teachers’ health extension service, will be on the program. In addition there will be special programs in the various schools on Thursday, visiting day. Of especial interest will be the School for Crippled Children, and its work. This school has attracted widespread attention because of the work that is being done.

Those interested in nutrition will also find plenty of interest, for Rochester is a stronghold of nutrition work, and has led in this phase for some time past.

CONVENTION PROGRAM OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT SECTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION ROCHESTER, N. Y.

Thursday April 2, 1925 Morning and Afternoon

1.	Visiting Schools and Other Education Institutions.

Free automobile service will be furnished for this purpose.

2.	Seeing Rochester by Auto.

Two trips will be made; one at 3:00 P. M. and one at 5:00 P. M. This entertainment is made possible through the courtesy of the Rochester Chamber of Commerce. Note: Anyone desiring to go, must secure an Auto Trip Ticket at the Registration Desk, Headquarters, at least one hour before trips leave. Trips will start from the Clinton Ave. Parking Station, one minute’s walk south of Convention Headquarters.

3.	Eastman Theatre “The World’s Most Beautiful Theater,”

3:00 P. M. is suggested as the best time for those attending the Convention to see an Eastman Program. Leave Theatre at 4:45 if you desire to take sight-seeing trip at 5:00 P. M.

8:15 P. M. General Session

Chairman, Mr. William H. Geer, President Eastern District A. P. E. A.

1.	Selection-Inter-High-School Orchestra, Conductor, David E. Mattem.

2.	Addresses of Welcome

Honorable Clarence D. Van Zandt, Mayor; Dr. Herbert

S.	Weet, Superintendent of Schools, Rochester, New York, Mr. Theodore A. Zornow, President, New York State Teachers’ Association.

3.	Selections-Inter-high-school Orchestra, Conductor, David E. Mattern.

4.	Address-“Some Fundamentals in the Education Program.”

Dr. Payson Smith, State Commissioner of Education, Massachusetts.

5.	Informal Reception and Dance. Conducted by - Mr. A. E. Metzdorf, Recreation Director, Y. M. C. A. Rochester, New York.

Digitized by L^ooQle
479

Friday April 3,9:30 A. M. General Session.

Chairman. Dr. Allen G. Ireland, Director of Physical Education and Health, State of Connecticut.

Addresses

1.	“Responsibility of the Physical Educator in Hygiene Instruc-

tion (30’ minutes)

Professor G. B. Affleck Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Massachusetts.

2.	“Nutrition in its Relation to Physical Education” (30 minutes.)

Dr. William R. P. Emerson, Director of Nutrition Clinic for Delicate Children, Boston, Mass.

3.	“Health Training and Instruction in Teacher Training In-

stitutions” (20 minutes)

Mr. Everett M. Sanders, Director, Department of Physical Education State Normal School, Indiana, Pa.

4.	“Health Activities in the School Program of a -County”. (20

minutes)

Raymond Robinson, Assistant County Superintendent of Schools. Bradford County, Pa.

General Note: Physical Education School Group Luncheons, Friday noon. Teachers desiring to lunch with their school group should register for luncheon at Registration Headquarters.

No notices will be given of luncheons or other events that conflict in time with the regular Program of Meetings.

Place of Meeting: Monroe Jr. High School. 2 P. M.

Section on Research-Chairman, Mr. Daniel Chase, Chief, Physical Education Bureau, State Department of Education, N. Y.

1.	“The Adaptation of the Physical Education Program for Girls

to the Strength and Ability of the Individual,” Miss Mabel L. Cummings, Director, Department of Hygiene and Physical Education, Wellesley College.

2.	“The Relation of Motor Ability to Intelligence,” Dr. Coxe,

State Department of Education, New York.

3.	"Problem of Research,” Mr. Clark W. Hetherington, Professor

of Physical Education, New York University.

4:00 P. M. Round Table Discussion on Athletics for Women, Chairman, Miss Lillian Schoedler, Executive Secretary, Women’s Division, National Amateur Athletic Federation.

Physical Ability Tests for Girls, Mr. R. K. Atkinson, Russell Sage Foundation.

Round Table Discussion on Athletics for Men- Chairman, Mr. Daniel Chase.

Some Problem in the Conduct of Men’s Athletics, Major John L. Griffith, Executive Secretary. Men’s Division, National Amateur Athletic Federation.

7:00 P. M. Convention Banquet (Informal) Ballroom of Seneca Hotel. .

Toastmaster, Mr. Carl L. Schrader, Supervisor of Physical Education, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

Digitized by

Google
480

Selections-Inter-high-school Orchestra, Conductor David E. Mattem.

After-Dinner Speaker: Dr. W. G. Anderson, Yale University. Saturday April 4,9:30 A. M.

GENERAL SESSION Chairman, Mr. William H. Geer.

ADDRESSES

1.	"Motor Ability Tests” (30 minutes) Dr. W. F. Maroney, Di-

rector of Health Education Public Schools, Atlantic City, N. J.

2.	"Combination Ability Tests as used in the Philadelphia Public

Schools”-(30 minutes) Mr. William Stecher, Director of Physical Education Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

3.	"A Program of Physical Education” (30 minutes) Dr. J. H. Mc-

Curdy, Director of Physical Education Department, Y. M.

C.	A. College, Springfield, Mass.

4.	“Summary of the Convention”: “Trends in Physical Educa-

tion”. Mr. Carl Schrader, Director Physical Education, State Department of Education, Massachusetts. President American Physical Education Association.

2:00 P. M.	Demonstration of Physical and Health Education		
Activities by Rochester Public School		s and Other Rochester Or-	
ganizations.			
	HOTELS		•
Seneca	with bath $3.00 up		$5.00 up
	shower bath	2.50 up	4.00 up
	running water	2.50 up	3.50 up
Rochester	with bath	3.00 up	5.00 up
	shower bath	2.50 up	4.00 up
	running water	2.25 up	3.50 up
Powers	with bath	3.00 up	4.50 up
	shower bath	2.50 up	4.00 up
	running water	2.25 up	3.50 up
Sagamore	with bath		
	and shower	5.00 up	7.00 up
Osbum	with bath	2.50 up	4.00 up
	running water	1.50 up	3.00 up
Hayward	with bath	2.50 up	3.50 up
	shower bath	2.50 up	3.50 up
	running water	2.00 up	3.00 up
Richford (men)	with bath	2.00 up	
	running water	1.50 up	2.75 up

For further information, write to

Mr. Herman J. Norton,

Director of Health Education.

Public Schools, Rochester, New York.

Digitized by i^ooQLe
Nowadays

EVERY PROGRESSIVE SCHOOL TEACHES CURRENT EVENTS IN SOME FORM. II IS A VITAL PART OF THE TRAINING OF OUR BOYS AND GIRLS FOR GOOD CITIZENSHIP.

FOR TWENTY-THREE YEARS

there has been but one standard text. CURRENT EVENTS is used and approved in the public and private schools of every important city and nearly every town and village in the United States, in every territory and possession, and in twelve foreign countries.

In clubs only 30 cents per pupil for the year ending in June. Rates and sample copies free to teachers upon application.

CURRENT EVENTS

COLUMBUS, OHIO

5 South Wabash Ave. Chicago	460	Fourth	Ave.	New	York

FROM KINDERGARTEN THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL A Complete Series of

Physical Training Books

by William A. Steeher.

Comprising

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS, grades 1 to S.

In thro# separata books (bound in paper) namely,

Bookl. Grades land 2. Net	90.S0

Book S. Grades 3 and 4. Net	.10

Book 3. Grades S, «, 7 and S. Net .10 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.71 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.31

GAMES AND DANCES.

This is a collection of gamce for all gradee, also of folk and school dances, as well as all phases of work suitable for playgrounds, dubs, associations, etc.

bound in cloth - Net $2.7$

TRACK AND FIELD WORK, arranged to help the classroom teacher.

Paper cover - Net $0.80 PHYSICAL TRAINING LESSONS FOR BACKWARD CLASSES Paper cover - Net $0.80

POSTAGE 10 PER CENT ADDITIONAL.

NOTE* Special prices will bo made to Boards of Education that wish to adept any one or all of these books. Order thru

MIND AND BODY,

NEW ULM, MINN.

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices — New York, Chicago, San Francisco

12 Vanderbilt Ave. 328 W. Madison St. Rialto Bldg.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Physical Education

and

NARRAGANSETT

Gymnasium Equipment

Have Grown Up Together

ESTABLISHED 1882

Narragansett Machine Co.

Provld.nca, R. I.,

NEW YORK	CHICACO

New Books

Science of Basket Ball	Dr. Me&nwell University Wis.		98.50
My Basket Ball Bible	Dr. Allen	University Kansas	4.00
Basket Ball	Mather	University Mich.	8.00
Basket Ball Technique	Chandler	Iowa State	1.50
Basket Ball	Levis	University Indiana	3.00
Basket Ball for Women	Wardlow	Columbia University	l.-i
Basket Ball	Jones	formerly University 111.	5.wd
Scientific Basket Ball	Holman	New York University	.60
How to be an Athlete	Lundgren	University Illinois	4.00
Twentieth Century Basket	Ball		.50
Calisthenics	Rath	Normal College A. G. U.	2.00
Aesthetic Dancing	Rath	Normal College A. G. U.	2.00
Gymnastic Dancing	Rath	Normal College A. G. U.	2.00

JUST OUT

APPARATUS and TUMBLING — by Reuter and Wittich,

LaCrosse School of Physical Education. Graded apparatus from the simple to the most difficult. Excellent illustrations showing the development of form and technique. Price_ .	 $2.00

ADD FIVE PER CENT FOR POSTAGE.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY, New Ulm, Minn.