I

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. V.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wi*.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis,

CARE OF THE BODY.

By F. C. GUGEL, Columbus, Ohio.

EVERY business man should engage in some form of muscular exercise daily, if he expects to obtain, or keep in, good health. By business man is meant anyone whose daily vocation does not demand physical exercise. The student, the clerk, professional man, and clergy all come tinder this head.

Offices of all kinds are being filled (?) by a conglomerated mixture of men whose bloodless faces and dreamy eyes seem to stamp them with the expression of suicide, rather than that of fire and energy. Size up the general run of clerks in our dry goods and clothing stores. Little spindle-legged, narrow-chested, weak-voiced, hollow-eyed fellows, that seem only to exist from day to day.

They do not know what it is to live, or how it feels to have the blood tingling in all the extremities. Their energies are stored up somewhere, but they have forgotten where. Their organism is all right. The whole machine is in running order. All it peeds is running. They vhave forgotten how to run. They have forgotten how good they felt when school boj's, running from morning till night, storing up vitality for future years.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-242-

Yes, forgotten they have a store-house of energy. They are just existing on energy supplied by a smothered fire. They look at their companions in misery, and forget there is a world outside of themselves. They have forgotten everything that makes life worth living. Just waiting for the fire to go out. All because they forget the secret of health and strength. Well, what is the odds? Let them go. They probably have gone too far, anyway, and besides there are lots of good, sensible, strong, healthy fellows, ready to fill in, who realize that the machine must be kept running or it will run down, and rust means decay. The bicycle is of no earthly use unless used, so it is with man’s body: the more he uses it the more service it will render him. The energy is there. Use it and by so doing produce more.

Many of the preachers to-day have lost their long-tailed coats, but hang on their long faces. One would think they had committed every sin on the calendar, and must go about proclaiming it to the world with haggard faces, sallow complexions and stooped shoulders. Monday seems to be set apart by these fellows to brood over their shortcom-mings. They call it Blue Monday.

Why this blufeness? It is surely not from sorrow, or remorse, # hardly from overwork. Many men have lectured five times or more a day for months at a time, yet they do not complain of blueness. There might be such a thing as congestion of the blood in the brain, caused by spasmodic mental exertion, a common result of spasmodic exercise. They know what the trouble is, of course they do. They preach all around manhood, and are advocates of physical training, yet fail to reason out that in their own case they need just what they endorse, daily, sensible, physical exercise.

There are, however, a few who can be found in a gymnasium a couple of times a week, or oftener, going through a systematic form of exercise with dozens of other men. These fellows are in evidence by their jovial dispositions, and hearty grasp of the hand. We like fo meet them and hear them preach. They are hale fellows, big, hearty, say what they want to, and do not care what the world thinks about it, just so some good comes of it. These exponents of the gospel have that attractiveness about them that rings in their preaching, and that one likes to hear. Their churches are full of young men. Blue Monday is unknown to them. They just go on plugging daily in the gymnasium and let the other fellow with the congested brain, congested liver, and congested everything do the slumping.

Much is expected of the preacher of to-day, and to be equal to the requirements it is about time he wakes up to the fact that to be at his best imentally/ yes socially, he must be at his best physically.

Beecher once said he lost but one sermon through sickness in "thirteen years, and attributed his good health to his regular systematic daily exercise. Beecher’s commanding appearance had much to do with his success.

A short time spent in some form of vigorous out-of-dobr ex'ercibe, daily, such as playing tennis, or something or other that will make you puff and blow, make you red in the face, make you tired', is brie Way‘of accomplishing much* toward gaining a physical benefit. ‘ Or, if that is

Digitized by Google
-243-

not possible, go to the gymnasium, have a prescribed course of work mapped out by the director, and stick to it two or three times a week, if not daily. If this is not to be had, try the following system of light gymnastics:—

The first thing in the morning on rising, jerk ofl what clothing you may have on, see that the windows are well up, take a rough towel, about a yard long, one as rough as a blacksmith’s file will do, take hold of each end, and by raising the hands overhead keep the towel stretched all the time. Now spread the feet well apart, and beginn thus:

1.	Bend down to the floor, touching both feet with hands, and reaching overhead, twist the body at the Waist to right. Repeat by bending down and reaching up, twisting to left. Fail not to keep the towel stretched always.

2.	From the twisted position bend down to the floor, and by so doing bring the towel around the right ankle. The same with the left.

3.	Have the towel back of the neck, bend until the hands touch the floor.

4.	From overhead bend to the floor and on straighthening up bring the towel behind the small of the back, also bend both legs as much as possible.

5.	With arms overhead bend body from right to left, first slowly, than rapidly.

Each of these exercises, done a dozen times or so, is suffiicient. Now jump on to yourself with the towel, and rub, rub, rub, until the skin is as red as a lobster, then go down stairs and feel like—a man.

On hand we have a set of professional men who believe in drugs. If anyone is sick, has a pain or quiver, feels ill-disposed or languid, coughs or sneezes, some drug is immediately thought of.

Give him a drug.

No attention is paid to conduct or habits. Everybody is allowed to stumble along in his Own w&y until stranded by some decease or calamity, then the doctor comes. He gives heed only to the present condition of his patient and undertakes to dose him back into good health.

How the patient eats or drinks, how he sleeps or works, whether he is temperate or intemperate, whether he ovei'-exercises or underexercises, all these things are passed by and the materia medica is consulted for some remedy.

On the other hand we have a set of professional men who do not believe in drugs at all. These people believe in hygiene of all sorts and kinds. They have a string of dietary rules that would scare a blind horse. All sorts of calisthenic exercises.

Eaqh one has a particular manner of cooking food. There is aright way to go to bed, and a right way to get up again. All this until life.is made irksome by a multifarious list of things .that; one must not do and that one must do. Things that no one would ever think of doing except on a. standpoint of health-seeking.

Perpetual self-consciousness about physical body.

Digitized by

Google
—244-

Stomach, bowels, liver, kidneys, is all their talk. Assimilation, circulation, digestion, nerves. # * * Oh pshaw!

Then there is a class who have gone crazy about muscle building, dumbbells, indian clubs, weights, pulleys. Lift, pull, train, jump, squeeze. Make big muscles, Get a grip that would crush a door-knob. Trying to become as strong as a steam derrick.

Such people seem to have forgotten that there are other tissues as important to the* body as muscle.

Braing, for instance.

Big strong muscles are essential for some persons. The prize-fighter, the coal-heaver, the blacksmith must have them. But the book-keeper, the editor, the lawyer do not specially need them.

They say of a farmer who has more land than he can cultivate that he is “land poor.” He has land to burn. There is such a condition as being “muscle poor;” of having muscle to burn. Muscle developed in excess of the needs of the body must burn out, filling the blood with the debris of the products of combustion.

Put a trained athlete in a business office where he has nothing but brain work to do and see how quickly he will lay down. He can’t ■stand it. Those large, brawny, classic muscles must have their wonted exercise. If not, they will disintegrate rapidly, burn out. This turns loose in the system uric acid. Had the muscles been allowed their •accustomed exercise, urea would have been formed instead of urates. But to hold these throbbing muscles still, they become a scource of danger to the system. They breed poison which very quickly becomes dangerous.

One man spends his vacation in the mountains or by lakes. Taking moderate exercise, resting his mind, enjoying beautiful scenery. Idling around, acquiring no particular development of his muscles. Just resting, thats all. He comes back to his office refreshed from head to foot, mind, body, and soul.

Another man spends his vacation in a gymnasium. By a thorough, hard, systematic course of training, he acquires great muscular development. He comes back to his office and attempts to resume mental work. He finds his large muscles to be a detriment. The bulging biceps of which he was so proud in the gymnasium are simply tumors that are sapping away the vitality which should go to the brain. The first thing he has got to do is to get rid of those muscles. Every molecule of nitrogenous material that has been added to them during his long, tedious, physical training has got to break down and find its way through the excretory system, endangering the kidneys, poisoning the blood, and confusing his mental powers.

What is needed is symmetrical development. Something that engages the mind while it furnishes free use of the muscles. Something that expands the sympathies while it recreates the body. Something that gives a quick eye and a steady nerve as well as a strong muscle. Recreation, change. An absolutely new program of scenes and experiences. This is what the tired man wants.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-245-

Some people whip themselves to death in their offices. Tire their brains and nervous systems until they have scarcely any vitality left-They think to remedy the matter by laying all this aside, and at once pitching into some muscular exercise with the same strenuosity. They succeed only in tiring themselves in another place. They have tired the brain out, and now they proceed to tire out the spinal cord.

The best course of training in the world is to have some business or a vocation capable of exciting real enthusiasm. To be engaged in some enterprise either productive or professional that exercises the physical, the mental, and the moral endownments, constitutes the best gyma-sium in the world.

“Who by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature?” This was said many, many years ago. It needs to be said again. It needs to be said many, many times.

Drugs, Diet, Calisthenics, Work: These four. But the greatest of these is work.

(From The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.)

SOME THOUGHTS CONCERNING EXERCISES FOR DEVELOPMENT.

EVERY method of physical culture which, in its scheme and purpose, does not provide for a corresponding increase in the capacity and functional power of the vital organs is fundamentally faulty and subject to criticism and distrust.

The correctness of this statement, and the necessity of practically observing it, under all circumstances, becomes readily apparent when we consider that at least eighty per cent, of all the power generated in the body is required and utilized by the vital organs and involuntary muscles which serve them.

Health does not depend upon the amount of muscle one may possess, but upon the mathematically balanced action of all the organs and functions of the body. It can, therefore, be as equally possessed and endowed by the infant in arms as by the strongest man.

Somewhat worse than folly is it, then, to strive, as many do, simply to increase the size of the bones or muscles! Whoever builds up his body on this plan rears a structure upon an inadequate foundation. He really invites abuse by the very possesses which he, ignorantly, believes will prevent it.

The true method of physical development, while it does not fail to recognize, from every standpoint, the desirability of an ideal physique, 7 makes it a matter of primary importance to develop, proportionally and simultaneously, the functional power and activity of the organs upon which the stability of a well-developed physical organization depends.

Several very important facts should be known and kept constantly in mind by every one who contemplates taking a course of exercises for physical development. One is that the results of such a course are determined by the constitutional peculiarities of each individual. Another

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-246-

is that whatever degree of development is gained can not be retained without constant use of the means by which it was acquired.

Although every one is endowed with the same organs and tissues, these respective parts are very unlike in different individuals. They vary in the quality of the substance of which they are composed, as well as in their capacity for activity and endurance.

In these respects different people are very much like different kinds of trees which, although similar in size and outward appearance, exhibit a marked dissimilarity in the inherent quality of their grain of fiber— a dissimilarity which no amount of care and cultivation can alter.

The most intelligent and skillful gardener in the world, even with the most favorable influences of both climate and soil at his command, cannot change the peculiar grain of a bass-wood tree, although it may, be the most perfect specimen of its kind, into that characteristic of the oak or hickory. He may, it is true, by commencing early enough, make a'mighty good bass-wood tree out of a spfout or sapling which, without his fostering care, would have grown into a tree of inferior quality but it is still a bass-wood tree. In other words, although he is able to improve the quality of a tree, of any given kind, he cannot change its essential nature.	.

The fact that, bv reason of constitutional peculiarities, every human being is subject to similar barriers of limitation need not discourage any one from attempting to improve his physical condition by a rational system of exersises. He may not become either an, Apollo or a Sandow, but he can make himself a perfectly healthy man, with all the desirable mental and spiritual attributes that such a condition implies, and, physically, the best that is possible for one of bis class. What greater results are there which he can both desire and possess.

From reading the numerous advertisements of physical developments which daily confront us in the public press, many are led to believe that a few weeks’ practice of Professor So and. So’s “original and only'* method will fix them up in the health and development business for life, and that afterward, without further thought or effort, health, beauty and strength are forever theirs.

No more serious mistake can be made. Our bodies are controlled and regulated by the law of uses. Neither health, strength, nor„ in fact, any personal attribute, be it physical, mental, or spiritual, can, be retained unless 'it is kept in regular use. The nimble fingers of Paderewski quickly lose their technical skill and cunning if their daily drill is omitted. It is only by daily rehearsals of the part they are to perform in competitive feats of strength and endurance that the muscles of the participants are kept active and in fit condition for the contest. The student must apply himself, with stated regularity, to his mental tasks or his mental powers will soon become weak and dull. Even those endowed with unusual spiritual gifts lose much of their keenness of spiritual insight and discrimination if too long debarred from the exercise of their spiritual powers.

Not only is it necessary to regularly use the developed part or attribute in order to retain it, but there is a penalty attached to its non-use or neglect. The penalty which each class of offenders is obliged

Digitized by

□ogle
-.247-

to suffer varies with the nature of the offense, but like all discipline administered for a deterrent or corrective purpose, the punishment always '“fits the crime.”

He who does not improve every opportunity to foster and cultivate his spiritual faculties and powers nbt only is deprived of the happiness, quiet satisfaction of mind and the graces and strength of character which the daily exercise of these faculties confer, but eventually loses them altogether. The artist suffers loss of professional reputation and skill, both of which are difficult to regain, and, in addition, a corresponding diminishment of his pecuniary reward. The penalty which is mercilessly exacted for failing to put into regular action all large and often exterior muscles which have been developed by physical training 19 greater and more serious than those that have been giving no thought to the matter were wont to suppose.

The loss of muscular symmetry, strength and endurance which inevitably follow and which, of itself, is a serious matter is but the least part of it. Of far greater menace are the systematic effects which are produced by these degenerative changes. Unless structural tissue, whatever may be its office or function, owing to the economy with which th£ nutritive processes are carried on, fails to be nourished, it loses its vitality. It no longer is an integral part of the live body, but -a foreign substance which the system cannot tolerate, and which it proceeds to get rid of as rapidly as possible.

Its removal is accomplished by the processes of absorption and •elimination. This de-nutrition, or process of disintegration, imposes a great deal of labor upon the eliminatory organs and functions. If, under these circumstances, these hard-working organs are subjected, as often happens; to any additional strain, they break down und become subject to various forms of disease which, although curable at much loss of time and expense, might have been avoided.

But this is not all. The heart and lungs on acount of the extra work they have been called upon to perform, to carry the supply of oxygen and food required for the nutritive support of the muscles in training, have also increased in size and substance. As soon, however, ■as these organs are relieved of their extra work, the additional growth of tissue which it has occasionend, in obedience to the law of uses, begins to degenerate, making its absorption and removal a matter of necessity. The breaking down of the structural tissue of these organs whose integrity of function is so immediately important to the vital •economy, is always a serious matter—one which, very often, results, as the history of those trained for athletic work shows, in irreparable forms of disease.

. —The outlook for a good boat crew at Yale University is very good just now. Candidates for the next year’s crew have been given a couple of months of river work and the results obtained have been of a very encouraging nature. John Kennedy, who has been the rowing coach there for a number of years, is still in charge and his plan is to keep the crews upon the river as long as the weather permits, thus reducing tank practice to a minimum. The management of the track team also predict a most successful year in athletics.

Digitized by Google
-248-

(From The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING UNDERLIES SUCCESS.

THE attention which is now being given to physical culture and health often raises a question as to their value as a basis for success in life; Occasionally, some man who has risen to eminence in his chosen profession and reached a ripe old age declares that he has never taken any physical exercise that he could avoid, and attributes his success and long life to this fact. Then, again, some physician startles the world by asserting that all exercise, over and above what is required by one’s occupation, is injurious to health. It would be impossible^ within the limits of this brief article, to meet the exceptional conditions that propably prompt such radical assertions as these. But over against these exceptional cases may be arrayed such a mass of facts to the contrary that one is amazed at the temerity of a man who would attempt to refute, by a single assertion, the experience of ages. Looking at the subject largely, we find plenty of evidence that the nations that have given most attention to • the development of the body and the care of the health have not only been of a superior quality physically, but they have invariably attained the greatest mental preeminence and have excelled in the arts of war and of peace. Accord-ing to Grote, the historian, Greece devoted more time to physical training of her youth than to all other branches of education combined, and yet Galton tells us that the Greeks, as. a people* were as superior to us in intellectual ability as we are superior to the African negroes. Among modern nations, Germany, England and the United States rank the highest in mental attainments, and in industrial and commercial success, and yet these nations give more attention to the physical training and health of their school children than any others through their admirable systems of gymnastics and athletic sports und games. If we seek for further evidence of mental superiority associated with fine physiques, we can find it in smaller groups than those represented by races or nations. The Fellows of the Royal Society in England probably represent as high an order of intellectual ability as any single group of men that can be selected. Yet, upon the evidence of the committee on anthropometry from the British Association for the Advance-ment of Science, these men average sixty-nine and three-fourths inches in stature.

The English professional people average sixty-nine and fourteen-hundreths inches in height, which is only exceeded by the Scottish agricultural population, and by the London police, who represent a body of men selected especially for their fine physiques. The average Englishman, including all classes, is about sixty-seven inches in height. During my experience as instructor in physical training at Yale University, from 1873 to 1878, the first divisions in scholarship were almost invariably the best divisions in physical exercises. At Bowdoin College, according to the investigation made by President Hyde, in 3890, the most successful scholars, as a class, where found to have the best physiques. At Harvard University, it has been found that the per-

Digitized by

Google
—249—

cent age of scholarship men who have a high degree of physical power, as indicated by the strength test, is fully as large as that of the great body of students, while the percentage of weaklings is really less. In 1891, Dr. William T. Porter found, from the data obtained by the examination of thirty thousand school children in wSt. Louis, that, among the pupils of the same age, those who had succeeded in getting into the highest, grades were the tallest, and weighed the most, and that those who were in the lowest grades were the shortest, and weighed the least.

PHYSICAL SUPERIORITY BEGETS MENTAL GROWTH AND INDUCES SUCCESS.

In 1896, Dr. Porter's discovery was contirmed by Charles Roberts, of England, who made a similar investigation with the school children of'London. Mr. Roberts found that there is a definite relation between size of body, as determined by stature, weight and chest girth, and precocity and dulness of intellect in children.

In other words, it has been found that, at corresponding ages, the more intelligent classes are taller and heavier than the less intelligent. The same conclusion has more recently been reached by Gratsianoff, in Moscow, Russia; by Dr. Hastings, in Omaha, Nebraska; by Dr. Christopher, in Chicago, Illinois; and by Dr. Beyer, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. If similar observations are made on a large number of school children in any city in the country, it will invariably be found that those who are the most sucessful in their studies have the best physiques, as shown by their superior height and weight for their age. As an illustration of the influence of judicious physical training upon a dull and sluggish stage of mind, the experiments tried at the Elmira Reformatory, in New York, in 1$86, under the direction of Dr. Hamilton D. Wey, give us the most convincing evidence. Dr. Wey selected some half-dozen of the most obtuse dullards that could be found in the reformatory, and had them put through a special course of vigorous training for one year. This class began at once to improve mentally and morally, as well as physically. All of them made such successful progress in their studies as to warrant their promotion from the lowest into the highest grades, and most of them maintained their improved mental standing after the period of special training had elapsed. In any of our large cities, it will be found that the so-called poorer classes are not only poor in external evidences of wealth, such as comfortable homes and valuble properties, but they are actually poorer in person than their well-to-do and more successful neighbors. There is a difference of five inches between the average statures, and twenty pounds between the average weight of the best and poorest-nurtured classes. We also know that criminals and lunatics average less in height and weight than the general community, and that there is an ever-widening gulf between the physical and mental stamina of the highest and lowest strata of society. The relation between a good physique and high mental attainments, as shown by great nations, communities, and large groups of men, is a little more difficult to show in individual cases, because there are so many exceptions. But this is true of any deduction that can be made in regard to the human organism. If the student of
-250-

biography will look up the life history of the men who have been the foremost leaders of the world, in every branch of service and kind of endeavor, he will find, almost invariably, that they have been men with sound bodies and vigorous minds. Among the men of world-wide fame possessing superior physique may be mentionend Plato, Demosthenes, Charlemagne, William the Conqueror, Martin Luther, Cromwell, Peter the Great, Samuel Johnson, Goethe, and Bismarck.

(To be concluded.)

THE FOOTBALL MORTALITY.

The football season is now over and leaves behind it a very respectable record of casualties, enough to supply a respectable Spanish-Ameriean war, and only second to the Fourth of July mortality. Thus far the returns give 12 deaths, several fatally injured and over eighty seriously injured, smaller items, such as sprains, bruises, torn ears, loss of teeth, etc., not enumerated. The query whether the game is worth all this naturely suggests itself. There is something in most of us that makes danger a sort of relish to our pastimes, and it is perhaps to this barbaric element in our natures that some of the world’s progress is due. Professionally, however, we can not approve of anything so unsanitary even in a purely traumatic way, and it would seem that something might be done by those in charge of college athletics at least, to modify the roughness of the game and somewhat reduce its risks. Among the serious casualties of the game this year we have fractured skulls, injured spines, brain injuries resulting in insanity, as well as broken legs, ribs, collar-bones, etc. To be a cripple or lunatic for life is paying high for athletic emulation. Besides this, there is another side of the question, a moral one that deserves consideration. There is what one may call “dirty football”. We hear of slugging players, of those that directly aim to injure players or aggravate existing injuries so as to disable them, and the umpires do not seem to consider this a sufficiently serious matter. The reports of casualties give plenty of evidence for this; we have the records, “kicked in the head,” “stabbed in the back,” among the other injuries reported, showing that the game is made absolutely murderous at times. It is hard to speak mildly of such outrages, but if the rules were made and enforced that any “dirty work” lost the game to the side indulging in it or even Severely penalized it, much good would be done. At present it almost appears that football authorities condone this sort of a thing, and certainly they do little to show that they are not willing to profit by it. There is little difference in this from criminal manslaughter or murder if death should result, and all who do not actively discourage it are more or less responsible, it may be that we must have more or less unavoidable risk in football, for it is a rough game, but brutality is utterly needless and deserves the severest condemnation and condign punishment. There is no use of making a rough game a murderous one.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you far one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-251-

SOME GOOD RULES OF HEALTH FOR COLD WEATHER.

THE season of the year is now beginning when physical shortcomings are sure to reveal themselves unless more than ordinary care is taken to observe simple and amply proven rules of health.

Especially in damp and changeable weather one should never lean with the back upon anything that is cold. Keep the back, especially between the shoulder blades, well covered; also, the chest well protected. Endeavor always, waking and sleeping, to breathe through the nose. Never go to bed with cold or damp feet. Never stand still in cold weather, especially when in a glow after taking exercise, and avoid standing on snow or ice, or where a cold wind blows over you. Never omit regular bathing, for unless the skin is encouraged to perform its work cold will close the pores and favor congestion.

Never stand still in the street, especially after walking, and most especially where exposed to a cold wind. Also avoid standing on ice or snow.

Keep the mouth closed as much as possible when in the open air, particularly upon first going from a warm atmosphere. By breathing through the nose the air becomes warmed before it reaches the lungs. A silk handkerchief, a piece of loosely woven wool.n cloth or knitted woolen material, placed over the mouth and nose, or the mouth only, when in the open air, is very beneficial for persons who have weak lungs, and should never be neglected when the temperature is at or below freezing point.

Never take warm drinks immediately before going out in the cold, and never start on a journey in the morning before eating breakfast.

Keep the temperature in the house even, and secure good ventilation from the outside air, without a draught. Every room in the house should be thoroughly aired every day.

A fire in a sleeping apartment is not desirable,excepting for an invalid; and even for a sick person the temperature should be lower at night, and the rest will be better if the room be thoroughly aired before settling for the night.

If necessary to occupy a room that cannot be heated, do not go to it when overheated; always disrobe quickly, and wear flannel nightclothes.

If subject to cold feet, rub them thoroughly with something rough before going to bed. Strictly avoid anything heated—-a soapstone, flatiron, etc.—for keeping the feet warm in bed. It makes them tender. Use insted knitted bed shoes or stockings, or use very large wollen socks or stockings. Hosiery of the usual size worn will impede circulation, and the feet will remain cold.

A quick rubbing all over the bod}r with a rough towel, a flesh brush, or horsehair gloves, is an excellent thing to do just before going to bed, as it quickens the circulation, and often induces quiet sleep; but this could not be done in a room where the temperature is so low as to suddenly chill the body when the clothing is removed.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by tjOOQle
Map AND BODY. -$r

Published Monthly.

BY

Subncription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Mllwa-pJcee, ’WiacoaiBln.

$dT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE SO-CALLED HARDENING OF CHILDREN.

HE cold bathing and sleeping in cold rooms, which are applied so

vigorously by many families as a means of hardening their children, have in reality the opposite effect in many cases. Their physicians are like the fishermen in the fairy tale who were terrified at the sight of the genii they had invoked. 34 children brought up on these principles were examined and it was found that the systematic hardening process very frequently entails an exaggerated tendency to colds, soar throat, and respiratory affections, also to severe anemia and general nervous disturbances, neurasthenia, loss of appetite, restless sleep, and irritability, with change of character. It may also induce acute and chronic recurring intestinal affections, ,and aggravate the course of infectious diseases, especially of whooping cough. A number of cases are reported to sustain these assertions. Infants should always be kept warm at all times, but after a child is a year old the hardening measures may be commenced, though very gently and gradually, and strictly individualized. No furs should be worn, and the throat should not be wrapped up. During northeast winds, extreme cold and snowstorms, children should be kept indoors. The windows of rooms where young children sleep should not be kept wide open except in summer, and in a mild climate. If the child shrinks from the cold sponge bath, it should be applied very cautiously, and even pleasure in the baths is not an absolute criterion that it may not have injurious after-effects. Cold sponging is better than cold douches for children, and once a day is enough. Cold water should not be used for children without a preceding medical examination, especially if they are nervous or anemic.

—The Peculiar Sports of Scotland have always added color to her national life and her Highland games have been to her what the Olympian were to Greece. She has given other nations these great forms of athletic contests: Tossing the Caber, Throwing the Hammer, and Putting the Stone.

In recent years she may have fallen behind a little in applied gymnastics, but her energies are quickening in this direction and sun even in these. She may be able to say, like the native thistle, “Wha daur meddle with me?”

The Co-ordination of Mind and Body is absolutely necessary in gymnastic work. Muscular work is of little value unless it is guided, controlled and directed to wise issues by a cunning brain.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Alender Sturrok, Dudee.

Digitized by

Google
-253-

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H. ARNOLD.

VIII.

RAISING.

HE legs may be raised. Raising may be done forward, sideward

(left and right), and backward. All these movements are

To cause to descend, to bring down, is lowering. Parts which have been previously raised can of course be lowered. As we have seen that the arms and kgs can be raised, it follows that having been raised they may be lowered. They may be lowered in the same degree as the preceding raising. In such a case the counter-command is simply •‘Lower!” The lowering may however differ in degree from the raising when the degree of the lowering that is desired will have to be named in the command. For instance, “Arms fore-upward—raise!” “Lower!” (The arms are lowered fore-downward), but, “Arms fore-up ward-raise!” “Forward—lower!” (The arms are brought horizontally forward). If the arms have been raised from a vertical to a horizontal position lowering can be done only through the same plane if no other exercise intervene, as the direction of the lowering is therefore just opposite to the raising and as there is no other possibility the direction need not be named. The adverb of direction is under these circumstances used only to denote a degree of lowering different from that of the previous raising. If the arms are raised fore- or side-upward there are two possibilities of lowering as regards to direction, They may be lowered fore- or sideward. If the lowering is to proceed in the same plane as the raising no mention is made of that direction. If, however, the lowering is to occur in another plane than the previous raising the direction must be given. For example, “Arms fore-upward —raise!” “Side-downward—lower!” True backward raising is limited as before said, but if we choose to call the oblique raising to a horizontal and thence to a vertical position upward, back-upward, it is subject for its naming to the above rules, as is the lowering back-downward. The lowering of the legs is a much simpler affair. As all leg raisings are limited in degree to less than a right angle lowering can without intervening exercise take place only in the same plane; it needs therefore no mention of direction and if the lowering is to be of the same degree as the raising preceding it, as is usually the case, no degree need be named. “Left leg backward—raise!” “Lower!” If the left or right arm or leg are raised sideward to their own side the command need not contain an adverb of direction! “Left leg sideward raise!” (The leg is raised sideward left.) If we wish to have it raised to the opposite side the direction must be given. This may be done by adding right or left to the word sideward or still better as left or right are always sideward, simply by the word right or left. “Right leg— left—raise!” From the foregoing we may formulate the following general rules.

self-limited.

LOWERING.

Digitized by

Google
—254—

1.	If a movement be immediately followed by another which is in direction as well as degree its direct and exact reversion the command needs simply contain the verb.

2.	If the movement following immediately another be a reversion in form only but differ in direction, or degree, or both, then the difference in degree, direction, or both, must be expressed by the adverb denoting such direction, degree, or both, accompanying the verb.

PHYSICAL EXERCISE IN ITS RELATION TO HEALTH.

HEALTH, long life, education, progress, in short, everything of worth accomplished in life depends on mental and physical stamina. Health and intellectual culture are to be attained, mental and physical activity must be so regulated and systematized to not only symmetrically develop both the brain and body, but to simultaneously develop one with the other. An unsvmmetrically developed body will not have stamina or remain long in health, nor will a brain that is not all-round or symmetrical^ developed reason logically; nor, on the other hand, will a developed brain in a dwarfed body, or a dwarfed brain in a developed body, accomplish great things.

“A sound mind in a sound body” means that both the mental and physical faculties have been S3'mmetrically developed at the same time. Intellectual giants with dwarfed bodies are intellectual monstrosities; the reasoning of such people, though active, is generally visionary and seldom logical; and physical giants with dwarfed intellects accomplish little that is worth recording. Great mental development without corresponding physical growth is as little to be desired as great physical growth without corresponding intellectual development. W/hen the mental and physical faculties are harmoniously cultivated, all-round development will result, and freaks and monstrosities will grow less plentiful. Just as the best mental growth depends upon physical activity, so does the continuance of physical health depend largely on mental activity.

Men and womfen who are mentally deficient are not numbered as a rule with those who live to advanced age. “From excesses of all kinds, and especially from excesses of mental and physical culture,” says a prominent writer, “let us pray for deliverance.” When mental and physical culture is practiced as it should be, however, there will be no danger from excesses.

The great mistake that most people make is in their efforts to cultivate but one-half of themselves. The athletically inclined are given almost entirely to the building of muscle with but little thought of intellectual culture, while the mind-workers seem to forget at times that they have any muscles at all, both apparently losing sight of the fact that the best results in either direction can only be attained by cultivating both mind and body simultaneously. While the athletic man is so well pleased with his personal appearance and physical strength that his cup of joy is full, the man who works with his mind does not seem to half realize that a certain amount of physical exercise is required for

Digitized by Google
—255—

the health of the body, not the mind; but this, he thinks, can be secured by short walks daily in the open air. Walking is all very well so far as it goes, but its exercise is mainly confined to the lower extemities, the upper parts of the body not being brought into play. Since it is by the use of the arms that the upper parts of the body are mainly exercised, their disuse, want of sufficient use, has a very great depreciating influence on health and strength. Very few studious people, or those, who follow sedentary pursuits, give sufficient time to the exercise of their bodies by the use of their arms. Not only is it necessary to bring into play the upper as well the lower extremities, but the movements of the entire body should be varied so as to exercise and symmetrically develop every part of it. What is true of physical activity is also true of mental activity. Continuous thought in one direction will not symmetrically develop the brain or educate the mind. All the processes of life demand exercise for the due performance of there functions, for all life is movement, it is its very essence. This is not only true of animal life but of the life of everything that grows. Trees, grass, and vegetation of every kind must be shaken by the wind if they are to thrive.—Health.

IS EXERCISE NECESSARY FOR ME?

By Dr GEO. L. MEYLAN, Boston, Mass.

This question is asked of the physical directors every day by men who are engaged in sedentary occupations where they work with their brains but get no physical exercise. You certainly know what answer is made to all these inquiries, for practically everybody knows that physical exercise is necessary to health and if one does not get the exercise in his regular occupation, he must seek it iti his leisure hours. The question which really perplexes many men is not whether or not they need exercise, but how they are going to find the time to take exercise. This is emphasized by the success of many recent business ventures to teach home exercise by mail. The men who are engaged in this business realize the widespread interest in physical training and the usual excuse of “lack of time” made by the average business man. Upon these two facts they build their schemes, and, the bait being adapted to the fish, they catch a great many. There is no doubt that a well equipped gymnasium, directed by trained men, aftords opportunities for exercise so superior to these “mail prescriptions,” that no comparison can be made between them. Many men who have tried the mail prescriptions have subsequently joined the gymnasium “to do the thing right,” as one expressed it. Save your money and time by joining the gymnasium in the first place.

As to the results they depend upon you. We have yet to find a man who has used the gymnasium privileges as he was directed, who has not derived much benefit. Scores of members tell us every spring that they did not expect nearly as much benefit from the gymnasium as they derived. Try it for yourself and be convinced.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-256-

HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR EYES.

Twentieth century civilization is rapidly spoiling our eyesight. Scientists assert that we have become a nation of near-sighted and astigmatic individuals. Commissioner Lederle, of the New York City Health Department, reported a few days ago that 18 per cent of the pupils attending the public schools are afflicted with trachoma, a contagious desease of the eyes, which in many cases results in blindness.

Eye strain has become so common that every doctor at once suspects it when he sees any form of nervous desease without apparent cause. This disease is caused by the optic nerve becoming tired out, owing to the extra work thrown on it by an imperfect eye. This causes an irritation of the brain, which is communicated to any or all of the other nerves, and may cause serious symptoms in almost any part of the body.

For example, dispepsia is very often due to eyestrain. Treating the stomach with pepsin and other drugs will be perfetly useless. The only way to cure such a case is to fit a proper pair of classes to the eyes, when all the stomach troubles will disappear like magic. Many other samples of what are apparently diseases, but are in reality merely symptoms of eyestrain, have been attracting the attention of eye specialists. The special symptoms of this trouble are headache, eyeache, lids smart and burn, eyes feel as if full of sand, inflamed eyes or lids, a sleepy feeling when ever one tries to read, especially with a poor light.

THE VALUE OF SYSTEMATIC ATHLETICS is perhaps more generally recognized than it ever has been, though the excesses which have resulted from the competitions between large colleges and universities have caused many people to overlook the good which may be accomplished if athletics are cultivated in moderation and with the desire to develop sound bodies, rather than to make a record. Now more than ever in history opportunities for exhibiting strength and skill have to be manufactured. In primitive, days the young farmer, builder, hunter or soldier found abundant opportunity to exhibit his prowess without athletics. The development of athletics in recent years is believed by Prof. Woodward, of Washington University, St. Louis, to be dependent not to change in the mental, moral and physical tastes and appetites of young men, but to a social development which renders necessary special provisions for the gratification of those normal tastes. A constantly diminishing proportion of people are naturally employed in occupations requiring physical labor. The rest are walled up in great cities, roofed in from sunlight and pure air and then [given a maximum of brain work with as little as possible of physical exercise. Such a state of things Woodward believes cannot long endure without serious injury to our manhood unless something is done to prevent this. It is unfortunate that the athletics of schools, colleges and universities are at present so arranged that only a few profit by them, for the possible value of physical exercises in the open air can hardly be underestimated. Prof. Woodward suggests a number of rules with regard to the regulation of the college athletics which we believe might be introduced

Digitized by Google
—257—

with much benefit. Close observers of the American people state that nervous deseases and complaints arisen from excessive brain work combined with a lack of physical health and vigor are steadily increasing. If we would avert the threatened physical degeneracy we must introduce physical culture and suitably regulated athletic games which shall stengthen our bodies as well as invigorate our minds.

NEW THEORY OF WINTER BATHS.

Doctor Robertson's theory is, in brief, as follows: In general the bath is injurious. Whether hot or cold water, or both, or lukewarm water be used the final action caused is always the same. The hot bath brings large quantities of blood to the skin primarily, arid the cold bath causes it to come secondarily. Both processes are harmful because they overtax the blood vessels of the skin and deprive other parts of the body of blood in proportion. Water baths dissolve and wash away an important part of the epidermis, and thereby leave the cutaneous vessels and nerves more exposed. The result is increased liability to colds, bronchitis, pneumonia, and other deseases. In short, the functions of the epidermis are to act as a protection to the body and regulate the heat. The bath tends to destroy the protection. Much bathing produces debility. Boys lose flesh rapidly during the swimming season. The skin can be kept clean and dry by merely changing the underclothing to suit the weather.

* * *

dear mr. editor: What do you think of the above? It seems to me 1 have never seen a short article that has more concentrated nonsence than the above effusion of the learned Doctor. I wonder if he also doesn’t wash his face and hands for fear of exposing their cutaneous vessels'and nerves. Horrors, just think of the lot of epidermis we have been washing away by our baths, and to think that we still are alive!

Wm. Stecher.

A SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE HISTORY OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By FRED. EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

THE following bibliography was prepared primarily for use in connection with a series of ten lectures which constituted one of the Harvard University Summer Courses in Physical Education in 1902. Its incompleteness is largely due to this fact, but even in the present imperfect form it may serve a useful purpose in the case of persons interested in the subject to which it refers. Titles bearing exclusively upon physical training have been carefully selected after examination of the best libraries in this country and on the continent, and firsthand acquaintance with the scources. Books and articles of a more general nature are the best with which the writer is familiar, but doubtless others of equal or greater value have escaped his notice. Suggestions with regard to such omissions will be welcomed. Works

Digitized by LjOOQle
—258—

* in English are usually mentionend first, and those most generally accessible to students. Foreign titles are restricted to German and French sources as being the only one3 open to the majority of readers. In sections where the literature is abundant, the most reliable, complete, or recent authorities are mentioned.

It is fitting that even so slight a contribution as the present one should contain more than a passing reference to the invaluable pioneer services of Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell. His classic writings, backed by his scholarly and commanding personality, have been among the most potent forces in arousing interest and disseminating right conceptions of the nature of physical training. In this country he was the first to reveal the rich history and literature of the subject, and it is with the. respect and affectiop due from a pupil to his master that the writer acknowledges here his own indebtedness for the impulse to fenter what has proved to be a fascinating and fruitful field of investigation.

I. GENERAL WORKS.

Hartwell, E. M.—Physical Training in American Colleges and Universities. Circulars of Information of United States Bureau oi Education, No. 5 for 1885. Washington, 1886.

—	Report of the Director of Physical Training. School Document No. 2a, Boston, 1891.

—	Chap. XII in Report of Commissioner of Education for 1897-98 Washington, 1899.

Boykin, J. C.—Chap. XIII in Report of Oomrtiissoner of Education for 1891-92. Washington, 1894. Schaible, C. H.—The Systematic Training of the Body 2d ed., London, 1892. Part I.

Carl Eulers and others—Encyklopaedisches Handbuch des gesammten Turnwesens. 3 volumes. Vienna and Leipzic, 1894-96..

Euler, Carl-M2eschichte des Turnunterrichts. Gotha, 1891. Pp. XXIII, 520.

Hirth—Das gesammte Tumwesen, 2d ed. by F. R. Gash. 4 volumes. Hof, 1803 and 1895.

Angerstein, E.-~Geschichte und Entwicklung der Leibesuebungen. 2d ed. Vienna ana Leipzic, 1893. Pp VIII, 156.

Ruehl, Hugo—Entwicklungsgeschichte des Turnens. 2d ed. Leipzic, 1897. Pp. c. 150.

Brendicke, Hans—Grundriss zur Geschichte der Leibesuebungen. Koethen, 1882. Pp. VI, 175.

s. GREECE.

Smith, William -A Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities. 3d ed., 2 volumes. London, 1890-91.

Articles “Palaestra, Gymnasium, Olympia, Olympias, Athletae, etc.

Harper’s Dictionary of Classical Literature and Antiquities, edited by H. T. Peck. New York, 1897.

Articles “Athletae, Education. Gymnasium, Olympia, Olympias,'Nemea, Isthmia, Pythia,” etc.

The Life of the Greeks and Romans, by.E. Guhl and W. Koner, translated by F. Hueffner. New York, 1875. Sections 25, 29, 50, 52, etc.

Marquand, Allan—The Old Olympic Games. Century Mag., April, 1896, p 803.	,

Plummer. E. M.—Am. Phys. Educ. Review, IL97; XII: 1, 93. 137. Issued as reprint with titles ‘ Athletics and Games of the Ancient Greeks'’.

Mahaffy, J. P.—Old Greek Education. New York, 1882. Chap. Ill, VII, etc.

Laune, S. S.—Historical Survey of Pre-Christian Education. 2d ed. New York, 1900. Pp 230-235, 264-267, etc.

Krause, J. H.—Die Gymnastik und Agonistik der Hellenen. Leipzic, 1841.

Grasberger, L.—Die leibliche Erziehung bei den Griechen und Roemem. Wuerzburg, 1864.

Jaeger, O. O.—Die Gymnastik der Hellenen. Stuttgart, 1881. (1st ed. 1850.)

Bintz, J.—Die Gymnastik der Hellenen. Guetersloh, 1878.

Fedde, F.—Ueber den Fuenfkampf der Hellenen. Leipzic, 1889.

Juthner, J.—Ueber antike Turngeraethe. Vienna, 1895 (Heft XII in “Abhandlungen des Archaeologisch-Epigraphischen Seminars der Universitaet Wien”).

.3. ROME.

Smith, I. c. under (2)—Articles “Amphitheatrum, Circus, Gladiators, Ludi, Balneae.”

Harper’s Dictionary, as under (2)—Articles as above.

Guhl and Koner, 1. c under (2)—Sections 80, 83, 85, 99, 104, 105, etc.

Lecky, W. E. H.—History of European Morals. New York, 1870.	1:287-308;	11:37-41.

See also Sienkiewicz, “Quo Vadis,” Chap. 55 (Coliseum); and Wallace, “Ben Hur,” Book N, Chap. 12-14 (Circus).

.4. ASCETICISM.

Lecky, 1. c. under (3)—11:107-132.

Painter, F. V. N.—A History of Education. New York, 1896. Pp. 93-99.

See also Tennyson’s “Saint Simeon Stylites” (1842), and Kingsley’s “Hypatia.”

.5. EARLY TEUTONIC LIFE AND CUSTOMS.

Weinhold, Karl—Altnordishes Leben. Berlin, 1856.

Bintz J.—Die Leibesuebungen des Mittelalters. Guetersloh, 1880. Chapters I-V.

■6. MONASTIC SCHOOLS.

West, A, F.—Alcuin and the Rise of the Christian Schools. New York,; 1892. Introduction, Chapt. I, etc. Painter, 1. c. under (4)—Pp. 99-102.

Digitized by Google
259-

7. CHIVALRY AND KNIGHTLY EDUCATION.

Schultz, Alwin—Das Hoefische Leben zur Zeit der Minnesaenger. Leipzic, Vol. I, 1870; Vol. II, 1880* 2d ed., 1889.	,

Lacroix, Paul—Military and Religious Life In the Middle Ages. *London, 1874. Chap. V (Chivalry), etc. Bintz, 1. c. under (5)—Chap. XL Painter, 1. c under (4)—Pp. 107-uo.

See also Tennyson’s ‘‘Idylls of the King” (Elaine, Enid); and Scott’s “Ivanhoe,” Chap. 8-12.

THE HUMANISTS’ *	.

Painter, 1. c. under (4)—Pp. 110-121, 154-164.

Woodward, W. H.—Vittorino da Feltre and o her Humanist Educators. Cambridge (Engl.),'„*$97» Krampe, W.—Die Italienischen Humanisten.- Breslau, 1895.

Karl von Raumer—Life aiid Educatiohal System* of John* Sturm (translation), in Barnard’s Am. J. Educ.

IV; 167, 40* (iff57).	,	,

Bintz, 1. c. under (5)—Chap. VII.- *	J	.

See also Mercurialis—De Arte Gymn^$tica: Venice, 1569, etc; \	.<	.

■9. THE REFORMERS.

Boykin, 1. c. under (1)—Pp. 471-483

Milton’s Tractate on Education, edited by Oscar Browning. Cambridge (Engl.), 1800.

Locke on Education, edited by R. H. Quick. Cambridge (EngH.), 2d ed, 1889, “	•	,

Rousseau, Emile—translated and edited by .W. ;H. Ppyne. New; York, 1896.

10.	THE PHILANTHROPINISTS AND THEIR FOLLOWERS.

Am. Phys. Educ. Review IV:i-i8 (1899). Leonard, The Period of Philanthropinism.

On Basedow see Barnard's Am. J. Educ. V:487 (translated from von Raumer(: and Quick’s Educational Reformers, New York, 1896, Chap XV.

Guts Muths—Gymnastik fuer die Jugend. Schnepfenthal, 1793.	2	volumes.

— Gymnastics for Youth. London, 1800: Philadelphia, 1802. A translation of the above. On the title page the work is wrongly attributed to Salzmann.

----Spiele zur Uebung und Erholung. Schnepfenthal, 1796.

Vieth—Encyklopaedie der Leibesuebungen. Vol. I and II, Berlin, 1794 1795; vql. Ill, Leipzic, 1818. Krieger, G.—Zur Erinnerung an G. U. A. Vieth* Dessau, 1885. Pp. 55»

Clias—Anfangsgruende der Gymnastik. Bern. 18^6.

----Gymnastque Elementaire. Paris, 1816.

----An Elementary Course of Gymnastic Exercises. London, 1823.

Kalisthenie oder Uebungen . . . fuer Maedchen. Bern, 1829.

Amoros—Gymnase Normal, Militaire et Civil. Paris. 1821.

----Manual d’Education physique, gymnastique et morale. Paris, 1830. 2 volumes and atlas.

——Nouveau Manuel d’Kducation physique, etc. Pans, I848. • 2 volumes and atlas.

Naqhtegall—Lehrbuch der Gymnastik fuer Volks- und Buerger-Schulen (translated from the Danish by C. Kopp). Tondem, 1831.

----Lehrbuch der Gymnastik . . . fuer die gelehrten Schulen (translated as above). Tondem, 1837.

11.	JAHN* AND POPULAR GYMNASTICS IN GERMANY.

Am. Phys Educ. Review V: 18-39 (1900) Leonard, Jahn’s Life, up to the publication of “Die Deutsche Tiunkunst” (1816).

Jahn and Eiselen—Die Deutsche Tumkunst. Berlin, r816

(Chas. Beck)—Treatise on Gymnastics . . . from the German of F. L. Jahn. Northampton (Nass.) 1828.

F. L. Jahn’s Werke, edited by Carl Euler 3 volumes. Hof, I884, 1885, 1887.

Euler, Carl—F. L. Jahn, sein Leben und Wirken. Stuttgart, 1881.

Schultheiss, F. G.—F. L. Jahn, sein Leben und seine Bedeutung. Berlin, 1894.

■ Handbuch der Deutschen Turnerschaft. 6th ed., Hof, 1899.

See also the files of the Deutsche Tum-Zeitung, Leipzic.

12.	LING, AND SCHOOL GYMNASTICS IN SWEDEN.

Hartwell, in Am. Phys. Educ. Review I:r:r3 (1896), reprinted in Report of Commissioner of Education for 1897-98, pp. 539-546.

Leonard, in Am. Phys. Educ. ReviewW^oi (1900) and VI:t (1801).

P H. Ling’s Schriften ueber Leibesuebungen, translated by H. F. Massmann. Magdeburg, 1847.

Ling, par une Moscovite. Paris, 1900.

Demeny—L’Education Physique en Suede. Paris, 1892. Pp. 105.

Balck, m Revue Encyclopedique Larousse, 2. Sept. 1899 (1). 747). Paris'.

Toerngren, in Proceedings A. A. A. P. E. VIIL50 (1893).

See also the files of the Tidskrift i Gymnastik, Stockholm.

13.	SPIESS, AND SCHOOL GYMNASTICS IN GERMANY.

Hartwell, 1889, as under (1)—Pp. 532-539.

Spiess—Kleine Schriften ueber Turnen, edited by J. .C. Lion. Hof, 1877.

----Die Lehre der Turnkunst. 4 volumes. Basel, 1840, 1842, 1843, 1846. 2d ed. 1867, 1871, 1874, 1885

----Tumbuch filer Schulen. 2 volumes. Basel, 1847, 1851.

Leitfaden fuer den Turnunterricht in den preussischeq Volksschulen. Berlin, 1895.

Maul—Turnunterrichtin Knabenschulen. 3 volumes. Karlsruhe, 1893, 1895, 1897.

----Turnunterricht in Maedchenschulen. 4 volumes. Karlsruhe, 1893, 1885, 1888, 1890.

See also the files of the Monatsschrift fuer das Turnwesen, Berlin; and volumes of the Jahrbuch fuer Volks-und Jugendspiele, Leipzic.

(To be concluded.)

*	—Deland Stanford university, in Galifornia, will have a gymnasium worth

$500,000. Contracts for building have been awarded.	-	-

Digitized by G.ooQle
—260—

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

f Continued.'t

AN INDIAN CLUB DRILL, „in combination with leg and trunk movements, exercises in divisions on apparatus, and closing with the game “Dodge Ball,” as described in the March issue. Preliminary as in previous lessons. Gymnastic tactics. After $Lubs have been received form front rank of fours and march up to the centre, then open order sidew. from the centre to full distance.

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.

Clubs to starting—raise! (Arm circle begins by extending the arm upw. andi returning through the same to position.)

Continuous circling.

1.	a) 14 arm* and handcircle outw. 1. (handcircle behind shoulder)-!, 2F

b)	14	44	44	44 inw.	r.	“	"	“	-1,2!

c)	14 double arm- and handcircle to	the 1.	“	44	44	-1,2t

2.	a)	14	arm-	and	handcircle inw.	1.	“	“	44	-1.21

b)	14	44	44	44 outw.	r.	44	44	44	-1,2!

c)	14 double arm-and handcircle to the r. 44	44	“	-1,2!

3.	a) 14	“	44	44	“	outw.	44	' 44	44	-1,21

b) 14	44	“	“	44	inw.	44	44	44	-1,21

4.	Stride position forw. 1. and cross clubs in front of chest—1! Raise heels and extend arms upw. (clubs remain crossed)—2! Lower heels and 14 double armcircle outw.—3! When the clubs swing upw. and arms bend to starting position close heels—4! Repeat with stride position forw. r., 5—8!

5.	Stride position backw. 1. and cross clubs in front of shoulders as in ex. 4,-1! Kneel on 1. knee, extend arms upw., and lower to position sidew. height of shoulders—2! Rise to stride position, 5A double armcircle inw.—3! When the arms bend to starting position close heels—4! Repeat with stride position backw. r., 5—8!

6. Vs turn 1., stride position backw. 1., raise 1. arm backw. downw. obi. and the r. arm forw. upw. obi.—1! Lunge forw. 1. (in obi. direction), swing 1. arm forw. upw. obi. and r. downw. and backw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

7.	Stride position forw. 1. and raise arms forw. overhead—1! Bend I. knee, bend trunk forw., swing arms downw. and backw. in line with trunk (head raised and back flat)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat with stride pos. backw. r., 5—8!

8.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise arms to pos. backw. downw. obi. —1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk backw., swing arms forw. overhead (arms in line with trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat with stride pos. backw. r., 5—8!

9.	Raise 1. leg sidew., bend trunk sidew. 1. and swing r. arm sidew. overhead—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3, 4!

10.	a) Jump upw., spread legs wide sidew., raise arms sidew. and return to pos.—1, 2! In slow rhythm 8 to 10 times.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
0< ^ CO

-261—

b) Jump upw., raise lower legs backw., raise arms forw. overh. and return to pos.—1, 21 In slow rhythm 8 to 10 times.

11.	Breathing exercise: Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overhead 1—4! Exhale slowly and lower arms sidew. to starting pos.

Close ranks sidew. toward the centre. Fours 1. obi. to a flank line— March! Then forward—March! Deposit clubs and march to assigned places for division work on the apparatus.

First Divison: Flying rings and window-jump.

Second “ Window-jump and flying rings.

Third	“	Side horse and climbing poles.

Fourth “	• Climbing poles and side horse.

Exchange places ; division 1 with 2 and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

1.	lump to front leaning-hang (forw. obi.)— 1! Pull up to starting

position—2!	Repeat.

2.	Jump to side leaning-hang—1! Pull up to starting position— 2!

Same r.—3, 4! Repeat.	*	\

. Jump to dip rest; extend arms; lower to dip rest and down.

. Jump to front leaning-hang; pull up to straight arm rest; down.

. Jump to side leaning-hang; pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw.; lower to straight arm hang with legs in forw. pos.; down.

6. Jump with flexing thighs oyer body and kip to dip rest; intermediate swing and extend arms at the backw. swing (to straight arm rest); raise legs forw.; % turn forw. to bent armhang, and down.

7.	Repeat ex. 6 to straight arm rest; raise legs forw.; Y2 turn forw., extend hips to hand balance (feet around ropes); lower to bent arms and Yq turn forw. to bent armhang and down.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with 2nd division for window-jump.

First Division.—Window-jump.

The jumping standards to be placed as for high-jump. Twb small ropes for cross bars) may be used, one placed above the other, starting the under one at about two feet six inches, the upper about five feet. Or one long rope may rest on the upper pegs, then passed down the one side under the lower pegs and over the other at the same height on the opposite side. A run of about six or eight steps preceds all jumps.

1.	Spring off of 1. (or r.) foot, swing both* legs forw. (hips well flexed) and arms raised forw. with head lowered im* the flight, landing in the half bent knee position.

Note.—After every jump move the standards nearer, raise the under rope and lower the upper each one inch. This order continues until the space is too small to clear.

2.	Jump off of both feet and dive through the space, landing on the hands and somersault forw. on the mat.

Second Division.—Window jump.

Repeat the same as in first division.

Change place with the first division on the flying rings.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—262-

Second Division.—Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

1st and 2nd exercise same as first division.

3.	Tump with flexing thighs over body; kneehang 1. on 1. arm, the •r. leg swings downw.; swing r. leg upw. again to meet the 1. between hands and down. Repeat.

4. As ex. 3, but rest the r. leg on 1. arm. Repeat. Same opposite.

5. As ex. 2, but to straight arm rest; return in reverse order and repeat. Same r.

6.	Jump to dip rest; extend arms; lower to dip rest, and down. Repeat.

7.	As ex. 6, then raise both legs forw.; 14 turn fbrw. to bent arm-hang, and down.

8.	An exercise free for all.

. The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements.. The third division begins on the side horse and the fourth division on the climbing poles. Exchange places.

Side Horse.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest and swing 1. leg sidew. and return to fialf bent knee position; repeat with r. leg. Repeat 1. and r.

2.	As ex. 1* but swing the 1. leg in front of r.. etc., and vice versa. Repeat 1. and . r.

3.	As ex. 1, with 1. leg to half bent knee position and immediately V2 circle r. with b leg and ?4 • turn r. to riding seat (front-vault mount 1.); dismount sidew. 1. with *4 turn r.

4.	As ex. 2, with 1. leg to half .bent knee position and immediately rear vault mount 1. (on croup); hands on pommel in rear, and dismount sidew. 1.

5.	As ex. 3, to riding seat; back scissors; (swing both legs backw. to front leaning rest, then straddle dismount forw.

6.	As ex. 4, to riding seat ; front scissors; place r. hand in reverse grasp on r. pommel and 1. in ordinary bn 1.; dismount sidew. left with % turn r. to front side stand and immediately squat-vault forward. .

Num.-Execute all movements left and right.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Climbing Poles. (Two poles.)

Grasp poles shoUlder heigbt, stand between poles.

1.	Lower backw. to feaningiharig (arms extended, legs and trunk, in a straight line); rise and immediately lower forw. in opposite pos., and 4*etufrf Lo‘, starting pos.; Repeat several times.

2.	Jump to straight arm hang; raise knees forw.; extend, knees, and down. Repeat.

3.	Jump to bent arm hang; raise 1. leg forw.; lower leg, and down. Repeat and raise r. 1. forw. etc.'

4.	Step backw. as far as possible, run forw., ju^pp to straight arm bang, swing backw. and fprwvseveral times,., and down at backw.

8Wing-	.“.-f	:	:>	.1;	*	<,	,
-263-

5.	Same as ex. 4, but with bent arms.

6. Same as ex. 4, and swinging legs high at forw. swing.	*

7. Same as ex. 6, but with bent arms and raise lower'legs backw. at every backw. swing.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Dodge Ball.” Dismiss

(To be continued.)

(From The Elementary School Teacher.)

WINTER GAMES AND SPORTS.

HOCKEY.

THE spirit of the game of hockey is pretty much the same as that of football, the object being to strike a ball through a goal marked by two uprights 4 feet high and 6 feet apart. The principal difference is that the instrument of propulsion is a light, hooked stick, or “hockey” (of some tough wood, as ash, and about the length of a cane), instead of the foot, and that the ball is of solid India rubber and about 2V& inches in diameter. A twine ball, or a cloth ball, is preferred by some players. A field about 75 to 100 yards long, and about 30 to 40 yards wide, marked by goals near the end, as in football, and by flags at the sides, will accommodate about twelve players on each side without dangerous crowding during the play.

Good players drive the ball along by a succession of taps, and guide it in and out between the opposing groups of hockeys by a mer£ play of the wrist, scarcely ever lifting or swinging the hockey above the shoulders.

The play is governed by the following rules: (1) The choice of goals shall be decided by tossing, and the side winning the toss shall start the ball from a spot to 10 yards in front of its own goal. (2) The ball shall be played with the hockey; it shall, however, be lawful to stop the ball with the body or the legs, but not with the hands. (3) A goal is gained when the ball is played through between the posts and under the cord of the opposing party, or in any way passed through by the side owning the goal. (4) No player shall strike the ball back-handed; in every case the player must play facing the opponent’s goal. (5) A player is not permitted to loiter near the adversary’s goal, but may be required to retire, when not playing the ball, to a distance of at least 25 yards. (6) The side scoring the greatest number of g;oals in a given time wins the game.

The respective sides must be captained. A refefee shall adjust all disputes over points hot covered by the rules, appoint the goal umpires, or keepers, one from each side, control thie timekeepers, and keep'the score.

ICE HOCKfeY.

The game of ice hockey is played by designating a “home” some 50 feet square, in which, one party of players strives to keep the puck, white the other party of players strives to driv^ it as far away as possible from the, home, to a distance agreed upon, ay to another home. Or the skating surface may be divided by a center line,, with additional

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-264-

lines 10 or 15 yards from each side of the center line. The toss of a coin decides on which side the ball is to be dropped by the respective leaders. In beginning, the players of both parties form a circle around the ball, players of both sides alternating. When all is ready, the command to start is given by the leader of the party having the ball on its side. Goals may be fixed at a distance from BO to 00 yards from the center line.	*

CURLING.

A curling surface consists of a smooth stretch of ice about 100 to 125 by 25 leet. Near the ends of this stretch a mark, called a “tee”, is placed. Around the tee as a center is drawn a circle about 14 feet in diameter, leaving a margin of about 6 feet between it and the end line of the field. Two smaller circles, respectively 8 and 4 feet in diameter, are marked within this circle. The space thus marked is called the “hoose.” About a dozen feet or so behind the tee and to the left of the center line of the stretch another smaller circle, about 2 feet in diameter, is drawn for the standing start of the players. To count a “put” or “swing,” one foot must be kept within this circle.

The playing is done with large-sized stones—flattened spheres— weighing from fifteen to thirty and more pounds, which are provided with handles, and are highly polished so as to be very smooth (see models, sporting goods departments, down town). The players, each provided with two stones, take their places at the sides of the respective tees and start the stones in proper order down to the other tee. A stone put on or within the outer circle counts one; on or within the next circle, two; to strike a tee counts one; to displace it beyond the outer circle, two; a stone failing to pass into the hoose does not count. In competitive games various ways of scoring are devised according to the skill of the players (see rules, National Curling Club, New York).

Teams usually consist of four pairs. Each player puts a stone alternately with his opponent until both stones are played. The proper rotation of playing is maintained by a leader of the game, who is known as the “skip.” Games are played for a specified time or a certain number of shots.	.

An amusing feature of the game is the “sweeping.” The players, after delivering their stones, quickly grasp their “sweeps,” or brooms, and brush away the particles of ice from the path of a moving stone, in order that it may glide a longer distance. If a stone shows a sign of weakness, and there is doubt as to whether it can reach the hoose, the players begin to sweep for dear life to “coax” the stone toward the tee. To this end the skip directs them to keep beyond the center of the stretch. The moment it passes the tee the other side .may sweep it out of the hoose if it can. The sweepers become very expert and not infrequently bring a stone to a standstill at just the right place.

OUTHOPPING GA.MBS—FOOT-IN-THE-RING.

After an energetic lesson in gymnastics, the participants are arranged around a plainly marked chalk ring, two feet in diameter,' standing, sitting, or lying down. One of them, selected to begin the game, stands in a stride or lunging position, with the forward foot placed in the