MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	JUNE, 1930 No.	388

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NSW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota,, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

t----------------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint §

< > — ■	■ ■■ ■■■♦

THE CONTRIBUTION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION TO MENTAL HYGIENE.*

Edwin P. Twitmyer, M. S., Ph. D., Froftssor of Psychology, University of

f enns. lvania

I came in this meeting with the avowed intention of stirring up some discussion. The discussion, however, will have to be among yourselves and not primarily with me. I am interested, of course, in the question of mental hygiene, but I can only orient that question from a very definite point of view, and that is that (a normal mental outlook is inexplicably dependent upon the norm-1 al functioning of the human body, primarily of the nervous system. Those of you who are interested in physical education certainly would not expect a man or a boy to run a race success- I fully if he were not equipped with satisfactory muscles. Of I course, there are a great many other factors involved in running a race, but the other factors are of no avail whatever if the man is not provided with adequate muscles, so that we can look upon his muscle equipment as the very foundation of the subsequent output. Similarly, from my point of view, one canhot expect a normal mental outlook from the individual who is not equipped

* Address delivered in connection with the annual Schoolmen’s Week.

Digitized by Google
94

with a normal mehtal mechanism. In that single statement I think you find justification—at least I find it—in the attempt of the psychologist to make some contribution to this discussion. If you read between the lines, I am very largely excluding from the discussion a modern trend, namely psycho-analysis, and certainly the whole group of doctrines and theories which have emanated from Freud and his followers.

When I confer with the psychologist, the psychiatrist, in whom I personally have confidence, I find a man who is primarily attempting to focus his attention to the physical condition of the patient whom he is attempting to treat for mental disorder, and I am convinced that the greatest promise for anything like a satisfactory outcome in the field of medicine is to be found in a further understanding, a more complete understanding, of the physical mechanism underlying, becoming a basis for, if you chocse, causing the mental operations under observation.

If we understand each other on that point, then I propose to put before you several questions which come under my observation in my clinical work and which to my mind have a direct relationship to the work that you have before you as directors of physical education. I refer in the first instance^ because it is my primary interest, to that group of speech disorders which is commonly known as stammering. I fancy you will agree with me without very much argument that you can’t damage a personality much more successfully with any other situation. Stammering is the most disintegrating condition from the point of view of a normal response to a social environment that I know of, and if it were my task to put a boy or a girl in a comer and keep him there, if I were a land of Mephistopheles, the method which I would employ would be to fasten upon him a profound stammering.

The recent tests upon this problem in my laboratory have revealed some very interesting facts; namely, that in 85% of the stammerers coming to the clinic, we find a very marked distortion of the breathing function. I am further of the opinion that it is primarily an etiological factor because as soon as the breathing distortion is corrected the stammering disappears. I am not unmindful of the fact, that there are other factors in the situation, but we do know that when we can remove or alleviate distorted breathing we secure better speech and once we secure better speech we at once begin to reconstruct a damaged personality.

The last case very fresh in my mind is to the point. A man 29 years of age, 6 feet high, with a breathing capacity 25% below normal, had a profound stammering. He was psychopathic in his social attitude. The reduction in his breathing was further affected by his blood count. He happens to be the top man in the hemoglobin determination. Normal habit is 85; this man’s is 106. Normal red cell count is about 5,000,000; this man’s is 6,-700,000. His capacity measured in the ordinary way with the spirometer is—25% below the normal for his height, age, and

Digitized by kjOOQle
95

weight. I submit, in view of our clinical observations, that someone should have caught this boy when he was plastic and increased that breathing capacity, which I have no doubt can be done by the employment of the correct methods. I am still not sure that physical education has the correct method but I am sure that it can be tremendously improved by the employment of the correct method. If that had been done, the chances are veiy great that this 29 year old person, now in the corner, spending his life over a desk on a task that is far below his ability, there away from fellow men, his ljife damaged, almost, I am afraid now, —beyond repair. All that could have been avoided if someone early in his life had applied the correct methods of procedure. So that if any group in the world should become interested in the question of correct breathing for man’s normal oxygenation, which means a normal vital process, it is this group interested in physical education. Not only is this applied to cases of stammering, but it applies as well to cases of stupidity—dullness. Dr. Harrison Allen of this city was the first man to my knowledge to remove adenoid tissue in cases of dullness or stupidity. He did so on the theory that the child displays dullness, backwardness, because of faulty oxygenation. Of course that means partial asphyxiation and the results of those first early adenoidectomies i proved conclusively that the theory was sound. So, of course, at 1 the present time, no one for a moment would tolerate the presence of superfluous adenoid tissue. Faulty breathing will produce J mental stupidity. I am thinking of a rather famous case in our1 records, of a girl 13 years of age, failing in the third grade, a chest measurement of 4)5", weighed 176 pounds, a matron, of course, in her appearance. She was called by her teachers lazy. They couldn’t find anything much the matter with her except that she was lazy. That etiology never appeals to me as being a sound one. As some of you heard me say before, I don’t believe that there is a lazy person in the world. You have plenty of people who display behavior that you are inclined to consider as being lazy, people who like to sit, but on final analysis I am sure you will find there is something wrong. In this particular case it was a chest measurement of 46” with a chest expansion of one-half inch. This case came to our attention before we had used the more refined method of determining the breathing habit. More or less on a guess we prescribed a corrective treatment that involved breathing exercises, sleeping out of doors, riding a horse, swimming breast stroke. A very intelligent mother got behind the job and in the course of six months we moved the girl up two grades which satisfied me that she was not lazy, that she was just handicapped physically. The kind of attention that was medicine to her was precisely that kind of treatment which this group is prepared to give.

I	will leave the breathing question in this unsettled way as I am going to leave the other points in my talk in an unsettled way, so that you can discuss them among yourselves. I come to

Digitized by i^ooQle
96

a second point. I am very much interested in the adolescent question—the so-called problems of adolescence—and I am equally of the opinion that the so-called adolescent problems are primarily physical problems—primarily so. Of course the adolescent problem that is most insistent, that perhaps we don’t tajk about, but is in the back of everyone’s mind whenever we say adolescent problem, is the conduct displayed that has some relation to the sex life of the individual. Not long ago a boy was brought to me, having been excluded from a private school,— a preparatory school. He was excluded because he had written an obscene word in the margin of his Latin book. They said he was not a fit boy to be in that community. That interested me very much. Would you throw a boy out of your school because he wrote obscene words in a Latin book, or would you start to investigate the matter to find out why he did it? Whom would would you investigate first, the boy or the Latin teacher? This is what we know, however, and I am quoting so great an authority as Ludwig on this, that if you take all of the unoccupied time of the adolescent boy, that nine-tenths of it his mipd is filled lip with matters pertaining to sex. Nine-tenths of his unoccupied time is spent quietly, of course, on matters of sex. Well, if you get that fact in your mind, then you might go back to the Latin situation and find out if some of the time while he was in the Latin class was unoccupied. You may be safe to say “yes” here; you perhaps wouldn’t be safe to say it in a group that is meeting some other place this afternoon engaged in a discussion of the Classics. But it is very reasonable for me—I can easily understand why a boy in the Latin class would have plenty of unoccupied time. As a matter of fact I studied Latin eight years myself, at least I am on record as having studied it that long, and I know something about it. Now my statement to this group is that on this particular question which seems to be a very insistent question, that this group, people interested in physical education, have the very best opportunity to fill up that unoccupied time in a wholesome way. From my point of view that is the primary justification of athletics, contests, of all of the physical education processes which are set up in a way that arouses the real, genuine interest of the boy. I know you are open to some criticism, and I am going to try to help you out here. Some people say that your work produces too great an amount of fatigue. They work in your field and then they eat their suppers and then they are sleepy and they can’t study—can’t study Latin. I am one of the few people in the world who justify fatigue. Nine teachers out of ten are scared of fatigue. If you want to soften down a teaching process, the cry is “Don’t fatigue the child.” It you are doing something that looks as though it were getting just a little bit too big, the cry is “fatigue.” “Be sure you do not fatigue.” I am going to say to you here this afternoon, “Be sure you do.” As a group we must come to a realization that fatigue is one of the requirements of growth. If I want

Digitized by ^ooQle
97

to develop this muscle, make it look like Sandou’s, I can only get it by partial depletion of that muscle. I have got to work it so hard that at the end of the working period it isn’t as good a muscle as it was when I began. The muscle tissue must be broken down into its chemical compounds, and be carried away by the blood stream. You have then depleted the muscle. It is a condition of muscle growth that it shall be partially depleted in I exercise because that is the required condition for reconstruction 1 and further growth, and so many teachers are frightened at the word fatigue. I have a sneaking suspicion, although I haven’t i any figures to prove it, that a little mental fatigue might also be • wholesome sometimes. If you do not quite agree with me on that point just now, suppose you put it to an experimental test yourself. Work your head, your mind, so hard that you are fatigued somewhat, but please don’t confuse disinclination, ennui, a desire to do something else, restlessness, for fatigue. I am asking for fatigue to the point of partial depletion. Some people are very much afraid of the results. We hear about students studying themselves to death. No student ever did that. I have been at this university more than 30 years, and I have seen a good many students collapse. The papers always say overwork. They never did. If you will take these cases and subject them to critical analysis, you will find an indefinite number of factors in the equation besides work. So I am asking you, bearing indirectly on the predominance of the sex ideas and the consequent departures of conduct that will be associated with them, that bearing on this question you will see your contribution, that you have a body of material in the educational program which can be made interesting, which can be made appealing. You have a mortgage on the Latin teacher. He is thoroughly handicapped in comparison with yourself. Now if you will take this opportunity, if you will work these people, and work them until they are fatigued, you are going to leave that uncccupied time a very much smaller quantity. That is a round-about way of getting at it, but I submit it, and I have an idea that it is infinitely better than a lot of the scientific, analytical nonsense that you hear on every side. There is one thing to keep in mind in this program which I have suggested—that the physical exercise must be somewhat adjusted to the period of growth which is instant to the physiological age of the individual. I regret to say that as far as I understand physical education, I don’t believe that some very primary facts have been taken seriously into account. For example, I single one in Pitt. He reports as a result of the actual measurements of a large number of cases that the actual size of the heart, its volume, doubles in size in a given year with the on- \ set of adolescence. I wonder how many of you in this room J interested in physical education were aware of that fact. Think that through a minute. It is perfectly obvious that the peripheral portion of the circulatory system does not double in size in a given year, that is to sajr the distributing system. Arteries and veins do not double in sige as the heart does in a given year.

Digitized by Google
98

We therefore have during that year an increase in the pumping mechanism without a corresponding increase in the circulatory

I system, which notwithstanding means a definite rearrangement of the balance between the heart action and the action in the peripheral mechanism. Viewed carefully from the point of view of health status, this reforms itself in very minor complaints, such as palpitation of the heart, a sudden blushing, night terrors, all of them referring to the temporary cardiac disturbances. Now I, therefore, say that it is necessary when you have set up your program of physical education, so that you may occupy more fully the time of these adolescents and set it up to the place where you are going, that approximate partial fatigue comes, still keeping in mind that certain adjustments and modifications must be made in accordance with the physiological age of the individual and, of course, on that point you must remember that the physiological age is not necessarily coincident with the chronological age of the individual. We have puberty being established all the way, in general terms, from ten years in the male to 18 years in the male, and a year younger than that for the female. In an article that I read last night, it pointed out that in a very rare instance we have puberty in the female as early as five, abnormally, to be sure, but after all our problems . are usually centered on individuals who are somewhat of a departure from the norm of the type.

Now one more point and then I am going to let you ai^ue this matter out. The question of the relation of mental hygiene to that part of physical education which we are willing to call play activity. Here I have a very definite quarrel with a good many, because from my point of view you fail to really understand what we mean when we say play. I ask you now, when do you play? Can you indicate what your particular responses are, the nature of your responses when you are actually playing. Well, it isn’t recreation to be sure. There is a marked difference between simple recreation and a play activity. When do you play? I am more or less stimulated with this particular problem because a few years ago in one of our summer sessions an exponent of physical education and supervisor of play from a neighboring city announced wjth great pride that in her city the whole matter was so thoroughly planned for and arranged that little Mary Jones in the middle of October, after the term had started, could, by simply referring to a schedule, find where and what she was going to play on the 17th of March. Now can you see there being any play in a situation like that? What is play? When do boys play baseball, when do they play football, when do I play? Th(e primary factor, the substantiating factor of the play activity is a psychological factor and it consists in what I would \call mental adventure. You play when you try something out, see whether it works. Something of your own you try out to see whether it would work. You are not playing when you try out some superimposed pattern to see whether it will work. Do you
99

follow me in the difference? An illustration or two: As some of you know, I live in Secane. Some years ago the boy came home and he said, ‘‘We have organized a baseball team and we are getting together, and we want to know whether you will support the team.” I said ‘‘Certainly I will. What do you mean?” He said, ‘‘A little contribution.” Well, I was very glad to make the contribution, and in addition I said I would be glad to come down and show the fellows a little something about baseball. See, I played at the game years ago—first base. I said, ‘‘It was a long while ago, but I still have some of the inside stuff, and that is what you fellows need. We want to get this team in good shape, so that we can clean up Clifton Heights. So I will come down and teach you a little inside stuff.” There wasn’t any real enthusiastic reaction to that, but I was too blind to notice, so that next afternoon I wandered down, used my best methods of approach, and said, ‘‘Would you like to know how to stand at the bat, and scoop the ball?” I had a splendid afternoon, taught these fellows something about baseball, and went home very much pleased. The next afternoon about practice time, I noticed the lad wasn’t moving, and I asked him what was the matter. He said there wasn’t any baseball. ‘‘There is no team.” See what I have done? That spilled the beans for those lads. What they wanted to do was to try this thing out for themselves. I came along with a very superior kind of baseball, I will admit, and tried to impose those worked out patterns on them. I took the play all out of that situation.

We had an old joke about work. I have a quarrel with the radio people, as an illustration of this point. We have the most wonderful opportunity right on our hands for play, for creative i and constructive imagination and all the rest, but true to American form we hasten to commercialize it. Why when we began, you could go into the ten cent store, get a basket full of junk, put it together and get music. I did it myself. I still have the radio that I put together that way. It is the best one in Delaware County. A father said he was going to get some stuff for Jim to make a radio. Christmas morning he gave it to Jim. Jim started putting it together. Father sat on the side line and looked at it. Jim couldn’t use all the tools as well as his father, so his father helped him a bit. In a half hour Jim had given up and his father was putting the parts together. The father’s justification was that mother wanted to hear WLIT at three o’clock. It would have been better if it had taken the boy a month to get the radio together himself. The mother might have done without hearing the program on WLIT that afternoon. The . minute we super-impose in the child these fixed patterns, we take • play out. Now you have got to decide. I have already decided for myself that play is a most essential factor in maintaining mental health. It is paramount in the problem of mental hy- # giene. I have no patience even with the people who hang'the baby out of the window in a clothes basket on the theory that

Digitized by LaOOQle
100

it musn’t be disturbed—it must sleep all day. Play is absolutely essential. Now if you come along and show them the right way to do things, the way to get technique, the way to win, to beat the other fellow, you ruin the play. There is a story about such an athletic situation at the University. Years ago there was a very remarkable player on the team. He came up to his senior year, and was very spotty in his performance. During practice, his playing was very inferior. They even went so far as to say he didn’t want to play, that he had a yellow streak. He was going through the motions, but he was no good. Saturday he would run away like a breeze in the game. Next week again he was restless and indifferent at practice, but something would happen and he would get in the game on Saturday, and away he would go. What is the answer? The situation is this: Training in football and baseball with abominable coaches, is not play. You are told to stand this way. Under no circumstances stand that way. Your toes must be pointed to exactly the right point on the compass. Your eyes must be pointed to exactly the right point on the compass. Your eyes must be held a certain way. Don’t look at the man above this point of his body. Why you can’t imagine the details and specifications written for a handball match. All the time you are coaching you are getting a man to conform to these requirements. It takes all the play out of it. The boy about whom we have been speaking solved the situation for himself. He went through motions and satisfied the coaches; during the game he forgot it all, and he played, and so he made his own contribution. He stood and ran and elbowed just the way he wanted to, which he wasn’t able to do during practice.

I admit that perhaps on the whole we would not have quite as good performance from the point of view of these athletic displays, not as finished, not as good form, if we didn’t have this elaborate coaching plan. But I do submit that, although we may have poor performance from this point of view of performance itself, if we could put every last coach out of business we would have some real value for the participant in the way of genuine play activity. Now you can take that or leave it.

Well, I have talked about two or three things. I hope I have said enough to stir you up to the place where you will want some real discussion. I have talked about the breathing situation. I think that physical education ought to take hold of this problem, not only from the point of view of socialization, but of health. I have talked about the matter of physical education on the matter of the dominance of sejc ideas in the mind of the adolescent to the point of revealing itself in departures from normal behavior. I have talked about fatigue, that fatigue from my point of view is desirable for normal growth. I have talked about keeping the spirit of play in that form of physical education which you call athletics.

Digitized by UjOOQle
101

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF EDUCATION

To celebrate the dedication of its new building, a national conference was held at New York University on February 27th, 28th and March first during which many problems were discussed that should be of great interest to all teachers. All addresses have been gathered in a copyrighted hook that may be had at the New York University Book Store, Washington Square, New York City. In the following we present abstracts of the addresses given in the Health and Physical Education Section of the conference, as furnished by the Bureau of Public Information.

A NEW PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

James Hough McCurdy, A. M., M. D., M. P. E.

(Continued from last month)

The traditional dualism of mind and body is not so much believed as it was forty years ago. Colleges, public schools and state departments of education are recognizing physical education as an integral part of the curriculum. Recognition of physical education has come faster than the leaders have supplied a satisfactory program. Educational experts have seen the oneness of mind and body. Educational administrators have not even seen this oneness or have had no adequate method of securing proper results. The program has been built to a large degree on tradition or been copied from other nations without regard for inherent interests or actual needs, from the slavish following of Swedish and German systems to the present emphasis on a game program where varsity athletes are taught and the other 80% perfect their mistakes through unguided intramural practice.

The progressive acquisition of skills should be carried on through all phases of life and it should be a part of every aspect of education. What are the normal degrees of skill at the time of entrance to elementary school, junior high school, senior high school and college? What are the minimum levels of skill which should be maintained by an adult group? They become questions which must be answered in order to establish a sound progressive developmental program in education. Neuro-muscular skills depend upon three chief factors:

1.	Visual judgments.

2.	Equilibrium judgments from the inner ear.

3.	Muscle and joint sense judgments.

Most people because of the present emphasis on visual methods in education and for some other reason depend too largely upon these visual judgments and too little on muscle sense judgments, particularly of the equilibritory types related to safety education and recreation. The whole school program should use bodily attitudes more largely than at present in its instruction. The academic motor skills of the small accessory muscles should

Digitized by Google
102

be related to gestures and bodily attitudes in the standing position whenever possible. The physical education skills of the big muscles should be integrated with static and moving equilibrium in the easy accomplishment of desired achievement. We should know, specifically, the normal age level achievement in neuromuscular skills, and be able to diagnose the big muscle static and moving equilibritory skills at various age levels. A simple method is to have three boards of different widths on which the pupil might stand or walk. A standardized test which has been used for three years might illustrate the method: Three boards 3 feet long are set on edge 4 inches from the floor. The widths of the boards are 2 inches, 1 1-2 inches and 1 inch. The exercises for the elementary tests are:

1.	Stand in forward close walk stand position, with eyes open, for 15 seconds without losing the balance.

2.	Repeat the same exercise with eyes closed.

3.	Stand in cross walk stand for 15 seconds, with eyes open, without losing the balance.

4.	Stand in the same position with the eyes closed, for 15 seconds.

Similar boards 12 feet long are now in use for moving equilibrium exercises and tests.

We furnish an adequate opportunity for informal practice of skills desired by the different age groups. Definite instruction must be given in the fundamental big muscle skills of standing, walking, running, jumping, throwing, hitting, climbing, dancing, swimming, etc. Such fundamental training should precede the learning of complicated games. The traditional games should be broken up into sub-games or part games where many repetitions of the elements are present.

The elementary tests given above illustrate a method of the examining room for the determination of elementary abilities. The motor ability and achievement tests represent the more complicated activities in athletics, games, gymnastics, swimming, skating, etc. The level of physical intelligence should be determined by regular examination. Tilney, in his “Brain from Ape to Man,” shows the development of the fore brain depends upon specialization of the hand and foot in connection with equilibrium judgments. Parsons, in his text “Left-handedness” shows the close relation between the sign language speech and movements of the hand and leg enervated from the same side of the cerebrum. The “oneness of mind and body” requires a curriculum in academic subjects and in physical education subjects which recognizes this oneness. Neither, at present, do this to a satisfactory degree. Speech should be more thoroughly integrated with hand movements and bodily attitudes. Physical education should secure health as a by-product, giving more attention to bodily skills related to safety education and to recreational enjoyments. The great emphasis given to varsity sport of the complicated games tends to mask with the average pupil their

Digitized by OooQLe
103

nascent desires. From imitation they sometimes wish to play a game for which they have not yet learned the rudiments. These rudiments should be placed in sub-games and stunts taught in the elementary and junior high school years.

The new physical education curriculum should be built on the needs and interests of pupils at the various age or maturity levels. The "oneness of mind and body” should be recognized. A diagnosis of the needs should be followed by a curriculum to meet these needs. We should advance from the present programs, built merely upon the logical arrangement of material, upon the adoption of some national system of education or the limitation of some particular institutional scheme to a curriculum built upon the actual needs and interests of the pupils. Such a curriculum would be promoted if, following a medical diagnosis, the functional capacity of each pupil was determined in big muscle skills of elementary equilibrium and the elements of game and stunt skills of the corrective strengths and the functional organic capacity. Such a change would mean a largely reorganized program of physical education in the schools and colleges and a very different emphasis in the curriculum preparing teachers of physical education. It would mean, to use a medical illustration, that if Susan was required to have castor oil the other thirty-four children in the class should not also be required to take the same dose.

LIFE AS A BIOCHEMICAL MECHANISM

Jerome Alexander, M. Sc.

Man, materially, mentally and psychically, is the most complicated of living beings, the present climax of centuries of evolution. In a concise diagram Mr. Alexander has outlined a notion of the various parts and systems of the body arranged according to their chief functions. It simplifies the complexity of structure and the complexity of functional relationships.

The simplest material units generally accepted are negative electrons and protons (positive electrons). All chemical elements are built up from these two units. The biologist and the physicist have only made a beginning in the study of electronic displacements which may be involved in the conduction of nervous impulses, in various types of radiation such as X-ray, ultra-violet radium and even in radio-active potassium.

The next stage of aggregation is in the realm of the chemist —the combinations of atoms composing molecules. We have never seen a molecule. The smallest particles visible in the ultramicroscope, generally consist of hundreds and thousands of molecules. Atoms and molecules are grouped in many types. In general matter strives toward crystallinity. “A main factor in the ageing of human beings seems to be this gradual aggregation,

Digitized by LjOOQle
104

accompanied as it is by partial dehydration and shrinking (synere-sis) and by brittleness in many tissues (bones, arterial walls).”

A third step toward complexity of material structure is the data revealed by histologists, cytologists and others working with the microscope. The cell, the nucleus, the chromosomes are all visible particles of a variety of structures that form an interrelated whole.

“The law of probability makes it likely that the first living thing was of the molecular order of size—a moleculobiont.”

Health and a feeling of well being is brought about by a summation of the normal functioning of the various parts of the body. Abnormal conditions lead to disease and death or disease may lead to abnormal conditions and death.

Time is a most important factor in life processes. There must be a coordination in the motions or changes in the various parts of the body. “Vital processes take place largely at interfaces, and the control of particle size, temperature, and concentration are important factors in regulating reaction speed. Degree of dispersion affects diffusion velocity and therefore concentration; it also controls kinetic velocity.”

Considering the wonderful complexity of the human body we cannot but recognize individual differences in all respects. But a broad knowledge is needed to go hand in hand with the more minute studies in order to keep the whole organism in satisfactory working order.

The conscientious teaching and study of medicine and health education today involve intense application and the cooperation of men in many fields; rather the breadth of view of the old-time natural philosopher than the narrow, even though minute, vision of the specialist.

THE BODY AS A BIOCHEMICAL MECHANISM: IS IT?

Robert Chambers, M. A., Ph. D.

Since the middle ages man has been trying to discover the mysteries of the human body, its structure and its behavior. The anatomist accumulates facts concerning body structure, the physiologist, with the aid of chemistry, anatomy and physics, considers the functional behavior of the organs of the body and now the biologist attempts to study the cellular constituents by themselves. To a scientist nothing is unknowable. He does not know the foundational property of living matter but he can investigate and carry on research concerning it.

“The cell is the microscopically visible unit of structure of living beings. That it is also a functional unit of living matter is evident from the fact that organs and tissues can be dissected and cut into bits and, as long as the smallest bit contains one intact cell, we can still demonstrate in it the fundamental properties of life.”

Digitized by t^ooQle
105

Dr. Chambers is engaged in the study of cellular structure and function, of the physiology of the individual living cells. By means of special apparatus for operating micro-needles and micro-pipettes in the field of the compound microscope he has learned peculiar facts about protoplasm, the vital matter in living cells. The following facts have been observed from experiments by the micro-operative method.

One primary feature of protoplasm is the existence of a distinct bounding membrane to which a rapid tear is highly destructive. After a slow tear the membrane rapidly reforms. The viscosity of normal cytoplasm varies greatly in different cells—in some being almost liquid, in others, highly viscid. The surface layer or plasma membrane or protoplasm differs from the protoplasm in the interior. The former seems to be liquid yet immiscible with an aqueous medium while the latter is freely miscible with water and aqueous salt solutions. The plasma-membrane is non-penetrable to substances which easily diffuse throughout the interior. From studying the action of electrolytes on protoplasm two facts of great significance have been noted. One, salts of the monovalent electrolytes tend to liquefy the internal protoplasm, but disperse the plasma-membrane. Bivalent, electrolytes in solution cause coagulation in internal protoplasm while they merely stabilize the plasma-membrane with no coagulation. “The other point offers an explanation for the mutual antagonism of mono- and bivalent electrolytes both on the internal protoplasm and on the plasma-membrane, viz., the normal physical state of the internal protoplasm can be maintained when the bivalent and monovalent electrolytes are present in certain proportions so that the solidifying action of the one will balance the liquefying action of the other. Similarly the antagonistic action of the electrolytes on the plasma-membrane seems to be due to the balance between the stabilizing action of the bivalent and the dispersing action of the monovalent ions.

Other facts are being discovered regarding the cell. There is a chemical interrelationship between the nucleus which is more alkaline than the cytoplasm which encloses it. The nucleus is a differentiated structure of protoplasm and offers a wide field for further investigation. Protoplasm is a more or less fluid mass whose physical state is conditioned by the presence of certain salts in definite proportions, and changes in its state occur when the relative proportions of these salts vary. The same is probably true for the nucleus on whose re-activity with the cytoplasm and its membrane probably depends the chemical and physical equilibrium which we term ‘life’.”

Making one discovery after another, by means of the various sciences at his command, brings man the concept of the oneness of nature.

Digitized by kjOOQle
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS A PROFESSION

Shatter Upton Lawton, A. M., M. D., F. A. C. P.

Physical education is a new profession and it desires to cooperate with all other agencies attempting to solve allied aspects of a world problem—man. It offers a program built upon the platform of science, dedicated to a fearless realism, which has as its aim the attainment of pragmatic results.

It approaches the problems of society. Man is a mechanism and it is only by understanding him as such that the physical educator can aid in the task of fitting him into his environment. “The entire body is affected during activity, from the remotest and lowliest to the highest and most integrated of cells, nothing is as it was before. Activity builds power and this power is many faceted. Through action and performance weaknesses show up quicker than anywhere else. The physical educator should be able to “understand enough of the various aspects of pathology to recognize what constitutes on the one hand extreme deviations of health response,1 and on the other the beginning symptoms or evidences of disease.” He should join hands with the doctor and they should converse intelligently together.

The disciples of this profession should have a thorough foundation in the sciences of biology, gross comparative and microscopic anatomy, genetics, embryology, and physiology as well as in inorganic, organic, physical and physiological chemistry. Life is the end result of infinitely delicate chemical balances. The study of the organism in action includes subjects as health, hygiene and physiology of activity. The physical educator cannot be ignorant of the form and functions of the nervous system. He must be thoroughly versed in the theory and performance of many skills and must have the ability to teach these to others. “Knowledge is powerful and a joy, but knowledge disseminated is power in action.” He must have a working knowledge of statistics; opinion is a poison to a young profession. Facts which statistics will discover are antidotes.

In what kind of world does this new profession find itself? “It is a place subject to unusual and inviolable law”. At each level of evolution something new appeared on the old and new mechanisms came into being for adaptation or display. “Consciousness has been an unfolding process observable certainly at lower vertebrate levels and reaching amazing ramifications in the type of human animal referred to under the name genius. Mind, that polyglot instrument, has been built up from the level of

1 Health response is a term referring to a Pearson distribution curve which deals strictly with any given variable. Thus different hearts may normally react differently to the same exercise stimulus. Theoretically, however, there will be a lowest and highest possible healthy pulse rate, beyond which extreme disease begins to enter in and alter the curve.

Digitized by CjOOQle
107

tropism observable in the amoeba and still present in our own bodies in the white blood cells, through the more complex stages of reflexes and reasoning by imperceptible steps, each of which has been associated with structural and biochemical ramifications.”

Human beings are mosaics of archaiac organic units held together with relatively new functional units. They are not created equal. The teacher's special duty is to recognize individual differences. Men vary in many respects a few of which are: intelligence, instinctive, equipment, differences in types such as the hyper and hypothyroid, the hyper and hypogonads, the sthenics, healthy and unhealthy, mature and immature. One program will not meet the needs of all types. Physical education must remember this.

Society is growing and with the rule of the machine age standardizations on lower levels becomes a necessity. But man is old fashioned as an organism. Whether he can survive his own inventions or not remains to be seen. In the meanwhile physical education must step into the breach and offer a program to offset the evils of this mechanized age. Play and competition on the sport field satisfies inherent biological needs and unless these urges are appeased society will disrupt itself and die either in the toils of chaos or hopeless degeneration.

Allport, Watson and Pavlov have shown us that rational and emotional education is a matter of conditioning certain prepctent responses. We learn to do by doing. Action through work will attain the goal. If the result is to be efficient the work must be properly dosed and integrated. Physical education teaches skills and trains cheracter through doing. “Sports and athletic prowess, big muscles and symmetrical bodies are not the goals or the chief interest of the true physical educator. These are his tools, his incidental objectives. What he is really concerned with is the building of worthwhile men and women, the fashioning of a new race more able to face life efficiently and joyfully.”

Man is a creature very old and very new. His body comprises cells patterned after the protozoa, the jelly fish, and glands similar to those in mice and guinea pigs. “The mind is a flower set in a very ancient urn.” Biologically man is represented as a conical pyramid resting upon a broad base the hardly alterable mechanisms used by Nature for centuries. Reflexes and emotions are on a higher level on the pyramid but their basis is the lower strata and is difficult to affect beyond certain limits. The human cortex is the apex—unstable and easily influenced. Sociologically considered, man is an inverted pyramid. The base is the cortex with its creative imagination and the apex, the oldest phylogenetic level. The most unstable biological levels have become the most important from the viewpoint of societal survival. Civilization is a record—neither good nor bad.

Physical education offers a plan which will predispose lower mechanisms operating on lower biological levels to react in social-

Digitized by kjOOQle
108

ly adaptive patterns. Man’s new acquisition—cortex—has carried him so far afield that he sometimes forgets he is an animal subject to every law of physics and chemistry. He must remain humble to his foundations and his origins. This is not a note of despair. Our education can be built upon science and rules may be applied because we are dealing with measurable variables.

PSYCHOLOGICAL HAZARDS OF THE ADOLESCENT IN

INDUSTRY.*

Olive A. Cooper, M. D.

There has been much that is invaluable written in regard to the physical hazards to which the early adolescent child in industry has been exposed, and vivid presentation made of the appalling physical handicaps sustained, but comparatively little consideration has been given to the mental hazards to which he has been subjected and their probable effect upon his later development.

It is an implicitly accepted premise today that lack of early preparation and training for life bring more unhappiness and failure than do many of our physical handicaps. This fact is borne out in many instances. Let us take for example the case of a child who through early illness has been rendered infirm or perhaps seriously crippled, but who by means of early suitable mental training and the subsequent establishing of a proper point of view toward life is able to carry on in a far better capacity than the physically robust child whose early mental training has been such as to render him inadequate and unprepared to face life. The first is equipped to meet the situation as it is and to deal with it accordingly, while the second is totally unable to do this and is ever seeking a way out, an exit, often found in the role of nervous invalidism and a condition equally as disabling as many of our most serious physical defects and in some cases more so.

If we expect well-rounded adults, self-supporting, independent, and capable of effecting a harmonious adjustment to those about them, we must at the proper time give them the essentials that make for the desired result. In other words we cannot hope to produce adequate personalities in the absence of wholesome and efficient training. To be assured of this end we must seek those sources which have the facilities for making the needed contribution. These should be found logically in the school and in the home.

Adolescence is an evolutionary stage in the life of an individual and refers to the transition from childhood into adulthood. Although impossible to set apart any well-defined chronological range as marking this period it is estimated approximately as being between 12 and 22 years of age.

• Reprint from the American Child

Digitized by t^ooQle
109

It is a critical phase in life calling not only'for careful and intelligent physical care but also painstaking mental guidance that will promote a congenial adaptation so essential when the time comes for the individual to emancipate from the home and take his place in society. It is a period of rapid growth in which we find many and varied mental changes taking place, outstanding of which are ideas and impulses which are not always conducive to wholesome development. There is a craving for expression, often at the expense of the child’s own welfare and even that of those about him, a desire for adventure and above all an earnest struggle for recognition. There are also outstanding at this period, many instabilities in the physical, intellectual and emotional fields which if not expediently directed tend to become permanent handicaps in adult life. Among them are such psychological factors as feelings of inadequacy, excessive self-sufficiency without ability to correctly evaluate abilities and disabilities, suspicion, distrust, a desire to dominate, and lastly an increasing feeling of independence which may be and often is quite cut of proportion to the resources at hand.

Adolescence, because of the dangers it entails, should be as free from stressing responsibility as possible. Cares and employment that do not have educational direction back of them should not be considered as belonging to this phase, chiefly because of their probable lack of constructive value and the possible undermining influence they might have on the individual. Premature employment not only takes away a youth’s right to health and happiness but also deprives him of opportunities for a later successful vocational adjustment and efficient adaptation to life as a whole.

When one thinks of labor in terms of its effect upon the psychological development of the adolescent, at the 14 or 15 year old level, one cannot make broad generalizations. He is forced to remember that each child is an individual and that there is a wide diversity in the constitutional make-up of these children. What might serve the needs of one might be dire therapy to another. Nevertheless there are three fairly well-defined groups of children whose pathways lead toward industry and whose individual cases call for careful deliberation regarding their future programs. At this juncture and in connection with these groups there arises a question as to the advisability of urging the child to remain in school although his interest is elsewhere; the question of placing him in industry and subjecting him to the forces therein; or lastly, the question of permitting him to enter industry and supplement his work there with educational supervision. Every case calls for an individual decision which should be made only after deliberate consideration.

Outstanding of the groups mentioned is the one characterized by the child whose mental equipment does not permit him to profit by further academic instruction and who is frequently referred to as being “manually minded.” This is the type of child who not only may profit economically by his instruction in voca-

Digitized by LjOOQle
110

tional classes but may also gain a form of socialization which later becomes a distinct aid in his contacts with his employers and fellow-workers. In addition to this, part-time work is desirable, here as in many other cases—a pay envelope being a help to self-respect and very often a means of establishing a child on a satisfactory standing in his own home. All of this tends to build up an attitude which supplies a needed compensation in the absence of higher intelligence. Attitude frequently is a greater determinant of success than is ability.

The second group comprises those children who, although well endowed and fully able to do the regular scholastic work, are forced into industry at an early period because of the economic stress in the home or other adverse circumstances. The lure of money blinds them to the advantages of school, making it appear an impediment to economic progress, irksome and something to be avoided, rather than a stepping-stone toward a happier and more securely organized adult life. It invariably happens that parents in these homes have likewise considered school as a financial hindrance. They have lacked the vision to see its broader and more advantageous aspects, as a preparatory center for life in all its phases. A child coming from a home of such standards goes forth into the economic field with little or no preparation for the task at hand, and advances, believing himself able to meet all occasions. Actually he is void of constructive attitude, with his emotions and desires untrained as they are, and he is without the qualities that constitute economic success. His need for such traits as concentration, persistence, and conscientiousness foredooms him to failure. His performance of the job is impeded and his industrial advancement seriously obstructed. The inevitable happens, he becomes disillusioned, dissatisfied and is obliged to seek outlet for his maladjustment and mental turmoil, and usually succeeds in doing so either by the way of misbehavior or through the construction of a neurosis.

A third and certainly an interesting group of children is composed of those whose failure in regular grade work cannot be accounted for on the basis of inferior endowment but rather through early unfavorable conditioning of the child to the school. It is regretable that these children in their unfortunate introduction to school have built up a defense against instruction which makes their remaining there impracticable from all angles. Their rebellion is so strong and their associations with the school so distasteful that attempting to co-ordinate a paying job with vocational instruction under the educational system is quite impossible. The only avenue left for them seems to be industry at an early period that they may acquire habits of industry and avert the possible building up of delinquent trends. This group constitutes a minority with a poor prognosis due to a faulty attitude existent from the beginning.

The fairly recent revolution in our educational procedure has been most encouraging in that its function and purpose are far

Digitized by Google
Ill

different from what they were ten or more years ago. Different in numerous ways, chiefly because they are beginning to recognize children as individuals and not as a homogeneous mass able to respond favorably to one standardized program. They also appreciate that the outstanding function of education is to socialize the child and prepare him for the actual needs of life, rather than to cram him with academic subjects as was the method of the older system.

Today our educational program is interested in the personal and social development of the child and in subjects only as they contribute to this end. It has learned of the fundamental difference in individuals and roughly speaking it has separated them into two large groups, the one composed of pupils with the academic mind, competent to grasp traditional scholastic instruction and the other made up of those whose aptitudes lie not in the intellectual fields but rather in the manual occupations. It has tried to fulfill its obligations to the latter group as well as to the former although not without difficulty and in many cases with a sense of failure.

The boy of 14 who expresses a desire to work should be instructed in relation to that desire. The forces behind it may not only be the incentive of the pocketbook but also may be an eagerness to receive recognition as an adult and as an essential personality in the household. When a boy’s interest is outside school subjects, failure usually ensues, which in itself is a compelling motive for a child to go into industry. The same failure encountered in school often awaits him in industry, assuming he enters the field directly without preliminary preparation. But given an opportunity in vocational training where he may sense success and gain an understanding of his aptitudes, one finds the boy has become interested in achievement and no longer is acutely aware of his inferiority and failure. More than that he may find a feeling of equality and confidence and an accompanying zeal to do in order to maintain his position in the group.

Out of this insight for the needs of the “manually-minded” child came the birth of vocational classes and continuation schools. The schools saw the folly of forcing a child into concentration on academic subjects when his interests were in the manual and more practical spheres, and they foresaw the important place that vocational training would occupy in his future program.

Continuation schools provide the adolescent with broader training which industry because of the nature of its organization is unable to give. The educational system aims to teach him in such a manner as to sustain his interest in order that he may function as near his maximum efficiency as possible. Every effort is made to have him gather vision that he may look ahead for future possibilities, be able to evaluate them correctly, prepare himself for them and finally achieve them. Vocational training appreciates that above all else the adolescent must be taught
112

adaptabilty, since vocational fitness is as changeable as society itself, ever casting off old methods and taking on new. Hence the need for the individual’s readiness to meet the changes as they occur and for ability to adjust to them.

One of the outstanding objectives in the educational scheme is to teach these children to use their equipment judiciously that they may reap its full value. It is interesting to note here that surveys of various industrial situations have shown that employees with inferior mental equipment have under suitable training been able to function at nearly one hundred per cent efficiency of their mental capacity, while others, although having superior equipment, were unable to function anywhere near this degree of efficiency chiefly because of poor habit formation and consequent faulty attitudes.

One cannot overemphasize the importance and need of a wholesome attitude—an attitude that enables the child to be receptive to instruction, tractable, and congenial with those with whom he associates. A child who enters industry from a household of friction (as is the case in many homes where economic stress is a predominating factor) without the guidance afforded by vocational schools, is very likely to enter one of the so-called “blind-alley” jobs where the regular pressure together with lack of preparation furnishes a cause for his failure. His lack of financial progress impresses him with the meagerness of his capacity as a workman and we may find him building up reactions which will serve as large stumbling blocks in any possible road to further development and advancement.

If a child in his work can be made to appreciate what he is doing in relation to the finished product; if he is taught the reasons for each step, his work is less apt to be monotonous. He view’s it with interest and enthusiasm, he sees his position as a constructive one and as an essential part of the organization. This feeling of usefulness makes for a wholesome attitude and satisfactory vocational adjustment.

Every adolescent should be doing and making but only under the supervision and guidance of those whose chief aim is the development of the individual as a whole, with equal attention given to his physical, intellectual, social and economic welfare. His occupation should not be considered in terms of dollars and cents but rather in terms of his future development.

The chief aim of the educational system should be to prepare the child for the needs of later life, that is its one and only function and all time should be devoted to it. Industry on the other hand is founded on a diametrically different basis. It aims to produce but not in terms of childhood development. Were it by chance to undertake this last as a responsibility it could do so only at the expense of the constantly professed efficiency. This would be not only impractical but highly improbable. Adequate child training, because of its obvious encroachment upon industrial policies and the adulteration of efficiency it would involve, could

Digitized by AjOOQle
113

not be a logical part of an industrial program. Labor factions see the child as a wage-earning unit while education sees him in an altogether different light. To the latter, he is far more than that. His ability to earn is but a small portion of his preparation for life. Education sees him as a future member of society and realizes keenly that the great determinant of his success is his ability to live happily among those with whom he mingles. Their efforts are exerted in the direction of developing those essentials by means of which he may reach the desired goal. This form of development cannot be looked for in any organization unequipped to give it and whose aims are in another direction.

CHARACTER EDUCATION DISCUSSION CONFERENCE

F. C. Borgeson

At the time of the dedication of the new School of Education Building at New York University, the Elementary Education Department sponsored a Character Education Discussion Conference. Some sixty of America’s outstanding educators interested in the problems of character education and elementary education, met for a period of three hours to consider together the present status and major problems of character education. The unusual interest in character education as well as the recognition of the personal participating in the discussion, is evidenced in the fact that approximately five hundred people were kept away in order that those present might really have an opportunity of undistracted expression of thought. The success of the conference was, in large measure, due to the wise direction given the discussion by the five discussion leaders.

The program was centered around five major problems, each under the general direction of a discussion leader. The major units of discussion and the respective leaders of discussion were as follows:

Elements of Character .............Dr.	Henry	Neumann,	Leader,

Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture Problems of Method in

Character Education..............Professor Edwin D. Starbuck

University of Iowa

Character Education ................. Professor	W.	W.	Charters

Ohio State University Scientific and Testing Approach

to Character Education Problems.....Professor Hugh Hartshome

Yale University Teacher Training and Character

Education........................Professor Goodwin B. Watson

Teachers College^ Columbia University As a basis for the discussion over fifty controversial issues in the

Digitized by
114

field of character education were compiled and used as points of departure by those participating.

If the present status of character education in the United States may be judged from the analysis, description, and opinion voiced in the round table conference here briefly reported, it is clear that a comprehensive, serious, and openminded approach to the problems of this field has had its inception in the last very few years. In addition to the small group of workers devoting their major efforts to the perfecting of scientific instruments and the use of these instruments in guiding aright our thinking and planning in character education, there has been a sudden awakening on the part of the members of the teaching profession generally as to the tremendous import of this phase of public education.

Though the paucity of significant literature reveals how little has as yet been accomplished, there is every indication that the years immediately before us will bring astounding developments in definition, instruments and techniques, method and program. For example, thoughout the conference there was constant reference to the need for scientifically determining situations that call forth desirable response activities instead of analyzing and "Teaching” specific traits that are or are not to be desired. Even if we had ample evidence in support of this point of view, the first steps in its fulfillment have hardly gotten under way. An immense amount of research and experimentation is needed before we know the A, B, C’s of this method.

Little light was given as to just what the elements of character are, except that the emotional factors are as important and perhaps more important than the intellectual. It was also suggested that surely not during childhood and probably not until late adolescence should one be expected to be “morality conscious.”

There was oneness of mind on the general problem of method in character education. So-called direct method is in the discard. ' This does not imply the absence of a carefully worked out program. It does present a bigger problem to teacher training institutions. Situations, not traits, are the approach. A simultaneous and coordinated program of activities in the home, community, and school is essential to effective character training.

There was likewise general agreement on the points discussed pertaining to the curriculum for character education. There is not to be a differentiated subject with specified time and place in the routine of school life. Like a health program that functions successfully, it must permeate the entire curriculum, the entire life of the school. The parents and teachers are major elements in the situations to which children respond, hence the importance of example in the character and reason, under guidance, concerning the experience for purposes of rationalization, interpretation, and tentative generalization, such moments provide the core of our character curriculum.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
115

A stimulating and profitable discussion developed in the treatment of the scientific and testing approach to character education. We have barely scratched the surface here. Some feel that experimental measurement is not the only way of being: "scientific” in the field of character education, and for that matter in many other fields. Agreement seemed apparent however that whatever else we do in character education our procedure must be objective.

The last unit of discussion pertained to training of teachers for a sound character education program. Several significant recommendations were made for preparing the teacher for this important task. Teachers must be trained in an atmosphere of freedom to think, to act, and to experience. Training in elementary clinical research for all prospective teachers was emphasized as was also a better and broader cultural and general education for an improved view of life’s meanings and values. Some experience under supervision of'"guiding” a self-governing voluntary club in which the children make up their own program will develop valuable techniques as well as a deeper insight into child life. And lastly, the very timely suggestion was offered that the core of our teacher-training program should be professionalized subject matter centered around the major objectives of education, such as worthy home membership, vocational activity, citizenship and wise use of leisure.

LESSON PLANNING IN HEALTH EDUCATION

By Grover W. Mueller

In the April issue of Mind and Body we began the publication of a series of lesson plans in health education. The importance of lesson planning was emphasized. A general outline of plans for the types of lessons most commonly used in health education was presented. This was followed by a more detailed discussion of the development type of lesson. The article was concluded with a sample Development Lesson. In the May issue the type of lesson known as the Project Lesson was discussed and a sample project lesson printed. In addition to this we presented another development lesson.

In this issue we present two examples of another type of lesson, namely the Review Lesson. First, however, we offer a brief consideration of review lessons in general.

The Review Lesson

Not many years have passed since review lessons were what we today term drill. In the drill, pupils pass again over subject matter or actions previously studied or practiced for the purpose of making certain associations or actions habitual.

The old view of the function of review lessons has changed. "The function of the review lesson is to gather up the points that

Digitized by v^ooQle
116

have been made in a series of development or recitation lessons, and thus

a)	still further organize the facts and principles into a large system, and

b)	give these facts and principles the advantage of additional repetition.

“In the individual lessons that have preceded the review, the attention has been upon the various parts of the subject matter rather than upon the connections and relations that hold the parts together. In the review lesson, the emphasis is transferred to the larger relations and thought connections. It follows that the review lessen properly covers a series of particular points that naturally unite into a system or group. A series of review lessons is also very obviously in place at the close of a long course in which the threads of unity are likely to be lost from view in the wealth of detail.”*

By means of review lessons it is possible to clear up any misc:nceptions, and to afford additional verification and application of knowledge already gained. They are, of course, most successful when they do not simply go over the whole material in exactly the same way in which it was previously presented.

It is important that the teacher guide and instruct the pupils during the review, else the work will involve little organization and much cramming of details. In addition to the immediate and direct value to the pupils, “a carefully guided review enables the teacher to determine what desired educational results have not yet been assimilated or mastered.”**

The review lesson can eften be made more valuable and more interesting by reproducing the conditions which confront, or which later will confront, the child in actual life. An attempt has been made to do this in the accompanying sample review lesson on Infection. If, as we hope, “education is to reorganize experience, to build up knowledge, to influence intelligent activities and modes of looking at things, there must be conscious recourse to this process of correlation. That is, there must be effort directed tewsrds influencing the associations among ideas, so that knowledge may result and so that activities based upon knowledge may be assured.”***

All experts seem agreed on the value of topical outlines in connection with this type of lesson. Such outlines should be prepared by the pupils in written form and then presented to the class—preferably from memory—for discussion, modification, and reorganization under guidance of the teacher. Usually after an acceptable outline is finally evolved by the class, the headings and the more important subheadings should be memorized by the pupils.

Our readers should bear in mind that we are considering review lessons,— not the entire subject of review. It is probably

•Bagley. *'Wilson, Kyte and Lull. ***Earhart.

Digitized by
117

needless to state that review should be used as a part of most lessons. It may be used at the beginning of a lesson as an approach or introduction to the lesson; it may be used at the end of the lesson to sum up or fix the essential points; it may be a part or all of the assignment for the following lesson; and, certainly, it should be used here and there—(often by means of a single sentence of suggestion)—throughout the lesson in order to bring to consciousness material needed for the understanding of new material to be presented.

Time devoted to review is justifiable whenever the teacher feels that unification of experiences or essential subject matter is necessary.

Illustrative Lesson I

The following lesson is a review type of lesson designed for use in Grade 9A. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. As indicated at the beginning of the lesson plan, it is supposed to be the fifth in a series of lessons on the general topic: Infection.

Health Education Grade 9A Review Lesson

TOPIC: Infection—Lesson 5 (Review of four preceding lessons)

I.	Aim

General: To review health information relating to infection.

Specific: To provide a problem the solving of which will bring forth the essential facts that everyone should know concerning the common infectious diseases.

II.	Content (Taught in four preceding lessons. To be reviewed

in this lesson.)

Infections

1.	Infecting organisms

a.	Bacteria (germs)

b.	Protozoa (one-celled animals)

c.	Many-celled animals

d.	Fungi—ringworm

2.	Mode of entrance to body

a.	Respiratory tract

b.	Digestive tract

c.	The skin

3.	Transmission of diseases

a.	Direct transmission—air borne

b.	Infected water or food

c.	Hand to mouth infection

d.	Infected dish water

e.	Skin wounds

4.	Methods of prevention

a.	Community measures

b.	Individual responsibility

Digitized by LjOOQle
118

III. Method

Approach

Teacher: “Suppose you are the head of a family with two small children and you wish to move from your home in the Middle West to some town in the East near a city in which you have been given employment. A resident of Fairway has recommended that you move to his town. What would you wish to know about Fairway as a place suitable for a home?”

The pupils are invited to discuss in brief such factors as transportation facilities, labor supply, housing conditions, facilities for disposal of waste, protection against fire, play spaces, and the health index of Fairway.

Obtain from the pupils their ideas as to which factors they would select as absolutely essential if their families are to remain healthy and happy.

Lead a discussion in connection with questions similar to the following:

Can the parent in poor health work and support his family?

What about liability to accident?

How will the growth and education of children in poor health be affected?

How will poor health affect the happiness and

welfare of the family?

Organization

Have pupils make a study of the records of the Board of Health of Fairway. The following data is presented on the blackboard:

Fairway Population 5,000 Deaths during 1929

Rabies	— 2

Blood Poisoning— 7 Typhoid Fever —52 Malaria	— 1

Tuberculosis —39 Pneumonia —70

— 2

Measles Diphtheria Scarlet Fever Dysentery Industrial Accidents Other causes

—19

—25

—32

—20

—42

—20

Total 329

Approach

Teacher: “What is the death rate per 1,000 inhabitants? Compare it with our city. Is it high or low in your estima-

Digitized by

Google
119

tion? “Suppose we group the diseases into three classes according to the manner of entry into the body.”

Place the following headings on the blackboard: Resiratory: Digestive; Skin.

After the diseases have been classified, the teacher may ask:

Which class of disease predominates in Fairway?

What possible causes can we attribute to this?

What steps should be taken to remove the causes?

Outline the appropriate answers on the blackboard.

Conclusion

Have the pupils read aloud the outline on the blackboard.

Erase the outline and have the pupils repeat the headings and main subheadings from memory.

Assignment

Write a letter to the resident of Fairway who recommended that town to you stating objections to that town as a place to live; also stating the only conditions under which you would be willing to make your home there.

Illustrative Lesson II

The next lesson is also a review type of lesson but is designed for use in Grade 7A. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. As indicated at the beginning of the lesson plan, it is supposed to be the third in a series of lessons on the topic: Body Cells.

Health Education Grade 7A Textbook Review Lesson

TOPIC: Body cells—Lesson 3 (Review of two preceding lessons) Teachers’ Reference: Williams’ "Anatomy and Physiology”

Williams’ “Healthful Living”

Pupils’ Texts: Newmayer and Broome “The Human Body and Its Care”, Chapter IV Blount “Health”, Chapter 1 Winslow “Healthy Living”, Chapter 1

1.	Aim

General: To develop an understanding of the cell in its relation to growth and specialized function,.

Specific: To obtain satisfactory response to appropriate review problems which challenge the interest of the pupils.

Digitized by LjOOQle
120

II.	Content (Taught in two preceding lessons. To be reviewed

in this lesson.)

Body Cells

a.	Structure and function of body cells

1.	Sizes and shapes

2.	Composition

3.	Properties (common and specialized)

4.	Body- cells as tissue

b.	Proper foods for body cells

1. Proteins, carbohydrates, fats and oils, minerals, water (example in each class)

c.	Relation of foods to health

1. Values of foods

III.	Method

Approach

a.	Rapid oral review using such questions as “What is hygiene?”

“What are some advantages of good health?” “What should we do to be healthy and strong?” “What should we know?”

b.	Quickly draw several different kinds of cells on the blackboard. “Who can tell me what these are?” “How can we recognize them?” “Which is the cell wall? nucleus?”

Review

a.	Briefly show how the text should be used for answering assigned questions. Have paper distributed.

b.	Place the following questions on the board one at a time, allowing a stated time for the solution of each one. Be sure the pupils clearly understand what is wanted in each question.

1.	How do you explain the statement: “Cells are tiny units of living matter?”

2.	What must cells do in order to live?

3.	Show by a drawing how cells grow?

4.	What kinds of tissue do cells form?

5.	Why isn’t our body made of only one kind of tissue?

6.	What classes of foods are necessary for healthy tissues?

Name three articles of diet in each class.

7.	Give three reasons why it is necessary to eat a variety of foods.

Conclusion

Collect papers. Oral drill covering assigned questions

and any other related problems.

Digitized by CjOOQle
121

REVISING PARENTAL ATTITUDES TOWARD CHILD

LABOR.*

By Sidonie M. Gruenberg

This has been called the day of the child. Within the past few decades various reform movements have gathered momentum, focusing attention upon the child—his rights and his needs. In improved infant care, preventive hygiene, recreation and playgrounds, progressive school methods and child labor regulation, the focal point of our concern has been the conservation and amelioration of child life. Scientists and educators, statesmen, editors and publicists have, as it were, espoused the cause of childhood, and have championed it so widely as to justify the conclusion that the child is at once the most important factor and the most challenging problem in modern life.

Along with the community’s awakened consciousness has come a new attitude on the part of parents—a searching for greater knowledge and understanding with which to direct children’s physical and spiritual growth according to the laws of their own natures, on the one hand, and according to their deepest interests on the other.

As was to be expected, this new attitude has challenged the criticism of the ever-present reactionary, who decries our reforms as sentimentality, and cur revised approaches as “newT-fangled notions.”

“Our parents made a good job of bringing up their children in the good old way,” they tell us. “None of this sentimental nonsense went into our training. We helped with chores about the house until we were old enough to work, and then off to work we went. Children nowadays are too much educated and too little disciplined—they’re soft!”

Which of us has not heard that classic which the exasperated father flings at the exasperating son: “When I was your age I was working—and I knew the value of a dollar. And what’s more, at fourteen I learned a man’s discipline in a man’s job!” Or the reproach from mother to daughter: “When I was old as you are now I was helping my father at daybreak with the cows and the chickens, and helping my mother with the younger children.” You will find many persons with long, and perhaps somewhat rose-hued memory, who will tell you that the hard-worked boys and girls of these days were better disciplined and more God-fearing than adolesctents are in these days of prolonged schooling and deferred responsibility.

As a matter of fact, there is just enough truth in these claims to warrant our careful consideration of them. They should, at least, put us on our guard against accepting reforms and changes simply because they are changes. As parents, es-

•Reprint from the American Child.

Digitized by CaOOQle
122

pecially, we will have to weigh our new ways against the old ways, and be sure that the new are better and not simply newer.

Parents of today are probably not unlike parents of other generations in their desire to give their children the very best that is available for their training and well-being. We differ from our grandparents only in our point of view as to what constitutes that “best.” We have revised our attitudes towards essentials in life values in keeping with changes in ways of living. We have learned, for example, that children need freeddm as much as they need discipline—and that the two are by no means incompatible; they need play as much as they need work; they need a wider knowledge and understanding than the learning of one skill or one trade will give them; they need the wholesome give and take of association with their fellows; they need the loyalties and competitions of the athletic field and the school. And they need the whole of their youth for these things. Today, therefore, enlightened parents are insisting that the youth of their children shall not be consumed in labor that is too hard, work that is pure drudgery, and responsibilities that make them old beyond their years.

Again, parents, and educators are no longer content to dismiss from the schoolroom, and throw to the factory, as “unable to profit by further instruction,” those children who show a disinclination to master the three R’s. Instead we are learning to adjust the child’s instruction to the child’s capacity. We are beginning to bend the rigid curriculum of our traditional schoolroom, as we see the need for making education pliant as children themselves are pliant. We are demandiug that our schools offer to each individual child a kind of education that he will profit by.

The sentimental glorification of the “good old discipline of hard work” is probably well enough as far as it goes. Doubtless the children raised under its harsh regimen developed many of the sterner virtues, and, just possibly, some of the accompanying vices. But its exponents seem to be blind in two important respects. In the first place they fail to take account of the changed conditions of modern life and labor—conditions which in no way consider children’s normal interests and needs. In the second place they fail to evaluate the various physical and emotional maladjustments which accrued to those adolescents who went too early to a man’s work and a man’s responsibility.

Now, what are the legitimate work interests and needs of childhood, and how are these needs met by such of our commercial and industrial occupations as are open to child workers?

Any observant parent or teacher knows that children of practically all ages do work. In early childhood the line of de-markation between work and play is hardly discernible. The young child’s play is work. He strives as seriously at building his blocks and his sand-piles as the adult does at building his business or professional undertakings. It is his work—work of

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
123

his own choosing and along the lines of his own interest at the moment. Later the growing child comes to differentiate work from play, and to enjoy work as work. The work which he chooses is to some extent imitative—an attempt to reproduce the activities which he sees around him; but also it constitutes an expression of his own interests and desires. Probably the young child’s chief interest in work is his growing sense of mastery over the materials he is using. His chief satisfaction lies in his sense of personal achievement in bringing to successful fruition some chosen task, no matter how small, and in the acquisition of useful skills. As he grows into the teens other factors enter into his work interests; the need for self-assertion and a feeling of independence, the restless urge for new and untried experiences, the aesire to undertake some of the responsibilities and win some of the privileges of adult life. These things the adolescent seeks and should be helped to find. But does he find them in the kind of industrial or commercial job that is likely to be available to him today?

Here we come to the essential difference between children’s work and present-day child labor. Child labor has been well defined as “the labor of children which deprives them of a fair start in terms of health, play, education, and suitable work carried on under the auspices of home and school.” In other times, perhaps, when manufacturing was done by the piece and by individual workmanship, the youthful apprentice might well know the satisfaction of developing skills. But what skills are involved in standing beside a long table, ten hours each day, pasting gummed labels on small packages that come pouring from a vast machine? What sense of achievement lies in shelling shrimp—hundreds of them—day after day—for the cannery? What sense of mastery may a child achieve weeding and thinning endless rows of sugar beets? What possible vehicles for self-expression and initiative can be found in the monotonous routine functions of modern manufacture?

Even the romantic and hallowed trade of the newsboy— that traditional humble cradle of greatness—is no longer what it used to be: that of an independent young merchant. Today the newsboy is oftentimes one of a number of vendors attached to an established news stand or chain of news stands. He has an allotted comer and an allotment of papers. For him, therefore, there remains neither the thrill of adventure nor the delicious sense of independence. Few indeed are the opportunities for self-expression and personal achievement that are offered to under-educated adolescents in these days of routinized production and distribution.

Now what are the alternatives? How shall we protect our children from exploitation in modem industry, and still give them the valuable discipline of work and responsibility which our grand-

Birents extolled, and which we would by no means discard? ow shall we provide them with suitable outlets and opportuni-

Digitized by i^ooQle
124

ties for achievement, and still insure for them the broad schooling and social play that we have come to regard as necessary to their fullest development? For while the factory is certainly no place for children, neither can these young people thrive cn idleness, irresponsibility, over-protection and delayed maturing. We must protect our adolescents from the dangers of commercialized labor —certainly; but in doing so we must not rob them of the joy of work.

Assuming that economic pressure is not a factor (and many studies of working children indicate that the need for earning money is by no means the prime motive of the child laborer), children can be helped to find, both at home and at school, suitable substitutes for real work—substitutes in the form of activities that are essentially satisfying to them.

Many of our modern schools are effectively bridging the gap between the adolescent’s need for self-assertion through workmanship and society’s need for protecting the adolescent from commercial exploitation. Mere and more schools are finding ways to interest boys and girls in creative activities which are both purposeful and productive. We see the modern school developing into a sort of laboratory workshop—a place in which children, under proper supervision and guidance, may explore for themselves many kinds of work; in which they may initiate real work projects, make real things for real uses. In seme schools children run the school supply shop; in others they manufacture for sale, articles of their own designing. They print their own magazines, write and produce their own dramas and pageants, make their own scenery and costumes. Through such activities as these the schools are seeking to give children many of the work satisfactions of which they are deprived by present-day conditions in the working world.

In the home, too, and in the wider community, no less than in the schoolroom we can offer children opportunities to do real work that will bring them the joy of achievement and responsibility and still safeguard their playtime and their physical and educational well-being. The household needs many simple articles which children can make, and many services which children can do and enjoy doing, if wTe are alert to supply them with the needed materials and tools—and, at times, the suggestion.

We have found that freedom and discipline can blend in the home as they can not in the factory. As parents we are learning to give our adolescents, progressively, freedom to make their own choices and to plan and carry through their own projects; to let them participate in family councils and family decisions—not merely in family chores; and do help them find work satisfactions in suitable work substitutes until they are mature enough to vision the world’s work and their own places therein.

In these and other ways we hope to conserve for cur children much that was good in the training which “the old-fashioned discipline of hard work’’ had to give them—and still to protect them from much that was cramping and distorting in that old

Digitized by t^ooQle
125

system. At the same time, we must frankly recognize the limitations of even the best planned work activities at home and at school. At best, these can be only substitutes for real experiences, and as such they can be satisfying to children only up to a certain point. As they grow older, our boys and girls need broader contacts and a wider range than either home or school can give them. They cannot then be satisfied with make-believe realities in an artificially arranged and protected setting. They need contact with the realities of the adult world around them— a contact which, in a simpler eccnomic order, was an inherent part of growing up, but which today’s complex ways of living have made unavailable to our young people. The problem of how we may give our growing boys and girls this needed contact with real work in the real world, without exposing them to commercialized exploitation, is one which parents and educators have still to solve. So far we have found no ready solution. We know only that we cannot apply the old formulas to these new conditions—that the methods of our grandparents will not serve our children in adapting to the complexities of modem living.

We will have to change the formulas to meet their needs.

All this is not to prolong our children’s infancy, as the exponents of "hard work” infer, but rather to enrich their youth and to make possible not only a wider service to the community but also a happier adjustment of their own lives and their own work to this modem world.

A CITY-WIDE PROGRAM OF GAMES AND SPORT— THEIR ORGANIZATION AND CONTROL.

E. C. Earl, B. P. E., Director of Physical Education Y. M. C. A’S. of Calcutta and Hon. Secy. Bengal Olympic Assn.

Calcutta is perhaps unique among the cities of India in its comprehensive method of systematically controlling athletic sports. Entirely apart from semi-official control, such as is exercised by the Education Department in school physical training, or by the Corporation in the management of public playgrounds— the latter a very recent development likely soon to reach large proportions—gradually a system of control has been evolved for sports of a voluntary nature. By its use confusion or conflict is avoided, and really comprehensive season schedules made possible.

Those interested in most of the principal sports have formed their own organizations, working independently of one another but so promoting their various activities, as to avoid seasonal conflicts. Thus we find the Indian Football Association, the Calcutta Cricket Club, the Bengal Hockey Association, and numerous others, each supreme in its own domain.

Reprint from Vyayam, India

Digitized by c^ooQle
126

The Indian Football Association registers in its membership 210-20 clubs, many of which have second string teams as well as first teams. The annual tournaments arranged under its aegis thus interest some 3500 players. The football season in Calcutta lasts from April to August but the game is played throughout the monsoon season, and many a football match has been decided on the Maidan on grounds so slippery as to make the game resemble one of waterpolo for mudlarks.

The Calcutta Cricket Club enrolls something like twenty-five teams upcn its annual fixtures list, and pcssibly an equal number of independent teams carry on regular practice and play. Cricket is somewhat less closely organized than football and hcckey.

The Hcckey Association numbered last year about ninety teams and there are also many secondary teams. The past three years has seen the spread of hcckey enthusiasm to women and girls and a Women’s Hockey Association now enrolls numerous clubs.

From November to May tennis is very extensively played but much of the play takes place cn private club grounds or on household courts. Many club, inter-club, group and open Tournaments are held annually which attract the best players from all parts of India. The recent successful visit of the French team indicates the large place this game has in the minds of the people.

Swimming is also rendered a very popular sport by the abundant supply of “tanks” which are a noticeable feature of Calcutta. Twenty or more swimming clubs are in existence and the Calcutta Swimming and Sports Association has done much to advance the popularity of water sports.

Polo, golf, and rowing have also their devotees and their own respective clubs, while 1929 saw the first Annual Report of the Bengal Basketball Association, which affiliated eight clubs in its first year, with prospects of very rapid growth in the present season.

During the winter months, November to February inclusive, track and field sports hold sway. The Bengal Olympic Association, organised in 1923 primarily to select competitors to represent India at the Paris Olympiad, became in 1924 the controlling body in Bengal for organized athletics. The subsequent five-year period has been one of extension, experiment and development. Last season upwards of sixty different meetings and contests were registered on the B. O. A. books, varying from large athletic meetings to a 75-Mile Walk or a cross country run. This year that number will probably be exceeded. The date for the holding of each meeting has to be secured in advance and all are carefully coordinated to avoid conflict. Many of the most important meetings are held on the Maidan and the necessity recurring over and over every season, of measuring and laying out running tracks and digging and refilling jumping pits, has glaringly emphasied Calcutta’s urgent need of a central stadium with

Digitized by CjOOQle
127

a permanent cinder track. So far the apparent impossibility of securing a central location has prevented the materialization of this dream.

Besides the formation of the athletic calendar, the B. O. A. maintains jurisdiction over the amateur standing of athletes, and keeps a careful record of all outstanding achievements each season, together with a register of qualified officials. As a result, the athletic season in Calcutta becomes a unified series of correlated activities, and through the B. O. A. the gospel of clean sport is constantly promoted and pot-hunting and other forms of professionalism are discouraged.

To this end also the B. 0. A. has published a Handbook of athletic rules which should do much to educate the public generally to the conditions under which modern athletic contests are held.

In the Calcutta Maidan the city enjoys a unique privilege. It is a great grassy expanse, two to two-and-a-half miles in length and a half-mile to a mile in breadth surrounding Fort William and extending along the Hoogly river. It is centrally located and easily accessible frcm all parts of the city by tram, bus, bicycle or motor. By military regulations no permanent structure may be erected upon it, but years ago the policy was adopted of leasing small patches of ground to responsible athletic organizations at a nominal annual rental, and under strict police regulations. These include the absolute dismantling of all the tents and removal of all material during a specified fortnight each year. Originally unoccupied land, the Maidan now contains many beautiful tennis lawns, cricket pitches and football fields and is dotted over with the green canvas tents of many clubs and organizations, every available bit of land being occupied with a long waiting list of clubs deserving places. Of almost any Saturday afternoon in the year the Calcutta Maidan presents a scene of athletic activity probably unrivalled in the world.

While it cannot be maintained that anything like perfection has been reached, the experience of Calcutta shows that athletics in the larger Indian cities may be controlled by a carefully thought out plan administered by a strong organization, to the mutual benefit of all concerned; with the result of the extension and promotion of the best ideals of athletic sport and a growing interest therein on the part of the public.

MAKE YOUR SUMMER PLANS.

By LeRoy A. Wilkes, M. D.

Director, Division of Medical Service American Child Health Association

June days mark the approach of Summer with its problems concerning the children. Schools are soon to close and these last few weeks will be devoted to intensive study for the final examinations which come at the end of the school year—at a

Digitized by CjOOQle
128

time when the children are already tired. This realization should cause us to consider plans for their summer recreation—or more properly their re-creation. Some persons in the larger cities think of recreation in terms of the gymnasium and supervised playgrounds, but there are many ways and places which offer recreation to even the poorest child. The ordinarily lively boy and girl need a strenuous outdoor program to provide an outlet for the abundant energy which will quickly be restored in a well conducted summer camp.

The anemic and less robust children do best under the lazy life of the ocean beaches, where they can lie in the warm sun and on the warm sand and breathe deeply of the pure air which will bring them renewed vigor for the next school year.

Small children do well at the seashore too, especially if the family are fortunate enough to have a cottage to themselves. Small children and babies are much more comfortable and happy in a cottage while at the seashore than in hotel rooms.

Country places with big lawns and shade trees, are fine places for children in the summer time, especially if water be nearby for bathing, fishing and boating. These provisions need not be elaborate and expensive. A farm house with a hay loft in the bam, a swimming hole in the creek, and a fishing pole cut from the willows provide a summer recreation fully as beneficial and enjoyable for children as a yacht and a mansion at Newport.

One must be sure that the water and milk supply have been recently tested and are supervised as to safety and purity. This is an established function of a good health department. In rural areas where a local health department is lacking or does not carry on this work, the State Health Department may be called upon for such examination and report. Do not trust a source of supply, the purity of which is not assured. Typhoid inoculations will protect your child in such emergencies but this should not justify the continued use of water or milk from questionable sources of supply.

Clothing is usually not so important for health in the summer time. Usually the less one wears, the better while the warm sun is out. Of course there is a decided difference between being burned by the sun and being tanned by the sun. Any kind of bum is painful and undesirable, and should be avoided whenever possible. Children need not be directly in the glare of the sun as reflected sunlight from the water and sand are efficacious and preferable in the early stages of exposure. The first exposures should be short and the time gradually increased to avoid sunburn. Air-baths are refreshing and stimulating when properly taken. One should be comfortable at all times. Sweaters for the cooler evenings are a necessity at times, and plenty of refreshing sleep is an important part of the re-creation program.

In the quiet,, cool nights in the country or at the seashore, energy is restored and the excess over immediate needs is stored against the demands of the coming winter.

Digitized by CaOOQle
129

Freshly grown vegetables and fruits when well prepared and attractively served—satisfy the increasing appetite which delights all parents, and this is not the least of the summer’s contributions to the recreation program.

A program of some sort should be definitely prepared for your child and this program should be flexible enough to meet the conditions which prevail and even those which may arise. At times even such a program may profitably be entirely suspended for a definite period of time, in favor of another plan. But most dissatisfaction in children comes from having no plan whatever. If the children are old enough to do so, they should endeavor to work out a program of their own and talk their plans over with their parents. Good times are planned for in advance. It is usually the undesirable things which happen of their own accord.

CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS

On March 24, 1930, the following form letter was sent to 67 cities over 100,000 population:

"There is in preparation in St. Paul at the present time a new City Charter. One of the articles of the new Charter provides for the use of School Playgrounds and School Equipment after school hours by another City Department— the Department of Recreation.

At the present time the Public Playgrounds and Parks are not under the School Department but under a separate City Department. It has been my contention that all recreational activities should properly be combined with the Department of Schools.

Will you kindly answer the following questions, in order that I may be able to submit to the Charter Committee some comparative data:

(1)	Are your Public Playgrounds under the School Department in your City?

(2)	Are your School Playgrounds after school hours under the supervision of the School Department?

(3)	Or are they under the supervision of another City Department?

(4)	Are your School Buildings, after school hours, under the supervision of the School Department, when used for Community Service Work?

(5)	Do you believe that public recreation should be combined with the Department of Schools?

The large number of responses received from every section of the country permit us to draw authoritative conclusions on the various questions respecting the practices in cities over 100,000 population.

Digitized by Google
130

On Question (1) the result shows 7 cities having Playgrounds under the School Department and 48 under another City Department, with Minneapolis and Philadelphia having Public Playgrounds under both. Present practice therefore, in our large cities places public Recreation under a special City Department.

Questions 2 and 3 on the Supervision of School Playgrounds after school hours show 34 under the School Department and 22 under another City Department with several cities qualifying their statement.

Question No. 4 on the use of School Buildings after school hours, show 45 cities retaining supervision in the school department and 8 cities having the supervision by other City Departments.

Question No. 5 asking for an opinion on the advisability of combiniug all Recreational activities with the School Department shows 40 in favor of this proposition and 10 opposed—certainly a very decided majority-opinion.

L. R. S. Ferguson Commissioner of Education

J.	W. Smith Research Statistician St. Paul, Minn.

Gymnasium and playgroun D

HOT SHOT

By Rachel Yale

Equipment—8 Indian Clubs —2 Basket Balls

The Indian clubs are arranged in groups of four, three inches between each club, and four feet between each group. Thus:

J3” J3” J3” J 4 ft. J3” J3” J3” J

The entire length of the gym is used. The clubs are at one end, and the players are at the other.

The class is numbered off in twos, and each individual is allowed three shots each trial. There are two goal keepers, who may also be the score keepers. The goal keepers are appointed by the teacher, and they stand behind the Indian clubs to return the balls to the players.

Digitized by GiOOQle
131

The ball is rolled with an underarm throw, and the players should with practise and careful sighting, be able to knock either one or all of the clubs down. The clubs are always replaced by the goal keepers. If the ball of one side knocks the Indian clubs down on the opposing side, the points go to the side whose Indian clubs were knocked down. Here is where the goal keepers figure greatly for it is their duty to rescue their ball before it has touched the opponents clubs. Each club knocked down counts one point.

“Hot Shot” demands accuracy of each player, and as the game progresses excitement and fascination rise with great speed.

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES FOR BODE EXPRESSIONAL

GYMNASTICS.

Herman Groth, M. D., Supervisor Grade School Physical Education, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Knee-dipping and Arm-swinging

Group I

1.	Swing arms forward and backward

2.	Swing arms upward and backward

3.	Starting position: Raise arms forward Swing arms backward and forward

4.	Starting position: Raise arms forward Swing arms backward and upward Close-stand, arms at sides

5.	Starting position: Raise arms forward

Knee dipping three times and straighten on 4. (Heels remain on floor)

6.	Starting position: Arms forward—Raise

Knee dipping and swing arms backward and forward. Let the arms swing naturally

7.	Starting position: Arms forward—Raise

Knee dipping two times, drop down to deep knee bending position (relaxed position), straighten on 4. (Heels remain on floor)

8.	Starting position: Arms forward—Raise

Deep knee bending, dipping two times and straighten knees on 4

9.	Starting position: Arms fore-upward—Raise

Repeat Exercise 8, but let arms drop down and swing up again

10.	Starting position; To side stride—Jump Repeat Exercises 5 to 9 in side stride stand

Digitized by CaOOQle
132

11.	Starting position: Stride left foreward, place left hand on left knee, bend body forward a little, raise right arm backward

Knee dipping and swing right arm forward and backward

12.	As 11, but opposite side

13.	As 11, but arm circle forward

14.	As 13, but opposite side

15.	Starting position: Side stride stand, arms obliquely side-upward, left

Bend both knees and swing arms downward and obliquely

side-upward right and return

Same beginning from the right side

Note: There must be no stop in the arm swinging

16.	Starting position: Side stride stand, arms obliquely side-upward, left

Knee dipping, transfer weight to right leg, raise left heel, with the same arm swing as in 15.

17.	As 16, but with 1-2 arm circle. (The arms are now obliquely side-upward, right

Without a stop, begin to the opposite side

18.	Starting position: Close stand, body bent forward a little and arms obliquely fore-upward

Two double arm circles backward, knee dipping with arm swinging downward, backward and forward to position, 4 counts

19.	As 18, with knee dipping cn the two arm circles

20.	As 19, but with heel raising on knee dipping

Group II

1.	Starting position: Stride left forward, bend left knee, bend trunk forward a little and place left hand on left knee Raise right arm backward

Swing right arm forward and backward with knee-dipping 3 times and arms circle backward to forward position, 1—8 Repeat from the forward position, 9—16 Repeat the same exercise with the left arm The same exercise with both arms

2. Starting position: Side stride stand. Arms sideward— Raise!

Swing both arms inward and outward with knee-dipping 3 times and arm circle outward to position inward, 1—8 Repeat from the inward position, 9—16

3. Starting position: Stride left forward, left hand on left knee, right arm backward

Digitized by
133

Swing right arm forward and backward with knee-dipping 2 times, 1—4

4	arm circles backward, 5—8

Swing right arm backward and forward with knee-dipping 2 times, 9-12

4 arm circles forward, 13-16 Repeat

The same exercise with the left arm The same exercise with both arms

4.	Starting position: Stride left forward and raise arm forward

Swing right arm backward and 1 1-2 arm circle backward

to forward position, 1—8, with knee-dipping

Repeat

The same exercise with the left arm

5.	Starting position: Stride left forward and raise right arm forward

Swing right arm backward, forward, backward, and 1 1-2

arm circle backward, 1-5, with knee-dipping

Repeat

The same exercise with the left arm The same exercise with both arms

6.	Starting position: Stride left forward and raise right arm backward

Swing right arm forward and 1 1-2 arm circle forward to

backward position, 1—3, with knee-dipping

Repeat

The same exercise with left arm

7.	Starting position: Stride left forward and raise right arm backward

Swing right arm forward, backward, forward and 1 1-2 arm

circle forward, 1-5, with knee-dipping

Repeat

The same exercise with the left arm

8.	Starting position: Stride left forward and raise right arm backward

Side-stride stand; both arms obliquely side upward right Bend left knee, bend trunk forward, swing arms downward and sideward obliquely upward left with straightening of knee and trunk

Swing arms downward to position right Repeat

The same exercise opposite

Digitized by v^,ooQle
CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By E. V. Graves, Director of Physical and Health Education, Virginia.

Tabulation of answers to questionnaires sent to State Directors Directors of Physical and Health Education.

QUESTIONS	Questionnaire No 1.  Present Practice				Questionnaire No. 2. Directors’ Opinion.			
	Yes	No Vanes		Totil	Yes	| Ho	Comments	
Does credit count							Graded on:	
for promotion?		8	\		16			"mprovement,	2
Should credit count							Attitude and	
for promotion? 						15	2	Attendance,	1 *
Does credit count							Time	
for graduation?		9	5	1	15			Allotment,	2
Should credit count							Definite	
for graduation?						15	2	requirements,	6
Is credit required								
for graduation?		9	f		15				
Should it he required								
for graduation?						14	3		
Should Phys. and							Value: In 16 un.	
Health Ed. fce graded							One unit in	
as one subject?		9	4	1	14	10	6	four years, 9.	
Should they be graded							Over and above	
as separate subjects		4				4		16 required,	1
Is the credit given for Phys.							Value: One unit	
and Health Edu. included in							each,	3
the 16 required credits?		8	£	3	16	13	5	One-half ea.	1
							Recognized as	
Over and above 16?		8	4	1	13	6	9	other subjects,	6
Creditable course in							Classification,	
Phys. Edu. required for ac-							One of 7 cardinal	
credited high school		11	5		15	1		objectives of Edu. 2	
Is credit accepted							Basis: On creditable	
for Coll, entrance?		2	11					H. S. course,	7
Should it be acptd.?					15	1		Medical & Phys.	
							tests,	2
							Accred. by St.	2
							Supervisor.	

West Virginia and Florida are the only States listing Colleges that accept credit within requirement.

Digitized by v^ooQle
135

17TH ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE MIDDLE WEST

SOCIETY

The seventeenth annual convention of the Middle West Society of Physical Education was held March 26 to 29 in Milwaukee with headquarters at the Hotel Schroeder.

It was one of the most successful conventions of its kind. The spirit of the general assembly and the enthusiasm shown during the sectional meetings was exceptional. The officers of the association and the convention committee should be highly commended for the splendid way in which all details were managed.

On Wednesday March 26, general registration and visitation of the Milwaukee schools occupied the time of the delegates. The first general session took place at 8:00 P. M. with Mr. Edwin Hoppe, Supervisor of Physical Education of the Milwaukee schools, presiding. Greetings from Miss Lee, the president, and an inspiring talk by Dr. Maroney, President of the American Physical Education Association, on "The Future of Health and Physical Education” were the high lights of the evening.

Thursday morning began with sectional meetings. Dr. Maroney addressikl the public school section with a talk on "Character Values in Health Education”. Some of the main points of his talk were well worth remembering. “Teachers must put aside pet hobbies and give the children such a varied program of activities that all children may develop their inherent capacities. Many teachers pass up the boy or girl in their zeal to do something new.” How true this is in this age of hobbies and ideas and wide varieties of so-called systems of physical education. He further stated, “If you want boys and girls to reach the heights, set them climbing. Don’t make the road too easy!”

At the general assembly later in the morning, a new system of assistance to physical educators was explained. Experts in the various phases of physical education work were introduced to the audience. Late in the afternoon these people were stationed in various rooms where teachers needing help in special problems could go for consultation.

Miss Marjorie D’Houbler of Wisconsin University, gave those interested an opportunity to take part in some rhythmical work used to prepare girls for dancing.

Dr. Dennison, also of Wisconsin, gave an interesting demonstration supplemented by motion pictures showing how physical exams are conducted in the University of Wisconsin.

The main feature of the evening was the big banquet followed by a dance. Mr. J. E. Rogers was toastmaster, and the speakers were Mr. Arthur Upton, Miss Clare Small, and Mr. Delbert Oberteuffer.

On Friday morning, the general assembly was addressed by Mr. Vaughn Blanchard, Director of Health Education in Detroit; Dean William Scott of Chicago University; and Mr. George Fish-

Digitized by v^ooQie
136

er, Deputy Chief Scout of America. Dean Scott’s address was of particular interest. “Changing Student Attitude in Regard to Athletics” was the subject of the address. He pointed out that the interest in the big games is decidedly waning. No longer is the winning football team the center of the college universe. Students really pay very little attention to the results of the teams. In general, athletics has gone through three stages. From 1890 to 1910 we passed through the “Rah! Rah!” stage; from 1910 to 1924 came the “Big Business” stage, and since 1924 the waning stage has set in: The East has passed through the first two stages and is now showing comparatively little interest in the “big games”. The Middle West is still in the "Big Business” stage, while the West is in its sports’ infancy and remains in the "Rah! Rah!” stage.

The sectional meetings at 11:00 Friday morning were unusually interesting. The teacher section with Dean Rath as chairman had a spirited discussion of the Report of the Committee of the American Physical Education Association on the Curriculum for teacher training schools. Miss Frances Mussel-man of the Chicago Normal School was the leader in the discussion.

The Orthopedic Section with Miss Denniston as chairman spent a very interesting hour listening to Dr. John S. Coulter of Northwestern University speak on “Muscle Training in the Treatment of Paralysis” and hearing Miss Marjorie Taylor, Advisory Director of the Junior League Curative Workshop of Milwaukee. Miss Taylor had some very good slides which demonstrated the results obtained through the use of occupational therapy to correct bodily defects. It looks as if we are only beginning to realize that the body is a whole. To get the best results, the patient as a unit must be considered rather than a defect in any one body part. Motion pictures of the individual work done in the Los Angeles Orthopedic Hospital under the direction of Dr. C. L. Lowman were interesting and instructive. Most of the children treated have had paralysis. A great deal of the most constructive work with them is done in swimming pools.

The convention luncheon held Friday noon was unusually attended. The chief feature of the luncheon was the appreciation shown of the work of Mr. Elmer Mitchell who retired as secretary-editor to become secretary-treasurer and editor for the national association. A set of golf clubs was presented to him as a token of the appreciation of the association.

On Friday evening an exhibition by Milwaukee school children, La Crosse Normal, Marquette University and Wisconsin University physical education students was enjoyed by a large audience.

Saturday morning marked the end of the convention. The new officers were announced. President, Emil Rath, Normal College, A. G. U.; Vice president, Miss Blanche Trilling, Wisconsin University; Secretary-treasurer, Dr. C. E. Molander, Chicago University.

Digitized by CaOOQle
137

THE BOSTON CONVENTION.

The thirty-fifth annual convention of the American Physical Education Association was held in Boston, April 1 to 5. Mr. Carl Schrader was the general chairman of the Convention Comit-tee. He and his group deserve to be complimented on the successful manner in which this convention was conducted. It was the largest ever held, the attendance being somewhere around 2500. Many students were present from the five teacher training schools in the vicinity of Boston.

Because of their historical interest, a great many trips were scheduled to points about Boston. These began on Tuesday. The convention proper began with registration on Wednesday and continued until Saturday noon.

If one were to attempt to describe this convention in a few words, one would say that it consisted of a combination of earnest and instructive lectures, very humorous talks, fair demonstrations, and little discussion. This latter is to be regretted.

There were the usual general sessions alternated with sectional meetings. It was not possible for any one to listen to all of the outstanding speakers which were scheduled for often two equally strong speakers were on the program at the same time.

Dr. Maroney acquitted himself in his usual manner by delivering a humorous and inspiring talk. An interesting paper was that of Abby H. Turner, Professor of Physiology, Mount Holyoke College, on “The Circulatory Reaction in Standing”. Standing seems to be a test that gives a fair indication of the condition of the circulatory mechanism. Eugene C. Howe, Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education, Wellesley College, presented some interesting facts on "The Effect of Training and Fatigue on Resistance to Infection.” Conclusions based on his investigations indicate that spontaneous activity rather than forced activity is most effective in increasing resistance to fatigue and to infection. Professor Kilpatrick’s lecture on “How Education Looks at Physical Education,” was interesting but rather long. He spoke upon the trends and new emphasis in education with reference to goodness in its varied interpretations and on the function of physical education with reference to enrichment of life through activity. Dean Holmes of the School of Education, Harvard University, followed him but cut his remarks rather short. He deplored the emphasis on exhibitionism involving only a few students and the overemphasis on the survival philosophy. The end of life is not merely to survive but to do things, to create, to improve civilization.

The banquet was the most interesting of its kind the writer ever attended. Miss Wayman’s and Miss Trilling’s talks were full of fun but also contained hidden in the humorous presentation, many aspects of the serious side of our work. A new addition to our banquets was the presentation on the stage of the evolution of physical education. It showed the activity costumes

Digitized by U^ooQLe
138

of different periods and was given a humorous coloring. It was indeed funny and very much enjoyed by the audience.

There were so many excellent lectures presented on such a large variety of subjects that it is impossible to do them justice in a brief description. The Consultation Service was also a part of the convention program, the same as in Milwaukee.

The convention reunion luncheon was held on Thursday. A great many institutions were represented. Each school was called upon to rise and- the others responded with vigorous applause. The next National Convention will be held in Detroit some time in the Spring of 1931.

E.	RATH.

BOOK REVIEWS

“The Deeper Meaning Of Physical Education” by Eugene Matthias, Professor of Biology of Physical Education, University of Munich, translated by Carl L. Schrader. Published by A. S. Barnes Company, New York City. Price $1.00.

The author lays down as a basic principle that physical education consists of the functioning of the muscles but that it must also be a medium of expression. The physical as well as the psychical meaning must be studied.

The essence of physical education is first of all body building, or the work of the muscles. Increased circulation, metabolism, better posture, and strength of bone are all the results of proper contraction and relaxation of the muscles. With the directing force of the nervous system, all the different forms of activity may be of value, though in varied ways. These various combinations of nerve impulses and muscle contraction make every conceivable progression possible.

The author is not in accord with the view that a system of exercise need only be physically experienced in order to be also organically correct. However, for the present it may be set down as a fact that physical activities only then reach their highest “body-sense” when the psychic experience is directed toward a joyous, satisfying goal. The form in which this experience is found differs from man to man.

Physical achievements have their limitations. The boundaries are staked by the inherited physical and mental tendencies which have set definite limits, such as body height, organic power of muscle, heart, etc., which may not be overstepped without harm. To these the various types of physical activity must be fitted if the most favorable result is to be obtained.

Periodic growth sets another limitation. This growth is described by the author as “physical and developmental rhythms” after which the problems of physical education during the years of development are discussed. For childhood training, attention is called to the definite demands made by Locke, Pestilozzi, and

Digitized by UjOOQle
139

Rousseau. Biologically conceived, instruction in physical education is more effective in training the intellect than is abstract instruction.

During adolescence rapid growth, especially the cardiac crisis and many other factors, must be considered. The period of pubescence is also the period for abstraction and intelligence. The school puts in over-high pressure to take advantage of this fact. Physical education must aim to lessen the nervous tension in the adolescent by giving exercise that is familiar or, once learned, takes an automatic character.

The author then goes into the so-called physical problems of adolescence, especially the doctrine of sub-consciousness. Recognizing their importance, the author feels that physical education activities are best suited to lighten the struggle of youth with these problems. The final ideal is neither that of Nietzsche, of training for strong individuality only, nor that of Fichte, which emphasizes self-forgetfulness and self-sacrifice for the fellow man, but a blending of the two. After all, physical education should be a mental training for the young so that the mind masters the body in form and movement, and for vigorous living. Jahn, the vigorous fighter for clean bodies and minds, is quoted in support of this.

There is finally a short chapter on the problems of late adolescence. Healthy competition is urged as the best means of training strong personalities.

The last chapter is called Decision. Gymnastics as well as sports are given a place, each having its advantages for certain types of people.. The third system, rhythmics, may also be of great value as affording an outlet or medium of expression to a great many people.

The first outlook is that physical education, biologically conceived, must become an affair of an entire people and the state, if not the race. No system in itself is either good or lasting, only so when considered in connection with the person who practices it.

The book does not make easy reading. In many places it is stimulating rather than enlightening. Much that is already well known is re-stated. The problems of adolescence receive much emphasis: their solution, however, is not made so clear. One misses reference to G. S. Hall's writings in this respect.

It must be kept in mind that the book has been written for a country which has had much more experience and progress in physical education than the United States. Rhythmics, soul expression, and divine subconsciousness are phases hardly experienced in this country. The problem of getting the automobile riding Yankees to do some physical work must perhaps be met in a more practical way. On the other hand, as mere speculative theories, these things will be well understood over here.

But the spirit of the book is fine, and its contents are applicable to any civilized country. The chief point made is that

Digitized by Google
140

physical education has, or should have, a deeper meaning than mere physiological reaction. It seems strange that the author makes no reference to the deeper bond that has held the German Turners together.

No evidence is offered in the realm of the so-called psychic meaning. On the other hand, there is no dogmatic opinion, nor a belittling of what has been done before in physical education. In this respect the book is a notable exception from many modem writings. Through every line of the book the reader feels that what has been written has been experienced by the author, a practical teacher with a scientific mind, who is also an enthusiast and a visionary.

—

NEW, NOTES AND COMMENTS

Physical Education in France. A report from France gives the following number of societies and associations organized for physical education purposes. Football with 3468 societies, Sharpshooting 3500 societies, Turners 1888 associations, Athletics 1881 associations, Bicycle clubs 1410.

Recreation facilities. A resolution was recently passed in the legislature of Prussia asking that the minister of state to take necessary steps to acquire a sufficiently wide strip of land on the shores of all lakes and of the sea so that this may be used for recreation purposes by all citizens.

German Turnfest. The next national Tumfest in Germany will be held in Stuttgart 1933. A central committee consisting of the representatives of the 19 Turn societies of the city recently met and attacked its first problem, the raising of 500,000 M. (about $125,000) by the end of April. Of this sum the city of Stuttgart is expected to give 300,000 M. and the Turners the balance of 200,000 M.

International Labor Sport Federation. This federation recently published a report showing that it has 360,000 members in 18 countries gathered in 21212 societies. Arranged by countries the federation embraces the following countries: Germany with 15730 societies and 119521 members, Austria with 2667 societies and 272,795 members, Tschecho Slovakia with 154,337 members, Finland with 38716 members, Switzerland with 23086 members, Poland with 21000 members, Denmark with 20500 members, France with 19000 members, Belgium with 10400 members, and the following countries with less than 5000 members, Palastine, England, Holland, Lettland, Rumania, Jusoslovakia, Hungary, America and Estland.

Digitized by