MIND AND BODY

Vol. 20.	JUNE,	1913.	Mo	220

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAV; Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

P. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University. Cambridge, Mask.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

ftditonal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PLAYGROUND SURFACING.

By W. D. CHAMPLIN, Philadelphia, Pa.

In presenting the subject of Playground surfacing, I feel that we have a subject that presents ap big a problem as any connected with our playgrounds. We have discussed programs, apparatus, leaders and social phased until we are all 'about agreed on those questions. The playground surface is an equipment quite as essential as any other apparatus or phase of work connected with playgrounds. In discussing playground surfacing,- we have the same first consideration as in all other subjects. Finance, initial cost, durability, maintenance.

In discussing the kind of surface for a playground, I am sure we are all agreed that a grass surface is ideal, it is delightful to the eye, it is decorative, it produces a soft soothing atmosphere which is restful even on the hottest day. But what of its durability and maintenance? On a playground patronized by a large number of people, it is simply impossible. In Berlin, Germany, on a park playfield, play is only permitted three days a week, for the purpose of protecting the grass. But we cannot subscribe to such a condition. We must have our playgrounds in operation at least six days per week, in many cases seven and 14 hours a day. We must, therefore, give* up our grass ideal, knowing that it very soon degenerates into a mud field during wet weather, and creates clouds of dust during dry weather.

As a grass surface does not seem possible, we will nest consider the treatment of any surface which might happen to be extant. We have all read of various compositions designed for road building, in which claims are made for binding qualities and the elimination of dust. I have no doubt each one will meet all the requirements claimed, hut road surfacing and playground surfacing are not in the same class, they are quite different, the requirements for one are quite distinct from the other. Road surfacing requires a hard smooth non-resilient surface to withstand traction friction. Playground surfacing should be

* Bead at the meeting of the Playground and Becreation Association of America, Bichmond, Va., May ,1913.

Digitized by V.ooQle
— 130 —

soft, porous, yet firm enough to run and romp about on without digging holes or creating clouds of dust. Many of these road building compositions are of oil ingredients- and if used on any kind of a surface, immediately make the use of the playground impossible for several days, until the surface has absorbed it. If on a clay or other loam surface it creates a crust varying in thickness, which is very readily broken through and during a protracted dry spell the wear and tear of large groups playing thereon, powders quickly and creates a condition that causes clouds of dust to fiy with each balmy breeze. If you attempt to sprinkle with water a surface thus treated you immediately put the playground out of commission because it then becomes an oily mud field, staining everything it comes in contact with, and causing indignation and resentment against the playground in all of the parents of the children and neighbors immediately surrounding the playground;

In Philadelphia we met all of these conditions, tried the various compositions recommended until finally we created from the experience gained a specification to meet the peculiar needs of a playground. A-mong the various compositions tried was one known by the trade name of glutrin. Glutrin is a refined by-product of the wood pulp industry known as the sulfite process, there is dissolved from the tree or from any other vegetable that may be used, all of the lignin. This is soluble in certain chemicals and these chemicals are used by pulp makers so that they may rid the cellulose, the material needed for the manufacture of paper, from all of the soluble material mixed with it.

It is chemically known as a “calcium-magnesium-ligno-sulfonate.”

It is a thick, adhesive liquor, and in color, generally appears not unlike molasses. It is very soluble in water and, therefore, by proper dilution or by the after effect of rain on treated surfaces, can be caused to penetrate very thoroughly and evenly into the ground over which it has been sprinkled. On drying it acts like a powerful adhesive.

In addition to its action as an adhesive when it dries, and this action cannot be repeated almost indefinitely, as it is an extremely powerful bond, so that when moistened with water and again dried it once more adheres and continues to thus re-cement and re-cement almost indefinitely, it produces a chemical action on all of the materials used for road or playground surfaces.

Being an organic compound, it, in common with many other such compounds, as is well known to chemists, is but loosely bound together and in course of time it is so separated that some of its component parts attack the silicates in the stone and slag grit, gravel, etc., causing these silicates to decompose and liberating a form* of colloidal or gelatinous silica that acts as a permanent and waterproof bond.

This action takes place the better when the glutrin solution is very weak so that its very solubility in water is the point that makes it of greatest value in ultimately forming a permanent bond in the surface.

It practically has no effect whatsoever on grass, vegetation and trees. If anything, it has a beneficial result as it has a slight germicidal action and a small fertilizing value. As a matter of fact it

Digitized by Google
—131 —

will not harm anything that would not be spoiled by plain water and this is an advantage that counts on a playground where we come in contact with parents and neighbors immediately surrounding our playgrounds.

The approximate cost per gallon?

In quantities of less than a carload the material is sold at 15 cents per gallon of 10y2 pounds.

In carload lots, the price is 14 cents per gallon with freight allowed to the consumer’s nearest railway siding. Each carload contains about 3200 gallons.

In tank cars containing about 6,000 gallons the price is 12 cents per gallon, with freight allowed to the consumer’s nearest freight station.

The approximate cost of spreading is a very difficult question to answer, as the cost will vary very greatly with the size of the playground to be treated. It might, however, be taken as approximately 1 cent per square yard.

The proportions of the mixture of the water and glutrin depend almost entirely on the character of the soil, whether it be for the first, second or third time of spreading, although the mixture should be more diluted for the second and third times than for the first time.

As a rule, the amount of glutrin required for the first treatment of a playground will vary from 1-2 to 6-10 of a gallon per square yard, and the mixture, as a rule, should be 2 parts of water to 1 part of glutrin.

On succeeding treatments the amount of glutrin required will, as a rule, be from 0.2 to 0.3 of a gallon per square yard, and about 3 parts of water to 1 part of glutrin should be used.

Even with the splendid results obtained from the use of Glutrin we still found that with clay, loam, sandy or other earthy surfaces, the. play area could not be used for several hours and sometimes days after a shower or heavy rain, and if we would use the playground continuously we must still provide a material that would permit its use immediately after raining.

Working on that theory, we first discovered that a very necessary condition was drainage, and we are here reminded of advice given by a very prominent engineer on road building, who said “There are three cardinal points in road building, 1st drainage, 2nd drainage, and 3rd drainage” and the advice is just as applicable to playground surfacing as to road building. Then, if drainage is so important, it was necessary to so grade the surface that water would run to points where it could be carried off into the sewer; next that the material used should be sufficiently porous to absorb any surplus moisture thereby permitting the use of the area, for play immediately after a raining.

With those three points in mind, the following specification was prepared for a playground about to be improved.

The entire plot of ground was graded to a sub-grade of 17 inches below the finished grade and compacted by rolling with a heavy steam roller. It was then refilled with hard coal cinders (not ashes) 12

Digitized by CjOOQie
—132 —

inches in depth after rolling with a 5 ton steam roller. The cinders being thoroughly wet down before and during rolling, and then a layer of clean hard crushed natural stone grit-screenings 5 inches in depth after being rolled to a perfect grade with a 5 ton steam roller, being thoroughly wet while being rolled and rolled continuously until the surface presented an even unbroken surface true to the grades given by survey stakes furnished by a surveyor, these grades being such, that conducted water to inlets situated on the outer edge of the playground at various points. Over the surface thus obtained was spread Glutrin not less than 1-2 gallon or more .than 6-10 gallon per square yard in a mixture of 2 parts water and 1 part Glutrin.

This proved a most satisfactory surface, no dust, no mud and the playground always usable within 15 or 20 minutes after the most severe storm. This surface has now been in use about 2 years and has only required a few wagon loads of stone grits in the spring to level off certain areas worn by excessive use and an additional treatment of Glutrin of a mixture less in quantity than in the original treatment.

The question will now be asked, what did the surfacing cost? I ; might say it cost more at that time than it would today, because we ‘ have learnt something. To take the figures upon which this work was • done it would figure out as follows, the area treated was about 8,000 square yds. the estimate of the contractor for excavating, re-filling, rolling, building inlets and connecting to sewer was about $5,960, giving 72 cents per square yard or 8 cents per square foot.

We have found that it is not necessary to excavate so deep, that 10 inches would be quite enough, re-filling with cinders 6 or 7 inches when rolled and with 3 to 4 inches of stone or furnace slag grits and | then treated with glutrin. In fact on one playground we are only excavating to a sub grade of 3 inches in depth because the present 6ur- j face is sufficiently porous to permit of water percolating through, answering the same purpose as filled in hard coal cinders, but always keeping in mind the cardinal points of surface grading, namely, drainage.

As it should always be the aim to have the play surface on an even grade, or, in other wards, as nearly level as possible, the amount of grade to drain the surface should not be excessive or very marked, because if the grade is severe, with a heavy rain fall the rush of water on such a grade will cause, wash-outs or gulleys, also, such a surface does not lend itself freely to play as it affects the players to a marked degree. We have confined ourselves to a grade of % of an inch per foot, dividing the area in such a way that the grade is not perceptible.	I

In conclusion, it is quite evident that we cannot have grass as a playground surface, and where we are forced to use an earth of any kind we have found the treatment of the same with glutrin more satisfactory than with any other compound. For an all-round, every day use surface the following specification is recommended:

The entire plot (with such exceptions as may be required in each particular case) to be graded to a sub-grade of ten (10) inches, below the finished grade as shown on the plans.

Digitized by ejOOQle
— 133 —

This surface so made is to be carefully, though not accurately, leveled, and is then to be compacted by rolling with a steam roller of not less than 5 tons in weight.

All soil or waste material resulting from this grading to be taken away and disposed of.

Then spread over this surface sufficient hard coal cinders so that after rolling with a steam roller of not less than five (5) tons in weight there will be a thickness of five (5) inches.

The cinders must be thoroughly wet before and during rolling.

The rolling may be done in one layer.

Then place on top of the cinders a sufficient depth of stone screenings so that after wet rolling with a steam roller of not less than five (5) tons in weight, and bringing the surface to the grades given by the District Surveyor, there will be a thickness of not less than five (5) inches of this stone screenings.

After this surface has been sufficiently and properly rolled the entire surface must be sprinkled with a mixture of glutrin and water nntil one-half (y2). gallon of glutrin has been absorbed by each square yard of the surface, the proportion of mixture to be 2 parts water/ 1 part glutrin.

SWIMMING IN THE BUFFALO PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By C. H. BUKKHARDT,

Director of Physical Training, Buffalo, New York.

Candidates desiring to qualify as swimming instructors, must possess the following qualifications:	(a)	Graduation from a high school,

or an equivalent education; and (b) Satisfactory experience as a swimming instructor.

The examination embraces the following scope:

(a)	Written examination:	This	includes	questions	on general hy- .

giene, first aid' to the injured, management and care Of swimming pools and shower baths, and methods and principles of teaching swimming in the public schools.

(b)	Class teaching and practical demonstration of personal skill: This last part of the examination calls for a class lesson to pupils of different grades and ages involving land drill and water exercises. The candidate is also called upon to demonstrate the different strokes, such as side, crawl, overhand, etc. He also is required to demonstrate the correct methods of swimming and diving and to show his skill in saving a drowning person and resuscitating such a person.

The ’salary paid special teachers in swimming is:	male $900.00

and female $500.00 annually. Time required to .teach is three hours per day. We have now four such special teachers, and three swimming pools in our schools. These pools, are first class, built of tile brick. They measure 20 by 50 ft. and are from 4% to 6y2 ft. deep.

A recent demonstration of swimming and life saving by the swimming department was given at public school No. 56, under the auspices of the Dep't. of Public Instruction, Dr. Henry P. Emerson, Sup’t. The program included a demonstration of the method and progression

Digitized by

Google
— 184-

in use of teaching the art of swimming and life saving, also a variety of different numbers of various strokes of swimming, diving, and life saving. Representative boys and girls from the different schools participated with great enthusiasm in the various events. A number of men and women, including city officials, members of the Board of School Examiners and Principals were present, and all expressed themselves as highly pleased with the results shown.

The introduction of swimming into the curriculum of the public schools physical training department must be regarded as another step forward. The hygienic aim of all forms of bodily exercise like swimming, which is excellent from a physiologic, hygienic, as well as an educational stand point, is receiving the thoughtful attention from all progressive teachers of physical training.

Aside from the practical everyday value of swimming and life saving, the effect of this ideal exercise upon character, tjie development of courage and will power, is acknowledged by every one who is willing to observe.

After years of experimentation in methods of instruction suitable to a large number of school children, progressive cities have gone forward with the demand that swimming be made a part of physical education of every school child.

It is a commendable fact, that Buffalo also ranks among progressive cities, having installed swimming schools in some of the public schools. There are now three such pools in our newer school buildings, and others are under construction. They serve as centers for the neighboring schools. Swimming is being taught by professionally trained instructors of both sexes. Instruction is carried on every day after school hours from 3 to 6 and Saturday mornings from 9 to 12 noon. .

The success of teaching swimming and making it a part of educational gymnastics, depends entirely upon the method employed. Proper supervision regarding the duration of swimming periods, temperature of water and hygienic conditions of pools are essentials; the main factor, however, is the method of instruction.

Mass instruction on camp-stools. Size of the squad is limited practically only by the available space.

Digitized by

Google
—135 —

The best results are obtained by using same apparatus for each pupil, whereby a large number of pupils can be instructed at the same time, whether this particular apparatus es in the shape of a suspended harness, a camp stool or swim-buck. All can be used to good advantage. These apparatus used in Buffalo are shown in the accompanying •illustrations. .

If individual instruction is carried on, the teaching of svdmming becomes a very expensive proposition to the city; on the other hand, if instruction is .'given to the masses, say 26 to 40 pupils at one time it becomes practical for public school conditions.

Foreign countries such as England, Germany, France and Sweden have introduced swimming into the schools for a number of years. Children should be taught very young, in order that they may overcome their natural instinct of fear when entering the water. They should practice, besides swimming, all* manner of different feats in vhe water.

As physical exercise, swimming is ideal. The alternate movements of flexion and extension of the trunk and limbs, make it an ideal all around bodily exercise. This is especially true of the breast stroke. As to the development of the vital organs, such as the heart and lungs, swimming has no equal. Every form of swimming is above all an intensive breathing exercise. The warm, moist, dust free air, which we breathe directly above the surface of the water, enters by means of deep and forced inhalation into the minute air cells, bringing into play the lungs and all respiratory muscles, thus deepening and enlarging the thorax in general.

The heart is no less benefiitted through the powerful leg motions needed in swimming, the circulation is stimulated, thereby increasing the function of the heart, strengthening and developing the same. Over-taxing the heart in gymnastic and athletic exercises is quite frequent, but not so in teaching the young how to swim, simply because the swimming periods are of short duration.

As a recreative and social factor swimming is without a peer. Show me the boy or girl who does not gladly participate in bathing and swimming, if an opportunity presents itself. It is one of the pleasures of which the child never tires. Besides being able to swim, aquatics offers an endless variety of amusements, ultimately ending in increased physical welfare.

The method pursued at the present time by our instructors is the teaching of the breast stroke are as follows: The .first instruction is on land and consists of giving certain arm, leg and breathing exercises. The next step is the practice of similar exercises on the swim-stool, these again being followed by exercises on the swimming* belts in the water. In some cases water wings are used until pupils acquire a good stroke. In Buffalo we say a child is a safe swimmer when it can swim at least ten minutes. After the pupil has acquired the breast stroke, he may practice any of the other stiokes, such as back, stroke, under arm side, over arm, trudgeon and crawl stroke.

Diving in its many forms is also practiced, simply as a means of

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 136 —

Mass instruction in the water. Four belts are hung* from the beams by means of sash-cords. In large pools eight or sixteen pupils can be taught as well as four.

entering the water properly and for the acquiring. of skill and courage.

Last, but not least, life saving is being taught to the advanced swimmers. How to rescue a drowning person and how to resuscitate him.

Artificial respiration is a forced method of breathing applied to an unconscious person by means of another person. There are several methods of artificial respiration, for instance, Sylvester’s, Esmarch’s, Howard’s, Hall’s, Murray’s and Schaefer’s. The latter is one of the newer methods. It is well that pupils should be familiar with at least one of these methods.

Dancing! - Summer School.

Mr. D. G. MacLennan,

(Of London and Edinburgh,)

Announces his return to America for the summer,—when he will offer a

COMPLETE COURSE OF TRAINING FOR DANCING TEACHERS

and others, — on the methods of the greatest European Artists. BALLET, AESTHETIC, NATIONAL & FOLK DANCING, also FENCING Particulars from	MR.	PANZER,

Gymnasium, Carnegie Hall, New York City.

Digitized by Google
—137 —

WALKING.	*	-	-r

'	By	ilENRY S. CURTIS.

Walking seems to be a lost. art with. us. One will often meet large companies abroad that have come out for a walk of a hundred or perhaps several hundreds of miles. Not frequently in Scotland, one will see considerable parties out walking ih the rain. There is* a national walkers association in Germany, - and a local walkers club in nearly every town and' city, but walking is not regarded as either recreation or exercise in America. Walking is the only way that "one can ever come to really know a country, its* products and its people. The best books of travel that have ever been written havfe been views afoot. It is almost the only way to cultivate a love for naturae in her varied moods. In Germany they are getting up a series of guides for walking parties that cover every section of the country^ ^There are few, if any parts of this country, that do not have many points of interest within a radius of ten miles, yet few of them are known by the dwellers of the countryside. Country people afre apt to regard travel a# the one great opportunity of life, but they do not realize that the best preparation and equivalent for travel is the intensive stqdy of the locality. If one has not learned to know that and ha3 not acquired ther power of observation a trip through Europe will not teach him much; for, as Emerson says, that person who has learned to observe the significant things will see more that "is worth seeing in a trip to the country town than another would in a trip through JEurdpe.

Walking is the most fundamental means of overcoming country isolation. It requires no expensive equipment or preparation. It is within the possibilties of all who are not crippled. It is healthful and productive of intimate . knowledge and inspiration., The ability to walk gives a great sense of independence, becasse with it one can go and come as he pleases. It is not really mlich of a task for one who is leading a vigorous. life to walk twenty, miles a day. The farmer follows the plow and the drag at least so far during a considerable part of the year. The well developed country girl would not mind the walk if she only got the idea of taking it, but she probably will not do it by herself, and here again the organizer is needed.

In most sections of the country there will be within five miles an interesting lake and grove, a stone quarry, a mine, a stock farm, a cave or other object of interest. What could be more interesting or appropriate than to get up a small party of girls and boys, young men and women, walk over to the place of interest, have a camp fire, a picnic dinner, play games or go swimming and come home. I should like to see for the future of the race some requirement that no young women would be granted a marriage license unless she could walk fifteen miles straight off without undue weariness. I should not put this into the statutes to prevent people from getting married, but because if*such a thing were even suggested as desirable, and girls understood that here was a standard that they were supposed to come up to, they would soon surpass the standard of their own record.

Digitized by

Google
— 1*9 —

Obligatory Free Exercises the National Gymnastic Festival at Leipzig, fjprmany, lf-17, ,913-

Translated by Gustav. Heinemann, Student (’13) of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union.

There are four groups of two exercises each. All movements should be executed with snap on the first count, followed by a pause. In a few exercises it is necessary to use* two cbunts for the first movement, pausing during the other two counts. The position is to be firmly held.

1.	Place. left foot ward and swing arms forward-upward—1-4. (Raise foot ankle high before placing the, foot. The body weight is not transferred.)

2.	Layout left backward and swing arms forward-downward and backward—5-8. (In the layout the left foot is placed backward; only the forward knee is bent. The trunk and head form one straight line with the rear leg.)

3.	Return to first position—9-12.

4.	Fundamental position—13-16. (Raise the left leg ankle high again before returning fo position.)

SECOND EXERCISE.

Digitized by t^ooQle
—139 —

. 1. Place left foot forward, bend upper trunk backward and swing arms forward upward and sideward,' palps upward—1-4. (In" the side hold the airos 1are ‘well behind the shoulder line, head in line with'the ffdhk.) - -	1	r	-	■	'	•	'	'	-1 "	*

2.	Place left foot backward, bend right knee, bend trunk forward, and swing arms side-upward and forward-do\mwaTd, fingers touching the floor—5-8. (Look at the hands.)

3.	Return to first position—9:12.

4.	Fundamental position—13-16.

GROUP II. ' FIRST EXERCISE.

1.	Stride left sideward and bend arms to thrust—1-4. (The arms are bent at side of body, forearm and upper arm covering each other, thumbs toward each other, hands in the shoulder line.)

2.	y± turn left on both heels, bend left knee, thrusting right arm upward, left arm downward—5-8.

3.	Return to first position—9-12.

4.	Fundamental position—13-16.

Digitized by Google
—140 —

1.	Stride left sideward and bend arms to strike from bead—1-4. (The arms are pressed behind the shoulder line, knuckles touch.)

2.	*4 turn left on both heels, bend left knee, strike arms side-downward, and swing arms forward (hands closed to fist)—5-8.

3.	Return to first position—9-12.

4.	Fundamental position—13-16.

GROUP IIL

FIRST EXERCISE.

2.	Layout left backward (only the toes of the left foot touching) and swing arms upward and sideward (palms downward)—5-8.

3.	Replace left foot, rise on toes, bend knees and swing arms downward and forward (two counts)—9-12.

4.	Straighten knees and swing arms puward and side-downward (two counts)—13-16.

SECOND EXERCISE.

1. Fallout left forward and swing arms fore-upward (right leg, trunk and arms in one line)—1-4.

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 141 —

2. Layout left backward, deep knee-bending right, and place hands on floor, fingers turned slightly inward—5-8.

3.	Straighten right leg backward to supportlying frontways—9-12.

4.	Jump to squat stand, straighten knees, and swing arms fore-upward and side-downward to fundamental position (two counts)—13-16

.	GROUP IV.

FIRST EXERCISE.

left arm obliquely side-upward, right opposite, (look at left hand, hands closed to fist, palms downward) 1-4.

. ,2. With % turn left layout backward (only the toes of the left foot touch), swing left arm downward and in rear of back and bend the right arm to strike from head—5-8. (The turn is executed on the ball of the right foot.)

3.	Straighten and bend the right leg with *4 turn right; layout

left sideward, bend trunk right and change arm positions (look at left arm)—r9-?12.	■ ** *

4.	Straighten trunk, replace left foot and . swing arms downward

to fundamental position—13-16.	*

Digitized by ^ooQte
— 142 — SECOND EXERCISE.

1.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms right sideward. (Hands closed to fists; arms horizontal, shoulder high, palms downward; left arm bent to a right angle.)—1-4.

2.	With turn left place left foot backward and kneel left, turn trunk left, swinging arms forward and left sideward—5-8.

3.	With turn right deep layout left sideward, and swing arms forward afid right sideward, right hand to support on floor, ieft hand on right thigh (look at right hand)—9-12.

4.	pip(se left foot to right and straighten to fundamental position—13-16.	_	r

BernSnd fbf f*h^sicai( directors ig Greater T6day Tfiaft Ever

cutfufe.	school,.	Chicago,

will have a SPECIAL SOMMER SCHOOL BEGINNING JULY 1st.

$earn a pvofe+aion that is not over-crowded.

ar*	of	the smaller cities thajt Tyould gladly pay a grade

teacher an additional salary for supervising the physical. work.

$Pbll not combine this with your regular teaching .work, and earn more money ? Classes will be conducted in all rbranches in, which we will accept beginners, also those who have had some experience. T We will also offer additional material for broadening the scope of work for teachers seeking advanced instruction*	,	f	^

Normal Course requires for admiss^jp; units from an accredited High School or Academy. We accept student? in fthe general course without fifteen units.

The field is open to both men^a^d women. v

The Boards of Education all-over the country are in want of Physical Directors. — We own our quart.er^of-a-million dollar building.

Attend a Recognized school. Address ** -■

_______; ___r____	,42nd	Streetand	Grand	Blvd. Chicago*.Illinois

Oil seh<ijn|j 35	(stlilmp^y $£ WlfLifidit	of	BJtttlShS

“PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLROOM”; catkfd|

$lJS8l	slightly	darhage^;	ik	limited.	,.

Address “Mind and Body,” Hefolii ihdg.f Mil&au5ee, ms.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—143 —

HIGH SCHOOL GYNfttAjif 1C TOURNAMENT.

By A. E. KINftERVATER, G. G.

Director of Physical Education, St. Louis, Mo.

In order to stimulate and promote the physical activities practiced

indoors during the winter months and at the same time complete the cycle of competitive physical activities connecting the football games of the fall season with the track and field events of the spring, a novel gymnastic tournament, embracing the educational features of physical training viz: correct posture, good form in execution, accurateness, quick response and uniform action with others, was planned 'by the Director of Physical Education and his high school assistants and introduced as a mid-winter event.

The following rules and regulations were agreed upon and made binding for the contest:

1.	The contest is to be a class contest for a class trophy without any individual honors.

2.	Each high school to be represented by 24 boys in good standing, who may be chosen from all four terms.

3.	The contest to consist of the following four events:—

a.	Exercises on the horizontal bar.

b.	Exercises on the parallel bars.

c.	Exercises on the horse,

j	d.	Standing	broad	jump.

4.	The type of work is to be class work, that is, four boys shall •execute the same movements on four pieces of apparatus at one and the same time.

5.	The exercises to be graded as to difficulty into three groups, . upon each of the three types of apparatus. The first eight boys performing the first groups of exercises, the second eight the second group and the third eight. the group of the highest grade work. The exercises are worked* left and right.

6. The standing broad jump is taken from a jump board on to a felt mat, each boy having three jumps of which the best is selected for his record. Four boys jump at one time.

7.	In the valuation of the work the following rules were observed: Por the work in each one of the four events 25 points were set as the maximum* under the following conditions:

a.	For correct form and unity of execution from 1 to 10 points.

b.	For accuracy of execution from 1 to 10 points.

c.	For good order of the class from 1 to , 5 points.

The distance jumped by each boy was transformed into points on ' the following basis:

fix feet equal to one point, every four inches farther counted one more. Ail points made by the 24 boys were added and then divided by 24. This average was.then doubled and a possible five points for good order of the class while jumping added. This also could reach a possible 25 points.

8.	The officials and their duties:

Professional men acted as judges for the apparatus work and high*

Digitized by Google
—144 —-

school teachers/ fkmfliar ‘with athletics acted- asvjudges «nd scorers for the jumping. Of the two judges appointed for each set of apparatus each kept his own score, the total points of the two scorers being added and this result divided by two, by the auditing committee. Twenty men in all acted as judges and scorers and four on the auditing committee. The whole contest did not take one hour’s time. The first Regiment Armory with a free floor space of 100 by 200 feet was secured for the contest, 2000 admission cards were distributed among the pupils of the four high schools and a capacity audience was the result. In order to give the auditing committee time for its work and entertain the audience up to the time when the results could be announced, the following exhibition features by high school pupils were placed on the program to the great enjoyment of the large audience.

a.	High grade individual work on horizontal and parallel bars by a picked team of the Central High School under the leadership of Mr. Louis .Kittlaus, b. a basket ball game between teams of the Yeat-man and Soldan High Schools, and c. six highly artistic and difficult pyramids and posing groups on three parallel bars by fifty boys of' the Yeatman High School under the leadership of Mr. Hans G. Lehrmann. Even the music of the evening was kindly furnished by the Orchestra of the Soldan High School under the direction of Miss Theresa Finn. The final results, which show the good work accomplished by the four classes was announced by our Superintendent of schools, Mr. Ben plewett, as follows:

POINTS MADE BY THE FOUR COMPETING SCHOOLS.

Schools.	Horizontal  Bar.	Parallel  Bars.	Horse.	Jumping.	Total Points.
Yeatman		23.25	22.01	2305	20.25	88.66
Central				al.03	21.75	23.	20.02	85.90
McKinley			18.55	21.15	19.05	17.78	76.53
Roldan.......		16.02	17.05	19.05	16 54	68.66

The following were the exercises performed upon the apparatus. PARALLEL BARS.

GROUP I.

First Exercise.

From a cross-stand frontways at end of bars:^—

a.	Jump to a support and swing to outer oblique seat on left bar.

b.	Half turn right to straddle seat on both bars, in rear of hands.

c.	Grasp bars in rear of body, swing to lying support frontways.

d.	Bend arms.

e.	Straighten arms.	*

f.	Swing and front vault left.

Second Exercise.

an^ “b” as in-first, exercise.

Cj Grasp bars in rear of body, swing and shears backwards left to straddle seat. • . '	•	..	s	•

- d. Swing to lying support frontways. ■

e.	Bend arms.

f.	Straighten arms.	-	,r

' g. Swing and- rear vault left. ./• ! ,	:	.	,

Digitized by Google
—145 —

Third Exercise.	t	,

a.	Outer oblique seat as above.	t

b.	Straddle seat as above, preceded by swinging left leg between bars.

c.	Grasp bars in rear of body, swing and shears backward left to straddle seat.

d.	Grasp bars in front of body, roll forward to straddle seat.

e.	Swing to lying support frontways.

f.	Bend arms.

g.	Straighten arms.

h.	Swing and rear vault left with half turn left. ,

GROUP n.

First Exercise.

Run and jump to upper arm hang in middle of bars.

a.	Swing forward, swing backward, and at end of next forward swing spread legs over bars to straddle-lying position rearways.

b.	Rise to straddle seat in front of hands.

c.	Grasp bars in front of body and roll forward to straddle seat.

d.	Grasp end of bars, swing forward, swing backward, and straddle

swinging left leg over left bar with *4 turn right to side-stand sideways.	. .

Second Exercise.	1	Vi

a.	Swing forward, swing backward, and at end of this swing spread legs over bars to a straddle-lying position frontways.

b.	Rise (draw forward) to straddle seat in rear of hands.

c.	Turn forward to upper-arm stand.

d.	Flex hips and roll forward to straddle.seat in.front of hands.

e.	Grasp end of bars, swing forward, swing backward, and at end of this swing straddle jump over both bars to cross-stand rear-ways.

Third Exercise.

a.	Swing forward, swing backward, and at end of this swing rise to straddle seat in rear of hands.

b.	Turn forward to upper-arm stand.

c.	Flex hips and roll forward to outer oblique seat in front of left hand.

d.	Half turn right to straddle seat on both bars in rear of hands.

e.	Swing to a momentary straddle seat in front of hands, bouncing legs high.

f.	Straddle left leg over right bar, slide backwards, hop right hand over left leg and with right hand taking the reversed grasp, screw dismount backwards with y2 turn left to cross-stand sideways.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

GROUP I.

First Exercise.

a.	Jump to a sidehang, ordinary grasp.

b.	Swing, and at end of the forward swing rise to kneehang left and swing to seat on bar.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 146 —

c.	Swing left leg backward to straight arm support frontways.

d.	Underswing to stand rearways.

Second Exercise.

“a” and “b” as in First Exercise.

c.	Kneecircle backwards.

d.	Swing left leg backwards to straight arm support frontways.

e.	Underswing to stand rearways.	'

Third Exercise.	'

a.	Jump to sidehang, ordinary grasp.

b.	Swing, and at end of forward swing, kip to straight arm support frontways.	'

c.	Circle backwards (hip circle).

d.	Underswing to stand rearways. •

GROUP n.

First Exercise.

a.	Jump to sidehang, ordinary grasp.

b.	Raise knees, and complete turn backward to hang rearways.

c.	Release left hand, and complete turn to regular side hang, ordinary grasp.

d.	Jump to sidestand.

Second Exercise.

"a” and “b” as in First Exercise.

c.	Return to hang frontways, with hips flexed, knees straight, feet in front of bar.

d.	Pull-up to straight arm support frontways (hip-pull-up).

e.	Underswing to stand rearways.

Third Exercise.

“a”, “b”, “c”, “d” of Second Exercise.

e.	Roll over forward and lower body and legs slowly to regular hang (hip-swing-off).

f.	Jump to stand under bar.

SIDE-HORSE.

GROUP I.

First Exercise.

Run:—

a.	Squat over to support rearways.

b.	Half turn left, swing right leg over to straddle seat, facing saddle.

c.	Swing-off (dismount) backwards to stand.

Second Exercise.

“a” and “b” as in First Exercise.'

c.	Shears backwards (turn left).

d.	Lying-support frontways.

e.	Straddle jump forward to stand rearways.

First Exercise.

“a” and “b” as in First Exercise.

c.	Swing left leg forward (feint).

d.	Return left to support frontways.

e.	Swing right leg over right pommel to straddle support over saddle.
— 147 —

f.	Swing left leg over left pommel and with % turn take straddle

seat on croup facing saddle.^	>	;

g.	Shears backward (turn left)'!

h.	Lying-support frontways.

i.	Straddle jump forward to stand rearways.

GROUP II.

First Exercise.

Run, jump to support frontways:—

a.	Swing left Teg forward (feint)?

b.	Return left leg backward.,

c.	Swing right leg over right pommel to straddle support over saddle.

d.	Swing left leg and jump with one half turn right to a cross-stand sideways.

Second Exercise.

a.	Swing left leg forward (feint).

b.	Return left and complete circle right to the left.

c.	Feint right.

d.	Return right and swing left leg over left pommel to straddle support over saddle.

e.	Swing right leg over right pommel and with % turn take ' straddle seat on neck, facing saddle.

f.	Front vault Swing right to stand sideways on mat:

Third Exercise.

a.	Feint with left leg.

b.	Return left leg backward, and a complete circle right to the left.

c.	Feifit right. §

d.	Return right leg backwards, and a complete circle left to the right.

e.	Feint left.

f.	Return left and swing right over right pommel to straddle

support over saddle.

g.	Swing left leg over left pommel and with % turn of body circle left leg over croup to a cross-stand sideways left.

Founded by Mr. Melvin B. Gilbert of Boston in 1893.

Second Season in New York June and July 1913

Complete courses for teachers in the theory and practice of dancing. The course includes Elementary Principles of Lancing, Directed Practice, Technical Training, Methods of Teaching, Folk Dancing, Russian Ballet Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Social Dancing including all the newer dances. Original Composition, Music in relation to Dancing, History of Dancing.

The Folk Dancing Department is under the personal supervision of Miss ELIZABETH BURCHENAL, leader of the Folk Dancing movement in America.

For circulars giving further information send toMiss SUSAN HOFFMAN GILMAN, Principal of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing, 21 East 44th St., New York City.

Digitized by t^ooQle
AAlNP ftND BODY. -*r

Prim, 91.00 per Year. Foreign $1.86.

Pubhmbed Monthly, m

FREIDENKBR PUBLISHING CO.

Ifll-wmii Tree, Wleoonein.

Aiimt aft btuineM letter* to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldgi, Milwaukee, Wis Ad dree* all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STBCHER, 7a W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Poet Office as Second Class Matter.

Notes and Comments.

—ST. LOUIS, MO. has been chosen by the council as the next meeting place of the American Physical Education Association. The time of the meeting will be determined later. Mr. A. E .Kindervater, as the president of the local association will see to it that the St. Louis meeting will be of such character as to attract many visitors to the great Middle West.

—EUGENICS. The highly intelligent persons who are giving attention to eugenics are rendering a public service. The importance of the subject and the worthiness of their aims cannot be questioned, but their plans for regulation must be accepted rather as a standard of action to be enforced by the individual than as a legislative program. The powers of the State in a free government are limited. The State is now looked to for a great many reforms that a free government can scarcely accomplish. With human liberty there inevitably comes the power to abuse it.	0

It is strange, as the speakers on this subject declare, that complete control is exercised in the breeding of Hereford cattle and Southdown sheep, while little or no control is exercised-over human beings. Too true; the control over cattle and sheep is complete because they are sheep and cattle and are owned absolutely in fee by human beings, but who is to own human beings and subject them to intimate and comprehensive control? The answer, of course, is “society” or the State. That, however, is a power that is limited, and must be if men are to be free.

! Nothing in nature is quite so unfortunate as the marriage of the palpably and egr^giousiy unfit. The State doesand, should prevent under any circumstances the marriage of the insane or of lunatics, or the mentally deficient. The next* step is to prevent, if possible, the union of the diseased. Large numbers of persons are suffering from disabilities which should forever bar them from marriage, and in certain cases the same method should be found to prevent them. Any step, however, which contemplates the grant of power to any body of human, beings ,to exercise a broad discretion in pronouncing who is fit and unfit and in determining who* may marry and who must remain single will meet with insurmountable obstacles in a Republic. .

If one reads the “Ancien Regime” it will appear that tfie Lords of the Manor exercised complete control over the ordinary peasant in

Digitized by Google
— 149 —

France; the sequel to the use of the power is to be found in the liistory of the French Revolution. The State is a powerful agent, but it has its limitations, and now when its powers are being invoked for every conceivable social and moral reform it is likely to become overburdened with duties. , Some human betterment must h© left to the; increasing intelligence and the aroused conscience of the people

“Ledger,” Philadelphia.

NEWS NOTES.

CONFERENCE OF THE MIDDLE WEST PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HYGIENE ASSOCIATION.

By Several Correspondents.

The second annual conference of the Middle West Physical Edu-catibn and Hygiene Association, held in; Chicago April 25—-26, was attended by a greater number of persons interested in physical education and hygiene than the first; about 250 teachers registered.

Section meetings were first on the program. The various sections, such as Public Schools, Y. M. C. A*s., Y. W. C. A's., Tumvereine, Playgrounds, etc., met in different rooms of . the Chicago University. The Public School section meeting was quite interesting and very well attended. Papers were read by Miss Ethel Weeden ,Mr. Carl Jones, and Miss Mabel Wright.

In the general meeting, on Saturday, April 26, Mr. E. B. De Groot stated the reasons for the adoption of the theme (Professional Training of Physical Educators), and five minute addresses were made by Mr. Henry Suder, Dr. Thomas F. Holgate, Miss Ellen L. 'Sabine, Mr. Wm. B. Owen, Mr. John Richards, and Mr. L. W. Messer, giving the experience of the speakers with teachers of physical training they employed.	s,, * • > •

Mr. Clark W. Hetheringtotfs paper outlined a course of training essential for the thorough preparation of teachers of physical education. During the discussion the unstable and vacillating condition of physical education in America was criticised. If the demonstrations shown on Friday afternoon were the criterion, one might arrive at such a conclusion regarding physical education, for here were shown 6ome things that would lead to that opinion, despite the many good tilings presented. To see support lying positions (prone fall stands) attempted in the primary grades; misunderstood executions of span bendings <and respiratory exercises, games given for’their postural value, and intricate and complex classical dancing attempted by boys and girls, with no regard for adapting these technically difficult movements to the coordinate ability of the pupils, could not but impress the trained physical educator in any other way. The fault, however, lies not in the physical education profession, but outside of it. On account of the dearth-of ’ trained directors of physical education, many persons are teaching who have not had a thorough grounding in the fundamentals. This leads to just such conditions. It should, however, be remembered

* 1	 •	.	••	• **. .f •	•	;	t	ir :

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 150 —

that these people are constantly broadening their knowledge on these subjects by extension work, and with the yearly increasing number of Normal School graduates we will soon pass through this transitional period and find ourselves upon a sound basis. That this kind of experimentation because of the present status of the sciences relating to physical training is no longer necessary, is obvious.

Mr. W. P. Bowen spoke on the present resources of the country for providing training for physical educators.

The following rather lengthy program which showed too generous a spirit on the part of the Chicagoans, ’ contained some interesting work, although some of it might have shown more polish and a better knowledge of adaptation of material to age and sex, inasmuch as these demonstrations were intended for physical educators. The leaders' class composed of boys and girls gave an excellent demonstration of what can be achieved by formal gymnastics if taught by competent teachers. There was precision, good posture, and general good control apparent.

Afternoon Program, 3:00 to 6:00 o’clock.

Mr. Henry Slider, Director.

I.	A practical demonstration and discussion of the days* order of classroom physical exercises in use in the primary' and grammar schools of Milwaukee, Wis., by George Wittiqh, 16 boys ol the 7th grade of the Bartlett school, Milwaukee.

JI. PRIMARY WORK, 1st to 4th grade, boys and girls.

A.	Types of Gymnastic Lessons.

a)	Beginning Primary (grades 1 and 2).

1.	A Formal Lesson, Chicago Latin school; Miss Mary Kane.

2.	“Marusaki” and “Christmas Toys”, Agassiz School, Miss

Frances Ross.

3.	Danish Day’s Order, Danish Young People’s Association (1st

grade Public schools of Denmark); Miss Dagny Pedersen.

b)	Advanced Primary (grades * and 4).

1.	Swedish Day’s Order, School of Education; Miss Ruth Jeffry.

2.	German Free Exercises, Farrin School; Miss Harriet Mead.

B.	Primary Games, Parker Practice Sshool; Miss Lillian Bruce (cornpar

ison of games from a psychological and a physiological viewpoint^ e. g. a game may be adapted to the age of the child — correct psychologically — but may not tend to good posture).

a)	Good games — 1. “Chest out” Relay.

2.	Posture Tag.

3.	Farmer and Crow.

b)	Games questionable as to posture — 1. Beetle.

2.	Horse and Rider.

C. Primary Dancing, Lewis Champlin, Miss Trude Pickley (common tendency is to teach dances familiar to the teacher, dances which are psychologally and technically beyond the group they are taught

to).

a)	Good Dances — 1. “I wont be home until morning.”

2. Poppies.

b)	Inappropriate Dances — 1. Sylvette.

III.	ELEMENTARY WORK.

A. Types of Gymnastic Lessons.

a)	Girls — 1. Swedish Day’s Order, School of Education, Miss Eliza-

beth Johnstone.

2.	Jumping Exercises, Fiske Sehool; Miss Ida B. Moss.

3.	Parallel Bar Work, Kosminski school; Mr. Otto Kahle*

b)	Boys and Girls — 1. Leaders class, Hamilton school*

Digitized by v^ooQle
—151 —

c)	Boy* — 1. Free Exercises, Turnyerein Vorw&rts; Mr. Otto Kahle.

2. Dumbbell Drill, Oakland, Forestvilie and Shakespeare schools; Mr. George West.

B.	Games.

Girls — Hamlin Square Playgrounds; Miss Florence Frenfch.

a)	Good Games — 1. Captainball.

b)	Games questionable as to posture — 1. Drive Ball.

Boys — Sampson Municipal Playground; Mr. W. H. Horschke.

1. Poison, 2. Kick, 3. Teasing Game.

C.	Dancing.

Boys — Howland school.

1.	Polish Dance, 8. grade; 2. Coppelia, 7. grade; 3. Dublin Jig, Tourdion, 6. grade.

Girls — 1. Scarf Dance, Agassiz school.

2.	Couple-Dances, Davis school.

IV.	SECONDARY (HIGH SCHOOL) WORK.

A.	Boys Dumbbell Drill, Lake View High School; Mr. Emil Groener.

B.	Games (omitted).

C.	Girls Dancing. Lake High School; Miss Mary Henry.

1. Waltz Caprice. 2. Minuet Waltz

V.	COLLEGE AND NORMAL SCHOOL WORK - omitted.

Evening Program, 8:00 to 10:00 o’clock.

Mr. Edward De Groot, Director.

1.	Zouave Drill, Chicago School Physical Education.

2.	Dances, South Park Playgrounds — 1. Csaradas, 2. Guroteky.

3.	Flying Rings, Institute and Training School.

4.	Tactics, Reed and Wand Exercises, Turnverein Vorwarts, Ladies and

Aetives.

5.	Cane Drill, Sears-Roebuck.

6.	Dances, Danish Young Peoples Association — 1. Sailors Hornpipe, 2.

Happy Coppersmith, 3. Girls Pleasure, 4, French Reel, 5. Okskoro, 6.

CrosS-four, 7. Hornpipe.

7.	I. G. U. Picked Gymnastic Team.

8.	Dances, Chicago Normal School — 1. Starlight, 2. German Peasant, 3.

Bluette.

At the business meetings over which Mr. DeGroot presided, the association was more firmly organized by the adoption of a constitution, fixing of yearly dues, etc. Resolutions setting forth the relation of the new organization to the American Physical Education Association were adopted, and the executive committee was instructed to confer with the committee appointed by the A. P. E. A. for that purpose. The same plan of organization. by sectional representation, to which two members at large were elected, was maintained.

The discussions at the Kent Theater on Saturday morning were interesting and valuable to our cause because of the fact that educators of renown were present and took part.

Mr. Henry Suder discussed the qualities which should characterize instructors in gymnastics.

Dean Holgate of the Northwestern University demanded a college education for directors of physical education in colleges.

President Sabijie of Milwaukee Downer College spoke very highly of the influence of the work done by directors who, have high mental as well as physical qualifications.

Mr. W. Owen of the Chicago Normal College argued that his students, instead of thirty minutes of exercise daily should have 'three

Digitized by Google
— 153 —

'•if.	*	.	•	'

times that much, including a period of social dancing. He did our cause more good than anyone. The cause of physical training would be advanced immeasurably if each Normal School of America had a man of his qualities.

Mr. J. Richards, the former football coach of the University of Wisconsin, now the head of the South Park Play Ground System of Chicago, condemned all formal gymnastic work. He wants all gymnastic apparatus and all gymnasiums done away with. (Another correspondent gives his ideas on this viewpoint.)

THE JAHN PHYSICAL TRAINING CLUB OF CHICAGO.

On April 26th, three of our members, Dr. H. Hartung, colleague Emil Groener and colleague Moritz Schmidt, celebrated their 25th Anniversary as teachers of physical education.; The Jahn Physical Training Club had made this an occasion to prove to our three colleagues the esteem in which we hold them, and incidentally bring the club-members and their families together for a sociable evening and they had, therefore, arranged for a banquet, at the North Side Tumhall.

The presentation of a silver loving cup to each of the trio by our president, C. A. Cobelli, was the signal for a quite a number of toasts.— Very impressive were the remarks of colleague Joseph Cermak, who showed a deeply-felt appreciation of the effort of our jubilee and who in an enthusiastic. speech admonished the colleagues to continue in their strive for higher ideals in physical 'and mental education.

Mr. Emil Rath, Dean of the’Normal, College of the N. A. G. U. in Indianapolis, and Mr. Wm. Reuter, Supervisor of physical education ip. the schools of Davenport, Iowa, were guests of honor.

Congratulations were read from Mr. George Brosius, and Dr. H. Rasmussen of Milwaukee, Mr. Hugo Fischer of Indianapolis, and Dr. Arnold of New Haven.

A quartette by our colleagues Knapp, Kluge, Sputh, and Wm. Meyer and a vocal solo by Wm. Meyer added greatly in making the gathering a long-to-be-remembered one.

The Jahn Club has again completed a successful season. Most of our members took part in a Course on First Aid and Sexual Hygiene in one of our medical colleges. The lectures were given every Saturday afternoon from two to six. The course closed at the beginning of April. We then took up practical work at the Chicago Turn-gemeinde Gymnasium as in former years.	WEEGE.

“EPPUR SI MUOVE.”

At a convention of education in Colorado, an attempt was made to clear the Colorado High Schools of one-sided athletics.—

“But sometimes she seems to go backward.”

At the second congress of Physical Education and Hygiene of the Middle West, in Chicago, a speaker condemned everything connected with rational physical education. He knocked gymnasiums, equipment and the use made of them. Not even the methods employed were found worthy of his approval. As in all such effusions of people
t- 153	'

■with inadequate' training and less experieiitfe, it was %ir "knocks^ without a trace of an offering of something better.

“Sequi il tuo corso e lascia dir le gente.”	WEEGE.

The Physical Culture Training School, Chicago, is offering a Special Summer Normal Course for teachers and advanced students who desire to spend the summer period in healthful and pleasant recreation and at the same time “brush up” in their special line, or “take on” a few new subjects to work as a “side line.”

The school is offering for the summer of 1913 special courses in the following:

Playground Work; Coaching in In-Door and Out-Door Athletics and Games; Vocal Expression and Voice Training; Singing.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The Summer Session of the Normal College, N. A. G. tj., at Indianapolis, Ind., has been arranged for the purpose of meeting the needs of persons partly or entirely engaged in the various branches of physical education. The new tendency of German Educational Gymnastics will be of interest to the director of physical education who, although familiar with the greater part of the work offered, wishes to keep abreast with the trend of physical education of today. He will be offered lectures on subjects containing new phases of the work; he will have opportunities of learning new folk dances and dance compositions, and receive new ideas and incentives for his future work through his association with other directors. To playground directors and play leaders the philosophy and value of play, the administration, equipment, and activities of playgrounds, folk dances, and exercises on apparatus, particularly the “stunts” which appeal to boys and girls and are per-formable on playground apparatus, will be of interest. School teachers are given opportunities to master exercises of various school grades which will prepare them to more competently meet the requirements of modern education.. From Educational Gymnastics and from the plays and games and folk dances they can select abundant appropriate material. There are also a number of mental subjects offered which will prepare for a more thorough understanding of gymnastics.

The subjects offered this year, are:	Theory	and	Practice of Ger-

man Educational Gymnastics; Classic smd Esthetic Dancing; Folk Dancing; Song Games; Fencing; .Playgrounds, Plays and Games; Anatomy; Human Physiology; Physiology and Hygiene of Sex; Physiology of Exercise; First Aid to the Injured; English Literature; German Literature;

Principles of Education.	  ,

,, .. The- Summer Session- will begin Thursday, July 10th, (registration ©n Wednesday, July 9th) and will close Wednesday,. August 6th; Further information may be had .by. writing to the Normal College, 415'E. Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—154 —

EJtTftACTS FROI* EUROPEAN JOURNALS.

By CARL SCHRADER.

—The “Padagogische Reform” writes as follows:

In the preparatory school for children between the ages of 6 and 10, the curriculum is made up of reading, writing, arithmetic and gymnastics. Drawing, singing and. sewing for girls is also taken up in these years. In the elementary schools for children of from 10 to 15 years, gymnastics is among the most important. In the first three years 3 hours a week are given to gymnastics and in the last two five hours a week. In the higher schools for boys* six weekly hours are required. A lesson in gymnastics is similar to ours consisting of tactics, free exercises and apparatus exercises.

SWIMMING AT THE LEIPZIG TURNFEST.

The swimming and diving events in connection with the 12th gymnastic festival will be held in the well-known city bath. The tank is 162 feet long and 80 feet wide. There are nine boards for diving. Arrangements will be made to accommodate 2,000 spectators. The attached sun bath will give ample dressing facilities to the contestants, of whom there are up to date 534. The obligatory dives will be made known eight weeks before the festival.

TEN MINUTE GYMNASTIC LESSONS.

In the fall of 1910 a decree was issued for all schools of Prussia to establish 10 minute lessons of gymnastics between periods, in addition to the regular gymnastic lesson. This was generally considered a valuable innovation. There is now, however, hardly a school where this is carried on, because it was found that this form of exercise soon became monotonous to the children, and that in consequence little, if any effect resulted. In order not to lose what a break between periods might result in, some schools have adopted a run out of doors, and the reports so far are very gratifying.

CHAIN OF INSTRUCTION PERTAINING TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN GERMAN UNIVERSITIES.

The following universities maintain definite courses pertaining to physical education:	Berlin,	Bonne, Breslau, Erlangen, Giesseu, Goet-

cingen,^ Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Kiel, Koenigsberg, Leipzig, Munich and Tubingen.

. The following subjects are represented:	School	Hygiene,	Person-

al Hygiene, Medical Gymnastics, Applied Anatomy, First Aid, Methods of 'teaching, Construction and Equipment, General Gymnastics, Swedish ^Gymnastics, Plays and Games, Appropriate Exercises, Fencing, Swimming and Diving, Horseback Riding and Dancing. Not All universities carry on all subjects however.

THE GERMAN SWIMMING ASSOClATldN.

^ 'tills organization, according, to receht statistics, riumbpr^d 30 separate clubs with a total active, membership of 50,0d0^ Nationat festivals similar to the gymnastic festivals are held at certain regular intervals.

Digitized by Google
, .— 155—

FESTIVAL' OF GAMES IN' BEUTHEN, GERMANY.

Play inspector Munster of the above city gave a most striking evidence of mass interest and competition in play. In a Sunday last siiinmer the 10th annnal play festival was carried out. Early in the morning 137 organizations with approximately 4,000 competitors marched to the playgounds, after having previously been welcomed and received by the Mayor of the city. Upon the arrival on the field, play began oh 41 separate courts. The different games played were:	bat

ball, fist ball, calubousin ball and hurl ball. The first mentioned is the game most generally played. At six o'clock in the afternoon the contestants again marched in a body to the city, where the distribution of prizes took place in a large hall.

HIKING.

Statistics showing the development of “hiking” are everywhere iij. evidence. The National German organization ,known as Wanderyogel, publishes the following interesting figures. During 1908, 1909 and 1910 there were 1,500, 2,660 and 5,150 trips taken respectively. These trips were of from y% to iy2 days duration and were participated in by 19,400, 33,000 and 61,000 individuals, of trips covering more than the above number of days there were taken 200, 420 and 860, and attended by 1,330, 2620 and 6200 individuals.

BERLIN INDOOR SPORT FESTIVAL.

The sixth annual festival was held on Feb. 16th and 17th in the exhibition hall of the Zoological garden. There were 520 individual entries besides 150 men from the regular army, and 500 junior athletes, who on both days gave an exhibition of running. Several of the /German princes were present and distributed the prizes. Excellent results were obtained in the various running events. In the 1,000 meter race the world's record was equalled by a member of the Char-Iqttenburg Tumgemeinde. Whatmough, the best English runner did hot qualify for the race to the disappointment of many. The five hundred junior athletes in the “Propaganda” running offered a splendid picture and gave rise to great hopes for the 1916 Olympics. One hundred and twenty young women gave exhibitions in gymnastics, relay running and spring board high jumping.	,

in addition to the already named events there were, trick bicycfe riding, fancy roller skating and a hockey game. Following are some of the records:	w	•	j|j

IpOQ-meter, 2 min, 32.8 sec. f0007meter (military), 3 min. sec.

^xipOO-meter, relay, 8 jnin. 14.7 sec.

4x400-met£r relay, 3 min. 44 sec.

60-meter hurdle, 9.1 sec.

‘60-meter dash, 7.3 sec,

or ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friers.
»

—156 —

Playgrounds and Gymnasiums.

By, ERNST HERMANN, West Newton, Mass.

The Gymnastic Championship Meet which was held at the Ar-beiter Turnverein, Armory Street, Koxbury, Mass., on April 24th under the auspices of the Boston Municipal Athletic Association was a great success. The Meet included competitions on the Side-Horse, Parallel Bars, Horizontal Bar, Flying Bings, Tumbling, Bope Climbing (18 feet.) Men from Harvard University, B. Y. M. C. A., Municipal Gymnasium of Boston, Waltham and other places participated in the competitive events. In order to qualify for the championship a man had to participate in all five events. Eight men qualified.

Those who have not yet tried the game of Badminton might try it. It is a most graceful sport and has all the valuable elements of tennis and shuttlecock combined. It is not quite as strenuous as tennis and requires only a space twenty by forty (20x40) feet. The necessary outfit can easily be put up on any level ground and it is good for indoor use whenever the outdoor play is impossible.'

On the Newton Centre Playground, a field of some 25 acres, in the heart of Newton Centre, Mass., one of the most successful Archery Clubs of America has its regular practicing grounds. A small house 6x8 feet, the floor of which is 3 feet above the ground to insure dryness, contains ten targets, and the necessary paraphenelia for placing them at the proper height and angle.

The Archers, men and women, boys and girls, can be seen most any pleasant day practicing this beautiful sport. Wherever the playgrounds can have a protected space for archery the question of taking up archery might be considered. “Summer Sports” a small booklet by Brooks Brothers, New York, prints the following about Archery:

“In the sport of archery choice is offered between two types of bow. The “self-bow” is of two pieces of wood, preferably yew, grafted or spliced in the middle. The “backed” bow. is of two or more pieces of wood glued horizontally. Other essentials of an archers equipment are arrows, which may be of one piece of wood or have a piece,of Bard wood glued at the head; a “tassel” for wiping arrows which have stuck in the earth; a brace to guard, the left, arm against the bowstring’s friction, and a. shooting glove.

I The target is of straw rope, four feet in diameter, with rings of equal width'scoring: Gold, 9; red, 7; blue, 5; black, 3; white, 1.

George P. Bryant of Boston won both the York Bound Gold Medal and the American Bound Gold Medal in 1912, and Mrs. Winter Taylor, of Chicago, won the National Bound Gold Medal and the Columbia Bound Gold Medal. The tournament of the National Archery Association was held at Boston in August.

In distance flights, Bryant shot an arrow 229 2-3 yards, and Mrs. Byy^nt, 215 1-3 yards.	k	,777.	77	. 7

Digitized by LjOOQle
—157 —

Mr. William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education in the Public Schools of Philadelphia addressed the students of the School for Social Workers in Boston on Tuesday, May 7th. His address “Playground Management” was greatly appreciated. It proved one of the most profitable lectures of the whole course.

The need for more attention to rational motor activities and the development of safe and sane habits is forcibly brought out in a monograph on “Nerve Waste” by George Van Ness Dearborn, M. D., Prof, of Physiology, Tufts Medical and Dental Schools.

The increasing intensity and complexity of modern life is hard on the nerves. Speeding up, living at high pressure, dominates our whole business, industrial and social life. It is a good booklet for Playground Directors. Cost 25 cents, Health Education League, 8 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

Since there is a scarcity of simple couple dances in Twostep time, we are happy to publish here a pretty little dance by Mr. Louis K. Appel, of Cincinnati, Ohio, which furnishes a pleasing combination when the twostep has been mastered. We also publish a “Gymnastic Dance” by Mr. E. C. Delaporte of Chicago, 111.

COUPLE DANCE IN TWOSTEP TIME.

By LOUIS K APPEL,

Eleventh District Public School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Formation:	Column of front couples, gentlemen on the inside,

inner hands grasped height of shoulders, outer hands at the waist.

PART I.

Point outer foot obliquely forward, slightly bending the trunk in the same direction, 1. Point outer foot backward and look over outer shoulder, 2. One twostep forward beginning with the outer foot, 3-4. Same beginning with pointing the inner foot forward, 5-8. Repeat aH, 9-16.

PART II.

Two twosteps forward,outer foot beginning, 1-4.	1-1	turn	inward

under inner hands in two twosteps, 5-8. Repeat all, 9-16.

PART III.

Partners face each other and grasp both hands:

Two glides in the direction of front leader, 1-2. Step sideward in the same direction and cross the other foot in rear, bending knees, 3-4. Repeat starting toward the last leader, 5-8. Repeat all, 9-16.

PART IV.

Assuming the dancing position, gentlemen beginning forward, lady backward, twostep either in place or toward the front leader with either two or four revolutions, 1-16, finishing so as to be able to repeat the whole series.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 158 —

GYMNASTIC DANCE.

By E. C. DELAPORTE,

Lane Technical High School, Chicago, 111.

Ifusic: “Red Top Polka.”

The dance is suitable for men and boys.

The step used is the Polka Hop.

All steps are executed with hands at waist unless otherwise indicated.	,.

Class arranged in ranks of 4—6—8 as desired.

First Step.

Measures.

A.	Polka step sideward left..................................... 1

Jd. Spring left foot and lunge obliquely forward to the right, left leg extended in rear, heels flat on floor, bend trunk forward, both hands extended over right instep. Spring from both feet and return to position, right foot pointed in front of left, the arms moving upward on left side, as in pulling up

a rope...............................................          1

C. Repeat A. sideward right...................................... 1

1>. Repeat B, but lunge obliquely forward	to the left............. 1

Repeat A, B, C, D.............................. ............... 4

8

Second Step.

A.	Polka step obliquely forward to left............................. 1

B.	Swing hop sideward right, raise left leg	forward across	right....

Swing hop sideward left, raise right leg	forward across	left.....	1

C.	Repeat A. obliquely forward to right........................... 1

D.	Repeat B, but to left and right.............................. 1

E.	Polka step obliquely backward left........................... 1

F.	Step hop sideward right, raise to heel behind right leg........

Step hop sideward left, raise to heel behind left leg........... 1

G. Polka step obliquely backward right.............................  1

H. Repeat F, but to left and right.  ............................... 1

8

Third Step.

A. Polka step sideward to left.......................t............ 1

B.	Spring from left foot, execute. % turn left, jump on both feet,

coming to a full squat position, arms extended horizontally sideward. Stretch knees quickly and execute a % turn right, springing from both feet, coming to fundamental position facing front again.............................................   I

C.	Repeat A. sideward right.............................. *........	1

D.	Repeat B, but to right.........................................    1

Repeat A, B, C, D.........................................   ....	4

■ -	:	•	•	v	s

Digitized by Google
—159 —

Fourth Step.

A.	Polka step obliquely forward to left...v......................	1

B.	Cut swing hop, right foot over left in place................

Cut swing hop, left foot over right, in place.................. 1

C.	feepeat obliquely forward to right....................  •..... 1

3>. Repeat B, but begin left over right foot.....................   1

E.	Polka step obliquely backward left.........................    1

F.	Jump to stride position sideward, jump and cross foot right in

front. ... ................................................

Jump to. stride position sideward jump and .cross feet left in

front. . . . ............ %................................   1

•G. Repeat E, but to right.......................................   1

H. Repeat F, but cross left foot in front first.................... f

8

Fifth Step.

A.	Polka step sideward left...................................... 1

B.	Hop on left foot, bend trunk forward, right leg extended in

rear, knee slightly bent, arms extended horizontally sideward, keep head well up............................      ........	1

C.	Repeat A, but to right............i.........................   1

D.	Repeat B, but hop on right foot............................... 1

Repeat A, B, C, D.............................................. 4

8

*	Sixth	Step.

A.	Polka step obliquely forward to left.......... i............... 1

B.	Spring from left and lunge obliquely forward to right, bend

trunk forward, touch hands to floor, head well up, spring from both feet and return to fundamental position...........	1

C.	Repeat	A,	but	to right.....................................   1

D.	Repeat	B,	but	to	left.................................  1

E.	Polka step obliquely backward left............................. 1

F.	Hop on left foot, raise right leg forward, arms extended hori-

zontally sideward, the right leg is slightly flexed and extended with each hop.........................................  1

G.	Repeat	E,	but	to	right..............................    1

H.	Repeat	F,	but hop	on right foot and extend to leg...........  1

8

Seventih Step.

A.	Polka step sideward left.....................................    1

B.	Spring from left foot and lunge sideward to right, bend trunk

sideward Tight, right hand touching floor, left arm extended upward, left leg extended sideward left, knee straight, spring from right foot and return to fundamental position....*....	1

C.	Repeat A, but to right,..., ... .. *, > >	      1

H. Repeat B, but to left._____....	,...,,,,......,.....;	1

E.	Repeat A, B, 0, D.....----------- i.. >.	 .	4

3

Digitized by Google
—160 —

Athletics and Sports.

J. LEONARD MASON, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

—Stanislaus Zbyszko, the Polish champion wrestler, defeated Ray-mondo Cazeaux, the Italien champion, in two straight falls at catch-as-catch-can, at Madison Square Garden May 18th. The winner, it was announced, will be matched to meet Prank Gotch, champion of the world, some time before September, probably in New York.

Zbyszko won the first fall in 14.33 with an armhold and half Nelson, and the second in 20 minutes with a full body and back hold.

Wladek Zbyszko, brother of Stanislaus, defeated George Sandelli, a Greek, in two straight falls. George Lurich, of Russia, won from Paul Samson, of Germany.

—In competition with records made by the students of Vassar College, the girls at Lake Erie Seminary at Painesville on May 17th set what are said to be four new world’s records.

Charlotte Straw, of Buffalo, broke the. 60-yard hurde record by making the distance in 9 4-5 seconds.	,

The former record was 10 seconds, which is tied by Edna Niggle, of Fort Wayne, Ind.	,

The pole vault record was broken by Virginia Hamilton, Eaton, Ind., with 5 feet 414 inches.

The 120-yard hurdle record of 20 seconds, held by Vassar, was broken by Virginia Branum,. Sewickley, Pa., who cleared the ten flights in 18 seconds.

Alice Thornton, of Buffalo, put the shot 22 feet 9y2 inches, exceeding the former record by % of an inch.

. WHAT CONSTITUTES AN AMATEUR ATHLETE.

Prom the standpoint of the Amateur Athletic Union an amateur

athlete may be defined as follows:

AN ATHLETE who never has received compensation or competed for a reward of any’kind, except in an authorized competition; or who has never been paid by any athletic organization for service of any kind; or who has never received compensation for joining any athletic organization or for continuing as a member.

AN ATHLETE who has never entered a competition under a name not his own, or from a club of which he was not a member in good standing.

AN ATHLETE who has never knowingly competed with professionals or entered any competition open to professionals.

AN ATHLETE who has never challenged a professional, or issued a challenge to compete, with anyone for money.

AN ATHLETE who has never sold or pawned any prize won in an authorized competition.

AN ATHLETE who is registered with the Amateur Athletic Union.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 161 —

IN GENERAL, the student of any college or school may register and represent such institution. Other amateurs to be eligible must be members in good standing of clubs in the union. The registration of amateurs is in the hands of clubs and other organizations which have membership in the Amateur Athletic Union.

MANY FORMS OF ATHLETICS UNSUITED IF NOT ACTUALLY DANGEROUS TO GIRLS.

Miss Elizabeth Burchenal, inspector of athletics for the board of education of New York city, who recently made a study of athletics for girls, with the object of determining what kinds of athletics are really helpful to girls and what kind are harmful, has interviewed 40 women, all graduates of physical training schools and all of whom have had either practical experience in athletics or else opportunities of observation. As a result of their statements and of her own experience she has listed as condemned athletics for mature girls the 'broad jump, the high jump in competition and pole vaulting, and as doubtful for the mature girl the high jump running more than 100 yards in competition and weight throwing. For the immature girl, the condemned athletics are running and weight throwing, and the doubtful athletics are basket ball and field hockey.

The safe athletics for mature girls include, according to Miss Burchenal’s investigation, archery, ball throwjng, basket ball (womeri’s rules), climbing, coasting, dancing, field hockey, golf, horseback riding, cross and side saddle, indoor baseball, which is played in the open air; low hurdles, not in competition; paddling, rowing, running, not in competition; skating, skiing, snowshoeing, swimming, tennis and walking-

As especially beneficial for the mature girl Miss Burchenal, cites dancing, paddling, rowing, running, swimming and walking.

As especially beneficial for the immature girl, Miss Burchenal lists climbing, dancing, jumping, in moderation, and. not in competition; runningr in moderation; skating, swimming and walking.

One of the women whom Miss Burchenal interviewed, a physical training teacher of a great many years’ experience, said:

“As far as I have observed track athletics for girls, I should eliminate them virtually. Basketball under strict supervision is permis-sable, but, frankly, the supervision has to he so close that I often think it would be better if we did not play the game at all.”

Another of the women interviewed at 17 years of age had a physique and build which was practically the ideal one for a woman whose vitality was high, whose strength was far above that of the average girl’s and whose physical condition was practically perfect. This woman, who began the practice of men’s athletic at that age, regrets having done so and attributes a later falling off in health to the fact that she indulged in violent forms of athletics. She condemns jumping, high or broad; weight throwing or pole vaulting for girls. '

Miss Burchenal’s own conclusion in the matter is that “athletics for gjrls should be encouraged in every possible way, but that the fight-

Digitized by

Google
— 162 —

ing element should be subordinated, that proper safeguards should be made against injury and that the differences should be made between boys’ and girls’ athletics—that the former be for fighting if it must* but the latter should be preserved for sport and recreation.”

“It is to my mind illogical,” says Miss Burchenal, “to attempt to establish the use of men’s athletics for girls and women. I wish that we might break away entirely from the idea that in order to have athletics for girls we must approach it from the man’s point of view, and that we might face the issue squarely and evolve our own sports regardless of whether or not they coincide with those of the men.”

“We must try to supply opportunity for the mass of girls to engage in healthful, natural, exhilarating sports, physical activities, call them athletics or what you will,. and we must take girls as we find them today, not as we hope they may become in time.”

—Meeting in Perth, last Saturday, the General Committee of the Scottish A. S. A. agreed to the following proposal:—“Amateurs shall not lose their status by competing with or against professionals in any games for which no money prize is offered.” The games referred to are baseball, cricket, football, golf, handball, fives, lacrosse, tennis, quoits, rackets, hockey, and hurling. Competitions at arms between Volunteers and Regulars, fire brigade competitions pure and simple, the pastimes of shooting and sailing, and all pastimes not coming within the definition of athletic exercises shall not be considered as coming within the scope of the rules of the Federation.

ENJOY A BBAT, VACATION

BY ATTENDING THE

DENVER TTJRXTFEST

NEXT SUMMER.

Automobiling, camping, fishing, hunting and mountain climbing are only a few of the outdoor sports ,to be enjoyed in Colorado during the summer months; the days are full of pleasure and the nights are cool and made for restful sleep. TRAVEL TO COLORADO IN COMFORT AND ENJOY YOUR TRIP FROM THE START BY GOING VIA

UNION PACIFIC

Standard Road of the West

PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC BLOCK SAFETY SIGNALS.

EXCELLSSTT DHTHTO- C.A.S&I3 OIT ADD W Xfc .A. X 3bT S

The Union Pacific is the great highway over which, for two generations, the east has gone west and the west has gone east.

For Colorado literature and information relative to fares, routes, reservations, etc., call on or address

GEO. W. VAUX, General Agent,

Passenger Dept., 112 West Adams Str., CHICAGO, ILL.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 163 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—The Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene ,and the first to be held in America, at Buffalo August 25th to 30th, according to an announcement ol the executive committee, will be by far the most elaborate effort yet made in this country toward getting the problem of school hygiene before the world. The first International Congress was held at Niirenberg in 1904, the second at London in 1907, the third at Paris in 1910.

Delegates will attend from every college and university of note in this country, from other leading educational and hygienic institutions and organizations, and from every country in which an active interest is being shown in the welfare of school children, which includes all the leading nations of the world.

The Congress is open to all persons interested in school hygiene upon the. payment of a fee of five dollars. Application of membership * should be sent to Dr. Thomas A. Storey, College of the City of New York, New York City.

—Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene.—This congress will be held at Buffali, N. Y. from Aug. 25th to 30th. Preliminary arrangements for this meeting have been made by electing officers and announcing a preliminary program. Chas. W. Eliot, President Emeritus, Harvard University is the President, Dr. Wm. H. Welch, Prof, and Dr. Henry P. Walcott, Chairman Massachusetts Board of Health are the Vice-Presidents and Dr. Thomas A. Storey, Prof, of Hygiene, College of the City of New York, New York City, is the Secretary-General. *

The program will be organized into sections, as follows:

Section 1. “The Hygiene of School Buildings, Grounds, Material Equipment and Up-keep.”

Section 2. “The Hygiene of School Administration, Curriculum and Schedule.” This section will include all topics concerned with the hygienic factors found in school administration, curriculum and schedule as they apply to country, village and city schools; and to the modifications necessary for the best interest of our various special schools. Papers on such subjects as the following would belong to this section: Hygiene of the teacher; hygiene of the child; hygiene of the janitor and other school employees; hygiene of the schedule, growth and age; school fatigue; need for and management of school lunches and school baths; influence of the seasons; home work; recesses; vacations; athletics; the problems of heredity in relation to school hygiene; overcrowding; the teaching of hygiene; the training of teachers of hygiene; special phases of hygiene; as personal hygiene; oral hygiene; preventive hygiene;* educational hygiene; community hygiene; sex hygiene; play; physical education; domestic hygiene; puericulture, and first aid; special plans for and results from the instruction of backward children, truant, delinquent and crippled children; the economics of school hygiene; relation to the home.

Digitized by Google
—164 —

Section 3. “Medical, Hygiene and Sanitary Supervision in Schools”

—The Public Health Service of the Federal Government is making a careful study of the merits of Dr. Friedmann’s culture. The Journal of the Outdoor Life will have an opportunity to keep closely in touch with the results of these experiments, but it does not propose to take any independent action of its own.

If these experiments prove successful there is no reason to suppose that the treatment will not be generally available. The danger is that many people will be led to take this treatment before there is any adequate proof of its efficacy..

No one, as far as we are aware, has presented any claims which equal those made by Dr. Friedmann. It-must be remembered, however, there is often considerable difference between a claim and a proven fact.

The Piorkowski culture is similar to that of Dr. Friedmann’s in that it has been obtained from the turtle. Various claims have been made for its value in the treatment of tuberculosis. None of these have been definitely proven. Friedmann claims that this culture is more virulent and less efficacious than his own.

All of your inquiries make the mistake of referring to the so-called Friedmann cure as a serum. A serum is the fluid part of the blood. A therapeutic serum is that'taken from the blood of an animal which has been inoculated in such a way that the blood contains substances which act as a cure when injected into a diseased patient. Diphtheria antitoxin is the best example of this. Tuberculins are of various sorts, but all of them are preparations which contain no living organisms.

The new principle in the Friedmann treatment is that he injects an emulsion of living bacilli which he claims are non-virulent and harmless, bjit at the same time curative.—“Joum. of the Outdoor Life.”

—Dr. F. Goepert in the “Therapeutische Monatshefte, Berlin, February writes concerning the “Care of Weak Muscles in the Back.” Goepert insists that the muscles of the back should be systematically strengthened without waiting for severe or irreparable lesions to develop. He teaches nurses and mothers to turn the infant on its stomach for a few moments in case of gastro-intestinal trouble in the first six months or later. By tickling the child it may be made to raise its head as it lies prone, and by this means it exercises the muscles in its back. This exercise often repeated, but only for a brief period each time, will be found very useful in warding off a tendency to weakness of the muscles in the back. The aim should be to have children exercise muscles other than those in the legs, and games, etc., should be promoted which realize this. The “flying dutchman.” started by rowing movements, is excellent in this line, and swinging from rings. In case of severe deformity, orthopedic measures should be applied even to young infants.

Digitized by

Google
—165 —

—Disappearing Diseases.—Dr. Guilfoy, the Registrar of Vital Statistics of New York has recently published some interesting figures from former records showing what modern methods have done in the way of abolishing certain diseases. Asiatic cholera was formerly a frequent visitor to the city, there being 5,000 deaths from this scourage in. Manhattan and the Bronx in 1849, 2,500 in 1854, and 1,100 in 1866. During the last thirty-six years there have been only 11 deaths from this disease. Typhus fever was prevalent from the year 1868 onward, there being 200 deaths attributed to it in 1893. If the same death-rate from malarial fever had prevailed in 1912 as in the period from 1880 to 1890, there would have been 1,400 deaths from this cause; the number that actually did die from it was 20. The most striking conquest has been made in the case of small-pox which was practically always prevalent prior to the year 1876. Since that time tlie epidemics have become milder and of shorter duration until last year there were only two deaths from this disease in a population of over 5,000,000 people.—Joum. A. M. A.

—Bavarian Research on Effects of Athletics.—The Bavarian department of education has approved the addition of an experimental laboratory for the Royal National Institute for Gymnastic Exercises at •Munich, for the investigation and measurements of the effects of individual gymnastic exercises, plays and sports. The medical' work in connection with this laboratory will be carried on under the direction of Dr. Hans von Baeyer, privat-docent for surgery at the University of Munich. The influence of physical exercise on the human organism, on the breathing, heart-action, etc., is to be determined on scientific principles and with the help of physiologic methods, so as to discover their temporary and permanent beneficial and harmful effects. Further, those pursuing the present two-year course for the training of physical directors will be instructed in making such measurements on the pupils, so that in co-operation with the future school-physicians satisfactory material for a more thorough scientific foundation for athletics in general may be available.—Berlin Letter to the “Journ. of the A. M. A.”

—Social Service and Public Health.—Social service in its study of character under adversity meets certain problems, certain forces that are breaking down character. The work of social service in remedying these evils has to deal with public health. One phase of the subject of public health which will do much to prevent feeble-mindedness, degeneracy, etc., is requiring a physical examination before marriage. A huckster, before he can get a license to pursue his trade in Chicago, must be asked a variety of questions and have his rating looked into, but all a man has to do to get a marriage license is to hand through a wicket the money and the names of the parties. No one should be allowed to get a license who hasn’t a certificate from a physician “declaring that he or she has no incurable or communicable disease.” The teaching of sex-hygiene will help along this line. Every possible means should be employed to bring about accurate and wholesome knowledge of this subject.—Dean Walter T. Summer, Child Welfare Bulletin.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—166 —

—Hepatic Functions in Fat Metabolism.—Cocoanut oil administered to cats or dog£ by the mouth was detected by. H. C. Raper of Toronto, in the liver in five or six hours. The amount present after times varying from five to twelve hours does not exceed 6 per cent of that absorbed. If cats be anesthetized (urethan and ether), and a solution of cocoanut oil soaps containing glycerin and bile salts be run into the small intestine, then about 30 per cent, of the absorbed fatty acid is found in the liver. When cocoanut oil is given to cats or dogs intravenously in the form of a very fine emulsion, containing about 4 per cent, of the oil, then from 25 to 60 per cent, of the oil, which enters the systemic circulation is. found in the liver. Raper believes that it is probable that the greater retention of the oil by the liver, (when it is administered in the form of soap or a fine emulsion, is partly due to the anesthetic and partly to the rapidity of administration. When cocoanut oil is being absorbed, the fat in the chyle contains fatty acids with an average higher molecular weight than those in the oil administered. It is probable, therefore, that the lower fatty acids in the oil are partly absorbed as sodium salts. The volatile acids obtained from the liver in the above sets of experiments absorbed more iodin than the volatile acids from normal livers. The increase was not great, but it probably indicates that saturated fatty acids containing 10, 12 or 14 carbon atoms may become unsaturated in the liver.

Journ. of Biological Chemistry, Baltimore, Md. March, 1913.

—Breathing Exercises by Means of a Bottle.—While practitioners are agreed that the effects of breathing exercises are excellent, they often lack the time to go into details of the necessary movements and the attitudes to take so that the patient loses interest in a method which presents difficulties too great for him to overcome. Therefore, Dr. Pescher has invented a simple and practical method which he described at one of the recent meetings of the Societe de Fintemat des hopitaux de Paris. This process is based on the well-known physical phenomenon that a bottle filled with water and inverted in a receptacle containing a little water does not empty itself on account of the atmosphere. How if the equilibrium is disturbed by blowing into the interior of the bottle through a tube, a volume of water is displaced about equal to the amount of air introduced. As the normal capacity of the adult lung at each respiration is about half a liter (half a pint) if a patient is made to blow enough air into the bottle to displace a liter of water he will be obliged, as a preliminary, to inhale this amount of air which will result in a true breathing exercise since the quantity of air in circulation in his lungs will be double the ordinary amount. By the use of bottles graduated to all capacities this exercise can be prescribed in progressive amounts, in accordance with the condition of the patient's lungs as determined by the physician.

The patient is made aware from day to day of his progress not only subjectively but objectively. It is best to begin with receptacles of medium capacity:	half	a	liter	in	the	case	of	children, a liter with

adults. Progress ought to be graduated according to the results obtained. One can go as far as 2 or 2y2 liters with children and to 4

Digitized by v^ooQle
—167 —

or 4^ liters with vigorous adults. Inspiration should be made through the nostrils and should be slow and rhythmic. The blowing into the bottle should be slow and regular—not a sudden exhalation—until the patient has become accustomed to the exercise; he should not entirely empty his lungs at first but as the patient progresses he may empty his lungs completely and drive as much water out of the bottle as he can. After each exercise of inhalation and exhalation he should rest for a time equal to that taken in the exercise. From ten to one hundred exercises should be done two or three or perhaps four times during the twenty-four hours. They should be taken between meals, on an empty stomach, before eating or an hour and a half after eating. Ten exercises done carefully require about a quarter of an hour. Those who get the most benefit from the exercises are narrow-chested children, those who have difficulty in respiration, patients with chlorosis, anemia and adenopathy, and neuropaths, convalescents from all acute affections of the respiratory tract, the pretuberculous and even the tuberculosis. The wide range of possibilities in the exercise whereby as little or as much as is needed may be taken permits its application even in those cases in which breathing exercises are ordinarily contraindicated. Dr. Pescher has been able to apply his method even in emphysema, hemoptysis, whooping cough and certain forms of cardiac arhythmia.—Letter from Paris, Jan. 17, 1913, Journ. A. M. A. Feb. 8, 1913.

Books reviewed in this column, as well as all books on physical training and related subjects, may be had of Mind and Body, Her old Eldg., Milwaukee, Wis. Send for classified catalogue of books.

—“NERYE-WASTE” by George Y. N. Dearborn, M. D., Professor of Physiology, Tufts Medical College, Boston. 29 pages, 3^ by 5% inches. Price seven cents, $4.50 per hundred.

This little ^pamphlet is No. 27 of the Health-Education Series published by the Health-Education League, 8 Beacon Street, Boston. In this admirable pamphlet Dr. Dearborn presents a serious problem “Nerve-Waste” in a manner which will be understood by any layman. Hygiene of the nerves is today one of the most pressing problems for our life and health. The booklet has many valuable and practical suggestions for the prevention and cure of manifold nervous ills, and is warmly recommended to all teachers and parents.

—<DIE ERTUECHTIGTTNG UNSERER FRAUEN” (Increased Vitality for Women) by Alice Profe, M. D. 131 pages, 7 by 10 inches. Price, 50 Pfennig.

; The pamphlet is a reprint of a paper read by Dr. Profe at the 13th .Congress of the German National Playground Association. It is. a strong appeal for more vigorous physical training for girls, a criticism of too much dancing, an entreaty to take girls out into the fresh air and sunshine and to give to them less of the formal work and more of the physical training which is inherently joyful. The pamphlet is well worth reading. It will be stimulating to all who do not belong

Book Review.
— 168 —

to that self-satisfied group who still see the whole salvation of mankind in the gymnasium and its time honored curriculum.

—“TJNSER KOERPER” (Our Body) by Dy. Ferdinand A. Schmidt. 661 pages, 6y2 by 10 inches, 576 illustrations. Published by R. Yoigt-laender, Leipzig. Price, Net, 14 Mark.

This volume is the best handbook of anatomy, physiology and the hygiene of bodily exercise published. It is a hopeless task to try to describe the wealth of material presented by Dr. Schmidt in this fourth edition of his monumental work. Any teacher of physical training who reads and understands this book has received a liberal education, not only in the fundamentals of his profession, but in physical education in its broadest interpretation. The book is warmly recommended, not only to teachers of gymnastics, but to intelligent persons in all lines of life.

SUMMER SCHOOL (June 27 to Aug. I) IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Mrs. ROBERT L. PARSONS, Dir.

Normal course in Physical Training for Physical Directors anri Playground Workers. Glasses will be conducted in Folk Trancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Public School Gymnastics, and Playground Courses. These courses are especially pointed for beginners who wish fundamental instruction. Secondly, for those with some experience in teaching who desire additional instruction. Third, teachers can acquire additional material for broadening the scope of their work in the way of drills etc. Fourth, teachers seeking advanced instructions in theory and practice who cannot give the time during the regular school year Credit for the summer work will he given on the regular course of the school to those seeking a diploma. For particulars address CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION & EXPRESSION, Box P, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, 1U.

JUST PUBLISH FD !

DANCES OF THE PEOPLE

A Second Volume of Folk Dances and Singing Games

Containing	TWENTY-SE VFNFOLK-DANCES of England, Scotland

Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland,

With the Music, Full Directions for Performance, and Numerous Illustrations. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY

ELIZABETH BURCHENAL

Organizer and First Chairman of the Folk-Dance Committee of the Playground and Recreation Association 01 America, Inspector of Girls’ Athletics for the Board of Education of the City of New York, Executive Secretary of the Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools Athletic League of New York City.

Paper SI .50. Cloth S2.50.

In response to insistent demands Miss Burchenal has compiled this second volume similar in style, scope and purpose to the first volume “FOLK-DANCES AND SINGING GAMES," and presenting twenty-seven folk-dances and singing games never before published in America. Of Miss Burchenal’s qualifications as an exponent of folk-dancing it is not necessary to speak at this late date. She has long been recognized as the leading authority on the subject in this country. “DANCES OF THE PEOPLE” contains, among others novelties, very explicit descriptions of the famous English “Hornpipe” and of the Scotch “Sword Dance,” profuseljr illustrated.

Descriptive circular giving contents of the volume sent on request.

3 East 43rd Si 6. SCHMER (IRC.) Hew York, N. Y.

Digitized by L.ooQle