. library

univ-isuy oc Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 25	DECEMBER,	1918	No.	274

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown* Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post of ice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O1 11 1 "■ 111	'	'■	■■■■■	.fO

| ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS |

U- — -1	III n ' i.i. ■■ ■	ii	,	in	.n.-I. »0

LESSONS FROM THE FIRST DRAFT FOR SOLDIERS UNDER THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

What is necessary to Remedy Conditions?

I take it for granted that when the Provost Marshall’s Report to the Secretary of War was issued in June 1917, it was studied by many teachers interested in physical training. For we as teachers certainly should have asked ourselves the question “what have you done to improve the physique of those entrusted to your care?

To me as a Philadelphian the first step was to find out where our state and city stood. Then I tried to get a clear idea of what we had been doing in our city schools. And lastly, I tried to outline definitely what we should try to do in the future.

Digitized by
1.	The report of the Provost Marshall General to the Secretary of War shows the following:

Total number examined by draft boards.............2,510,706

Physically unfit.................................... 730,750

Per cent rejected by draft boards..................... 29.11

Per cent of selected men rejected in the camps..	4.10

Total per cent of all rejections.......................33.21

2.	iThe report shows that 33 states have a smaller percentage than the 33.21 reported for the United States, while' 16 states show a greater per cent of unfit. The report further shows that the State of Pennsylvania has a greater number of physically unfit than any other state in the Union,the number being 50.77 per cent.

3.	Physical Fitness in Philadelphia.

Total number examined by 51 draft boards.... 57,614

Physically unfit, rejected by draft boards...... 18,921

Per cent rejected by draft boards............... 32.84

Per cent of selected men rejected in camps.... 4.10

Total per cent of all rejections................ 36.94

This is 3.75 per cent more than the average in the United States.

The smallest number of physically unfit men was in District No. 35, with 20.46 per cent of 1737 men examined.

The largest number of physically unfit men was in District No. 46 with 77.91 per cent of 2674 men examined.

4.	Physical unfitness. In thinking about this volume of physical defects the question that first arose naturally was: What is understood by Physical Unfitness?

Physical unfitness as employed by the government embraces all defects that make the person unfit for strenuous military service. The most frequent defects arranged in the order of their occurrance are: Eyes, Heart, Feet, Underweight, Hernia, Ears.

5.	There seemed little in this information that was of definite help to us in arriving at the value or effect of regulated physical training work. Fortunately there appeared at this time a report that seemed to give us some reliable information on our question as to the value of gymnastic exercises.

The statistics published in April of 1918 by the North American Gymnastic Union give us a definite answer to this question. The N. A. G. U. consists of over 200 societies in all parts of the country. Its membership is approximately 40,000. The men in these societies are classified either as active or passive members. Active members, usually between 18 and 35 years of age, participate regularly twice a -week in gymnastics. Passive members, usually from 25 years upward, do not belong to the gymnastic classes. In most cases, however, these men have taken regular gymnastic exercise at some previous period.

According to the report published by the Union, 692 of its men volunteered and 1071 were drafted, making a total of 1763 men. This is a large enough number to be of use in arriving at some reasonable deductions. 217 of the 1763 men were either

Digitized by v^,ooQle
323

exempted or rejected, leaving 1546 in the service. 120 men of the 217 were rejected because of physical unfitness.

The 120 men rejected for physical unfitness were divided as follows:

80 were actives, that is 6.48 per cent and

40 were passives	7.3	per	cent	For	the	120	men	this

is an average of 6.8 per cent.

When, compared with the percentage of rejections in the country as a whole (32.21 per cent) these figures appear to prove that regular, systematic physical training enables young men to qualify for army service more easily than exercise indulged in at random, or no exercise at all. In estimating the value of this type of work we must not overlook the fact that the men here spoken of were undoubtedly a selected lot, a lot that chose gymnastic work because they already were physically above the average or because they liked vigorous physical activity.

At this time it may be of interest to call attention to the fact that the Provost Marshall General's report shows that the draftees from so called rural sections are not in better physical condition than those coming from urban sections. Another interesting point is that the lowest percentage of physically unfit is to be found in the large western states. The great industrial states of the East have the greatest number of physically unfit men.

6. Philadelphia Schools. It now seemed possible to bring the inquiry down to something concrete and to ask, What have we been doing in the Philadelphia Public Schools to make our pupils physically fit? Have we any proof that we have been doing any body-building work?

We are beginning the twelfth year of physical training in the elementary schools. Looked at generally we can say that our work has been improving. In some schools we have accomplished more than we expected. Most schools have done fairly well, but we still have schools whose physical training work can scarcely be called fair.

The question, however, is, what proof have we that we are accomplishing anything definite so far as the physical fitness of the mass of school boys and girls is concerned. I think that I can say without fear of contradiction that strength and speed are fair indications of bodily health. Our annual Public School field days are our measuring rods so far as accomplishments are concerned, and from their inception it always was the aim of our field day committee to have a fair sized active representation from each school taking part. While this may have complicated the problem of those men and women who for many years have so loyally supported us, it has given us a chance to see if we were at a standstill in physical accomplishments, if we were going backward, or jf we were progressing.

Looking over our field day records I find the following improvements in our three standard events between 1910 and 1918. We began our present system of definite track and field sports and games in 1910.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
	324		
	BOYS		
Senior Teams Standing Broad Jump Team Best  Average Performance 1910 6'4" 7'8" 1918 7' 8" 8' 9"		Junior Teams Team Best Average Performance  5' 9" 7' 6"  7' 0" 7' 9"	
Basketball Far Throw	19'3" 45'0" 42'1" 51'0"	23' 5" 35' 6"	oo
Relay Races 100 yds.	13.8" | 12.5" |	14.8"  13.6"	
	GIRLS		
Events Standing Bread Jump	Senior Teams Team Best Average Performance  5' 5" 6' 8"  6' 5" 7' 9"	I Junior Teams' Team Best Average Performance  5' 7" 6' 6"  6' 4" 7' 6"	
Basketball Far Throw	24'8" 35' 0" || 16'7" 33'8" 48'0" || 29'6"		oo  CO CO
RelayRace 100 yds.	16'.4"  14.7"	16.5"  14.9"	

Expressed in percentages improvements for teams. The cases have been larger.

Senior Boys

Jumping 23 per cent Throwing 118	“	“

Running	9.4	“	“

Junior Boys

Jumping	18.5	“	“

Throwing 51	“	“

Running	8.1	“	“

these figures show the following individual improvements in most

Senior Girls

Jumping 19.6 per cent Throwing 36.3	“	“

Running 10.4. “	“

Junior Girls

Jumping 12	“	“

Throwing 77.2 “	“

Running 9.7 “	“

These figures show that there has been a fair increase in physical fitness in the teams and to the annual field days. We have had eleven field days. As a rule we have had good weather, but on two occasions the weather was very threatening. Our records show that since we began 135 of the 200 different school organizations have taken part in the field days. Several of the schools that never have taken part, however, have regular local field or play days in their schoolyards. I should also state that only on one occasion have grades below the fifth been allowed to participate in the general field day. This naturally excludes all the schools having only primary grades. Our records show that the Blaine School is the only school that never has missed a field day. Three schools have missed only one day, the Dunlap, the Alexander Henry and the Kelley. In 1911 on account of the bad weather only 23 schools took part, while in 1918, 71 schools were represented.

Digitized by Google
325

Besides the field days there are other auxiliary physical training activities fostered by the schools that must be taken into consideration when trying to arrive at an estimate of what has been accomplished.

7.	Swimming. This is the eighth year that the Board of Education has operated swimming centers during the vacation months. The thought underlying this phase of physical training is that every person should be able to swim, and that it is the physical training department’s business to see that this is done. For a number of years we have had 16 centers where boys and girls are taught swimming free of charge by teachers employed by the Board. During these eight years we have taught 11,700 boys and girls how to swim. This is on an average a little over 1400 children per year. While this is a fair showing so far as the number of centers is concerned, it is a poor showing if the number

• of children we are trying to reach is taken into consideration. According to the statistical reports of the Board there are about 25,000 boys and girls in the fifth grade. This is the grade in which we wish to teach swimming. Our records show that some schools encourage their fifth grade pupils to enter our swimming classes, while we have some schools that during the eight years never had have had a pupil enrolled. Through its swimming meets the Grammar School Athletic League is steadily supporting our ef- 1 forts.

8.	Corrective Work. For several years my assistants have been giving special work to children in the grammar grades who need corrective gymnastics.

When we first inaugurated this work eight years ago we fitted up a room as an orthopaedic gymnasium in one of the schools of our most densely populated sections of the city. Two of my assistants were put in charge, a man for the boys and a woman for the girls. In spite of our best efforts we could not induce principals to send a sufficient number of pupils needing corrective work to this gymnasium to make the undertaking worth while. After a year’s trial we closed the room.

A few years later, because of its pressing need, we again took up the question of corrective gymnastics. This time our attack upon the problem was different from the former. We said: the school is no orthopaedic institution, but we are willing to help the parents if they are interested in the correction of such bodily defects of their children as can be corrected at home. To try out the experiment a section of the city was chosen that was inhabited by a rather progressive type of citizens. We selected only those pupils that had flat chests and round shoulders, showed them the exercises they should perform at home, had them do these until they did them correctly, and then gave them a printed card with the exercises and additional directions to the parents, These children were then assembled at school by my assistants as often during the year as was necessary to supervise the exercises, and, if necessary, to add new movements. The experiment proved

Digitized by CjOOQle
326

a success, and this method is now in operation in most of the schools in the city.

During the school year just ended 2963 boys and 3680 girls (total 6643) have received special attention because of flat chests and round shoulders. We find that while most principals recognize the fact that an upright body, giving heart and lungs a chance to develop normally will improve the child mentally as well as physically, there still are some that do not appear to be interested in this phase of education sufficiently to ask for our cooperation.

9.	After School Play, Color Contests and Athletics. In

June 1916 the Board of Education, upon recommendation of a sub-committee on military training, passed a resolution advocating one hour per day of regulated physical training, play and athletics for the pupils in the elementary and high schools. Two hours of the five were to be in school time and three after school time.

As a result of this resolution our department outlined a plan of physical activities during and after school hours that gradually would lead to this one hour per day. It was taken for granted that until the whole school curriculum was revised it would be impossible to get any large part of these five hours per week during school hours. Our plan therefore provided for the giving of credit for many phases of physical activities encouraged or organized by the school within school hours or after school.

For instance, a school got credit if it organized its play during recesses or sifter school, as experience has proved that such organization gave more pupils a chance to play, and that children played oftener and longer than if there was no orgsmization. For the same reason credit was given for organized color contests during school time, as competition increased the quality as well as the quantity of work done. We recognized the fact that if a school made efforts to organize teams for baseball, soccer, volleyball, captain bail; if it took part in the meets and organized sports of the Grammar School Athletic League, if it had a field day of its own or took part in the larger Public School Field Day, it was devoting extra time to the physical development of those taking part in those activities and should be credited with those efforts.

We further realized that if a school encouraged our efforts to correct bodily deficiencies through corrective work, the school should receive credit for this. We also gave credit for Swimming Lessons, Boy or Girl Scout Troops organized .or encouraged by the school, and lastly, gardening was credited as a health activity.

At the end of each school year, for our own information, we arrange all schools into four groups, according to their standing in the various phases of physical training work and athletics outlined above. This is done as follows:

First we give each of the different physical training activities a certain number of points. Those activities having the greatest health value receive the highest number of points. Then the various activities that a school can undertake are checked.
327

Next the activities really undertaken by a school are checked and rated. (Explain Chart 1.)

Finally, by adding the number of points a school could, make and the number it really did make, we compute a school’s average and get its standing.

70 points and over put a school in Class 1, those having between 50 and 70 are in Class 2, those between 30 and 50 are in Class 3, while those under 30 are placed in Class 4. A compilation shows the following:

In 1916-17	4	schools	were	in	Class	1, 70W and over, in 1917-18 57

“	“	41	“	“	“	“	2, 50W to 70W	“	“	91

“	“	123	“	“	“	“	3,30W to 50W	“	“	42

“	“	32	“	"	“	“	4, under 30W	“	“	7

These are our additional proofs that the physical training work in our schools is progressing.

10.	After School Activities Considered Separately. Three years ago my assistants began to make reports upon the afterschool activities. Last year the Board’s statistical department devised a report blank that would show these activities more accurately and that would allow us to compute how closely we were arriving at the three horns per week wished for by the Board. Report forms give you facts. Without facts you have guess work.

A comparison of the yearly reports shows that many of our schools increased their after-school physical training activities and athletics enormously. In schools where, so far, little or nothing has been done, the fault appears to be a lack of organization or a failure to realize that the school must assume the responsibility for healthful bodily activity as well as the teaching of knowledge. In this work as in all school work intelligent organization brings results.

A summary of the reports upon the after school activities from September 1917 to June 1918 shows the following: We have 200 school organizations in Philadelphia. Of these 108 reported upon after school activities, showing that in these schools 355,811 hours had been devoted after school to some kind of physical training work, athletics or play. Fifty schools reported that they had done nothing during the year, while 42 did not turn in any report.

Now, naturally, this is not a report that might be construed into a statement that the afterschool work is a “howling success” because 100,000 children in grades 4 to 8 during the whole school term had, each, about four hours of exercise per year. But it is better than what we did the preceding years.

11. The Future. We now come to the outlook for the future. What is our program for the next year? The war, naturally, has affected the organization of every department of school work. Ten of my fifteen men assistants were gradually inducted into the service. This meant a continual re-arrangement of assignments. Last spring, after a conference with the superintendent, it was found advisable to simplify the physical training work in

Digitized by (^.ooQle
328

the grades, so as to be able to meet the changed conditions in the schools. The marching and the free exercises were simplified, the latter now consisting only of a well balanced setting-up drill. Three forms of track and field events were selected, being the same for all grades from/the fourth to the eighth. These are the same events we have for our field days. Finally definite and obligatory games were selected for each of the eight grades. These changes have been printed in the form of a supplement bearing the legend “Minimum Physical Training Requirements”. The physical training work in the grades now consists of

1.	Simple marching by twos and fours

2.	A setting-up drill. When this has been well learned the class teachers may, upon advice of my assistants, take up the exercises in the handbooks.

3.	Three athletic events—Running, Jumping, Throwing.

4.	Several vigorous games for each grade.

In the three athletic events the age-aims, that is, the physical training requirements for each age, are printed in our handbook. These aims are the result of years of trials in our own schools.

Principals now can more easily supervise the physical training work in their schools, and at any time can determine where their school or where any particular room in their school stands in its physical training work.

The rating of the work is based upon the three prescribed track and field events. The age-aims for each child are stated in the handbooks. If a child reaches the age-aim it passes the test, if it does not reach the requirements, it fails. By this method it will be possible for each child to make a maximum of 3 points. By adding the points made by all pupils it will be easy to compute the percentage of a room. It also will be possible for a principal to compute the percentage of his school as a whole. Next year we hope to work out a scheme whereby the free exercise drill as well as the obligatory games shall be taken into consideration. •

12. Method of Organization. Good results always are based upon good forms of organization. One of the best methods to secure good physical training work is to organize a school upon the color basis. This is done by divding the pupils in each room above the third grade into reds and blues, or any other school colors. The pupils selected for each of the two colors then are treated as permanent teams for a term. The procedure is as follows:

The pupils in each room choose the captains. If there are boys and girls in the room it is advisable in the upper grades to have a separate captain for the boys and for the girls of each color; that is, there will be four captains. After the captains are chosen they select the members of their team in rotation, choosing one at a time. Each captain then makes out a list with the name and the age of each team-member. Next to the name he places the three obligatory events and the passing mark in e&ch event. As soon as a team member passes his age-aim the captain marks this on the teacher's control card. The teacher thereby at a glance

Digitized by C^ooQle
329

can see who has not passed his age-aims in the three events. At the next lesson the teacher can give special attention to those needing help. The captains of the two color teams, by computing the percentage, can always see the relative standing of the teams in each one of the events. If they are low, they will be eager to help the weaker team-members reach the passing mark and so increase their percentage. In the playing of games they will coach the weaker members so that their team may win. In the hands of a skillful teacher this form of organization will be a great aid in helping all other forms of school work. It also will be usable when selecting teams for any outside form of athletic competition.

Conclusion. The draft has shown us that there is need for definite vigorous physical activity, sC as to increase the strength and vigor of our young men. Undoubtedly a similar comprehensive examination would show the same need among young women. The question is, what are the schools, especially the principals of schools, going to do to help decrease the amount of physical unfitness? Our first move is embodied in the new supplement. When these aims have been reached others can be added. If the classroom teachers will stress the activities selected and will see that every child passes the physical tests based upon its age, it will be reasonable to expect that the percentage of young men (and women) able to pass the military test will be greater than at present. Well meaning critics tell us we have too many kinds of physical training activities. What we need in the public schools is first, a decrease in the number of physical activities customarily embraced under the term physical training, and second, a determined effort on the part of all class room teachers and principals to have every child pass the reasonable age-aims of a selected number of essential physical activities. Your physical training department has made a selection of activities and has worked out reasonable age-aims. The Grammar School Athletic League is. anxious to increase its activities. Are you willing to let us help you? With your co-operation we should be able to advance rapidly toward the 100 per cent of physical fitness for every boy and girl attending our schools.

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Rhythm in Physical Education

Rhythm is a universal principle. Our whole universe seems alive with it. Its universality is manifested in the rhythmic course of the sun, the earth, the moon and the tide; of the seasons, the months and the days. This all-embracing principle is reflected in the organic life of man where the vital processes function with fundamental regularity of rhythm. As an economizer of energy it stands pre-eminent. This is observable in the trotting of horses as well as in the laden camel; in the rhythmic rowing of the boats-man, in our respiration, in our heart action, etc. etc. There is a rise and fall of energy. We have curves of work as well as curves

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
330

of rest and of sleep with their upward and downward slopes and their climaxes.

In physical education we deal with rhythm manifesting itself most obviously in muscular action, but at the same time permeating the entire organism altho there may be no outward expression noticeable. We may distinguish between two quite different types of rhythmic muscular contractions, first, the fast, sudden, or jerky type, and second, the slow, smooth and even type. There are contractions which lie between these two extremes but they may be classified with the one or the other. Both types are essential in physical education activities and must Jooth receive proper application and consideration. Studies made by A. Londe, Paris, and given in Schmidt’s “Unser Korper” show the following results:

In illustrations showing the bending of the arm to thrust and the straightening of the arm, first, as a rapid contraction, and second, as a slow contraction, the same force of contraction was apparent when the arm was halfway, but after the arm had reached the final position the result was different. When quickly contracted the biceps appeared relaxed as tho rebounding from the sudden effort, whereas when slowly contracted it appeared firm and compact when the arm was bent to thrust. The same differences were noticed in the triceps when the arm was straightened (1) with a jerk, and (2) slowly. This seems to prove that in quick movements the part of the body acted upon is moved into a position by a throwing-like action, the muscles contracting suddenly and in a jerky manner but only momentarily and then immediately relaxing again. On the other hand, in slow movements the working muscle contracts steadily until the final position is reached. The same is true if the muscle stops midway in a position interrupting the movement. The blood supply will be larger in muscles which are slowly and evenly contracted, than in those which are rapidly contracted. Sudden, rapid contractions are, however, valuable, inasmuch as they occur in such practical daily activities as jumping, throwing, striking and thrusting. Some positions can not be attained in good form by a rapid movement, but only by the slow, even type of contraction (for example, arms upward). Hence, rhythm in physical education must make use of these two forms of muscular contractions as well as the intermediate form, giving the body speed, strength and evenness of movement.

It is furthermore to be noted that rhythmic execution eventually makes movements that are not already so, become half automatic or mechanical. This leads to a saving of will power to a certain extent and makes the work more recreative, and because of musical accompaniment (a most desirable addition), more delightful, the rhythmic beating partly supplaCing the volitional impulse. This does not mean that snappy response work which requires considerable will power should be neglected. On the contrary, it must receive equal emphasis with rhythmic execution. All rhythmic muscular contractions, however, whether

Digitized by LjOOQle
331

they be of the snappy quick type or the slow type demand a certain amount of will power if they are to be executed with force and vigor. Altho musical accompaniment may be considered an additional stimulus it can not entirely replace volition in movements requiring force. There is, furthermore, a difference between the kind of stimuli required for the two forms of contractions; the former is the result of sudden innervations of short duration but of an explosive nature followed by a release of effort, while the latter is the result of a continuous stream of impulses flowing into the muscle and the will striving to maintain this effort. But if no force is essential in the contraction, as in some dancing exercises, the will power may be entirely eliminated providing the activity has become automatic and the performer may be swayed and moved bodily as well as spiritually by the rhythmic pulsations of the music. Dr. Schmidt is of the opinion that much of this type of work leads to over-effeminacy.

Rhythm with reference to its source may be spoken of as independent and dependent rhythm. Independent rhythm is that which the pupils sets for himself during the performance of an activity. It is based on his inborn sense of rhythm which thus outwardly expresses itself. We see it in the way he performs stunts upon apparatus by himself, dances or goes through free exercises and athletics and other activities. Dependent rhythm is that according to which the pupil or class performs a given activity. It is usually set by the instructor when he counts while the class is working, or by the piano keeping time. These various phases of rhythmic work, that is, the two types of muscular contractions, the tendency of rhythmic work toward the mechanical and automatic, and dependent and independent rhythm, should be borne in mind in the study of rhythmic application. We may justly assume that most instructors in physical education use a piano for accompaniment and hence a classification of rhythm from a musical view-point will be found desirable and practical.

From the manifold rhythms developed during the past, certain ones stand out as both most practical and most natural. These are principally employed in physical education and consist of the following:

(1)	. 4-4 time, consisting of march, schottische and gavotte rhythms. In the first two named principal emphasis is placed upon the first beat, and secondly upon the third beat of the measure, while in the latter, gavotte, each beat receives equal emphasis They generally have the following values:

March	4-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	120-130

Schottische	4-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	144-152

Gavotte	4-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	108-112

(2)	3-4 time, consisting of mazurka, minuette and waltz rhythm, all three of which may be varied to some extent, but waltz is very often given as fast, moderately fast and slow waltz rhythm. In mazurka the principal emphasis is placed on the first beat in the measure and the secondary on the third beat in the measure.

Digitized by LaOOQle
332

In minuette each beat receives equal emphasis, while in waltz rhythm the first beat alone is emphasized.

Mazurka	3-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	132-140

Minuette	3-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	104-108

Waltz 3-4 MM, fast—dotted half note equals 92-96 moderately fast — dotted half note equals 60-68 slow—one-quarter note equals 116

(3)	2-4 time consists of polka, gallop and one step rhythm. In the first two the first beat is emphasized, but in the one step rhythm the beats receive equal emphasis.

Polka	2-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	108-116

Gallop	2-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	132-140

One Step	2-4	MM,	one-quarter	note	equals	132

(4)	6-8 .time consists of two step rhythm which receives its emphasis upon the first count. There is also a slow rhythm in

6-8 time which is suitable for certain types of movements.

(5)	Moderato and Adagio. There are many compositions in various rhythms and times indicated to be played moderato or adagio and which lend themselves very nicely for aesthetic movements and some forms of trunk exercises. It is not our purpose to go much into the theory of music, but merely to indicate the important types of rhythms suitable for physical education purposes. Later we shall apply these to the different activities.

That all activities can not be performed in the same rhythm is obvious. There are five factors which determine the time measure of execution for different activities and for different parts of the body. They are:

(1)	Size and kind of body part exercised.

(2)	Range of movement.

(3)	Weight transference.

(4)	Nature of the activities.

(5)	Innate rhythm of pupils.

(1)	Size and kind of body part exercised. The different parts of the body vary both in size and weight and consequently are limited in their speed of movement. Thus, the forearm can be moved more rapidly than the arm or the leg, which in turn can be moved more rapidly than the trunk in certain activities; likewise, the head must not be moved with much speed for obvious reasons.

(2)	Range of movement. Small movements do not require as much time for their performance as those of large amplitude. Thus foot placing, heel raising, trunk tinning, will not require as much time as leg and arm raising or trunk lowering and raising. This is true regardless of the type of contraction used; i. e., fast or slow.

(3)	Weight transference. The rhythms of activities which involve weight transference depend upon three phases of this. There also is a fourth phase, that of frequency or number of transferences, to be considered when applied to progression in physical education work, but it has no influence upon rhythm.

Digitized by LjOOQle
\

333

(a)	The degree of transference, as partial, half, or whole, illustrated in foot placing, striding and lunging.

(b)	Upon the distance covered in the transference, as illustrated in stepping and lunging.

(c)	Upon the speed of the transference, whether it is slow or fast. All exercises containing weight transferences eventually-become semiautomatic because of their rhythmic repetition.

(4)	Nature of activities. The nature of the activity determines to some extent the rhythm because elevations are generally slower than extensions or flexions and swinging; while rotation or circling movements are faster than swaying in free exercises. In, dancing, stepping and pointing, movements are naturally slower than springing and swinging movements. In apparatus work we have similar differences. Thus, support swinging or swinging in the knee hang does not require as much time as hang-swinging. Generally the nature of activities is based upon one of the two types of muscular contraction or of an intermediate type closely approaching the one or the other.

(5)	Innate rhythm of pupils. Every individual has a distinct rhythm of his own. Although this difference is very slight in persons of the same age, it is easily discernable between children and adults. The physical educator must recognize this and set his rhythm accordingly. Children possess a tendency toward rapid movement which usually does not exist in adults.

In the practical application of rhythm, we may follow as a rule, a procedure of passing from a slow, well-timed, suitable ' rhythm suggested by the nature of the exercises and governed by the factors stated above, to a faster rhythm. This will increase the difficulty in execution. It should be added that this can not ,be applied to all activities. It is only by applying the correct rhythm with perfect execution that results desired can be obtained.

In this procedure we should not neglect to make use of both dependent and independent rhythm.

Suggestions as to the time-value of different activities follow.

Free Exercises, (a) General exercises, consisting of arm and leg exercises in particular, to which in the more advanced grades, trunk movements may be added, are given for the purpose of increasing the circulation and for accuracy of position. The most suitable music for this is of the following rhythms: Fast waltz for heel raising and knee bending; polka, march and one step for the various stepping phases, lunging, etc.

(b)	Postural exercises, consisting of movements intended to straighten the dorsal and lumbar spine and poise the head properly upon the trunk, and the trunk properly upon the heads of the femur are generally performed only upon command and held for some time in position. The object is to shorten the muscle fiber in all those groups actively aiding in maintaining good posture.

(c)	Balancing exercises. The same is true of balancing -exercises. Both, however, may also be done in slow rhythm.

It is particularly advisable to occasionally take the balancing

Digitized by UaOOQle
334

movements which lead from place in this manner. When done in rhythm use some form of moderate or adagio rhythm.

(d)	Rhythmic trunk exercises consist of bending, straightenings, lowerings, raisings, and turnings of the trunk and are done in waltz, polka and march rhythm, using both very slow and fast time. The slow tunes precede and are perhaps best always used in school work for the large movements caused by slow forceful contractions. Work for adults of advanced ability may contain movements of this type in fast rhythm.

(e)	Springing activities consist of jumping and hopping exercises and are done (1) in independent lhythm, as the various stand and step jumps for instance, and (2) in rhythms commonly used for gymnastic dancing; i.e. schottische, polka, gallop, mazurka, waltz, etc. as used for hopping, cutting, swing- and cut-hops, stride jumps and the vai ious foot-placing and foot and leg swings with hopping.

(f)	Respiratory exercises. These consist of breathing movements to which are added movements of other parts of the body. Here the natural breathing rhythm is followed, adapted and changed as may be required to fit movements (and sometimes with pauses of short duration in position) which are added to make breathing deep. These exercises are not given with musical accompaniment.

(g)	Wand and dumbbell exercises require the same rhythm as the free exercises. The added weight of the wand and dumbbell make these exercises more suitable for pupils of the junior and senior high school. Increased weights are used for adults.

(h)	Club swinging. Waltz rhythm is most suitable for club swinging and should be of a fairly fast time. If movements of the other parts of the body are added, these must be adapted to the club swinging rhythm. A few exercises with the clubs are perhaps better performed in polka rhythm, such as straightening arms and striking the clubs, but the swings and circles should not be performed in this rhythm. The smooth flowing waltz is the most suitable.

(i)	Marching is principally used in the form of tactic exercises and to facilitate the moving about of the class. We distinguish between two types of steps. (1) The common step, with the rhythm of 150 to 160 steps for children and 140 for adults per minute, using march and one step rhythm; and (2) occasionally the firm step with 130 to 140 steps per minute for children and 120 to 130 steps per minute for adults. In running a rhythm of 180 to 200 steps per minute is used for children and 160 to 180 steps per minute for adults. For this very fast schottische may be used.

(j)	Dancing. Rhythm in dancing is determined by the type of step or by the combination that is being performed. These often have the same names as the musical rhythm; e. g., polka, schottische, maxurka, etc., rhythms, most of which usually have the step of the same name as a basis. For esthetic movements music of an adagio rhythm are most suitable.

Digitized by i^ooQLe
335

(k)	Apparatus Work. Apparatus exercises are performed either in class (group) or individually. They may be conveniently divided into

(l)	free exercises on apparatus, and

(2)	fundamental apparatus exercises.

Free exercises as class work on the apparatus are usually performed at first trial in an independent rhythm, that is, in a free manner by the pupils, and then in a dependent rhythm indicated by the teacher and adapted to the nature of the exercise, as exercises in the hang stand, lying hangs, lying support, hang and support.

The fundamental exercises and combinations are always performed individually and in the independent rhythm of the pupil. He must adapt his rhythm to the nature of his movement in the combination or stunt which should neither be too hurried nor too slow. Nothing spoils a pretty combination on the apparatus so much as rushing through an exercise hastily without giving the proper time to each part of the combination.

Usually in the arrangement of different kinds of combined movements whether they are free exercises, dance steps or apparatus work, care should be taken that the various parts composing the combination possess rhythmic similarity. If this is lacking it will to some extent mar their performance. It should, furthermore, be observed that in all rhythmic execution speed should not be increased at the cost of correct execution. It is difficult to observe faults and good form if the rhythmic execution is too fast. 'Precision of movement and accuracy of position should not suffer because of increased speed in the rhythm.

Since a great part of the work in physical education is performed in a dependent rhythm it is most desirable, In fact essential, to have a pianist and to thus do away with the counting of the teacher as accompaniment. A few words about the pianist will therefore not be amiss. She should be a clever player, well advanced in her art, alert, good at memorizing music and possessing a varied repertoire so she can quickly change from one rhythm to another. She should have a well developed sense of rhythm to enable her to follow the instructor easily and maintain the correct time. Ability to accompany all the exercises, even while they are being tried out slowly, makes teaching more enjoyable and lends additional pleasure to the work.

It is advisable that she has ready at hand, or preferably memorized a number of compositions of the different tempi as given above, most popular in physical education. These she can adapt to the different activities, modifying them by placing emphasis where it is needed, so that they will assist the pupil in the execution.

These selections should be from standard and semi-classic compositions so as to develop a love for good music in the pupils. At times a popular composition, may just have the swing needed for certain exercises, and although its occasional use may be justified because of this or because of it being a great favorite, the other types of compositions should predominate.
336

HABIT IN THE HOME

By GEORGE VAN NESS DEARBORN, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, Professor of Psychology and Education, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge: Psychologist to the Forsyth Infirmary for Children, Boston; etc.

III.	The Prevention of Bad Habits

The deeper spirit of the times in Medicine and in all other aspects of Hygiene is PREVENTION rather than cure, or let us say in this early epoch, prevention as well as cure. Habit is an element of personality-health as well as of bodily and of mental health proper, and prophylaxis or prevention is therein pre-eminently important. A man, for example, who by foolish feeding has made himself “fat” may oftentimes reduce to a safety-basis by proper dieting, but a man who has made himself a drunkard is injured for life. Both to be sure in a sense are habits but the latter more strictly so than the former. No one at all save those practicing physicians to whom Medicine is a trade or a profitmaking business rather than a high profession, will, deny this prophylactic obligation. Let us now all go a step further afield and admit that exactly the same principle holds true of the supreme profession of being a parent — a profession whose diploma and license normally comes not from man but from God. In this article, our third, we are going to discuss some of the courses that have to be mastered or at least studied in order to win the degree of parental doctor of personality-health; it is distinctly an honor-degree.

The technical name of the general procedure is psychoprophylaxis — a forbidding term which in plain English is prevention through mental influence. Knowledge as pure and as simple as you please that habit-disorder in a person should be expected and prevented is seldom or never enough to secure results. In the first place, the attention of children is of the reflex variety, that is, not controlled by the voluntary will, and therefore does not take or make an interest in things such as hygiene and habit, dealing largely with future consequences. The practical consequence is that however “good his instructions” the average boy and girl practically gets no more of real hygiene into his soul than of real algebra, or of the real Latin of busy Rome. The hygienic prevention-problem is therefore how to make its very essential principles and practice real and living values to our boys and girls, as real and as living and as practically efficient as the conditions of the summer-camp money or baseball or the colors of sweaters or the “movie-stars”.

To be effective for the average mind, such doctrines must be actualized, must be lived.How then may we best let or make our children	live bad-habit	prevention? We may say in general, By

giving it the nature, so far as it pertains, of living experiences. Four suggestions toward this may be worth noting:	1. Make it

effectual by making it a/fectual, that is endowed with feeling or emotion. 2. Make it show its actual value to the child’s own life by so demonstrating its practicality that he may see itreflexly

Digitized by

Google


"A

337

for himself. (Boys may be strongly sentimental at heart and often are, but they are never aware of the fact — until it is demonstrated.) 3. Employ some mears, (e. g., an instinctive interest) of working the prophylaxis intended into the general scheme of the boy's or girl's actual living. 4. Put it into actual and continual practice in the child's daily habits (“training").

Habit-prophylaxis has money-value as well as happiness-value and worth in the attainment of “success," whatever “success" in the abstract may mean. Herein, in this fact, lies a long and rigid lever with a fulcrum ready which may be used to lift such heavy souls as may not be elevated by less sordid and more ordinary means. All the useful aspects of this practical philosophy, indeed, are of noteworthy importance- The various “habits" must separately be discussed with the child. The loss which they necessitate in time; in health; learning; popularity; efficiency; freedom; beauty; and honor must be pointed out severally in vigorous but simple terms to the child. Money-loss is by no means the worst loss by the bad* habits of childhood but it is one appealing form of loss, and a form which even the most sordid and materially minded can readily appreciate; the older the child the more readily. Intelligence, it should be pointed out, already, is close-allied to skill and for the vast majority of wage-earners money is the gage of skill. No one-habituated person can be highly skilful; and * certainly none who is under-habituated. In the case of many habits, sometimes badly worrisome to parents, as we shall see later, these crassly practical evils of children's habits are sometimes their most important evils, consumers of time and of attention-energy.

A method of this kind, a plan, an intention, like ideas in general, is far more effectual if it appears to come from the child's own subconscious mind as a matter of his own common-sense. In children, then, of good self-reliance and with much normal self-confidence, if prophylactic intentions can be taught so as to seem self-taught, the whole problem is in a way to be solved, unless in a weak-willed child. The whole art of suggestion comes into the problem and already this art is a complex and a strong one, with unlimited attainments. Keatinge has set forth its educative values and its educational uses, but the learned psychotherapeutist among the physicians is here the supreme expert for employment when the powerful suggestions of the mother fail be the tool she has employed a slipper or words, often far more forceful and effective, while too, some slippers have more reality.

Before we go further it is indispensable that we review our notion of self-control set forth in the previous articles. To do this, and to clinch the idea, let us illustrate by pointing out the apparatus of the great ship thru which the navigating officers control the movements, (the behavior) of the entire vessel. The apparatus correspond to the nerve-units in the “gray-matter" of the brain, the child's intelligence and his intentions acting through these “neurones" in some still mysterious way. Yet these instruments do not directly control the great engines and steering machinery and

Digitized by U.ooQle
333

light-dynamos and refrigerating plant and so on down in the vast middle bottom of the ship. On the contrary, the messages which they send thither are of the very simplest symbolic kind and without influence of any sort on the motor apparatus save through the trained mediation of the intelligence of the engineers and firemen. These latter, then, correspond to the nerve-units in the spinal cord and the so-called autonomic sets of nerves, which know through the movement-sensations, all about the details of the muscles and the glands throughout the body, the machinery which provides the impulse to activity of this mighty body of the little child.

There are two degrees and grades of intelligence which have to be impressed if the personality is to develop and unroll adequately: a higher intelligence that includes understanding and intention) and a lower that stands for the power and the intricate machinery of the child’s behavior. The latter is easily habituated, and the business of the former is to see to it that it becomes habituated in the right way — that our engineers are learned, careful, and wise men, men to whom, in short, the fondest parents would unhesitatingly entrust his darling child, unafraid of harm.

Inasmuch as some habits, hundreds of them in fact, are good, and even quite essential to efficient living, it is necessary at this stage of our argument to try to determine out of scores, which habits generally are to be “prevented” in our ideal home. To a broad outlook and for really wise parents it is too vague to answer “All bad habits, of course!” When we realize, briefly, that it is custom mostly that makes the right right and the wrong not right, it is clear that the parent, conscientious in her work, needs some sort of a guide to rightness and to wrongness. Here an endless trouble would begin if we allowed it to do so. Personally (as if that counted!) the writer is so strongly an individualist that he can hardly believe the truly average parent wholly competent to serve as arbiter malorum in this complex and ever complexifying world! But if not he, then certainly no one, for such are the conditions of the family. And clearly, as in the case of literature or pictures or music or law or religion, it is to a degree a matter of taste, of learning, of a personal knowledge of history and of other customs in other lands and times; the more broadly this viewing goes the more trustworthy the viewing and the judging. The good and the bad, especially in the habit-life of children, certainly are not and cannot be and should not be fixed! Human personality is too various and too great, too high, too deep. Not that any one would think of thieving or unneatness or smoking as habits by any possibility other than bad in a child. But that clearly enough there are habits, and habits a-plenty, which are bad or good according to the child: to circumstances of age and “temperament,” of affluence and intelligence and vigor and sex, and a hundred other of the intricate relations, within and without the organism, of our complex social life. Thus explicit rules are impossible of application to many habits each. The best therefore that one can do is to understand at least the chief of the principles

Digitized by

Google
339

involved, certain that if they be really the principles, each habit of a child may be more or less accurately measured by them. This is just as certain as it is that the scales in your grocery-shop, by using ingenuity and plenty of various containers and time, might be used to weigh well nigh everything in the store, — the honesty of the management, be it observed, not excepted. In like manner, a real principle of habit-prevention serves to prevent all kinds of bad habits, the fluid and the solid, the sticky and the dry, the sweet-smelling and the strong, the “good,” in short,'and the "bad.” This fact when not carried too far is well, for the nervous system itself will see to it willywilly that the indispensable habits of life and training (walking, eating, manners, dressing) are well habituated anyhow as part of the life itself. The others, those not made habitual by the hereditary interknitting of the nerves, should be always left open, so to say, to some extent, for it is far better for a child to be habituated too little, even with some obvious waste of time and energy, than to be over-habituated with loss of the divine will-freedom. The “golden mean”!

One habit-prevention principle is paramount; and it is as simple as it is efficient. The Instantaneous Great Habit-Panacea this is not, for the racial application is hard and long, the slow task of growth through many but ever-ameliorating generations who will know us not. But for the individual the plan goes into the heart of things and liberates the will itself. This principle is that of arousing self-interested habit-wisdom in the early mind of the normal child. Then, in general, when the will is right, the inherent vigilance of the active personality takes up and keeps up the task. Inspire into the earliest and deepest mind of the child the strongly self-interested wisdom of habit, and the inherent evolution of the dual personality as a matter of self-satisfaction, self-protection, and	self-culture, will do the rest. This same principle adapted for

beauty or honor or wisdom would distinctly not “work,” for the power to realize beauty and honor and wisdom are not as yet at all in the mind of the young child. But self-preservation and the self-interest which leads thereto, and plain common sense, are in the mind of even the toddling normal child and can be developed, and used as an invincible guard and power for the evolution of the individual.

This, then, is the Habit Golden Rule; each parent must use it as she can for each child as the circumstances of habit and intelligence and will allow.

When adequately used, failure is due either to a low native intelligence (some are bom smart, some achieve smartness, and some have “smartness” thrust upon them!) or to an evil will, the two greatest banes of personality against which any principle of habit-culture of earth or heaven is inherently helpless. And a stream even of the God-sent human personality, cannot rise higher than its own particular source; nor can any make a golden angel out of brass, beautiful as brass, properly lacquered, often is, and however precious to its designers. It is of the very nature of our life that some by nature are ill-intelligenced and some ill-

Digitized by

Google
340

willed; these must be as they must be,—nor can the love and care and wisdom of even a Mother make them otherwise. Yet these too, let it be observed, are in a way captains of their souls, but whither bound no port may know in advance.

No principle of normal philosophy seems to be more certain than that which underlies and sanctions and substantiates this theory of habit-prophylaxis. Barring the cases of low intelligence (there are 2C0,CC0 cr 3CQ,CC0 mental-defectives in the United States), evil will, and of occasional true caprice (or innocent form of evil-will) with which habit-casuistry cannot be concerned, every child in every case will do as well for himself, for his present and even for his future self, as he knows how to do.

“Ne’er a peevish Boy “Would break the Bowl from which he drank in joy.”

There seems reason to believe moreover that this principle applies relatively, to ore childhood age as accurately as to another. The cases that v e have barred it is admitted are both very numerous and of neat economic im.pcrtar.ce otherwise; but the active development of the irtelliger.ee ard the moral elevation of the will are outside car \ resent range which is cor fined to “normal,” i. e., average children ftied out to an average degree with both intelligence and good will, - just normal reasonable human boys and girls!

This “doing as well for himself as he knows how to do”, just asserted, means secondarily, so far as habit goes, a normal power ard training in restraint. This fundamental inhibitory faculty in young children is a much neglected phase of child-study, and that despite its tremendous importance for the understanding of early personality. Here we can do little more than point out its very early existence in a well-defined form and in much power. At the “first,” at birth, the restraint is certainly practically of a purely reflex kind. By the continual, interweaving of environmental conditions, however, there is soon, (in theory immediately) formed a nexus of purposes and desires on the part of the ever more clearly conscious baby which very early in the first year sets up what in effect is a very competent Service of Restraints. These then become more and more purely “voluntary” and deliberate. For the practical ] urp< scs of parents, as at present for example, it is of little account whether a given act of restraint be classed scientifically as reflex or as an act of deliberate will. It is enough for them to know that an elaborate system of restraints does exist from the first. Some of these have been noted as they occurred in the writer’s “Moto-Sensory Development: Observations of First Three Years of a Child.” (Baltimore, 1910). An example of these inhibitions as d as another is the simple well-known fact that: blowing on or touching the forehead of an actively kicking and gesticulating child even on the day of his birth will at once stop ordinarily all movement for a short time; in like manne r a simple band of rubber about the “ankle of a normal frog will, for s< minutes oftentimes, check the re-turning struggle which usually is instantly so conspicuous in the frog placed on his back. Any
341

trained child-nurse will tell you how easy it is to teach a child control of his rectum when a few months old. In short, there is in the normal child at birth a far-reaching set of restraints of many kinds—not less in number because as yet no one has adequately studied or even counted them. This inhibitory self-control, which begins to become deliberate somewhat before positive action becomes so, gives our children the bodily means of preventing bad habits	as soon as	they reaUy understand the conditions of the whole

matter.

And this restraining intelligence and good will has been made use of by competent parents probably from the Old Stone Age as a means of making their children, then as now, grow up “good,” or gentle, or kind or virtuous cr even facially beautiful; so it is assuredly nothing new. Emerson terms it the “over-soul”; some would name it the subconscious; others the child’s commom-sense; and others still would give it no name at all but strongly emphasize how efficient is its inhibitory action when actuated and oriented by informed self interest. The principle has not as yet been applied generally to the prevention of bad habits in our way probably because it is only of late years that observers have realized how early in the all-important first year the power of local and general self-control is present. This guiding habit-wisdom may be acquired very early and then with practice soon become more or less subconscious — but always is it a rule of conduct. Much here we owe to Sigmund Freud, and to Pavlov, but the highly corroborative testimony of physiology, oT child-study observations, and of animal psychology have combined already to put the facts on a sound and scientific basis.

An average year-old child, then, if not one of a month cr two less, is fitted out with the restraining apparatus which makes it possible for her to make use of any guiding principle that may be adequately inspired into her conscious and subconscious mind. It is at this early age, and not later, although tetter earlier, that its use, systematic and practical, should be commenced. If it be begun under the stimulating influence and guidance of the human reason already present in her mind, and made explicit by direct application to habit and to particular habits, there is as yet no assignable limit to what may be accomplished. This is the basis of intensive education at home, (see A. A. Berle), one of the great educational problems of the near future.

An incident related by B. R. Tucker in his little book on nervous children suggests, and more than that, another and an essential part of this process namely, the application of the strength of the infantile will:	“One of the most obedient children I know

was made so by the mother ‘fighting it out’ with her when the child was a little over two years old. The child put some trash on the drawing-room floor and the mother told her to pick it up. The child refused and the mother insisted. The child lay on its back and cried and screamed. The mother	told the reas she was not to

litter that particular floor and continued to insist upon the child picking up the trash. These two wills combatted each other for

Digitized by LjOOQle
342

two and one-half hours, when at last the child yielded. It was a victory for both mother and child, and the best thing about it that the child was not whipped." Here certainly is one instance of real child-training how far above common method of force and terrorism and dreadfulness!

On this basis, as foregoing, then, the child-mind with its mother’s milk drinks in ana thrives on the fact and power and great life-importance of controlled habituation. Remembering that the child (like the brutes) understands far earlier than many realize, let one apply the principle in general and concrete explanation and exhortation and counsel and command (not threats or punishment) and a kindly explicit encouragement for ready self-application in particular habits. By the former half (the abstract principle) the subconscious “oversoul” is impressed and put on sleepless guard; while by the latter half (the specific application) the behavior and so the entire mind more or less is fortified for the particular habits so prone to form against the impulse and busy child’s personal welfare.

In impressing this habit-hygiene principle, as well as another, on the infantile mind, repetition and reiteration must be appreciated and freely practised. Next to simplicity and clearness of statement no pedagogic process is more productive in the learning process. The teaching procedure should not be confused in thought with story-telling and humor, where repetition is unfashionable, to say the least. In impressing principles on a child’s young mind nothing could be more proper or more necessary than repetition to certain and easy success. The intent of this habit-work by the conscientious parent is of pre-eminent importance and no quarry may be left untapped, no stone unturned to increase the self-protective powers of the daily habits of the childish philosopher.

Hardly anything else in all education is so important, for this principle applies to self-protection against many evil things, ignorance for example, as effectively as it applies to nail-biting or to the habit of exaggerating.

It is already the common practice, of course, for parents to warn their offspring against certain famous habits as actual, concrete dangers. But this is done almost never early enough, and with only a fraction of the effectiveness that would be secured were the theory of habit impressed on the mind, always eager for practical truth, at the same time. Here comes in the intelligence of the parent as well as that of the child. Without this, the child must------“dree his weird”; but he is unfortunate.

The boy’s confidence in himself and in his own capabilities of will is indispensable to the successful use of the mental restraint-method. If this self-confidence be not already part of the boy’s life-equipment, it must be imparted to him by sympathy, by kind words, by direct, explicit encouragement, and by the demonstration of example. As I have elsewhere shown, a child does not make a particular deliberate movement unless and until he has reason to believe that he can make it—when in psychological terms, a “motor idea” of the act is at least potential in his conscious

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
343

mind. This is one of the main functions of imitation, to furnish automatically these “motor ideas”; but verbal encouragement and explicit statement of ability will accomplish, and more readily, much the same important result for the child. The notion of self-confidence, in part because it is the satisfaction of an instinctive craving to be as soon as possible ? man or a woman, is like a strong, a very strong cord of gold and crimson silk by which even a very young and impulsive child may be drawn toward fine self-control.

Exactly as is the case in adults, however complete the habit of bad-habit prevention may be most of the time, on the rise of emotions, flooding out the calmer intention to “be good” and not to do the injurious thing, it is for the time forgot. We now know from the work in Cannon’s laboratory that this is accomplished by an increase of sugar, a strength-food, in the blood, and of "adrenin,” these standing for greater energy-expense. A prerequisite, therefore, of consistent self-control over bad habits is a restraint-power widei but less intensive, which may prevent the rise of feelings to irresponsible intensity. This means in practice little or nothing more than that everything in the child’s mind and body hangs together, and is part and parcel of one single process, of that “homogeneous personality” which we somewhat boldly named and discussed in our first installment. Thus training in habit-restraint, and control of one’s emotions are factors of the same essential evolution of the true woman and the real man. And this surely is all, as “Polonius” claims:

“This above all: to thine own self be true And it must follow as the night the day Thou canst not then be false to any man.”

On the other hand, emotion and feeling, being thus periods of largely increased energy-expense, in many cases this very mental state may be used to clinch and to enforce the habit-prevention. Some emotions tend toward the temporary abandonment of self-restraint; but on the other hand others provide just that amount of "pep” necessary to certain self-control. Things are so complex! But the goal, let it he remembered, is nothing less than the purpose of human Life itself! the evolution of human personalities'.

The precise means by which the child may be led to become “captain of his soul,” real commander of his own various army of ideas and desires and loves and fears and hates as representatives of bodily actions, are for the most part too technically scientific for our present discussion, for it involves the whole psychology of kinesthesia as of skill itself. But one matter is so practically important that it may not be omitted wholly: namely, the necessity for more training of the senses in young children. Perhaps my readers, some of them, do not realize that to hear well or to see or taste accurately involves the delicate use of all the muscles in general in the body in one way and in one degree or another. Some of them are actively shortened, thus obviously moving or doing something, while others, and usually most of the muscles of the body, merely stiffen so as to form a basis (“purchase” the mechanics term it) on which the proper muscles of the sense-organs

Digitized by ^.ooQle
344

I

can act all the better. Watch your own child at any age but especially if a year or more old, and see quickly for yourself what he does when some familiar voice is unexpectedly heard behind him—does not his whole body and al1 his mind make it their entire business for the moment to turn the youngster around and make other complex reactions solely to the end that he may the better hear and see? if it were your little dog, to smell, also? This process is “perception” and it lies in the very heart of skill (as I have already, though feebly and tentatively set forth in my “How to Learn Easily,” Boston, 1916). Its shortest road for the young child is sense-training, the vast museum of Nature as well as of man, providing the ever-delightful material to be observed and sensed.

Thus we see an inkling of why our original statement is so importantly true: sense-training would give the child self-control faster, more pleasantly, and therefore more surely than could any other method. It is for this reason, among others, that one of the most insistent needs of education, at home as well as in school, is more and more versatile training of the senses, especially in the first five or six years of life perhaps, but also later. At home this kind of habituation, with its vast utility and its rich delights to the ever-curious child-mind let loose in this wondrous world, at home sense-training is especially expedient and a source of much happiness as well as education to both the child and his parents. Thus the boy develops at the same time both the sides, the “motor” and the “sensory,” of his personality.

All this capability is fundamental in making the child independent, with a self-control that amounts to something not only because of its actual effectiveness and force, but because it is always “on the job,” day and night, consciously and in the deep but influential subconscious phases of the mind. This is the mind’s proper work.

Of course the sense which habit-prophylaxis as well as habitbending especially demands should be better trained is that as yet little appreciated sense, kinesthesia, the movement-sensations, the “muscle-sense”—whatever it may be termed. “To know,” said a great philosopher of a century ago, “to know how we move our muscles is to know everything”; and the movement-sensations are now at last coming into their own! Those of my readers who know nothing of these dim experiences have but to close their eyes and then slowly bend their arms or turn slowly their heads or take a slow deep breath and attend to the sensations. We have seen already the important relations of these guiding sensory influences in the habit-forming process; but they are equally prominent in the prevention of bad habits and in the overcoming of these already fixed. The child should be from the first broxight up to realize that it is these dim and often unconscious sensations that guide movement always and not vision (save in a very rough general way and at the two ends of a movement); and certainly not smell or taste or hearing even as much as seeing. The child should be trained to almost begin his deliberate personal life, in the

Digitized by ejOOQle
345

first two years say, already familiar	the “feel" of his body not

only to “touch” in the skin but familiar also with that body’s own inner sense, kinesthesia. On this base of real familiarity with himself, his bodily self, a truly efficient self-consciousness and self-reliance can the more easily be built up and gradually strengthened hoth in detail and in total power. The entire body should have for the child of six or seven a realer and far more explicit conscious value than i? usual at twenty.

With such an outfit of conscious control over all actively mobile parts of the body, plus a potential consciousness of the sensation to be produced when any part is moved or reflexly moves, the child has a mechanism which really will protect itself against harm in the form of injurious habits.

The mothers of very young children, especially, might often save themselves bothersome concern if not positive soul-wearng worry, at the same time relieving the wee boys and girls of some harmful nagging, perhaps, did they keep in mind that many habits •of both varieties, “motor” and general, develop naturally and with sl perfectly normal spontaneity out of the double unrolling personality, of impulse and restraint. Many habits, in our present narrow sense, spontaneously come and of their own accord depart again when they have served each its own purpose helping the normal development. Some instincts act in this same way, notably the now unreasonable fear of the dark or of falling, despite the most studied success of the child’s attendants to prevent suggestion of these fears from without. Just as instincts are hereditary habits so habits, some of them, are instincts whose evolution no fond care can prevent. As we have just seen, many of them come and go of themselves and leave no wrack behind.

It is easy and therefore all too common for parents with the notorious “New England conscience,” hypertrophied into almost a worry-mill, to exaggerate the evil of childish habits in general and of the narrow motor habits especially as distinct in complexity and importance from the “dispositions”. One touches here of course on dangerous ground, dangerous only because apt to run counter or crisscross to ethical notions and to the religious beliefs and prejudices natural and therefore proper in an ascetic and more or less puritanic day. Of the forty or more habits of childhood set down at random in my notebook, about half are “motor” habits and the remainder general habits (though, at the same time on a motor basis). Of these twenty-odd motor habits scarcely one seems to me to be worth the worry and trouble and misery often ascribed to them, with the possible exception of fast-eating, mouth-breathing, and bad posture. In abnormal children, to be sure, any habit whatever is apt to so exaggerate its mechanical aspect as to be of much importance; but we deal only with average children. Personality in essence is restraint, and to the relatively unrestrained, (uninhibited is the technical word), any pleasant movement, particularly if it be, like masturbation, on a deeply instinctive basis, is likely to hold its sway and more and more perhaps to dominate behavior. But in normal children, as a

Digitized by t^.ooQle
346

matter of cold hard scientific fact, the mental aspect, the fear and worry, for example, is often the only really important harmful part of a habit.

Clearly the general bad habits, many of them spoken of as “dispositions,” are of far more import and menace to the developing personality than are the motor habits improper. Although far more time is generally given to the narrow neuro-muscular habits than to these broad general habits, the latter mean infinitely more. Indolence, selfishness, self-distrust, disorderliness, untruthfulness are of capital account in the evolution of a man or a woman, plainly of so important a significance as to be in a wholly different class from nail-biting, bed-wetting, noisiness, slowness, scowling, nose-picking — bad motor habits all.

And the spirit of this discussion has failed to materialize properly before the readers’ eager eyes unless it be obvious that the general habits, perhaps somewhat in proportion as they involve ideational elements, are amenable to insistent autosuggestion of our plan. Thus, in rough round terms, the more injurious a habit the more easily does it come under internal control when the child understands. Unfortunately, this is not true of children with subnormal intellect or evil wills; nor is it true of adults altogether nor of artificial habits.

Next we will discuss together the bending of habits already fixed.	_____________________

THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF SWIMMING

By ALEXANDER GOLDSTEIN, Swimming Instructor of the 92nd Street Branch of the Y. M. H. A., New York City.

In this series of articles, I will not endeavor to set forth any particular system, but will rather make the purpose be the analysis of the psychological, mechanical, and physical aspects of swimming.

First let us take the general attitude of people of various ages toward swimming. This refers only to those unable to swim.

Children up to the ages of fifteen to sixteen view swimming from several standpoints:

1.	Fear of entering water due to their unfamiliarity with it; in younger children there is little fear if they are ordinarily requested to enter water. This probably is the remains of what instinct there may be to swim.

2.	Desire to learn due to stories or personal observation.

3.	Social pressure and ambition are the powerful antagonizers of fear.

4.	Curiosity—particularly emphasized in young boys and girls.

5.	Envy of evident pleasure derived by others.

6.	Gregarious instinct

From sixteen to twenty-five, people regard swimming from the following:

1.	Fear of possible accident at future time.

Digitized by UjOOQle
347

2.	Some instinctive fear; this element varies at this age— the nervous or debilitated are more so than the robust or stout, plethoric and sluggish types. In women, no general rule can be given as it varies with the type and temperament, no type holding true to form or to any particular rule. As a general rule, they are inclined to be more afraid than men. There is a tendency to differ with this assertion possibly due to observation of a few striking exceptions.

3.	Gregarious instinct—dominant at this part of life.

4.	Envy.

5.	Social pressure—particularly stressed.

6.	Sex emulation; more so in the male than the female. Instructors generally are rushed in the early spring and beginning of the summer, due to this specific reaction to the instinct.

All people above twenty-five present the following to a varying degree:

1.	Fear of possible accident.

2.	Gregarious instinct—particularly stressed.

3.	Envy.

4.	Social pressure.

5.	Personal ambition. .

6.	Sex emulation, marked in the male up to thirty-five or forty.

It is not intended that this enumeration is to be taken as a fixed compilation but rather as a foundation upon which to base future study.

In the past, it has been the custom of the co-called “professors of swimming” to vary their methods of introducing their pupils to swimming and as a result, no man has decided which method or methods is or are more advantageous than others. It has been the practise to teach rather than to analyse. Let us take the general methods used by the instructors and discuss their relative values: first the “Sink or Swim” method by which no systematic effort to create a knowledge of what is to be taught is used. The man is shown in one lesson or more what to do and is thrown, practically speaking into the pool or any body of water and left to practise alone with or without any observation or criticism. The result of this system has produced thousands of swimmers who can swim possibly twenty or thirty yards and will be too tired to move their arms or will be exhausted due to lack of coordination, rest, defective balance, and imperfect breathing. Although this system has more exponents than any other, all we can say for it is that it has given the instructors more money than knowledge and the pupils less swimming and more work.

Next come the belt and other artificial support methods. In these methods it is customary to support the pupils with a belt, life preserver, or rope, same being attached to travelling crane or a boom. The pupil is taught the movements of the arms and legs, together or separately, the instructor following him and correcting him; in later lessons, gradually releasing the support until he can get along by himself.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
348

No effort is made in teaching by this system to obtain perfect I coordination but rather to get the pupil to cover ground regard- 1 less of time or procedure. The result of this system has been the 1 making of mediocre swimmers, poor coordinators, and rarely ef- ] ficient swimmers.

Let us next consider the method used by various instructors in the eastern states. In this system, the pupil is taught on the back, namely making the movements on land, then in water, lying on the back, by which method the instructor kills two birds with one stone by teaching him how to float and to swim at the same time. After the pupil is fairly familiar with the movements, he is asked to make them on his chest. In this position, the instructors find the most difficulty due to the pupils’ unfamiliarity with the new position and the new problem of balance which they seem not to have overcome as yet. This system presents fair results, but the pupils balance incorrectly, are fair coordinators, and are quite enduring, but not quite efficient. Before going any further with the discussion, let it be understood that efficiency in swimming means a maximum result in the form of distance covered for a minimum investment of strength.

In all these systems, there has never been an attempt to classify and separate the various parts of the stroke that is taught. The defects are glaring in some, and never the same in any two systems.

Now we will discuss the general characteristics of swimming in detail.

First. The matter of primary position in the water, commonly known as the acquirement of balance. By experiment, it has been found that if the body be extended flat on the water, head depressed against the chest, arms clcse against the head and above it, relaxed, not strained, elbows straight, legs extended, knees straight, toes pointed, heels together, the body will float if nc movement is attempted. The lower the head, the higher the legs will float. In this position, there is presented a minimuir resisting surface, the hands being close together, cut the watei like the bow of a racing boat, and distribute the resistance along the arms which gradually extend outward to the widest surface of resistance, the shoulders. Any deviation will result as follows:

If the hands be placed parallel to the water, the resistance is increased by giving the water an inferior as well as an anterior and partly superior resisting surface and will tend to tip the hands upward which in turn will raise the arms higher and out of the water and will lower the legs which present an ever increasing resistance surface.

If the head be raised, the legs will lower and tend to create greater resistance in quicker time—this invariably gives a tendency to bend the knees which disturbs the balance.

If the body bends at the waist or hips, the head is submerged with difficulty and the legs drop and destroy the balance forcing the body into an erect position.

If the knees bend, the legs sink and gradually disturb the balance.
349

From the above, we can conclude that any deviation from the correct balance position will lead to increasing resistance, reduction of coordination, and ultimately, of balance.

The matter of keeping the eyes open is an extremely important factor in swimming for without the eyes open, it is almost the rule that perfect coordination is impossible not to speak of reasonable coordination which is markedly reduced due to the interdependence of the kinaesthetic sense or balance sense upon the eye and the ear. As the ears are closed by the water, the sense of equilibrium depends upon a very reduced hearing, cutaneous sensations, pressure of the water, and the imagination, all of which lead to involuntary movements. There are various methods, varying with the individual. With children, who imagine that the water will injure their eyes by burning them out, it is advisable to have them take a double-handful of water and place it against their eyes, which is usually sufficient to convince them of the fallacy. Then have them stand on bottom with feet spread apart, bent knees, and the hands placed on the knees. Then order them to slowly bend their knees, bending the head on the neck, and the trunk forward until the head is under water. After this you can have them try to touch some distinguishing mark on the bottom with their forefinger. Be careful that they do not remove their hands from their knees until under water. If they do not get this at once, have them practise with a basin of water. This is considered the simplest progression. As most pools use a disinfectant such as alum, chloride of lime, or calcium sulphate, some children whose conjunctiva is very sensitive will complain that their eyes burn. This sensation usually disappears after a few lessons. At the same time a pupil learns to keep the .eyes open under water, he also learns to be accustomed to the sensations of water in the nose and ears, which often will cause involuntary movements when unaccustomed to them. It has been observed that women are more difficult to accustom to this than men.

Effects of water on the eyes. Salt water contracts the conjunctiva and stimulates the action of the muscles of the eyes if the swim is not prolonged; the eyes are usually affected within a few seconds of immersion. The irritation persists during swim-' ming, and disappears from twenty to forty-five minutes after leaving the water according to the length of the swim. As a rule, the salt water is aseptic and stimulates the eye but too much exposure will produce sensations of burning, headache, and depression. Fresh water will produce undesirable sensations within a half hour and the irritation caused by fresh water seems to last longer.

As fresh water is usually under observation, it is aseptic and rarely causes infection.

Consideration of the Breast stroke, the Side stroke, the Trudgeon, the Crawl, and the Trudgeon-Crawl

In all consideration of swimming, it is always to be understood that the ideal stroke should present a minimum resistance for a minimum time, and an ideal balance position for a maximum

Digitized by Google
360

time, allowing for a maximum result for the energy expended, and in the stroke, allow for a period of rest.

The Breast stroke

This is the fundamental stroke of all strokes. It is an ideal stroke from the standpoint of coordination, quite difficult to learn and presents a low percentage of resistance and high percentage, of result during the performance of the stroke. If the breast stroke is properly executed, it is the best stroke for rest or long distance with the exception of the side stroke.

Mechanics of the Breast stroke:

1.	Legs. Count one: From the balance position, the knees are bent up quickly upward and outward until wide apart, heels kept together, feet apart.

Count two: The legs are quickly extended outward, not kicked, knees straight and toes pointed until there is about three feet between the legs.

Count three: With a vigorous, snappy motion, the legs are forced together maintaining the position of the legs in extension while snapping the legs together. At the finish of this count, the legs are together as in the balance position.

After each kick, the legs rest for three seconds. On the first count the balance will not be disturbed if the position of the body is maintained; the usual fault is raising the hips and moving the arms or hands upward, sideward, or at an angle.

2.	Arms. Count one: Bending the arms at the elbow and letting them fall against the ribs, place the hands, fingers touching, palms inward, in front of the chest in the region of the fifth and sixth ribs.

Count two and three: Extend the arms straight forward, keeping the hands together, palms in. Maintain this position for two seconds at the end of which time, swing the arms outward and downward at an angle of thirty degrees from the shoulder, wrists turned inward until on a level with the shouldeis.

On the first count, the balance is somewhat disturbed due to the position of the arms which are quickly extended to the proper balance position and remain there during the progress after the kick. The third count finds the arms assisting the body in its progress maintaining its momentum.

Working both together, it is better to use the following progression—execute a kick in three counts, the second and third counts being executed in the time occupied in performing the first as O-N-E-two-three! After the third count, rest two seconds and sweep the arms sideward and slightly downward as practised in order to accustom the pupil to the time. Then the arms and legs can be coordinated in the following manner:

Count one—	Bend arms and bend knees

Count two— Extend arms and finish kick Rest two seconds Count three-- .Sweep arms sideward, legs remaining passive yet extended. Raise the head and inhale on count three, exhaling on last second of the rest. The air should be inhaled thru the nose and out thru the mouth.

Digitized by Google
851

Psychological aspects: In this stroke, the fear element is gradually eliminated and coordination is stimulated and perfected. In the first stage, namely the acquirement of the leg motion, the involuntary movements will gradually diminish and then cease temporarily and may return during the combination of the arm and leg strokes. In older men and women, the involuntary movements are generally less, due to their greater inhibition and coordination. The quicker learning of children in swimming is counteracted by the greater inhibition and coordination of older pupils. It has been customary to say that children as a rule learn swimming faster because it is the development of an instinct or latent or hereditary instinct; that it is more difficult for the older pupil due to the loss of the tendency of remains of what swimming instinct they may have inherited and that it is more difficult for them to acquire new habits. That this statement is in part untrue is evident if we consider that the child’s intelligence is not that of an older man or woman, especially when the older man has maintained studious habits. That the percentage of studious men has increased is being brought home to the instructors by the increasing number of men of this type who have learned to swim rapidly. Let it be understood that the statement “studious habits” implies the constant acquirement of physical coordinations as well as more knowledge of academic subjects.

In the second stage or arm stroke, there may be a little difficulty in maintaining the position of the head under the water on account of the pressure of the arms against the water forcing the head upward; or due to the tendency of the pupil to raise the head, for which various excuses will be offered from the desire to see w far he has gone, to a lack of breath.

In the intermediate stage as well as the previous stages there will be a tendency to make the motions too fast as the pupils believe that more motions mean better swimming rather than conceiving that it is more important to see how much they can get out of one stroke. They continually lose sight of the resting period on every stroke, due to a lack of concentration or practise. This is usually the case when they enter the water which if even temperate will stimulate them to quicker action. They inhibit this reaction only with practise.

In the last stage, the coordination will not be difficult as the major difficulties have been eliminated. The tendency to hurry will invariably remain and seems the most difficult to eliminate. It is true that they will swim without the rest, but without it they will be swimming inefficiently depriving themselves of the effects of the kick. In this stage, the breathing should be insisted upon during each stroke as the pupils will have developed sufficient endurance to swim about five strokes or more under water; as the-raising of the head is found to be very difficult, due to exaggeration of the contraction of the neck muscles, he sometimes has difficulty in maintaining this position which is only remedied by constant practise. From the above it can be seen that the breast stroke is after all, a progression in coordination, balance, minimiz-

Digitized by kjOOQle
352

irg resistance, from the maximum to the minimum. There is plenty of rccm fcr variation and improvement. The reader need not restrict himself to this method cr analysis but should regard it as an attempt tc standardize the instruction of the stroke from a standpoint of theoretical and practical experience. Some in* tructcrs prefer to teach the crawl frst, and the other strokes afterwards and have obtained good results as they follow the systems based on mcst of the accurate theoretical knowledge known thus far. It is evident that the breast stroke is the best long distance stroke outside of the side stroke on account of its long rest: in fact if the breast stroke is properly performed, it is sixty per cent rest. It has an advantage over the overarm side stroke in that it rests the muscles cr these parts of the muscles required to raise the arm over the shoulder.

(To be Continued)

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland Junior High School, Newark, N. J<

HEALTH AND ETHICS

The basis of ethics, then, is the health of the community. That fact we know', but we do not know it fully; we have not exhausted its riches. We have improved sanitation; we have improved the conditions of labor both as regards positive risks and the character of buildings. In these things the best and the most efficient have proved identical; so far economics has supported ethics. But economic production and efficiency are liable to be dangerous allies; we must rot be led astray by a false ideal of industrial growth. Nor must we suppose that cur duty ends with the physical welfare of the population. Already there are ample proofs that we shall be carried from external to internal condition, from individual to racial questions, from health of body to health of mind. And by health of mind must be understood much more than crude questions of' insanity, crime and feeblemindedness. The human race tends to emphasize mere and more its owr. peculiar feature: its consciousness becomes more acute and more comprehensive; it cannot, like the animal, merely eat and drink and sleep; while we teach prudence and thrift we are developing, if I may so put it, the organs of worry and anxiety. This too will have its pathology, personal and social, an evil which is far from imaginary and has its witness in much of the present unrest. All these things must be included in our idea of the “public health” and we must organize for nothing less comprehensive.—G. S. Brett, Public Health Journal, August, 1918.

Digitized by L,ooQle
353

Health of Glasgow Schoolchildren. The Glasgow Medical Journal for July, 1918, gives in abstract some of the findings of the report of Dr. Andrew of the medical inspection of the schoolchildren of Glasgow for the year ending July 31, 1917. It was found that in no instance did the children come up to the standard of height and weight established by the Anthropometric Committee except in the case of the boys of 5 years whose average height was half an inch greater than the anthropometric standard. A considerable proportion were above the average in nutrition, but there were also a considerable number of undernourished children. Only 26.4 per cent of the boys had sound teeth and 10 per cent of the girls. Stammering was found to be more frequent among the boys, twenty-six cases being found among them as against eleven among the girls. Thirty-seven per cent of the children were suffering from some disease or defect other than nits or vermin. Of those with physical defects, in 1909, there were 58 per cent with rickets as compared with 29.5 in 1917. The ' proportion of underfed children was less than in the previous year. There was also an improvement with reference to tuberculosis, the percentage being 17.8 for 1909 and only 11.7 for 1917.

Training the Disabled in Great Britain and Ireland.—

According to the Vocational Summary, published by the Federal Board for Vocational Education, the British ministry of pensions publishes each month a list of training courses for the reeducation of disabled soldiers in the United Kingdom. Training courses have been provided in many different lines, and in many different communities. The courses are given by public and private schools, colleges and institutes in every section of the country, as well as in factories and workshops. The list of courses for May, 1918, printed in the Summary shows a list of subjects of the greatest variety taught in many communities. This plan is of interest to the people of the United States who are preparing a national scheme of reeducation under the Smith-Sears Act for vocational training.

Classroom Ventilation and Respiratory Diseases.—In

order to obtain more concrete evidence of the value of fresh air and to test the findings of the New York State Commission on Ventilation that some years ago made an investigation as to the comparative value of various systems of ventilation, the Bureau of Child Hygiene, in 1916, began an inquiry into the possible relationships between the prevalence of respiratory diseases among schoolchildren and classroom ventilation. The study was made in co-operation with the New York State Commission on Ventilation, which had full control of the selection of classrooms with reference to the type of ventilation to be included. This investigation was carried on among 5,333 pupils of seventy-six class-ooms in twelve schools operated under three different types of -entilation. The investigation was conducted during a five-month t-eriod in the late fall, winter and early spring, and leads to the

Digitized by UjOOQle
354

following conclusions: In the closed-window, mechanically ventilated type of classroom kept at a temperature of about 68 degrees F., the rate of absences from respiratory diseases was 32 per cent higher than in the open-window, naturally ventilated type ol classroom kept at the same temperature (about 68 F.) and about 40 per cent higher than in the open-window, naturally ventilated type of classroom kept at a temperature of about 40 degrees. The relative humidity of classrooms, whether ventilated by natural or mechanical means, was not a causative factor in the occurrence of respiratory illness among schoolchildren.

Studies in Flatfoot.—The following conclusions have been reached by Gosman and Perry as the result of the work at Fort Ethan Allen, in the observation and treatment of flatfoot. 1. Subjectively symptomless flatfoot, in civil life, quickly becomes a source of trouble and invariably gives acute symptoms under the burden of intensive military training. 2. Any given case objectively showing a flat arch, even though of the first degree, should be rejected for enlistment, unless all motions of the toes and ankles are free to the extreme degree. 3. The system of recording the degree of flatfoot inaugurated at this post indicates, by comparison, the degree of improvement in motility under muscular exercise properly conducted. 4. The method employed at Fort Ethan Allen since Aug. 1, 1917, in the treatment of flatfoot is the plan best adapted to the needs of men in the army undergoing intensive military training. 5. The nonresistant exercise plan is found most effective and shows results well calculated to make its adoption in military practice advisable.—Abstracted by the “Journal M. A.” from the Military Surgeon, Washington, D. C., Januarv, 1918, 42, No. 1.

Physical Training in Public Schools. Dr. Eugene Lyman Fisk, medical director of the Life Extension Institute has issued a protest against various amendments pending in the legislature which would greatly weaken the present system of compulsory physical training in the rural schools of New York.

The Development of the Schoolchild.—Dr. L. R. Cas-sinelli is medical inspector for the National Board of Education, and he here relates some of his impressions from data collected during many years of this service. He noted for instance that on an average the children grew taller during the summer while the weight remained stationary; in the winter they increased in weight while there was comparatively little change in height. He gives a table showing the average height and weight of girls and boys, with various other measurements, especially the diameter from shouldei to shoulder and the anterior-posterior diameter. The figures giver are the average of 10,000 Argentine children between 6 and 14 The girls weigh the most, and up to 13 are taller. The chest diame ters are also constantly larger in the girls, but the spirometer tests gave much higher figures for the boys at 12 and over. The vita

Digitized by UooQle
355

capacity as shown by the spirometer, was 800 c. c. (Barnes spirometer) at 6 and 3,000 at 14 among the boys; in the girls, from 820 to 2,500. Muscular strength as shown by the dynamometer gave

5.	5. up to 29.26 for the boys from 6 to 14; for the girls, 5.5 to 22.22 at 14. He gives further the findings with the Binet tests at several different ages showing the normal standards for the age. . He protests against the practice common in Argentina of building huge expensive structures for schools without due provision for playgrounds, etc., urging that the “example of the great Republic del Norte be followed where a school can be founded in twenty-four hours as is done in New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, etc."—Abstraction from Semana Medica, Buenos Aires Oct. 11, 1917, 24, No. 41 by	“The J mmol Am. Med. Assoc.

Undernutrition Among Schoolchildren. As a result of the report of the bureau of child hygiene to the effect that between 12 and 15 per cent of the schoolchildren of the city are underfed, Frank A. Manny undertook a detailed and intimate study of health and nutrition conditions among two schools in the Grammercy district. The children were classified on the basis of the Dumfer-line scale, which places each child in one of four nutrition grades:

(1)	superior condition; (2) passable condition; (3) requiring supervision; (4) requiring medical treatment. Of 2,535 children examined, one third of the total were in each of the first two grades, and the remaining third was divided between the other two. There were found three distinct height and weight measurements corresponding to the three larger nutrition grades, Grades 3 and 4 being taken together and' containing one third of the whole. The average of the low nutrition cases fell below the passable group to about the same extent as the latter group fell below those of the superior group. The height and weight for the medium group was practically the same as the figures of the Boas-Burk tables of height and weight for American children. The heights and weights for the children of the superior grade followed closely the average figures for more than 30,000 children in private schools in New York City and Chicago, tabulated by Professor Baldwin. The conclusions sire that, in this average industrial district, a third approximate closely the average of children whose parents can afford to pay tuition rates; a second third represents the average of American children, and the remaining third is seriously underdeveloped, being in many cases several years under the measurements proper to their ages under a reasonable standard of living. It has been shown that under conditions of abundant nutrition, exercise, air and sleep, stunted children in summer camps in the majority of cases improve rapidly up to the required average. The answer is that better parental incomes are necessary to prevent this undemutrition and substandard development.

Knowledge. Every mind was made for growth, for knowledge, and in its nature is sinned against, when it is doomed to ignorance.—Channin.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
356

Physical Training Among Schoolchildren.—TheOAto Public Health Journal declares that 75 per cent of the schoolchildren of Ohio have remediable physical defects. Only the larger cities of the state have such medical supervision in the schools as would improve the condition of most of these children. As shown by the Health and Old Age Insurance Commission of the state, there are 60,000 children in the rural schools who have very little physical supervision. About half of those in the city schools have some degree of supervision.

Wartime Juvenile Delinquency.—The wartime record of juvenile delinquency abroad shows, according to the Children’s Bureau, that the sure penalty for neglecting the hofne, the school, and the play needs of children is an increasing stream of young delinquents brought to court for offenses that community foresight and care should have prevented.--	Children’s Bureau.

THE MUSCULAR STRENGTH OF COLLEGE WOMEN

CLELIA DUEL MOSHER, A. M., M.D. and ERNEST GALE MARTIN, Ph.D.

Forty-five average healthy college women, most of whom had always been physically active, although, in the majority of the instances, not specially athletic, were studied. The following groups of muscles both on the right and the left side of each woman were tested: pectorals, latissimus dorsi, anterior and posterior deltoids, forearm extensors and flexors, wrist extensors, thumb adductors, and either wrist flexors or finger flexors. The wrist flexion test was found by some of the women to cause lameness. The finger flexion was substituted in the later testing. These muscle groups were tested with the'subject standing. The following tests were made in the horizontal position; dorsal flexion, inversion and eversion of foot, adduction and abduction of thigh, hip extension and flexion, knee extension and flexion.

Thus a full test included observations of thirty-six groups of muscles. Each test was repeated two or three times. These forty-five women were tested 120 times; there were ninety-five full tests and twenty-five partial tests. Every woman was tested from two to five times, and 3,576 muscle groups in the forty-five women were tested.

The pectoral muscles are commonly relatively stronger in man than in woman, the average percentage of total strength being 2.35 in man, and 2.1 in woman. Twelve women have equaled or exceeded the average of the men. This difference between men and women, which is apparently not one of sex, may be explained as due to the difference in use.

The latissimus dorsi is better developed in woman than in man, contributing 1.65 per cent of the total strength of woman and only 1.45 per cent in man.

The anterior and posterior deltoids in woman create from

Digitized by kjOOQle
357

2.45 to 1.80 per cent of her total strength, while in man they create only from 2.1 to 1.35 per cent of his total strength. This difference again is readily explained as due to difference in use, that is, to woman’s constant practice of putting up her hair. It is common knowledge that the girl with heavy hair cries with fatigue day after day as she is taught this conventionally necessary use of her muscles. An athletic woman not considered in this series of observations-tells me that the fatigue of putting up her heavy hair on top of her head is still so great that she has been forced to dress it low after repeated attempts. There is no occasion for a habitual use of the deltoids among men, and, furthermore, their heavy coats tend to limit the freedom of action of the deltoids.

Forearm extensions and flexions are better developed in man than in woman, making from 1.5 to 2.35 per cent of man’s total strength and only from 1.3 to 1.85 per cent of woman’s. Here again woman’s closefitting waists and sleeves and the conventional view of her physical delicacy, which would protect her from lifting all heavy weights, might at least partially explain this difference.

From this hasty survey of the data concerning the muscular strength of college women, certain tentative conclusions are suggested:

There is no difference in the muscular strength of women and men which is due to sex as such. Such differences as are frequently found are due to differences in the use of the muscles, brought about by the conventional limitations of activity or by dress. Marked overweight or marked underweight tends to lower the strength factor, as does also lack of coordination, which is too frequently

PERCENTAGES IN A COMPARATIVE STUDY HIP AND KNEE FLEXIONS AND EXTENSIONS

	Hip	Hip	Knee	Knee
	Extension	Flexion	Extension	Flexion
	Per Cent	Per Cent	Per Cent	Per Cent
Case 37 (age 53 3-12 years)		3.93	2.425	3.61	1.195
Average percentage athletic men.	3.70	3.20	3.30	1.75
Average percentage women		3.42	2.69	3.175	1.30

found in women and exaggerated by their scant physical activity in childhood. The effects of muscular training persist ong after the particular exercise has ceased. A high degree of muscular power in a woman in no way lessens her racial efficiency. Lack of muscular power, as in the pectoral muscles, may be a distinct racial disability.

It has been shown that periodic disability in a woman when no organic disease exists is readily eliminated. We may therefore conclude that sex is not necessarily a disability, and that if some method be found of adjusting work to the individual strength under proper hygienic conditions, without reference to sex, there is no reason why the potential power of woman may not be used without danger of lessening her racial efficiency.—Abstracted. Original paper appeared in The Journal A. M. A., Jan. 19, 1918.

Digitized by Google
358

o-'	11	ni	—	o

I GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O	I	1	  .■.-.■■■.■■I.IM	■	'0

FLAG DRILL

By CARRIE COLUMBIA POEHNER, Onondaga County, New York

Formation: Odd number of files facing forward, two flags for each pupil. Files in open order, pupil carrying flag over shoulders.

Music: Any good march; preferably 6-8 tempo.

Group I

A. a)—Four steps forward, carrying flags over shoulder^.... 4

b)	—Four steps in place, waving flags from right to left.... 4

c)	—Four steps backward, carrying flags over shoulders. .. 4

d)—Four steps in place, waving flags as in b......4

B.	a)—Arms forward, (Counts 1-2)....................2

b)	—Arms upward, cross flags over head (Counts 3-4).... 2

c)	—Reverse, i. e., go back to position b (Counts 5-6)..., 2

d)	—Position, arms crossed in front of body (Counts 7-8).. 2

Repeat B. (Counts 1-8)).	—8.

C.	a)—Arms sideupward, cross flags over head (1-2)..2

b)	—Arms sideward (3-4)...........................2

c)	—Reverse (5-6).................................2

d)	—Position, as in B, d (7-8)....................2

Repeat C. (1-8)	—8

D.	Divided Order, i. e., even files (Nos. 2. 4. 6. etc.) repeat

exercise C, while odd files (Nos. 1, 3, 5, etc.,) repeat exercise B.	—16

Group II

A. a)—Middle file marks time for 4 counts, carrying flag over shoulders, while other files two side steps away

from centre, carrying flags over shoulders........4

b)	—Wave flags from right to left for 4 counts.......4

c)	—Reverse exercise a, i. e., two sidesteps toward centre,

middle file marking time for 4 counts.............4

d)	—Repeat exercise b.	4

B.	a)—Arms forward, touch step left forward (1-2)....... 2

b)	— Arms upward, lunge left forward (3-4) (flags crossed

over head)........................................2

c)	—Reverse (5-6).................................;..2

d)	—Position as B, d, Group I. (7-8)................. 2

Repeat exercise B with right foot (1-8)	—8

C.	a)—Arms sideupward, flags crossed, touch step left

sideward (1-2).................................... 2

b)	—Arms sideward, lunge left sideward	(3-4).........2

c)	—Reverse (5-6)....................................2

d)	—Position as in B, d, Group	I.	(7-8)............. 2

Repeat exercise C to right........................—8

Digitized by

Googit
359

D.

A.

B.

C.

D.

Divided Order, i. e., even files repeat exercise C, Group II, while odd files repeat exercise B, Group II. —16 Group III

a)—Middle files face forward, flags on shoulders and mark tim6 for 4 counts, while other files face toward centre, and file^ Nos. 1, 3, 5, repeat exercise a, Group II, starting to the left, and files 2 and 4 the same

starting to the right.........-..................... 4

b,	c, and d, as b, c, and d in Group II, except taken

from the above positions............................12

—16

From the above positions, repeat B, Group II............16

From the above positions, repeat C, Group II............16

Divided Order, i.e., middle file repeat exercise B, Group II, while files Nos. 1 and 4, repeat exercise C, Group II, starting to the left, and files 2 and 5 repeat the

same, starting to the right......................... 8

Then, middle file repeat exercise C, Group II, while files Nos. 1 and 4 repeat exercise B, Group II, starting with the left foot, and files Nos. 2 and 5 repeat the same, starting with the right........................ 8

Finish drill with pose, while singing Star Spangled Banner. Pose:

1)	—Middle file kneel on right knee, flags crossed over

head, while other files face forward, and files 2 and 4 lunge toward centre, inner arms obliquely side-upward, outer arms opposite, while files Nos. 1 and 5, jump to side stride position, flags crossed over head. Hold for 4 bars. .......................12

2)	—Middle file now take position of files Nos. 1 and

5,	while files Nos. 1 and 5 take position on file 3 or the middle file, while files Nos. 2 and 4 change arm and leg positions (t.e., same positions in opposite direction (4 bars)............................12

3)	—Repeat 1......................................12

Curtain:—or, after a salute to the flag, may leave stage singing the last verse of the Star Spangled Banner to the March Drill as published in the “Normal Instructor and Primary Plans,” (J. A. Owen, Publishing Co., Danville, New York).

THE AMERICAN’S CREED FREE

An artistic, illustrated color print of the American’s Creed, as approved in Congress, April 13, 1918, with the story of the origin of the Creed and the doctrinal authorities upon which it rests, will be furnished free to teachers who apply through their Principals to Matthew Page Andrews, Chairman, Publicity Committee of the Executive Council for the American’s Creed, 849 Park Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

Digitized by CjOOQle
360

WAND DRILL

By Fr. DRASSAL, St. Paul, Minn.

Music—slow march or polka.

Formation—8 boys or girls arranged in a column of twos, carrying wands in right arm. No. 1 on the yight, No. 2 on the left (see diagram).

Introduction:—8 counts.

March down the center of the hall halting the group in the center of the space.

Partners 1 step	from each	other...................1-2

Face inward	(toward	each	other)..................3-4

Lower upper end of wand directly forward so that partner may grasp other end with left hand (outer

grip).........................................5-6

Pause.............................................7-8

The drill as described below refers to No. l’s part; No. 2, since he is facing his partner must exercise counterlike.

Group I

Formation of Group I

front

A

®ZJj)	1st	rank
cz?	2nd	H
d>3>	3rd	U
(2> -(f)	4th	U

Part 1 — 16 Counts.

Bend arms to shoulders....................

Thrust sideward...........................

Return....................................

Figure done 4 times.

Part 2 — 32 Counts.

Stride left sideward, raise arms sideupward

Bend left knee and trunk left.............

Return....................................

Repeat right, left, right.

.1

.2

3-4

.1-2 .3 -4 5-8

I



i

Digitized by Google
361

Part 3 — 32 Counts.

Stride left	forward	arms	sideupward..........1-2

Bend left knee and trunk backward, arms sideward.3-4

Return............. ............................ 5-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Part 4 — 32 Counts.

Stride left	sideward, arms	sideward..............1-2

1-4 turn left, kneel right, place right hand on shoulder....3-4

Return.......................................    5-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Group II

Formation of Group II	'
front  A	■
f\	1st rank
y	
3rd rank ©- -Q	©- -© 2nd rank
|<P|	4th rank
y	•

Formation — 8 Counts. (See diagram).

Bend arms to shoulders.

1st and 4th rank 4 cross steps toward center.......1-4

1st rank -two cross steps left sideward turning so that

No. 2 faces the center ........................5-8

4th rank—same to the right.

2nd rank—cross steps left sideward (in circle left)..1^4

4	steps from center swing left so that No. 2 faces center ...5-8 3rd rank—change position in similar manner, turning

right and finishing with No. 2 facing the center.1-8

All drop arms on last count.

Part 1 — 32 Counts.

No. 1 Stride right backward, arms sideward.........1-2

No. 2 Stride left forward, arms sideupward.... ....1-2

No. 1 Kneel right, arms upward...................  3-4

No. 2 Bend left knee, arms sideward ...............3-4

Return............... ...............................5-8

Repeat in opposite direction............ ............9-16

Repeat entire part.

Digitized by CjOOQle
362

Part 2 — 16 Counts.

Bend arms to shoulders....,...........................1

Bend knees deep and thrust upward..................2

Bend arms and straighten knees.....................3

Straighten arms....................................4

This part done 4 times.

Part 3 — 32 Counts.

Stride left sideward arms	sideward..................1-2

Bend left knee, raise left arm	upward...............3-4

Straighten left knee, bend right knee, raise right arm

upward..........................................5-6

Return to position.................................7-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Part 4 — 32 Counts.

No. 1 Stride left forward, kneel right, arms sideupward No. 2 Stride right backward, kneel left, arms sideupwardl-2

Bend trunk left..........:..........................3-4

Straighten trunk....................................5-6

Position............................................7-8

Repeat in opposite direction.......................9-16

Repeat entire part................................17-32

Group III

Formation — 16 Counts (circle facing inward).

Grasp wand in both	hands............................1-2

Carry wand at right shoulder.......................3-4

No. 1 take 4 steps left	obliquely forward...........5-8

and turn in place............................... 9-12

No. 2 left obliquely backward, 2 steps and mark time....5-12 Lower end of wand to neighbor on right (arms down at

side) see diagram..............................13-14

Mark time........................................15-16

Part 1 — 32 Counts.

Bend arms wand to shoulders........................1-2

Bend left knee, raise right leg backward, thrust arms

forward, bend trunk forward....................3-4

Return...........................................5-8

Part 2 — Repeat right, left, right.

Stride left backward, bend arms to shoulders.......1-2

Kneel left, thrust arms upward...................3-4

Return...........................................5-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Part 3 — 32 Counts.

Bend arms to shoulders...........................1-2

Bend left knee, raise right leg forward, thrust upward,

bend trunk backward..........................3-4

Return..............:............................5-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Part 4 — 32 Counts.

Stride left backward, kneel left, raise arms foreupward....l-2 Bend trunk forward...........................3-4

Digitized by
363

Straighten trunk..................................5-6

Back to position...............................  .7-8

Repeat right, (but bend backward).

Repeat left and right.

Part 1 — 16 Counts.

Bend arms to shoulders..............................1

Thrust upward.......................................2

Return..............................................3-4

Part done 4 times. ,

Part 2 — 32 Counts.

Stride left backward, arms upward...................1-2

1-4 turn left.......................................3-4

Return..............................................5-8

Repeat right, left, right.

Part 3 — 16 Counts.

Bend arms to shoulders..............................1

Bend knees (squat position) thrust upward...........3-4

Return..............................................5-8

Part done 4 times.

Part 4 — 16 Counts.

Face right, swing end of wand in	left hand..........1-2

Carry wands at right shoulder.......................3-4

Return..............................................5-8

March toward center forming in proper places in ranks of two, march off floor...............................9-16

Digitized by v^.ooQle
O'"" l	■	w.	I	ii	■

NOTES AND COMMENTS

O' — ' ■	"	 -	——	—— ——■ -	0

During the early summer there was formed a National Committee on Physical Education with members from all parts of the country. The meetings held at Altantic City with various departments of the Department of Superintendence of the N. E.

A., under the auspices of the U. S. Commissioner of Education, showed that many people not connected directly with the teaching of physical training were intensely interested in furthering the work. The above named committee was the outcome of this endeavor to get together.

The following correspondence explains how far this movement has progressed, what has been accomplished and how it was done. The outlook for effective legislation is very encouraging. We hope that all our readers will endeavor to place at the disposal of the Physical Education Service such help and information as is called for.	*

Committee on War Charity and Social Work

Temporary Headquarters.

818 Conn. Avenue,

Washington, D. C.

November 22, 1918.

Mr. W. A. Stecher,

Director of Physical Education,

Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

My dear Mr. Stecher:—

Several weeks ago the Organization Committee of the National Committee on Physical Education sent a communication to the Playground and Recreation Association of America, of which the following extract is the most important part:—

“After several weeks of consideration and experimental action we recommend an urgent appeal to the Playground and Recreation Association of America, to take over this gieat national service, — organizing the necessary committees, giving or raising the essential funds and developing the movement in the unselfish spirit of service and with the trained efficiency with which this Association has developed its War Camp Community Service for the War and Navy Departments Commissions on Training Camp Activities.	«

“The Playground and Recreation Association of America has the organization and prestige to undertake work of this kind on a large scale and could easily, therefore, secure the cooperation of other national organizations which would contribute effectively to the success of its National Committee on Physical Education. “This plan of action was prepared by a special committee appointed for this purpose at the New York City conference, August 23—

Digitized by CjOOQLe
365

Samuel McCune Lindsay Willard S. Small Charles F. Weller and submitted to all members of the “Organization Committee” of the National Committee on Physical Education —

Walter Camp, National Security League,

New Haven, Conn.

Dr. Taliaferro Clark, U. S. Public Health Service,

Washington, D. C.

Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Director, Department of Physical Education,	New	York	City

Mrs. Robert Garrett,	Baltimore,	Md.

Dr. G. J. Fisher, Director Physical Work,

International Y. M. C. A.

Dr. Charles Mayo, President American Medical Association, c. o. Surgeon General’s Office, War Dept.,

Washington, D. C.

Dr. W. B. Owen, Prin. Chicago Normal School,

Chicago, 111.

Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Harvard University,

Cambridge, Mass.

Dr. W. S. Small, Specialist in School Hygiene,

U.	S. Bureau of Education Dr. Thomas A. Storey, State Inspector of Physical Training

New York

John A. Voll, American Federation of Labor,

Philadelphia, Pa. James E. West, Chief Scout Executive,

Boy Scouts of America, New York City Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Director Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund,	Chicago,	111.

Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Columbia University,

New York City We have now received from the Playground and Recreation Association of America the enclosed letters, accepting the responsibility which we have requested them to assume, and reporting to us that they have already proceeded, in accordance with that acceptance, to organize machinery to carry on the campaign for the more efficient organization of physical education throughout the United States.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) SAMUEL MCCUNE LINDSAY.

November 21, 1918.

Dr. Samuel McCune Lindsay,

Columbia University,

New York City.

My dear Dr. Lindsay:—

The Board of Directors of the Playground and Recreation Association of America were very much impressed with the report

Digitized by CjOOQle
366

which you presented on the Physical Education Program. After carefully considering the proposals included in the communication from the National Committee on Physical Education, the Board was unanimous in feeling that the task outlined by you ought to be undertaken, and the members of our Board appreciated the high honor paid in requesting that this task be assumed by our association. In response to your request the Board voted unanimously to do all in its power to promote the more efficient organization of physical education in the United States, and to this end made an immediate appropriation of $10,000 to establish within the Playground and Recreation Association of America a National Physical Education Service with the necessary executive force.

The association had, as you know, before established the War Camp Community Service, and later the War Workers Community Service. In both of these services the idea has been to give an opportunity for all the people of the country to work together to a definite common end, and the Board had the same thought for the Physical Education Service.

The task suggested is one, of course, which must have the cooperation of a large number of individuals and organizations. The thought of the Board of Directors in arranging for the Physical Education Service as a special department is to provide a means through which all those interested in, this problem can work together to this common end. I know that you would agree with us that it would be unwise for any such service to be established except unpon the basis of giving all interested an opportunity to pool their resources and work enthusiastically together for this great goal. We understand that everyone who has been working heretofore will be ready to continue to give ever more time and thought to the problem as called upon. In other words, none of those heretofore interested will cease their work because of this request that the leadership be assumed by the Playground and Recreation Association of America, but will expect to be called upon with many others to pull steadily together on this task, which is so much bigger than any individual or organization.

Dr. Samuel McCune Lindsay Columbia University New York City.

My dear Dr. Lindsay:—

I know you will be glad that immediately upon accepting the responsibility which you offered to us, we have proceeded to organize to carry out this responsibility as promptly and as effectively as possible.

Without waiting for any permanent organization, the Association has asked Mr. E. Dana Caulkins, who has served effectively

Very truly y< (Signed)

(Signed) JOSEPH LEE,

ours,

President.

November 21, 1918.

___-Digitized by
367

n. "Washington in the War Camp Community Service and has gained thereby an intimate knowledge of government departments it "Washington, to work upon this program as Manager of the Physical Education Service. Honorable Myron T. Herrick has already consented to give a certain amount of time to some of the problems connected with the service. Mr. Caulkins feels as I do, that it is very important that as rapid progress as possible be made during the next two or three weeks.

In connection with some of the other work of the association, committees have been formed in many of the states, cities and counties throughout the country which can be utilized in part as a_ nucleus around which to build an effective, pushing organization to secure the results desired.

Very truly yours,

(Signed)JOSEPH LEE,

President.

National Committee on Physical Education

818 Connecticut Avenue,

,	Washington,	D.	C.

November 23, 1918.

Mr. W. A. Stecher,

Director of Physical Education,

Public Schools, Phila., Pa.

My dear Mr. Stecher:—

Dr. Lindsay has informed you that the Playground and Recreation Association of America has responded favorably to the request of your Organization Committee that there be established a satisfactory financed physical education service through which the ideas and plans of your Committee may be effectively carried out.

Following Mr. Lee’s appointment of myself as Manager of this Physical Education Service, headquarters have been established at 818 Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C. Already your sub-committees have collected a considerable amount of data relating to the need for the development of physical education throughout the country, and bearing on the fundamental principles which should be emphasized in the undertaking. A conference has been held with the Publicity Department of the Playground and Recreation Association, and plans developed for placing this propaganda before the country in the most effective way possible. A number of experienced field organizers of the Association will be available for our use.

The most hopeful immediate plan of action will be through the concentration of effort in the individual states where we find the best outlook for the early realization of our aims. At the same time, preparatory educational work for the passage of the national bill will be carried on among the members of Congress.

The immediate steps to be taken are as follows:

1.	The securing of accurate and complete information regarding the present status of physical education in every state

Digitized by ooQle
368

(a considerable amount of such information has already been secured by the members of your Committee on Drafting the Bill, but this information relates mainly to the states which already have some sort of physical education legislation).

2.	The selection of an active leader and correspondent in each state who will keep us informed of all developments relating to this problem, and of all opportunities, such a.-, conventions, etc., through which our propaganda may be brougnt to the attention of the people.

3.	The organization of a Speakers’ Bureau by means of which propaganda may be presented on all suitable occasions.

4.	The securing of the active cooperation of all organizations naturally interested in this subject.

It is essential that every unnecessary delay be avoided. Will you not at once send to this office any information relating to the solution of the above immediate problems, as well as any additional suggestions which' may further the effective prosecution of our task?	1

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) E. DANA CAULKINS.

Manager Physical Education Service Playground and Recreation Association of America

Reeducation of French War Cripples.—It was recently estimated that France had 300,000 disabled soldiers, with a monthly increase of between 6,000 and 7,000. They are cared for in national centers of physiotherapy, of which there is one for each of France’s twenty military regions. To these centers are attached schools or workshops which the cripples may attend for the purposes of reeducation. Independent of the centers, there are also civil schools for vocational reeducation, supported by both public and private funds; and finally there is the National Institute near Paris under the joint direction of the Ministries of War and of the Interior, with a well equipped military hospital, together with workshops and dormitories. Almost universally the “boarding-in" system prevails, that is, the soldier lives at the school and is under its direct discipline during his period of training.

The Hands as Disease Spreaders.—The great agent in the spread of those diseases whose causative organism is present in the secretions of the mouth and nose, is the human hand; and.f, saliva was bright green we would be amazed at the color of <M| fingers. As a matter of fact most of us carry our fingers to mouth or nose many times daily, there to implant the germs disease which other careless people have spread about, collect a fresh cargo of infectious material to scatter for else.—Public Health Bulletin.

Digitized by “