MIND AND BODY

Tol. 18.	JUNE,	1911.	No	200

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M.|D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa*

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, .72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All bunneM letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN SOCIAL SETTLEMENTS/

By E. A. Peterson, A. M., M. D*

Head Worker, Goodrich Social Settlement, Cleveland, Ohio.

The tremendousvimportance of physical education in social settlements would seem to be evident from the facts, that the people with whom they usually deal live in crowded districts, under bad hygienic conditions, that these peopl'e are to a large extent factory workers or clerks who work under conditions not conducive to normal growth, that most of their constituency have been deprived of the services of agencies such as the medical inspection department of our public schools and dispensaries, and that the recreational facilities provided for these people are either of the worst sort or meager in the extreme.

To combat the evils arising from such conditions would seem to be the first duty of an organization whose aim is the upbuilding of a community mentally, morally and physically, yet I do not know of a settlement which is conducting a department of physical education worthy of the name. It is true ninety per cent of the settlements in the United States are maintaining gymnasia and hire men whom they call physical directors, but a studv of the situation largely by questionaire and to some extent at first hand convinces me that to say the least, we are confessing a lamentable ignorance as to the scope of physical education, to so call the men who are directing-play and gymnastics more or less successfully in our settlement gymnasia*. I do not want to decry the work of these good fellows at all ; we are getting, just as much and even more than we pay for, and all that we have demanded. And in defense of the heads of settlements let me say that the multiplicity of human needs as exemplified by the calls for endeavor on the part of a settlement certainly would so dissipate the attention of the very broadest man that a need so important as the need for physical education might be lost in the shuffle; and the added difficulty of procuring the needed funds for maintaining such a department on an efficient basis makes a condition not so much to be censured as to be pitied.

When I think of an ideal department of physical education dealing

•-Read at the convention of the American Fhysical Education Ass*i., Boston; March, 1911.

Digitized by
-146-

with the entire life of the community; with living conditions and working conditions; with the manner of eating, bathing, sleeping and sitting; with the condition of skin, eyes, nose, ears, teeth, throat, heart, lungs, digestive apparatus, sexual organs and feet, and attempting to correct any abnormalities through exercise, dispensaries and dental' clinics, following up the cases until results are obtained, and endeavoring to supply clean, healthful recreation; 1 am at a loss to know just what to call the departments now conducted by settlements as departments of physical education.

Ought settlements then to attempt to maintain such costly departments? It seems to me that if no other agency is fulfilling that mission, then the settlement ought to do so. It is one of the duties of a settlement to fill1 in where our welfare system is weak. If, however, some other agency ought to be doing the job then while working at it let the settlement set the machinery in motion and place the departments where they belong. The big fact stands out—the work ought to be done. Since there are no settlements conducting such departments, if you are further interested in an ideal, I would refer you to the departments as now being conducted in some of our large universities, and especially to the physical examination and follow-up system as inaugurated by Dr. Story of the College of the City of New York.

I have been undecided as to the further content of this paper because if I continue discussing ideals, I am liable to be called visionary and if I go on and discuss work being now carried on in our settlements, I shall be treating only a very small part of my subject, which let me remind you is physical education. But because I do not see any hope for the realization of the ideal in the near future and because I feel that present conditions can be much bettered without the expenditure of much more money, I shall discuss only that small part of physical education which is carried on in our settlements. Some of the weaknesses in the existing system were brought out in answers to a questionaire sent to eightv of the leading settlements in the United States.

1.	Only seven or about eight per cent hire physical directors on full time.

2.	Sixty-five per cent pay their physical directors by the hour or class.

3.	Only fifteen per cent hired men of training or normal school experience.

4.	Salaries averaged about forty dollars per month.

5># While all were playing games, ninety per cent were supporting intersettlement contests while only ten per cent were pushing leagues within their own gymnasium.

6.	Because of the necessity of handling large numbers in a short time,

physical examinations were neglected in many instances.

7.	Hygiene was taught in only a few gymnasia.

&. Only a few settlements pushed anything along the line of athletics except basket-ball or track work.

You will notice that ninety-two per cent of the settlements use a part time man in the gymnasiums. There are several reasons why I think the '‘part time man” will be used as the settlement physical director for some time to come so our problem is to make the very best man possibble out of him. I think that our greatest sin is not in hiring an untrained man, when we think we have to, but in allowing him to remain untrained after we get him. When Baltimore, Philadelphia and some other cities faced a dearth of trained playground workers, they organized training schools, and behold,

Digitized by
-147-

out came trained workers. If settlements cannot afford men and women trained in the big *'‘physical education’* they can have men trained in that small part of physical education which they elect to carry on, by following, this example.

When playgrounds were inaugurated, settlement workers were most persistent in their appeals for a trained leadership and I believe invented the phrase “The most important piece of apparatus on the playground is the director.” However, the fact remains that when the crowds of girls and boys are removed from the larger playgrounds into small gymnasia to stay for eight months; when the problem of administration is made a hundred times more complex; when the need for recreation of the wholesome kind is far greater; and the gyriinasia are one of the few places'where it can be found during those winter months, those same workers have hired as leaders untrained men for a few hours per day and have made no concerted movement to train them.

It would be a simple matter in cities like New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Cleveland to organize normal courses which would run three nights per week, during October, and then one night per week until March first for the purpose of training these “part time men” and women for settlement and church gymnasia, and this I believe is the solutioh of our problem of obtaining trained workers; for in two or three years pretty fair teachers will be developed. Cleveland will attempt this solution next year.

Another difficulty arising'when we use a “part time man” is that we have not been hiring any time except the exact amount that the director puts on his classes. Now any successful physical director will tell you that he spends at least as much time in getting ready for his classes as he does with those classes, and in order to do well this small part of physical' education which we attempt, we must buy or rent this additional time. I have known of several good fellows who became discouraged because they did not understand that classes would not go of themselves. The matter of keeping records, posting results and lettering signs is an important part of our work and is too often neglected. In some cases it might be handed over to some one else to do but this plan is never as satisfactory as that of making it a part of the director’s job. This would mean of course, some increase in salary.

We now have our physical' director “the most important piece of apparatus for the gymnasia.” In what other ways may we increase the efficiency of our part-departments of physical education. What about physical examinations? I would make physical examinations just as full as my organization would allow. For instance, if I could get a corps of physicians who would help me, I would have every one connected with the department thoroughly examined , and have recommendations made to those who needed help. This has been done more or less successfully by some settlements and Y. M. C. A.’s especially. If I had to make the examinations myself, I should content myself with an examination of heart and lungs. I should say that every child who presents himself for gymnastic work should at least be examined as to heart and lungs, and yet thousands of children and older people, too, are doing on the playgrounds very similar work to that ore-sented in our gymnasia with no physical examination, and few bad effects have been reported, so I wonder if our insistence on physical examinations is

Digitized by Google
-148- '

not due largely to the fact that it has been customary. Physical examinations are very important and must form the basis' for rational1 and effective work, but to make a full examination and never use the findings or follow up the defective cases impresses me as being a waste of time. One director told me that he had found several hernias during' the 'examinations this year and had been successful in having his pupils submit to operation. That was time well spent. To sum up then. While I realize the importance of physical examinations, I think the settlements must be satisfied wTith only part examinations as long as they are satisfied with part departments of physical education and the relation of each part to the whole should be the same.

What then should be the character of our physical work? Shall we try to cover the whole field and give corrective, hygienic and educational gymnastics in each lesson? Most of the settlement directors follow the old class order of marching, calistheni^ drill, apparatus work and then games. It is encouraging to note that more and more time is being used for games and plays. I feel that as much as possible our settlement gymnasia should be made play rooms and the games so organized* that everybody gets a chance to play. Medical gymnastics or corrective work have no place in settlement gymnasia unless conducted outside of regular class hours. It is conceded that plays and games of the gymnastic type serve the purpose of developing heart, lungs, digestive organs and the nervous system even better than do formal gymnastics, so in the greatest possible degree settlement gymnasia should be given over to play. Where large numbers are Jiandled at once it is necessary to use certain means to gain control and esprit de corps, and I have found that a three or five minutes simple march and a calisthenic drill, lasting not longer than ten minutes and made up of exercises which mean something and not consisting of isolated movements, answers very well. The remainder of the time should be spent in organized play.

At Goodrich House where we have seventy-five minute periods, the class activities are as follows:—

15 minutes—Free work.

3-5 minutes—Marching, attention paid to posture.

8-10 minutes—Calisthenic drill.

45 minutes—Organized play.

We have been able to use most of our apparatus in this organized play. For instance, instead of doing formal apparatus work on the buck or horse, we use them for a distance vault, as obstacle to dive or turn hand springs or head springs over. The class is divided into squads after the plan used in many gyms and each one called by letter A, B, C, etc., then all the apparatus is numbered; High Jump standards 1, High Kick 2, Bar Vault 3, Three Stand Broad Jump Board 4, Shot Circle 5, Buck 6, Horse and Spring Board 7, and so on, inclulding any other activity we desire, then the squads under leaders play on one apparatus for a while and at the directors whistle, change to the next number, so as a part of our class activity, we work in our athletic events in a systematic way which allows everybody a chance to play. And right here let me say that a large leaders corps is indispensable to a successful settlement director, and time and money used in the development of such a corps are well spent. I have never seen a live

Digitized by CjOOQle
—149—

calisthenic drill done to music and have always limited the use of music to marching and dancing. The memory of doing calisthenics to The Flower Song may have prejudiced me in this matter, however.

In order that the greatest good may be accomplished by the use of games where large numbers are considered, organization is essential. Of course the class games, such as Touch Ball, Slap back, ball races, etc., need only the presence of the director; but the team games from which we get our best moral training as well as exercise and recreation, demand something more.

I wish to state before going any farther that in considering physical education, I do not take into account inter-settlement contests as they are carried on today in basket ball, base ball and track, because I cannot see that they come within the province of physical education at all. In fact, the principles upon which they are based are in opposition to the principles of physical education. Our difficulty in placing inter-settlement contests where they belong, outside of physical training and in a vaudeville or circus class, has arisen from the fact that we have accepted as a legitimate part of physical education the so-called athletics conducted by schools and colleges; we can certainly be excused for that when the directors of the departments of physical education in these school's and colleges tell us that these are a part of physical education. The ideal of physical education is to give to all those who enter into it the highest degree of physical benefits, recreation and moral training; to all, not a few. Anything which tends to sacrifice the many for the few must be fought and fought hard.

There are three reasons why games are played:—(i) for the fun to the fellow who plays; the fun of running, throwing, jumping, etc.; (2) for the amusement of a crowd of rooters, rooters who back their respective teamfc to win; (3) for the purpose of presenting to the spectators the highest development of the art in running, throwing, striking, or any coordination used, in that game. A game played by a large number of people for the fun they get out of it of course is a part of physical education, and is the thing we are all aiming at, and most of our formal gymnastics are but a poor substitute for this kind of play. The Playground Association of America was organized to promote just this thing.

The second type of game is illustrated by.the contests between teams from different settlements, schools, colleges, or other organizations. These games are not played by the many but only by the best five, nine or eleven men in each institution represented. The many form the crowd of rooters. The date for such a game is set with great care on the part of each manager. Why? that the players may have a better time? Not at all; but that the teams may be in the very best condition. To enjoy themselves? Ah no—to win.

Officials are chosen after a lengthy argument involving the advisability of having an official whose sister was engaged to the second cousin of the captain of the opposing team. Is this that the players may receive greater physical training from the game? No again, but that the opponent may be allowed no undue advantage. To win! To win! The players are simply machines placed on the field to win. They play for the crowd and the crowd comes to see them win. And to accomplish that end is their chief aim. These games are not played for fun primarily but are played that the

Digitized by
-160-

crowd may sec its team win. Unquestionably there is much fun in some of these games but by far the greater incentive is to win. I suggested that our basket ball championships in Cleveland be played in halls where only the team and officials were allowed and the expected protest was “Why, what do you expect us to play for? It is this type of game which has given us all our trouble in the management; of athletics. We know where to place the professional—the fellow who plays to present the arts of movement—to which I will1 refer later. We know where to place the fellow who plays for the fun of it, but here is a fellow who does not play for the fun of it primarily, and does not present the “arts” in a manner to deserve the name of artist. The Physical Educator is saying “If we can get these fellows to play for the fun of it, we can squeeze them into our departments” so they deliver long talks on sportsmanship and upon the degenerating influence of playing to win ; then search the country over for the best coach, send spies; yes, spies, over into the enemy’s field to steal signals and plays, sees that the student body learns some songs of which the following is a fair sample:—

Reserve will win tonight Reserve will win Reserve will win tonight Reserve will win Reserve will win tonight

When the sun goes down and the stars come out Reserve will, win.

After the game they have the victorious shake the hands of the vanquished, give them a yell and later take them to a hop and then congratulate themselves on the job.

Gentlemen, I maintain that because of the principles behind the organization of these representative teams, it is absolutely impossible to inculcate into the minds of the players the thought of playing for the fun. When that is the predominant incentive, there are no first teams because it isn’t fun to play on representative teams at all; it takes mighty hard work to “make” them, long tedious training and specializing. If cheers, plaudits, foolish respect and hero worship were eliminated from college foot ball, you couldn^ get a corporal’s guard out to put on damp, dirty foot ball togs, do without the things they want to eat and skin their elbows and knees practicing tackling. Play football, I mean our modern foot ball game, for fun alone—IPs absurd.

The third reason for the playing of a game is to present the highest development of the arts of throwing, running, striking, or any old coordination. Baseball lends itself to this better than any of the other games partly ' because it is made up of so many of the old coordinations and partly because it being a game in which personal contact is not close, objectionable features are not so liable to creep in. Of course the game of base ball1 is used by thousands as a means of recreation and winning is an incident; it is also one of the games used by representative teams as a basis for argument. Here, of course, winning is the predominant thing and recreation, of the players, an incident. But the kind of baseball I am now talking about is the kind we see at league park, the kind that men go to see because they love the art of the game, the kind that will pull a Brooklyn man out to a

Digitized by
-161-

game between Cleveland and Boston where he has no favorite and cares not who wins. Men go to big league games as connoisseurs of the art of base ball' primarily and secondarily as partisans. I have heard many times such expressions as these from so-called partisans on the bleachers: “Eye gol, 1 got my money’s worth right now” or “That’s worth a dollar of any man’s money” when Lajoie made one of his wonderful stops and throws, or Dode Birmingham threw as true as an arrow from deep middle to the plate. What does it mean? It means that these fellows who went home and promptly forgot who won any of those games but who rehearsed a hundred times those great plays, had been interested primarily in the arts of striking, throwing, ruYining and sliding. We are inclined to smile When we think of base ball' as an art and of the players as artists, but to thousands of the “initiated” there is nothing any more artistic than the sharp line drive, the long slide, the cutting the corners of the plate or the pickup and throw. We are not all “Connoisseurs of art” for we like to have the home team win” but I believe that big league baseball owes its popularity, not to the fact that it furnishes contests, but to the fact that it presents arts just as real as those seen in painting or sculpture.

We have briefly considered these three reasons for the playing of games. Which is the most important from the standpoint of physical education and what shall be the relation to physical education, of the less important types?

Tfye first type in which fun and exercise are predominant would seem to fill all the requirements. True it isn’t much fun for the crowd, but if we didn’t have these representative teams, we would have energy, time and money enough to so organize that everybody played; there would be no need for amusing a crowd; they would get their fun as well as exercise at “game time.” Harvard had about fifteen coaches for her first team, and spent last year a thousand dollars per man for football alone. Yal’e’s number of coaches was about the same, but her expenditure per man was about twice as much. Write to any of the large universities and ask them how’ many men they hire to promote athletics within the university and how much money per man they are expending along this line and you will get a comparison that is staggering.

Now is it possible to conduct athletics for the mass as they should be conducted and at the same time promote in the same branches inter-institutional contests? I believe they are incompatible. If interest in a varsity team is at white heat, it is hard to find enough of that commodity to keep up teams within the institution, and if you work up interest in playing the game for- fun and exercise, fellows will cease to support varsity teams, for the fun of playing is stronger than the fun of winning. Shall we do away with representative teams then? Do they do anything that something else would not do and justify their existence despite the fact that .they demand much energy, time and money; tend to make play for the few and take away interest from the play for the money; despite the fact that since they were organized to win they must try to do it, and allow evils which are so common that they need not be mentioned here to creep in, and despite the fact that it is fellows who are playing under such adverse conditions, who are forming ideals for the great mass of fellows whom we are trying to teach to play for fun? We are told that they make for loyalty to the in-

Digitized by Google
-152 -

stitutiori; that it binds clubs together. I wonder whether a healthy growth can be expected of that institutional loyalty, 'fed on the husks of athletic victories? Undoubtedly they furnish good advertising and bring in considerable money to some organizations; they also bring crowds together for a happy or unhappy time, depending on the outcome of the game. I have felt very sorry that as sacred a thing as a great game should be used for the purpose of advertising, raising funds and furnishing amusement for a crowd of partisans when its greatest value lies in furnishing exercise and recreation to the many and when its use in the former tends to lessen its value in the latter case. You say they are here, and can’t be done away with all at once. Well, let’s admit that they are a bad' thing, the result of a growth directed only by the lower instincts, that they tend to absorb all the interest and support of the student body and that the important thing is to promote general play and that inter-institutional contests are not play at all. I believe the development of athletics within institutions will1 kill the representative teams. They have unquestionably served a puroose. but I will be glad to have them done aw’ay with, at least in social settlements.

I have seemingly digressed, but it is because I feel that we as yet have not placed in its proper niche the inter-organization contest, and because I feel that to get our bearings is essential. I feel that the objections raised to inter-collegiate sports apply even more strongly to inter-settlement games.

How then shall we so organize that the many play? I have tried out many schemes for organization for team games. I have passed up tke group plan where the membership is divided into several groups and then teams chosen from these groups, and if necessary a first, second and third team compete in a first, second and third league, because it harks back to just the thing we are trying to get away from and because the numbers in different divisions, I mean E. J.—J.—A. J.—J.—S. vary so widely. I have also passed up the gang plan, i. e., organizing by streets or squares because all the fellows were not playing and again we had a representative team. The scheme with which I have been most successful was the result of many attempts to make games an integral part of physical1 training, to get every fellow on a team and a team that as far as any one could judge was just as good a team as any of that age in the House. A league is organized in every gym. class, which of course, is composed of boys of nearly the same age and weight. For two or three or four weeks at the beginning of the season, often the scheme has been thoroughly explained to the classes, the attention of the class is centered on the selection of captains and every fellow is watched by every other fellow to see if he measures up to an ideal -captain; incidentally, the best players are picked out and as many of them are elected captains as there are sevens in the class. Each team in basket ball is allowed seven men and I will use this sport as an illustration. The captains then meet with the director and after drawing for choice, choose up into teams which shall continue during the season, so every fellow in the class plays basket ball. The names of teams and players are posted; a schedule is made out, and standing of team is kept just as carefully as the big leagues keep their schedules and results. I want to lay stress on thiV posting of results in big letters. This winter as a result of this plan, forty teams played basket ball at Goodrich House for fun. It is hardly necessary to add that we had no time for inter-settlement games.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-153-

CHART

This organization can be applied to all team games, and during the season these same groups may be used in other sports. I do not like the idea, however, but choose to have one special league for each activity in its season. What we need to do is to “season” some games; for instance, let us make indoor hockey popular and “the game” for indoors up to Thanksgiving ; then let's make basket ball our game until March, then indoor baseball for the rest of the year; this program may not be a good one but it suggests the thing I feel the need of, fitting games to seasons.

For the games of individual effort, of which track athletics is the most notable type, I like a different organization, and that is a badge test of some sort. We are using a scheme as shown- on these charts. Each boy is required to measure up to a standard in several kinds of events before he is allowed to wear a badge. This discourages specialization and allows a boy to compete against himself. We divide the boys into five classes and set the standard so that a fellow must try hard to earn his badge. There are three badges, a white, red and blue or honor badge. A boy wins a white badge and is then eligible in a month to try for the red one; after two months he may try for the honor badge. Certain events are added each time and better performances demanded for the red and blue badges. At the time a boy competes for each button, he may just pass or gain honors or high honors, according to the excellence of his performance. Even our men “take to” this form of athletics.

Wrestling, swimming and boxing tournaments can be conducted without great difficulty, and shoult be, where it is possible.

Talks on personal hygiene should be given to all gym classes. These talks of about five minutes each given once per week, must be carefully worked up, and I have found the best time to give them to be after the class' has been separated for calisthenic drills and seated on the floor. The success of these talks will depend absolutely on the one who gives them and his preparation of the subject.

Class records of attendance are important and can be gotten without much time from the director, by having class secretaries.

A bulletin board is one of the most important pieces of apparatus in a gym; it can be made to act in the capacity of a lecturer in hygiene and ethics besides performing its ordinary duties; for instance, during the week of talks on care of the teeth the “Healthogram” on our board read—“Clean teeth don't decay;” when we were talking on “how to sleej£ our “Healthogram” read “Night air is healthy, keep your windows open at night.” We make this bulletin a lecturer on clean sport by posting short, strong selections as for example—

“Stolen goods aren’t worth a straw Honesty's the better law Just remember never jaw Play the game.”

or

“You’re beaten to earth, well, well, what’s that!

Come up with a smiling face.

It’s nothing against you to fall down flat But to lie there that’s disgrace.

Digitized by
—154—

Why, the harder you’re thrown, the higher you’ll bounce.

Be proud of the blackened eye,

For it isn’t the fact that you’re whipped that counts But how did you fight and why.”

A well kept record board adds interest to athletics for boys and men in a gymnasium.

In regard to control of gymnasia, we too often leave the care of locker rooms, entrances, exits and classes to one man, and a man for obvious reasons being in one place at a time, leaves three others unsupervised. Control of entrances, exit, locker rooms and baths is essential and the director can’t do it all.

We are beginning to hol'd girls in our gymnasium and we will continue to do so to the extent that we realize that girls must have games and plays and not Delsarte. Give them dancing, basket ball, indoor base ball, volley ball, athletics, tether ball, etc., and they will come to gym. A wise director is more essential for girls than for boys.

In conclusion then, it seems to me that the peculiar problem which con-fronts the settlement in regard to physical education deserves some special study. I believe the solution can be found if we can only get together. To this end I would strongly recommend that the Association appoint a committee whose duty it shall be to ascertain the condition of this department of settlement work at the present time, and then to suggest ways and means for making this most important work efficient.

HEREDITY AND SOCIAL WORK.

For now these mjuiy years social workers have been putting ever increasing emphasis on the social value of environmental changes. The typical and essential features of all well-considered programs of social work have been improved housing, the control of infectious disease, recreational facilities, a shortening of the working day, and a high standard of living. We have put our faith in organized industry, organized charity, organized education, and organized religion.

Has the time now come to shift the emphasis? Must we learn again old proverbs? Blood will tell; Like begets like: You cannot make a silken purse out of a sow’s ear. Is there wisdom for our generation in the two-hundred-and-fifty-year-old saying of Sir Thomas Browne, quoted in a modern book on heredity?

“Bless not thyself that thou wert born in Athens; but among thy multiplied acknowledgements, lift up one hand to heaven that thou wert born of honest parents, that modesty, humility, and veracity lay in the same egg, and came into the world with thee.”

Heredity in the modern view appears to be a collective name for that which the individual has in common with Jiis ancestry and his posterity, because of his relationship to them. The child, we are told, is not so much produced by his parents as by the common stock of which they and he are alike offspring. These common elements which make ud the heredity are now believed not to be modified by the life of the individual. That is to say, individual life may be profoundly modified by environmental influences, but these changes do not, so far as positive proof has been adduced, affect the

Digitized by

Google
-155-

heredity of the offspring. What parents give to their children is a threefold heritage^first, a definite character which they have themselves inherited; second, a social tradition beginning in earliest infancy; and third, economic environment determined by income, by place of residence, by judgment in the selection of occupations, and by other similar factors within theii: control.	M	M

The controversy as to whether the progress which is achieved by ari individual as the result of his own experiences and the influences operating upon him is or is not transmissible to posterity by direct heredity, is in one sense merely academic, since it is admitted that suth modifications, if not directly /inherited, are at any rate passed on by what we may call a social inheritance. “Unlike the beasts that perish,” says J. Arthur Thompson, “man has a lasting external heritage, capable of endless modification for the better.” Thus the doctrine that acquired characters are not transmissible is by no means necessarilv pessimistic. Confidence in the possibility of enduring social progress may even be strengthened by the reflection that in the stream of inheritance degeneration and abnormality must be at least as perishable as any hardly acquired virtue or increase of normal capacity. Shortness in Mendel’s pea stalks is no more dominant in the nature of things than tallness, and all the potentialities of progress persist where there is nourishment on which they may feed. When we add to this that in the external heritage—the social tradition and the economic environment—there are two excellent fighting chances to relieve the individual from the terrors of his individual heredity, we find ample basis fo* that militant optimism which underlies the philosophy of all social work.

These academic aspects of the problem, however, interesting as they are,, concern us less than certain practical issues which it involves. Modern humanitarian ism undoubtedly keeps alive many weak individuals who in an unmitigated struggle for existence would perish. It may be argued that insane and feeble-minded, alcoholic and syphilitic, congenital criminal and pauperized parasite, are more numerous in our modern communities than they would be if public relief were less developed and private generosity were less lavish than they are among us. Are we in this way perpetuating the grievous social burdens of disease, alcoholism, criminality, and pauperism? Are we breeding from the unfit as no stock breeder would think of doing, and interfering with the normal processes of social evolution?

These are not new questions, but they gain new significance from current scientific discussions and experiments. An eminent psychiatrist expresses the opinion that much the greater number of the pronouncedly insane brought the seed of their malady with them into the world. Their insanity, to adopt Weissmann’s distinction, lay in the germ-plasm and not in the body-plasm of their bodily structure. An entirely favorable environment might have prevented its development in them, but if they had become parents there "would have been in the heredity of their descendants an identic cal danger which another equally favorable environment might or might not overcome. This is not the. place to promulgate or to reject such doctrines. It is a place to consider social policies in the light even of their possible truth.

This persistence of hereditv for which biologists contend is^ the more worthy of attention because it but fortifies the common sense View of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
156—

ages, which social workers have perhaps of late tended to ignore. This is the view that mental and moral character as well as physical character is inherited; that some children are born good just as some are born strong. It is Heine’s dictum that a man should be very careful in the selection of his parents. This might be confused with the saying of Oliver Wendell Holmes that the education of a child must begin with his grandfather. Modern biology gives more support to the first paradox than to the second. The selection of parents determines heredity. The education of grandparents influences the external heritage. Both are important, but if Heine s advice is followed then it may not matter so much whether it isr your own grandparents that are educated or some other grandparents whom you adopt. Foster homes of the second anterior generation cannot guard your heredity, but .they may be competent custodians of your external heritage.

Society must care for the insane, the diseased, the criminal, and the pauper. Society must improve the economic and social environment of those Whose lives are narrow and whose environment is but a denial of opportunity. The assumption of these responsibilities carries with it the obligation to guard against every foreseeable evil consequence. We do well to proceed cautiously where experts are divided; but we cannot long refuse the challenge of those who warn us that heredity also is a social fact.—The Survey.

HOW TO CIVILIZE THE YOUNG SAVAGE.*

The instinct of the savage survives in the child, just as the physical peculiarities of the aquatic stage survive in his body and determine its conformations. Every child is born a criminal. All children are murderers. The angry child doubles up its puny fists and strikes its mother. The blow is a mere tap, it does no harm, and the mother perhaps does not even fee! it. But that she is not killed or severely injured is not because of lack of will upon the part of the child, but of physical weakness. In his primitive, savage state, a man fought with his neighbor over a bone in a cave. His ope thought was to secure the greatest possible advantage for himself.

Children have no logical idea whatever of right and wrong. Everything is a matter of expediency. Unless Tommy is a mere manikin, a namby-pamby little milk sop, he doesn’t refrain from stealing apples because his conscience troubles him. If he lets green apples alone, it is for one of two reasons—he knows that his mother will whip him if he eats them, or he knows by hard experience that the pain of stomach ache more than offsets the pleasure of eating. In a child’s mind the fear of punishment takes the place of moral reasoning. As he grows older, by nature’s processes he becomes a reasoning animal. He is not afraid of his mother any longer. But society takes hold of him, controls him, puts him in harness.

What I contend for is the exercise of plain common sense, and the acceptance of facts rather than fine-spun theories. The kindergarten spends

t . * From an address delivered by G. Stanley Hall to the teachers of Chicago.

Doubtless there are teachers who will he shocked at some of Dr. HalPs propositions ; hut we believe that clear thinkine readers will see in this article much less to disapprove than to commend.—Ed. Am. Journal of Education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-ir»7-

a lot of time telling the clubwomen that they must not punish their children. Punishment must come upon the child as the natural resul't of its misdemeanor. Nature, and not the mother, must administer a castigation. I grant that this theory is all right, but I can prove by the mothers themselves that in nine-tenths of the ordinary childish high jinks it won’t work. Now;, a child puts its tiny, tender hand on a hot stove and is burned. Not many mothers, I fancy, give their children a whipping on such occasions. Common sense tells them that the child has suffered enough, and will apply the lesson.

But suppose a boy plays hooky, suppose he won’t carry in wood, what thunderclap is going to fall on him out of the sky? In a case like this I believe a thorough dose of Dr. Spank’s remedies is the best specific. Mothers can raise children without a kindergarten formula. Knowledge can be applied without its having been reduced to a system. Children are animals. They are dear, sweet little things, I admit, but animals just the same. They are a very high order of animals, capable of a great deal of development. The sentimentalists have hedged childhood about with false and un-philosophic notions.	N

Boys are naturally robbers; they are bandits and fighters by nature. A scientific study has been made of boys’ societies, the secret societies which they form when not under the supervision of adults. In every instance these societies have been predatory. All of the members thirsted for blood and all of their plans were for thievery and murder. These facts go tfc show, with many other facts, that a child repeats the history of his race.

The idea of teaching a child to turn its left cheek when it is struck on the right one! Fiddle-sticks! Unless you want to make a selfish, knock* kneed weakling of him, teach him to double up his fist and strike back. There would, of course, be limitations to this. Some boys are so pugnacious by nature that they ought to be discouraged a little, rather than encouraged to fight.

Generally speaking, I believe in healthy children’s quarrels and fights. When I went to school in the country we all knew who could whip the rest of us. We used to stand up and fight it out for hours. I don’t believe in too much tenderness. I think we are in danger of becoming over-sentimental, rather than over-brutal. Physical courage is the foundation for moral1 courage later in life. One is to the child and the savage what the other is to the grown and cultured man. *

One of the most effective means of disipline in reform schools is the teaching of boxing. When an incorrigible boy is unable to control his temper^teach him boxing. In a boxing, rpatch he has to control his temper or he gets hit. He misses his guard and his opponent punches him. Anger is a species of epilepsy, and destroys for a moment the mind’s balance. I think every boy ought to learn boxing, but I don’t advocate teaching it in the public schools. We can’t have everything which it mav be desirable to know' taught in the Dublic schools. The system is crammed and jammed to overflowing now. Life must not be made too easv. Plentv of children, especially the children of the rich, are suffering from having too much pleasure. Their minds are filled with goodv-good sentimental stories. They wfill grow ud to be selfish milksops. A child wdio has nothing to do but enjoy himself will become a degenerate, selfish man. Luxury brings decay.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
..,	—158—

1	I believe in pain and pleasure both. Every soul needs to experience

the extremes of pain and pleasure. But pain is the greater educator. Hunger and cold, and a hundred other sufferings, are nature’s great spurs. Pain is the motive of natural selection. It weeds out the weak and strengthens the strong. Ten times more animal species die than live.

I believe in punishment for children. I believe in corporal punishment in the school. It should not be carried to excess, but the fact that an incorrigible boy knows that the teacher may whip him is a tremendous support to the teacher. I don’t want to whip a boy severely, but if I am to control him I want him to know that I can give him a licking. You would rebreak a man’s leg to reset it straight, and sometimes it is necessary for the good of the child that he have his will broken.

Lately two able philosophical books have been written advocating ignorance. We need some wholesome ignorance today. All that rot they teach to children about the little rain-drop fairies with their buckets washing down the window panes must go. We need less sentimentality and more spanking. We are going child-study mad.

But I see hope in the future. A reaction against sentimentalism is setting in. We shall go back to reading the old, bloody stories to children, and children will like to hear them because they are healthy little savages. I don’t believe in brutality, but I believe in common sense as opposed to paranoia.—American Journal of Education.

THE OBLIGATORY EXERCISES ON THE PARALLEL BARS FOR GERMAN GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS FROM 1880 TO 1908.

Translated by Carl 0. Hierholzer, Military Institute, Bordentown, N. J.

FRANKFORT.

1.	From the cross hang with ordinary grasp on the end of the bars, pull up slowly to the cross rest, raise slowly to a shoulder stand on the left shoulder, lower to a lever on the left elbow, change to a lever on the right elbow, return to a cross rest, raise the legs forward to a horizontal position, a quarter turn right in this position transferring the grasp of the left hand to the right bar, dismount forward.

2.	From a sidestand frontways, front-vault swing to a cross rest, swing backward to a handstand and hold this momentarily, swing forward bending the arms and jump forward to a cross rest (pump swing) raising the legs forward to a horizontal position, swing backward and at the beginning of the front swing lower to an upper arm hang, roll backward to & cross rest, dismount with a rear vault with a half turn inward.

DRESDEN.

i. From the hang with straight arms at the end of the bars, pull1 up slowly to a cross rest holding the legs forward horizontaljy, slow pressup to a hand stand (arms kept straight), walk forward to the middle of the bars, lower forward slowly to a free lever frontways, separate the legs sideward to a straddle seat behind the hands (body upright), grasp the bars in the rear, raise and close the legs to a horizontal position in front, a turn around the long axis of the body in this position by changing the grasp of the hands and transferring the rests, then dismount forward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—169—

2. From a cross stand frontways at the end of the bars, straddle inward (fig. 104) and swing up to a hand stand with the arms straight (hold this position equivalent to the time of three marching steps), lower and swing forward through the bent arm rest and jump forward as far as possible, execute a figure 8 by circling both kgs held together over the bars, swing backward to the upper arm stand (hold this during the time of 3 steps), roll backward to the cross rest with straight arms, during the forward swing execute a rear vault swing with a half turn inward to an outside cross seat on one thigh, grasp forward and rear vault over both bars to a cross stand sideways.

MUNICH.

1.	From the cross hang with ordinary grasp at the end of the bars, a turn backward to the lever rearways, return to the cross hang holding the legs forward horizontally, pull up slowly to the cross rest and lower the kgs, raise them again then separate and lower them to a straddle seat in front of the hands, grasp in front, raise to a handstand with arms straight and closed legs (hold during 3 to 4 counts), bend the arms and immediately straighten again to a handstand, lower to a free lever frontways (hold this during 3 to 4 counts), rear vault without swinging.

2.	From the cross stand frontways at the end of the bars, straddle inward to the cross rest and immediately roll forward and kip to the cross rest, swing backward and during the frontswing jump forward, swing backward and circle right with the left leg, then left with the right leg, then repeat but with both legs, “figure eight,” swing backward and forward, swing backward in the bent arm rest and in the front swing straddle forward (from the rest to the rest), swing backward to a handstand with arms straight (hold during 3 to 4 counts), front vault.

BRUSSELS.

1.	Hangstand at the end of the bars, pull up slowly to the cross rest, then press up to a handstand, lower to a lever on the left elbow with a 54 turn left on the deep axis of the body, change the lever to the right elbow, lower the legs to the cross rest then raise them to a horizontal1 position forward, a £4 turn right in this position by changing the grasp and shifting the position of the body to this same position on the right bar, jump forward to a sides tand rearways.

2.	At the end of the bars, drop kip, but instead of coming up to the front rest, straddle out backward to the stand and immediately straddle inward and swing up to a handstand, swing forward in the bent arm rest and jump as far forward as possible, in the next forward swing circle forward over the right bar with the left 1'eg and in the following back swing circle backward over the left bar with the left leg, in the following forward swing double rear vault to the cross stand at the outside of the Bars.

HAMBURG.

1. From a cross stand at the end of the bars jump to a cross rest, swing to a handstand and walk forward to the middle of the bars, lower to a free lever frontways (in 3 to 4 counts), lower to a lever on the right or left elbow (in 3 or 4 counts) lower to the upper arm hang and roll backward to a cross rest with the kgs raised forward in a horizontal1 position, release the grasp and fall to a hanging position crossing the arms and grasping opposite bars, execute a 54 turn to an inner side hang with ordinary
-160-

grasp on ono bar, pull up and a slow Hip circle backward to the side leaning rest frontways, raise to a handstand on the front bar and squat forward.

2. From an outer sidestand frontways, rearvaul't-swing to a cross rest, swing backward, roll forward and kip to a cross rest, in the backward swing lower to an upper arm hang and in the next backward swing back-uprise to a lever on one arm, drop kip to a riding seat on the right bar in front of the right hand, circle the right leg left (from front to rear) over the left bar, circle both legs left (from rear to the front) over the right bar and rear vault left to the outer crossstand.

NURNBERG.

From an outside sidestand rearvault-swing left (or right) over both bars with a 54 turn left (or right) to a cross rest in the middle af the bars, swing backward to a handstand,, roll backward to a cross rest, swing forward in the bent arm rest, release the grasp and execute a half turn left to the cross rest, lower to an upper arm rest and kip, then roll forward to a cross rest, double front vault.

2. From the cross hangstand rearways at the end of the bars with reverse grasp, pull up slowly to a cross rest in ordinary grasp, raise the body keeping it straight with a turn left (shears) to a straddle seat behind the hands, raise to a handstand with straight arms and legs a-straddle, close the legs, swing forward in the bent arm rest and jump forward to a position with the legs held forward horizontally, swing backward in the bent arm rest to a hand stand, 54 turn left to a handstand on the left bar, lower to a side leaning rest, frontways, straddle forward over both bars.

FRANKFORT.

1.	In the place of the exercise of strength an obligatory free exercise was substituted.

2. From the cross stand frontways at the end of the bars (bars shoulder high) straddle inward to the cross rest with legs raised forward (hold 4 counts) lower to a hang and execute a drop kip to the cross rest, roll forward with the body straight to the upper arm hang and in the back swing back uprise to the handstand (hold 4 counts) lower to a free lever frontways, then lower further to the cross rest and raise the legs forward to a horizontal position, execute a half turn left in this position by changing the grasp on the bars, swing backward and at the end of the back-swing change the grasp of the right hand to reverse grasp, swing forward and rear vault left over both bars to an outer cross stand.

—Dr. Edward L. Trudeau says:—“The first and greatest need in the prevention of tuberculosis is education—education of the people, and, through them, education of the state. It is evident that if every man and woman in the United States were familiar wfith the main facs relating to the manner in which tuberculosis is communicated, and the simple measures necessary for their protection, not only might W’e reasonably expect, as direct result of this knowledge, a great diminution in the death rate of the disease, but the people would soon demand and easily obtain effective legislation for its prevention and control. When a state has once become w^ell educated and not before will the other requisition necessary to the control of the disease be forthcoming.”—Fresh Air Magazine.
-141-

FIELD DAY OF THE MILWAUKEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

June 10 (or 17) 1911.

COMPETITIVE EXERCISES.

The competitive exercises selected for the boys and girl's of the 7th and 8th grades are:	Standing	broad	jump, throwing the basket-ball for dis-

tance, the dash, and the shuttle relay race.

The three events named first shall constitute a group which, if conscientiously practiced, will develop a considerable degree of all-around physical efficiency. In order to obtain the mark of efficiency, a pin for the girls and a button for the boys, a pupil must qualify in the three events. That degree of physical skill and strength which is necessary to qualify can be attained through earnest practice by the majority of the pupils of the 7th and 8th grades. We sincerely hope that this inducement will cause a large number of boys and girls to prepare themselves for the contest, but since we can handle only a limited number of contestants in these exercises on the field day, elimination contests in broad jump and throwing the basket-ball will have to be held in the various schools in the week beginning May 15. Only those pupils who are able to qualify in these elimination contests may enter the finals on field day. All entries must be sent to Mr. Wittich before May 22.

EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

Standing broad jump. Moving the feet forward, over the take-off mark during the preparatory movements, previous to the jump, is not permitted. Each pupil shall have three trials in the elimination contest and two on the field day. In order to qualify, the Juniors and Seniors of the boys must make 6 feet 3 inches and 6 feet 6 inches respectively, and those of the girls must make 5 feet 3 inches and 5 feet 6 inches respectively in the elimination contest.

Throwing the Basket-Ball. The ball must weigh between 18 and 21 ounces, and shall be thrown forward using both hands from above or behind the head with feet close together or separated. Moving the feet while throwing is not permitted, nor must the contestant leave his place on the mark before the throw is measured. In order to qualify the Juniors and Seniors of the boys must throw the ball 36 and 40 feet respectively, and those of the girls 30 and 33 feet respectively in the elimination contest. Each pupil shall have three trials during the elimination contest and two trials on the field Jay. It is advisable that each school1 bring its own ball,, also that the number of the school be marked on the ball.

The Dash. The boys will run 100 yds. and the girls 75 yds. In: order to qualify the Juniors and Seniors of the boys must make the 100 yds.. in 14 and 13 seconds respectively, and those of the girls must make the 75; yds. in 13 and 12 seconds respectively.

The Shuttle Relay Race. Each one of the boys’ and girls’ teams must have 20 members for this race. Each boy will run 100 yds. and each girt 75 yds. Essential points to be observed in the training of the pupils are: a quick start, a strong finish, and a free knee action.

Boys and girls whose hearts have been found not normal by the school physicians miist not participate in these exercises.

The boys and girls should be divided according to size into two classes
-162-

for the group Contest; those who are 60 or more inches tall in their running shoes will form one class and will be called Seniors; those who are fcss than 60 inches tall will form another class and will be called Juniors.

An exact and careful classification of Juniors and Seniors, under the supervision of a competent person, some time prior to the Field Day is absolutely necessary.

THE CALISTHENIC DRILL.

The following calisthenic exercises are designed for the “Drill” of the Field Day Program and are to be taken up by the pupils of the 6th, 7th, and 8th grades at once in place of the work prescribed in the “Hand Book.” They must be practiced in drill form, that is, the pupils must memorize them and learn to execute them without directions.

The boys and girls should be arranged in two separate divisions in order to enable them to execute the exercises of the divided order type, as well as to have them become accustomed to this particular form of execution. The squad, which is to represent the school, should be picked not earlier than two weeks before the Field Day.

The exercises should be practiced with music accompaniment as soon as possible. “Sousa’s Stars and Stripes Forever March,” the same that was used last year, is the piece which will be used on the day of the festival. When practicing, cause the pupils to count from 1 to 8 for the introduction, and from 1 to 16 for each of the pauses following each part of the drill.

The movements of the exercises must be well marked; the marching step must be executed lightly and with marked extension of the leg; particular attention must be given to correct carriage of body in general and to that of head and chest in particular.

PART I.

Exercise 1. Two steps sideward left and raise arms forward upward

on 1st and lower them on 2d step (3d leg movement)............ 1-4

Left about in 4 steps.......................................  5-8

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing........ 9-16

Exercise 2. Boys:

Squatstand and raise arms forward..........................   1-4

Toestand and raise arms upward............................... 5-8

Squatstand and lower arms forward..........................  9-12

Fundamental position..................................    ..	13-16

Girls:

Toestand and move arms sideward, upward, sideward and upward ...................................................   .	1- 4

Squatstand and lower arms forward........................  .	5-8

Repeat the toestand with arm movements.......9-12

Fundamental position..................................       13-16

Exercise 3. Toestand, lower head backward and raise arms slowly

sideupward ..................................... ........... I- 8

Return and place hands on hips on the 16th count............ 9-16

Exercise 4. Stride forward left and straighten arms upward......... 1-2

Bend trunk left and lower arms sideward...................... 3-4

Return ..........................:	.	.	     5-8

Same right.................................................. 9-16

Fxercise 5. Stride sideward left and straighten arms forward......	1-2

Digitized by CjOOQle
-163-

, Twist trunk left and move arms left............. :----------

Return ..................................................

Same right...............................................

Exercise 6. Repeat Exercise 4.................................

Exercise 7. Repeat Exercise 3.................—.........  ;	—

PART II.

Exercise 1. Two steps sideward right and move arms forward upward, forward, upward, and forward downward...................

Right about in 4 steps...................................

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing.....

Remark:—In this exercise the boys begin with facing and the girl's with marching sideward.

Exercise 2. Repeat Exercise 2 of Part I.......................

Exercise 3. Toestand and raise arms forward...................

Lower head backward and move arms sideward, palms upward.

Return and place hands on hips on the 16th count.........

Exercise 4. Lunge forward left and straighten’ arms upward....

Lower trunk forward and arms sideward....................

Return ..................................................

Same with lunge right....................................

Exercise 5. Lunge sideward left and straighten arms sideward..

Bend trunk backward and bend arms to strike..........

Return ..................................................

Same right...............................................

Exercise 6. Repeat Exercise 4.................................

Exercise 7. Repeat Exercise 3.................................

PART III.

Repeat Part I.

PART IV.

Repeat Part II*.

FIELD DAY OF THE MILWAUKEE HIGH SCHOOLS.

June 3, 1911.

Forms of competitive exercises:

Twenty-five per cent of the pupils enrolled in gymnastics in each school in the month of May must compete in each of the five events constituting the contest. The work of each pupil will be judged, then the results of all the pupils of a class will be added and lastly the average will be found, which will determine the place of the class in the contest. This method will give us a good idea of the physical ability of each class.

Group of events for boys:

(a)	Calisthenics for posture, carriage and general physical polish.

(b)	120 yds. low hurdles (5 32-in. hurdles), for speed and judgment of eye.

(c) Running broad jump for strength of legs and general1 co-ordination.

(d) Shot-put for strength of upper body and general co-ordination.

(e.) Shuttle relay race for speed (150 yds. for each boy.)

Group of events for, girls:

(a)	Calisthenics.

(b)	85 yds. low hurdles (4 18-in. or 24-in. hurdles.)

3- 4 5- 8 9-16 1-16 1-16

1- 4 5- 8 9-16

1-16 1- 4 5- 8 9-16 1- 2 3- 4 5- 8 9-16 1- 2 3- 4 5- 8 9-16 1-16 1-16

Digitized by CjOOQie
—164—

(c)	Standing broad jump.

(d)	Throwing the hurl-ball (4 lbs.)

(e)	Shuttle relay race (100 yds. each girl.)

Club Exercises for the Boys of the High Schools.

,	PART	I. Exercises with two clubs.

Exercise 1. Circle arms left four times; with last circle lunge left

sideward with arms upward................................*.. ..	1-	8

Bend trunk left and lower arms sideward.......................... 9-12

Return to starting position......................................13-16

Repeat .......................................................   17-32

Exercise 2. Circle arms outward four times; with last circle lunge

left forward with arms upward.................................... I-	&

Lower trunk forward and swing arms backward...................... 9-12

Return ......................................................... 13-16

Same with lunge right.........................................  17-32^

Exercise 3. Same as Exercise 1, but right...........................   1-32

Exercise 4* Circle arms inward four times; with last circle lunge left

backward with arms upward......................................... 1-8

Bend trunk backward and lower arms sideward. . .................. 9-12

Return ......................................................... 13-16

Same with lunge right..........................................  17-32

Exercise 5. Three steps forward and straddle jump to squatstand with arms forward on the 4th count. Rise with turn left on 8th count and repeat the combination in the form of a square

three times ..................................................... 1-32

Pause of 16 counts during which the right club will be placed on the ground by lunging obliquely right forward and bending trunk forward on the 9th count and resuming fundamental position on 13th	count........................................... 1-16

PART II. Exercises with one club.

Exercise 1. Lunge left forward and raise arms forward upward, both

hands grasping knob and neck of club, club vertical above head 1- 2 Bend trunk forward and strike forward downward and backward, arms passing right side of body....................  3-4

Return ....................................................... 5- 8

Same right ..................................................... 9-16

Repeat .......................................................17-32

Exercise 2. Stride left forward and raise arms forward upward,

club horizontally in both hands, knob in left hand.............. 1-2

Kneel right and lower arms forward, club vertical, knob up. . . 3-4

Return ..............'. ......................................... 5-	8

Same right ....................................................  9-16

Repeat ........................................................  17-32

Exercise 3. Lunge left sideward and raise left arm to strike, club

horizontally behind neck.................................    .	1-	2

Twist trunk right and strike horizontally right.................. 3-	4

Return .......................................................     5-8

Same right ...................................................    9-16
-165-

Repeat ....................J..................................  17-32

Exercise 4. Stride left sideward and raise arms forward, club horizontal, knob in lebt hand............................................  1-	2

34 turn left, kneel right and raise left arm, club horizontally

above head, right arm backward................................ 3-	4

Return ......................................................    5“	8

Same right ..................................................   9-16

Repeat ........................................................ 17-32

Exercise 5. Same as Exercise 5 of Part I, but right, beginning with

right foot ..................................................  1-32

Pause of 16 counts, during which the right club is picked up.. .	1-16

Wand Exercises for the Girls of the High Schools.

PART I.

Exercise 1. Raise arms forward upward............................. 1- 2

Place left foot sideward, bend right knee, lower left arm downward and bend right, wand obliquely behind the back..... 3-4

Return .................................................... 5- 8

Same right ................................................  9-16

Repeat .................................................... 17-32

Exercise 2. Raise	arms	left.................................... 1-2

Bend trunk left and ^4 circle of arms left, right arm upward

and left arm bent, wand vertically at right shoulder. . .:... 3-4	'

Return .................................................... 5- 8

Same right ................................................. 9-16

Repeat .................................................... 17-32

Exercise 3. Raise arms forward upward............................. 1-2

Place left foot backward, bend right knee and lower arms

backward downward,	wand	behind	hips. ..................... 3-4

Return .....................................................  5-8

Same right.................................................  9-16

Repeat ..................................................   17-32

Exercise 4. Raise	arms	left.................................... I- 2

Twist trunk right and swing arms right.. ... ................ 3-4

Return .................................................... 5- 8

Same right ..............................................    9-16

Repeat .................................................... 17-32

Exercise 5. Two polka hops forward ending with 34 turn kft........ 1-4

Bend arms (wand on chest), straighten arms and return...... 5-8

Repeat three times in	form	of a	square...................... 9-32

Pause of 16 counts.........................................  1-16

PART II.

Exercise 1. Oblique forward outward step left (without closing

heels) and bend arms, wand on chest........................ 1- 2

Bend trunk backward	and	straighten	arms upward............ 3-4

Return ...................................................    5-8

Same right.................................................. 9-16

Repeat .................................................    17-32

Exercise 2. Sidestep left (without closing heels) and raise left arm

Digitized by UooQle
—166—

sideward and right arm upward........................  •	•	•	•	•	I-	2

Twist trunk left and swing right arm downward.....................  3-4

Return ......................................................       5-8

Same right.....................................................    9-16

Repeat .......................................................    17-32

Exercise 3. Lunge left forward and raise arms forward upward....	1-2

Lower trunk forward and bend arms, wand on chest................... 3-4

Return ........................................................    5-	8

Same right......................................................   9-16

Repeat .........................................................  17-32

Exercise 4. Lunge left sideward and raise arms forward upward... 1-2 'Lower trunk and left arm forward and place right hand under

left shoulder ..................................................... 3-4

Return .......,.................................................   5-	8

Same right ....................................................    9-16

Repeat ......................................................     17-32

Exercise 5. Same as Exercise 5 of Part I but right...................   1-32

Pause of 16 counts........................;......................  1-16

DISINFECTION OF SWIMMING POOLS.

Circular of the Bureau of Health, Philadeldhia, relative to the 22 pools under the direction of the Bureau of City Property.

The Swimming Pools and Publ'ic Baths of this city shall have the swimming tank emptied and scrubbed once each week day during the season they are in use. A hypochloride of lime solution shall be added to the water at intervals of four hours, when there is a large number of patrons.

When the tanks are emptied, they should be thoroughly scrubbed, sides and bottom, and then washed down with a solution of chloride of lime made as follows:

Secure two empty barrels and place then one above the other so that Y\ of the contents of the first may be drawn into the second.

The upper barrel is for mixing and the lower one is for storage purposes. Now mix chloride of lime in the proportion of lb. or chloride of lime to one gallon of water.

For example:—Put 40 gallons of water in the upper barrel and add 20 lbs. of chloride of lime. Stir steadily for 20 minutes and then add 2 lbs. of sal. soda, which has been dissolved in a bucket of water. Allow the mixture to stand until all sludge settles to the bottom of the barrel and draw off the clear liquor to the second or storage barrel.

By means of the drain remove the sludge as often as necessary and dispose of it as ashes or garbage.

After emptying and scrubbing a tank, the sides and bottom should be rinsed with water to which Y2 pint °f the liquor has been added to each bucket of water used.

This operation can be readily performed with a scrubbing brush or broom.

Compute the capacity of the tank and add one gallon of the liquor from the lower barrel for every 3000 gallons of capacity of the tank, after the tank has been used for four hours. The disinfecting solution is not re-

Digitized by (google
-Inquired when the tank is freshly filled. For example:—If the tank is 50 ft. x 20 ft. by 5 ft. deep, it contains 5,000 cubic feet dr 37,500 gallons. 37,500

3,000	12.05 gallons of liquor to be added at the end of the first four hour period.

After a second period of four hours, or when the tank has been in use for 8 hours, add the second dose of the liquor, which will carry the service to 12 hours at the end of which the work of emptying and scrubbing and preparing for the next day will probably begin.

The figures given are for the purpose of illustration and as tanks very in capacity, each particular case will have to be worked out on lines indicated.

The proportions to be borne in mind are—For making the liquor, y2 lb. of chloride of lime for each gallon of water. For disinfecting the water in the tank or pool, add one gallon of the liquor for each 3,000 gallons of water contained in the tank. Do this at the end of four hours and eight hours service of the pool, and the total hours service obtained will be twelve.

The basis of the computations is a 6 per cent solution, which is practicable and 5 parts per million of available chloride added to the water, which, I am advised, is not harmful—in fact, the practical1 limitation is the point at which the taste of the chloride or its odor would be noticeable.

It is also recommended that the mixing tanks should be kept, and operations performed, in rooms not accessible to the public. If the proportions given should be perceptible to patrons, the quantities may be reduced and some disinfection obtained.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“ANNALS OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS” by John Palmer Garber, Ph. D. 396 pages, $l/2 by 7l/2 inches,, published by the J. P. Lip-pincott Company, Philadelphia and London. Mailing price $1.40. In the preface the author states that:—

“The general purpose of these Annals is to furnish, at the close of each year, a succinct statement of its educational occurrences and movements; and give a clear view of the trend and outlook of affairs affecting education, throughout the world, during the same period.

Such a work should be of service to all friends of education who have neither the time nor the opportunity to perform for themselves a similar service, and prove a convenience, a means of information, and a source of inspiration.”

While most teachers read many books, there are very few who have the inclination to read books or long articles dealing wnth subjects other than the one in which they are particularly interested. The result, often, is a lamentable ignorance of the progressive movements in other fields of education, especially of those in foreign countries. Dr. Garber’s book is a condensed record of the progress made. It is a ready reference book wThich is highly recommended and which should be in every library.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-168-

Mind

IND ftND BODY.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

Mil-wan Tree, WlBCenatf’n.

0T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wii Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECffER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po«sl Office' as Second Class Matter.

There will be no issues of Mind and Body for July and August.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

----------r-----

Playground Teachers Assembly. What probably was the largest “assembly” of playground teachers was held on the first two Saturdays in May in Philadelphia. For many years the Board of Education of Philadelphia, during the winter and spring months, has conducted games—classes for school teachers who wish to * perfect themselves as playground teachers. These classes were held free of charge and were visited by many people from neighboring cities. The recent opening of the “Happy Hollow Playground/’ an ideally located and fully equipped playground with a field house, offered the opportunity to extend the work of these pl'aycourses. Two whole days, from nine o’clock until four, were therefore devoted to “a little theory and much practice.” Only those who applied for admission cards could enter the grounds and take part in the games. Four hundred and fifty-five participants were divided into fifteen groups, each group playing the same games under competent leaders. It was a wonderful and inspiring sight to see these men ond women play with an enthusiasm which promises great results for the sane development of the city’s playgrounds. The playcourse was under the direction of Miss Elizabeth O’Neill, Mr. Philip G. Lewis, Miss Mary Price and Mr. George B. Muliison, assisted by thirty leaders.

BOOK REVIEW.

—THE SOCIAL BASIS OF RELIGION, by Simon N. Patten, Ph. D., LL. D., Professor of Political Economy, University of Pennsylvania. 248 pages 5 by 7L0 inches, published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Mailing price $1.40. Professor Patten’s book is divided into the following fifteen chapters:—Introduction, Scientific Methods, The Economic Interpretation of History, The Social Interpretation of Thought, The Social Process, The Stages of Thought Development, Morbid Degeneration, Senile Degeneration, The Will, Character, Inspiration, Historic or State Religion, The Social Mission of the Church, and The Socialization of Religious Thought.

The book which bears the inscription “Sin is Misery, Misery is Poverty; the Antidote of Poverty is Income” is an interesting and stimulating discussion of the most fundamental of all social problems.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Digitized by

Google
—169-

Playground Teachers Of Philadelphia at their “Assembly” on Happy Hollow Playground.

Playing Prisoners Base.

Playing Prison or Wrestling Circle.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-ito-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

CONCERNING THE DRAFT OF AN ORDINANCE

Introduced into the City Council, Boston, Mass., May 1, 1911. Referred to Committee on Ordinance (which may or may not make changes before making a report to the Council).

By E. B. Mero, Boston, Mass.

'‘an ordinance establishing a park and recreation department and

ABOLISHING THE PARK DEPARTMENT, PUBLIC GROUNDS DEPARTMENT, BATH DEPARTMENT AND MUSIC DEPARTMENT.

This ordinance proposes to combine the same four municipal departments that would have been combined by a previous ordinance on the subject which was passed by the City Council February 11 and vetoed by the Mayor February 14. The original ordinance made the consolidation in accordance with recommendations of the Finance Commission, by transferring to the existing Park Department the duties of the other three departments. The present ordinance abolishes the Park Department as well as the other three, and consolidates all four into a Park and Public Recreation Department under a single Commissioner of Recreation at $6,000 a year. The first ordinance would have placed the combined departments in charge of a Board of Park Commissioners, whose chairman was to be paid a salary of $5,999 a year.

The Mayor, in his veto of the previous ordinance, said that what he had hoped for, when he sent his communication referring this matter to the Council, October 17, 1910, was an ordinance which would not merely consolidate but reorganize the entire recreation service of the city. The next action by the Council was to pass an order, February 27, requesting the Corporation Counsel to confer with the Majror and form a new draft “so as to put into force a consolidation of the entire recreation service of the city.” The ordinance now under consideration is the result. The Mayor looked into the methods of other cities of the country in the administration of parks and recreational facilities, including the ordinances and reports of progressive cities. Chicago was visited by the Mayor personally.

It is provided by the ordinance now before the Council that there shall be an Advisory Board of five members, serving without compensation, appointed by the Mayor from nomination by various organizations of the city. This plan of co-operation between municipal authorities and interested citizens has been adopted in several cities and is being considered by others. It is somewhat similar to the plan by which the members of the Boston Art Commission are selected. There are to be two deputy commissioners, one in charge of a Division of Parks and the other in charge of a Division of Recreation.

The new department will have charge of all the means for public recreation in Boston, except the playgrounds and athletics conducted by the School Department and celebrations of Fourth of July and other public holidays, which are not affected by the ordinance, but which may be placed in charge of the department later. The ordinance covers the city parks, public grounds, beaches, playgrounds, baths, indoor and outdoor gymnami-

Digitized by LjOOQle
—171—

ums, athletic fields, summer band, concerts, winter indoor concerts, etc., which are now in charge of the four departments to be consolidated.

A SUMMARY OF THE ORDINANCE.

Section i of the ordinance now under consideration says that the Park and Recreation Department shall be under the charge of a Commissioner of Public Recreation to be appointed by the Mayor, to give his entire time to the department. His salary, provided for in Section io, is fixed at -$6,000 a year.

Section 2 contains a somewhat new idea for Boston, although there is some degree of precedence for it in the method of choosing the Art Commission. This Section is as follows:—

“There shall' be in said department an Advisory Board of five members appointed bv the Mayor in the following manner:—One member from three names submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, one member from three names submitted by the Central Labor Union, one member from three taames submitted by the Boston Society of Architects, one member from three names submitted by the various Improvement Associations, and one member from three names submitted by the N. E. A. A. U. Said appointments shall be made for the terms of one, two, three, four and five years and each subsequent appointment shall be made by the Mayor for the term of five years. Said board shall serve without compensation. Said board shall consider all matters affecting the policy and general conduct of the department and shall make recommendations for the guidance of the commissioner, when requested by the commissioner, or whenever said board deems such recommendations advisable or necessary. The decision of the ' commissioner shall be final in all matters so far as this department is concerned except in the matter of the purchase or taking of land for said department, when said advisory board with said commissioner shall constitute a joint board for such purpose, and shall be governed by the provisions of law relating to the taking of land for parks and playgrounds when land is taken for said purposes.”

Section 3 provides for the construction, improvement, equipment, supervision and regulation of the use of parks, public grounds, playgrounds, baths, beaches or means for outdoor recreation.

Section 4 places the care and superintendence of all city trees in charge of the Commissioner. It is provided that he shall carry out all1 orders of the Street Commissioners relating to the subject.

Section 5 provides for the construction, improvement, equipment, supervision and regulation of the use of all city gymnasiums and bath houses or means for indoor recreation.

Section 6 places public music, indoors or in the open air, in the hands of the new department.

Section 7 continues the rules and regulations of the existing Park Commission until changed by the Commissioner of Public Recreation.

Section 8 provides for creating two divisions of the department, one a Park Division and the other a Recreation Division, each to be in charge of a deputy commissioner whose annual salary shall be not more than $4,000.

The Commissioner in charge of the department shall appoint subordinates, including the two deputy commissioners.

The ordinance is to go into effect upon passage.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—172—

A PLAYGROUND CREED.

By Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

1.	We believe that playgrounds should be provided for schools as follows:

A.	For each cit^ school, one entire block.

B.	For each rural or village school', from two to ten acres.

C.	For each high school, from five to fifteen acres.

2. We believe that at least one hour of organized play should be mafde a part of the daily curriculum of all classes below the fifth grade, without lengthening the school day.

3.	We believe that school yard playgrounds should be equipped with a certain minimum of suitable apparatus and open for the play of the children during the school intermissions, after school, on Saturday and during the summer vacation, under the supervision of a competent play leader.

4.	We believe that team games, such as: volley ball and indoor base ball1, which are suitable for school yards, should be especially encouraged among the boys and girls, that an effort should be made to maintain tournaments in these events, and that there should be some competent and well paid official in charge of the general athletics in each school system, with a view to securing the general participation of all pupils in such forms of outdoor activities as are suitable to their ages and sexes.

5.	We believe in the larger use of school buildings for various public purposes, and that: (a) large new schools in congested sections should always be provided with an auditorium that can be used for lectures and other public purposes—(b) that school gymnasia and swimming pools should be so placed that they can be used by the public at night, as well as by the children during the day—and (c) that certain of these schools in each city should be maintained during the year as recreation centers, and suitable activities encouraged.

6.	We believe that inasmuch as statistics seem to show that play has already become the largest school subject, normal training in play should be a part of the regular work in every Normal School—and that all' Normal Students so far as possible, should be required to take a part of their practice in teaching on the playground itself.

7.	We believe that play is no less necessary for country children than for city children—and that games and athletics should be encouraged in the country as well as in the city.

8.	We believe that some provision for the play of little children, les9 than five years of age should always be made by the parents in the yards of the houses, where such yards exist.

9.	We believe that adequate playgrounds, supervised by competent play directors may become the most helpful influence for improvement in all Orphan Asylums, reformatories and other institutions for children—and that such provisions should be insisted upon as a part of the equipment of all such institutions receiving public money.

One of the great difficulties under which the play movement is laboring at present is the lack of adequately trained workers. Institutes are more necessary for play workers than for the regular teachers, on proportion, as play workers, are less trained and developments are more rapid in the play

Digitized by CjOOQle
9

-173-

field; therefore, all playground systems should be encouraged to hold institutes for a longer oij shorter period each year, and tjie State University should be urged to offer extension work of this character, or an itinerary should be arranged fok- teachers of games, folk-dancing, industrial'work and general playground pledagogy, either singly or collectively, institutes of a week or more.

An effort should 'be made to interest all the teachers of the state in the play movement, and to this end notices of summer courses in play now being given should be called to the attention of the teachers throughout the state, and an effort should be made to have this subject presented on the programs of the teachers’ institutes.	!

QUALIFICATIONS OF PLAY DIRECTORSj.

Inasmuch as the playground director is constantly imitated by the children, he or she should be, first of all, a person of attractive personality and general refinement.

The woman director should have a general knowledge of the games of small children, of story-telling, industrial work, folk-dancing, athletics suitable for girls, pagentry and amateur dramatics, physical examinations and first aid to the injured. She should have the point of view of the social worker. She should command a salary at least equal to a teacher of the same experience.

The man director should have a technical knowledge of games suitable for boys and men and be a competent umpire of such games. He should be 3 good disciplinarian, understand physical examinations and first aid. He should have the point of view of the social worker. He should command a salary at least equal to that of a teacher of the same experience.

The supervisor of playgrounds should understand all of the activities going on, both for the girls and the boys, and besides he must be able to plan a playground system, to secure suitable equipment and surfacing and to so organize and supervise the activities, as to obtain results. He will have nearly all of the children of the city under his charge, in a relationship which is not less important than that of the superintendent of schools, and he should have a position and salary comparable to that of the superintendent of schools.

END BALL AND CORNER BALL

It takes some years until pupils are expert enough to play a fine game of Captain Ball. There are few organized games that may be played by younger children which have the elements of Captain Ball in them. It w^as, therefore, thought appropriate to arrange the well-known game of Corner Ball in two degrees of difficulty suitable for younger players. The following games have been arranged as games of low organization leading up to the more complicated game of Captain Ball. Game No. i is the simplest form and is suited for pupils of the 3rd and 4th grades. Game No. 2 is suited for all grades above the fourth.

END BALL (No. 1)

The field is a 30-foot square, divided into two equal parts. Across the outside end of each field is a smaller field or base 3 or 4 feet deep. (See diagram.)

Digitized by V.OOQLe
—174—

A	A	A	A	A *	1  i
8	B	B	8	3  0	<  »  »
8	G	9	13	0  0	1  4.
A	A	A	A	A  A	c,  m  j
A	A	A	A	A  A	I  1  1
8	8	8	8	8 B	1  	I

*-.................- *-----------------------------------------------------'

Any number may play. They are divided into two teams. About one-third of each team are basemen, who take their places in the base or outer field at one end, while the others are guards, and take their places in the inner field on the opposite side of the centre line.

The game may be played in halves of five minutes or for any length of time. Play is continuous during this time.

A point is made whenever a baseman catches the ball (a basketball)* from a guard of his own team.

RULES.

The game is in charge of a referee, who calls all fouls. At the beginning of the game (or at the beginning of each half, he tosses the ball up in the centre, between two opposing guards.

All players must keep within their own fields.

Basemen must always have both feet in the base (he may jump up and catch the ball.)

If the ball rolls or is thrown over the boundary line of any field, the player nearest the line in that field gets the ball, and brings it in to the line, at the point where it crossed. From there he throws the ball to one of the players in the same field.

In case of a foul the ball is given to a guard on the opposite side.

CORNER BALL (No. 2)

The field is an oblong, 30 feet by 40 feet, divided into two equal parts. (Any space may be used if this size is not available.) Each part contains two bases, placed in the far corners. A third may be added if desired. (See diagram.)

Any number may play. They are divided into two teams. Two players of each team are basemen and the others are guards. Their positions are shown in the diagram.

The bases are three (3) feet square.

The object of the game is to throw the ball from a guard to a baseman of the same team.

The game is played in halves of five (5) or more minutes each. Play

• Digitized by C^ooQle
-175-

is continuous during this time, the only stop being that made to call a foul1;

A point is made whenever a baseman catches a ball (a basketball) from one of the guards of his own team. It must be a fair throw, that is, the ball must not touch the ground, wall, or ceiling, before being caught by the baseman.

Guards are not allowed to cross the centre line, nor to step into the bases, nor out of the field of play.

Basemen must always have both feet in their bases, but they are allowed to jump up to catch the ball.

The game is in charge of a referee who calls all fouls. At the beginning of each half he tosses the ball up in the centre of the field, between two opposing guards. In case of a foul he gives the ball to a guard of the other team.

There shall be a scorer, who is also timekeeper.

If in the course of play the ball rolh or is thrown off the field, it shall be brought back by a guard of the team whose line it crossed. He shall put the ball in play by standing on the line, at the place where the ball left the field, and throwing it to one of the guards of his own team.

Fouls are made as follows:—

1.	Carrying the ball (taking more than one step.)

2.	Striking or touching the ball when it is in the hands of a player.

3.	Holding, pushing, striking, or tripping an opponent.

4.	Stepping across the centre line, or out of 'the field, with one or both feet, or on the bases of the opponents.

5.	When a baseman steps out of the base with one or both feet.

DODGEBALL IN A CIRCLE.

1. The game shall consist of two halves, three minutes each. During the first half team A is placed around the outside of the circle and tries to

Digitized by
—1Y6—

strike with a basketball the members of team B, who are dodging about within the circle. In the second half the positions and objects of the teams are reversed.

2.	For a match game the circle shall be thirty-five feet in diameter for girl's and forty-five feet for boys.

3.	Sixteen (or any other specified number of players) shall constitute

a team.	,	;

4.	As soon as an inner player is touched by the ball on a fly or a bounce, on any part of his body or clothing, the referee shall signal and announce to the scorer a point for the outer team. The player struck remains in the game and the game continues without interruption. If in a throw the ball strikes more than one member of the inner team only one point shall be scored. The team securing the greatest number of points during the game shall be the winner.

5.	Players in the outer team must throw from outside the circle. If when throwing the. ball a player touches the line, or th|e space within the line, with any part of his body, this shall be a foul throw. Should an opposing inner player be touched by such throw no point shall be scored.

6.	Should the ball when thrown remain in or rebound into'the circle, a player from the outer team shall1 run in to get it.. In order to make a. fair throw he must, however, again resume his place outride the circle; but he may (from within the circle) throw the ball to oneiof his team mates who may make a fair throw from outside the circle.

7.	Fouls: (a) If a member of the outer team carries the ball within the circle in order to pass it to another member of his team it is a foul. The time lost in making him return to his position with the ball shall be considered sufficient penalty.

(b) If an inner player blocks the progress of an outer player, handles the ball, or in any other way delays the game, the referee shall allow for the time wasted. He shall also allow for time lost through accident or other legitimate causes.

8.	The whistle is blown only for starting and stopping the halves and. for fouls.

SURFACES OF PLAYGROUNDS.

Bv William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Pa.

The playground season is upon us. With it come many problems which cause much thought to all earnest playground workers. Noise and dust are two problems which more than others check the enthusiasm ©f ardent playground supporters. Efficient supervision has solved the noise problem. Chemical dust-binders seem to qffer the cheapest solution to the other problem. Few cities have as yet gone so far as to excavate the whole playfield and build up a playsurface that is ideal under all weather conditions. Chicago is experimenting with a surface composed of cork, as-phaltum and torpedo sand. Philadelphia is trying a substratum of 12 inches of cinders rolled while wet, then a layer of 3 inches of fine macadam, the whole topped off with 3 inches of fine crushed stone (grits) all rolled with a heavy steam roller while wet.	^

Digitized by C^ooQle
-177-

But these play-surfaces are expensive. In many cities an oil solution was used which, while it did not improve the clothes of the children, did bind the dust of some soils for a few weeks. On clay soils it was, however, worse than useless, as it never permeated the ground, and gathered in pools in convenient hollows.

One of the successful dust-binders now being tried in Philadelphia which seems to work in all soils is calcium chloride.

Solutions of this salt were used for road, surfacing as early as 1828. It has, since the advent of the automobile, found extensive application abroad, particularly in England as well as in America. While it has no specific binding value yet its use is immediately apparent on the road and playground surface. This becomes darker in color from the moisture and iron in the salts and appears of a very close and compact nature, due to the surface retaining all dust, thus sealing the voids.

Ravelling is prevented to a considerable extent. As the salt is practically colorless, odorless and of a neutral reaction, it is well adapted for playgrounds and for such streets, drives and roads where very heavy traffic does not occur.

The general method is to apply, at the beginning of the season, two strong coatings, about a week apart, using about 1-4 pound of the chloride per square yard, and then continuing with weaker solutions of about 1-10 pound per square yard at intervals of 3 to 5 weeks, as the atmospheric conditions require. Sprinkling with plain water is required once or twice a week between salt applications, unless light rains intervene. After very heavy rain, however, it is necessary to immediately apply the salt solution again, as owing to its solubility, it is all washed from the road.

The value of calcium chloride as a dust preventative was tested during 1907 on the portion of the macadam driveway in the Agricultural1 Department grounds, in Washington, D. C., that connects 12th and 14th Streets.

The road is built of trap rock with a soft limestone binder which pulverized rapidly under traffic, forming a light dust which passing vehicles continually raised into the air and the winds carried away thus stripping the road of its binding material.

All dust and dirt was scraped from the surface of the road and then carefully sprinkled with a solution of 300 pounds commercial chloride of lime (granular 75 per cent calcium chloride, 25 per cent moisture) with 300 gallons of water, applying 0.38 gallon per square yard. The first application was made July 13, 1907, second July 15th to increase the efficiency. The effect was marked, no auxilliary sprinkling wTas necessary for some time, the light rains falling at intervals supplying all the moisture required. The untreated portions of the driveway lying parallel with 12th and 14th Streets, were sprinkled with water daily and vehicles raised a perceptible dust, although the traffic over these wings was much less than on the treated portions.

During this time the texture of the road surface was completely changed, before treatment ravelling was excessive in spots and the whole surface seemed loosely knit together, after July 15th the surface became smooth, compact and resilient.

The third treatment was given Aug. 3, as certain points exposed to the most severe wear were showing sighs of ravelling with results similar
-178-

to those after the previous applications rio further treatments were given until the condition of the road demanded. Such auxiliary sprinkling as was necessary consisted of 0.2 gallon of gater per square yard at a time.

The cost of this per square yard for 5 applications was $0.0235. Calcium, chloride is made by the Solvay Process Company, Syracuse, N. Y. It is put up in sheet iron drums, each containing 375 pounds. The cost is $13.00 per ton f. o. b. Syracuse, N. Y.

Glutrin, which is also being used in Philadelphia seems, however, to be the most successful dust-binder so far on the market. It is made by the Robeson Process Company of Au Sable Forks, N. Y., and is a refined byproduct of the wood pulp industry. They say “it is 'all of the spruce tree except the fibre and the bark” and is what is left after 95 per cent of the water in the pul'p washings is evaporated; the chemicals remaining in the washings are of course carried into this product and make it slightly hydroscopic. It is about the consistence of soft molasses and is applied to the road or playground surface with an ordinary sprinkling cart or with a sprinkling can, without being diluted, at the rate of 4-10 gallon per square yard. When treating an ordinary 16 feet wide macadam driveway, the mixture is applied to the 9 feet in the middle (with the sprinkling cart) and, when the road is properly crowned, enough of the mixture spreads out over the adjacent 3feet to properly protect it. Only one application a year is required on a road and in the second and succeeding years only 1-3 of the quantity applied the first year is used.

The cost is 12 cents per gallon in tank cars or in barrels, and the cost of applying is practically the same as the ordinary water sprinkling, that is, a total cost of about 5 cents per square yard for the first year.

The makers claim that it will not freeze nor be unfavorably affected by any kind of weather, except long continued dry weather, when it cannot exert its hydroscopic powers, then occasional water sprinkling is advisable. Though it is not entirely waterproof heavy rains do not harm it and roads and grounds treated by it are not affected by frost. Applied to the surface of a playground Glutrin seems to be a certain solution for the dust problem.

MUNICIPAL PUBLIC BATHS IN ENGLAND AND THE UNITED STATES.

By Caro Lloyd.

In 1846 the British Parliament passed the “Baths and Wash Houses Act,” authorizing local authorities to raise loans for building and maintaining baths and wash houses for the poor. By 1854, London alone possessed thirteen baths, and to-day out of 304 towns in England and Wales, one-third maintain one or more establishments. Of these, 45 have a population of less than 40,000, thus showing that even uncrowded towns have recognized the virtue of the system. The loans sanctioned for the purpose in the last dozen years amount to over $7,000,000.

These baths, especially the swimming pools, are a great amusement to the working classes in England, and on the half holiday, which fortunately occurs there once a week the year round, factory and shop hands crowd these establishments. They vary in form from the ordinary type containing first and second class private tubs and swimming pools

Digitized by C^ooQle
,, s • 4 to those including hot and cold, salt or fresh water, vapor, plunge, shower and Turkish baths. A good example of the average modern English varietj is found in the Cheetham baths at Manchester. The building cost $63,000, and contains besides a first-class swimming pool, 50 x 72 feet, a second-class one, 75 x 24 feet, which has a balcony for visitors at swimming contests, and is convertible into a gymnasium in winter. There are 20 tub baths, a superintendent's residence, and an adjoining hall for meetings Tuhs are the rule in England, the slant shower or, rain baths so popular on the Continent as accomplishing the greatest result with the;least outlay having met with little favor there.

In London where the smoke sifts down eternally like a snowstorm blackened by a curse, keeping clean is even for the well-to-do an endless task, and the undervitalized, overworked poor need all the help possible. Bathtubs are rare in the old London houses, but fortunately no part of the city is without its public facilities. The baths, in number about 75, are under the local control of the vestries or boroughs. Of the 42 London vestries, 31 have established bath houses, and 9 are about to do so. They have invested in this direction over $3,000,000, and spend yearly almost $600,000. Many, of the buildings possess imposing exteriors, and all are scrupulously clean, having white porcelain tubs, walls of white glazed brick, and tanks lined with white tiles, electric lights, and in some cases even palms and ferns. The new establishment in the Islington slums, considered a model, contains a first-class swimming bath, 132 x 40 feet, with 140 dressing eabius; a secodd-class one, 100 x 35 feet, and 71 dressing cabins; a women’s swimming bath, 75 x 25 feet, and 108 private bathrooms. The number of bathers in London during the year 1897-98 was 3,206,015, exclusive ot several large vestries, whose numbers I could not obtain.

According t® the provisions of the act, the baths are supported by taxes, ^nd returns from England and Wales show them to be in no case self-supporting. In London the tax varies from Y2 to 3 pence in the pound, although the vestry of St. Pancras prides itself on having never in its thirty years’ history levied more than 1-5 pence on the pound. Although the baths are established for the general welfare, it has not been deemed expedient to offer the privileges free and a nominal charge is always made. The usual scale is: First-class private bath, warm, 12 cents; cold, 6 cents; second-class, 4 cents and 2 cents; first-class swimming bath, 12 cents; second-class, 4 cents. In some cases these charges might be sufficient to defray running expenses were it not for the necessity of paying loans and interest. The cost of building the baths varies. Five Glasgow establishments range in round numbers from $82,000 to $165,000. Many towns erect them for $50,000. The tendency, especially in large cities, is toward more expensive concerns. The parish of Isling-* ton, in London, has built two costing, respectively, $131,000 and $175,000, and the most expensive of all in the aristocratic district of St. George’s, Hanover Square, cost $220,000. Intelligent officials, however, as a rule, advocate numerous comparatively small and expensive buildings in populous centers.

A comparison between these facilities placed within the reach of the whole English population, and those offered by our own large towns is most striking, and suggests that the communal conscience of Americans needs expansion.

' Digitized by L.ooQle
-180-

As long ago as 1852, New York, together with the principal European cities, was considering following England’s lead and maintaining public baths. To-day it has not yet a single establishment under municipal control where warm baths may be obtained in winter, although one such is about to be opened. In the same period they bare become common all over Europe, forty towns in Scandinavia, Germany and Switzerland having even introduced warm shower baths into the public schools. New York has, it is true, fifteen free floating baths stationed at various points along the North and East rivers, but they are open only from June to October. Less money has been expended on the whole fifteen than on many a single establishment in London. Their entire annual expense is $45,000, whereas London’s outlay is thirteen times as great. That public baths are needed in New York is shown by the fact that an average of 4,000,000 bathers use the present facilities every summer. During the winter a majority of these people are at a loss for accommodation, as only tenements of the first class contain bath rooms and there are but few bath houses run by private enterprise.

Chicago is quite as smoky as London, but much dirtier, for while London’s streets are kept clean Chicago’s are incredibly neglected. It is gratifying to learn that this vast city has four public baths in operation, and is now giving on an average 50,000 baths a month. Like those of Boston and Buffalo, they are entirely free. Until recently they were only open from nine to six o’clock, and not at all on Sundays or holidays, and were therefore onlj* available for the unemployed. A growing demand for their use by workmen after hours has resulted in one establishment at least being kept open every Sunday night the year round, and two evenings a week in the Summer.

Boston was the pioneer city of the United States on this point. As early as 1860 it decided that it was part of the legitimate function of a city to provide its citizens with free cleanliness as well as free educa-cation. Yet while it has 18 free sea-water bath houses in summer, it has so far only 2 all the year round establishments. It is working to add to these, and has introduced a free swimming course into the public school curriculum. Probably the only bath house in the United States approaching those in common use in England is the one at Brookline, Mass., which embodies the best features of foreign models. A small fee is charged four days of the week, and its actual cost to the town in the year 1897-98 was $3,310.16, when besides the baths it gave free swimming lessons to 7,750 school children.

St. Paul supports one all-the-year roiind public shower and pool bath. It is free two and one-half days a week, and at other times the charge is 10 cents. One half-day is reserved for women, but its principal patrons are newsboys and school boys.

San Francisco’s only baths, the “Lick baths,” are under private control, and were endowed by James Lick for the public use. Brooklyn supports five floating baths in summer, sometimes patronized bv 100,000 persons weekly, but has no winter accommodations. A like case is that of Minneapolis, Detroit and Washington, the latter spending only $3,000 yearly for the maintenance of a bathing beach. Milwaukee has two all-the-year-round baths, besides summer arrangements on the lake shore. Buffalo has a fine permanent establishment and another about to be opened. Thus out of seventeen of our largest cities there are to be found
-181-

municipal winter baths in only seven, aggregating twelve establishments in all, as against seventy-live in London alone.

It is a popular impression that in our American houses bath rooms are so generally found that public arrangements are not needed. But investigation disproves this. In a district of Chicago, containing 17,900 inhabitants, there are only two private tubs,and these arc both in the same house. Dr. Rohe, of Baltimore, in statistics concerning 18 American cities without public baths, showed that only 23 per cent of the residences are supplied with tubs.

Much testimony might be summoned to prove the physical and moral benefits to the community of public baths. But the inscription carved over the entrance in Brookline is terse and tells the story:

“Brookline Public Bath,

The health of the people

The begsnning of happiness.” The Independent.

MASSACHUSETTS CIVIC LEAGUE.

SUNDAY PLAY.

There have been introduced into the legislature this year some 12 separate bills for permitting Sunday play. The Governing Committee of the League believes that some legislation in this direction should be secured.

The particular sort of bill which the committee believes to be upon the whole the most desirable is shown herewith, the main features of which are:

The licensing of Sunday Play.

Confining it to amateurs.

Leaving each municipality free to decide whether it will adopt the act at all and, if so, what restrictions and conditions it will impose.

Various other limitations might have been included in the bill; as, for instance, that on public grounds play should be only in the afternoon and that match games between schools and colleges should be forbidden as tending especially to noise, and as monopolizing playgrounds that would better be left to those who have to work on week days. But it has been thought wise to leave these, with other questions of the application of the law, to be settled in accordance with local conditions.

The League will be very glad to hear from you on the subject or on any of the provisions above outlined. If you hold decided views on the matter you can make them effective by writing to your senator and representatives calling their attention to the bill.

i.	There seems to be no doubt about the fact that Sunday is at present, for our young people at least, to a great extent a day of lawbreaking. When the Sunday law itself is not infringed by taking part in the games and sports which it forbids, the mischief is apt to take less desirable forms. Among city boys Sunday is recognized as the great day for gambling.

It seems, further, that Sunday lawbreaking is not a coincidence but the natural, practically inevitable consequence of the legal restrictions w’hich we impose. We rightly, forbid work on Sunday. We rightly close the schools. But when we also forbid play we have gone far toward prohibiting for our young all forms of natural and wholesome occupation. Healthy boys and girls will not spend their holiday wholly in reading or other sedentary pur-

Digitized by
-182-

suits. Walking is good exercise, but it is not sufficiently strenuous to fully meet the need. Lovemaking is. a time-honored Sunday occupation, but even that cannot for everyone wholly fill the day. For the rich there is ridingr and yachting arid driving an automobile. But for the average boy or girl we have done about all that legislation cari reasonably be expected t6 accomplish to make Sunday a day of idleness. And idleness has produced here as elsewhere merely its proverbial result.

It is true that church-going is an available occupation, as well as a most valuable observance of Sunday, for young as well as old; and no legislation that does not properly safeguard this time-honored use of the day will be-wise or adequate. But no one can spend all his waking hours in church, even if all the hours he spends there are waking hours. There will still be-much time to be filled, either well or ill.

It is a well established principle of factory legislation that the age under which children are forbidden to work should not be raised without raising the age of compulsory schooling to correspond. Otherwise the resulting idleness has been found to do more harm than good. Our Sunday laws in not only prohibiting work and closing the schools but forbidding play as well have gone further in the direction of decreeing idleness in our young-people than the most ill-considered factory legislation has ever done.

Our Sunday law as it now stands is, in its observed and inevitable result, a law for promoting lawbreaking in the young.

2.	Our Sunday laws not only produce much evil but they forbid the-very uses of the day for the sake of which such an institution as Sunday-exists at all. Especially they forbid the use of Sunday as a day of rest. For the young, for the healthy of any age, rest does not consist exclusively in lying down. A day of idleness is not a day of rest. A boy will be more tired at the end of a day spent in idling about the house than he would be at the end of ten hours of vigorous exercise in the open air. Rest consists-largely in turning the vital force into refreshing channels. Loafing is not truly repose, but a source of fatigue and even of disease. Our Sunday laws, in producing Sunday idleness, have gone far to abolish Sunday as a day of rest.

3.	Upon working people the pressure of our Sunday law is especially severe. Sunday, the day of rest, is intended especially for those who work; and it is intended not merely for rest but for recreation, for renewing, that is to say, those essential experiences and activities which the working day leaves unfulfilled. Such renewal is found not only in religion but in art and science, and also in the sports and games that appeal, to the more active instincts of youth and young adults. Man is not yet by nature a purely sedentary animal, and when confined to sedate or in-door pursuits he is never quite alive. Sunday is becoming in this respect of increasing importance as our industrial system recedes from the way of life that nature first established, and with reference to which the human body and mind have been formed.

For the young people., boys and girls from fourteen to twenty-one years old, of whom a large and increasing proportion of our factory population now consists, the loss of Sunday means riot merely the loss of rest and recreation but the loss of an essential means of growth. It is largely during this period of life that the body is built up and the character and mental capaci-

Digitized by

Google
-183-

tics are formed. A youth bending long hours over the columns of a ledger, a young woman going through a few simple motions at a bench, six days out of every week—the golden morning hours of youth and strength spent in sterilizing occupations such as these—are not given their rightful opportunity to grow. Such is not the life for which nature designed them, and they can never attain the full stature of humanity by such a process.

To forbid the use of Sunday for those compensating activities which the nature of young and old alike detnands is to forbid the true observance* of the Sabbath Day, to take from this brightest and best of our institutions its peculiar service to mankind.

AN ACT ON SUNDAY PLAY.

Section I. In every city and town accepting the provisions of this act it shall be lawful to be present at and to take part in games, play and recreation on the Lord’s day provided that such games, play or recreation, if on a public playground or park, or on other public ground, shall be subject to such regulations and conditions as the authorities having direction of play and recreation upon such ground may prescribe, and provided, further, that no charge, directly or indirectly, shall be made for presence at or view of or participation in any such games, play or recreation, that no payment shall be made to the participants, and the same shall not include any games or contests between professional teams.

Section 2. In every city and town, on the request of ten qualified voters, the following question shall be placed on the ballot at any city or town election: Shall chapter — of the acts of the year nineteen hundred and eleven permitting games, play and recreation on the Lord’s Day be accepted by this city (or town) ?

Section 3. This act shall take effect in any city or town upon its acceptance by a majority of the voters voting as aforesaid.

Section 4. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.	Joseph	Lee.

March 6, iqli.	3	Joy	Street,	Boston,

Summer Session of the Normal College, N. A. 6. U.

The object of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. in conducting a summer course is to meet the needs of persons engaged in the various branches of physical1 education. This year’s course offers opportunities for Physical Directors, Playground Directors and Playleaders, Coaches and School Teachers.

The summer courses are special courses in the theory and practice of physical training, and in related subjects, which are open to matriculates and non-matriculates qualified to pursue to advantage the work chosen by them. The rules concerning college work successfully completed by special students during the college year also apply to college work successfully completed by special students who attend the summer session. (See catalogue of the Normal College.)

The Summer Session will be held in Indianapolis, Ind. The morning work will be conducted in the gymnasium and class rooms of the College at 415 East Michigan street, while the afternoon work will be conducted on the Athletic field and in the class rooms of Butler College. Butler College

Digitized by Google
-184-

is but 15 to 20 minutes distant from the Normal College and has a pleasant campus and environment.

FACULTY:—

EMIL RATH, G. G.

Dean of the Department of Theory and Practice of Physical Education

of the Normal College.

Director of Summer Session and InstVuctor of Educational Gymnastics,

Fencing and Dancing.

WM. A. STECHER, B. S. G.

Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa. Member of the Municipal Playground Commission of Philadelphia, Pa. Lecturer on Playground Administration and Equipment.

Instructor of Games and Plays.

JOHN E. MORRIS, M. D.

Professor of Anatomy, Normal College.

School of Medicine of the Indiana State University.

Lecturer on Applied Anatomy and School Hygiene.

WALTER J. WITTICH, A. B.

Instructor of Physics and Chemistry, and Athletic Coach, Sheboygan High

School, Sheboygan, Wis.

Lecturer on Field and Track Work.

FREDERICK E. FOERTSCH, G. G.

Teacher of Physical Training, Manual Training High School, Indianapolis,

Ind. Assistant.

The session is divided in two terms of twelve days each.

FIRST TERM, JULY 5 TO JULY 18.

1.	Theory and Practice of German Educational Gymnastics. Two hours.

Comprising lectures on the theory of educational gymnastics; practical work in tactics; free exercises; gymnastic dancing; exercises on apparatus such as horizontal and parallel bars, ladders, ropes, rings, horses, bucks, etc.	MR.	RATH

2.	Playground Work:	Administration,	Equipment	and	Activities.

Lectures. Three-fourth hour.

Plays and Games. One-half hour.

Consisting of lectures on the location, size, construction, equipment and management of playgrounds and instruction in the most popu-uar plays and games.	MR. STECHER

3.	Fencing. One-half hour.

Comprising class and individual instruction in foil fencing.

MR. RATH

4.	Classic and Esthetic Dancing and Folk Dances. One-half hour.

Consisting of a series of esthetic movements and classic dancing steps, whose progression and combining possibilities are methodically taught; also of a series of folk dances for various grades.

MR. RATH

5.	School Hygiene. Three-fourth hour.

The health of school children and teachers. Proper construction, furnishing and ventilation of school buildings. Pathological conditions caused by school life. Examinations of eye, ear, nose and throat.	DR.	MORRIS
-185-

6.	Applied Anatomy. Three-fourth‘hour.

Principles -of 'bodily movements; the various gymnastic movements and the muscles and bony levers engaged in them. DR. MORRIS

SECOND TERM, JULY 19 TO AUGUST 2.

ii Theory and Practice of German Educational Gymnastics. Turo hours. - Same as. first term excepting that the material will consist of exercises for the higher grades. The free exercises will consist of exercises without and with hand apparatus, such as short wands, dumb bells, and clubs.	*	MR. RATH

2.	Field and Track Work. One hour.

Comprising the most popular field and track events, such as sprinting, jumping, putting and throwing. Methods of teaching and training for the ssnne. Practical work.	MR.	WITTICH

3.	Fencing. One-half hour.	MR. RATH

4.	Classic and Esthetic Dancing and Folk Dances. One-half hour.

MR. RATH

5 Corrective Gymnastics. Three-fourth hour.

The diagnosis of faulty conditions and instruction in cases that can be remedied by exercises, in writing prescriptions of exercises, and in giving directions for exercises.

6.	Applied Anatomy; Three-fourth hour.	DR.	MORRIS

TUITION FEES.

The tuition fee is based on the number of session hours of instruction received. Students may pursue any number of the subjects offered or part of a subject, where this is possible, providing it consists of no less than

one-half session hour. The rates are as follows:

For one-half session hour...................................$	2.00

For every half session hour above the first .	.	1.00

For one session hour.......................................... 3.00

For	every session hour	above the first	.	.	.	2.00

For	all	the	subjects	of	the first term	.	.	.	12.00

For	all	the	subjects	of	the second term..	.	.	12.00

For	all	the	subjects	of	both terms .	.	.	.	20.00

For further information address: Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, 415 East Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

The graduation exercises of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union will take place Thursday, June 15th, in the Auditorium of the College building. The annual meeting of the Alumni will be held on the same day at 11:00 a. m.

—Under the auspices of the ladies’ classes of the East High Evening School, Rochester, N. Y., Miss Flora L. Stoll, Director, a very interesting gymnastic exhibition demonstrating the German-American and the Swedish Educational Gymnastics, the Delsarte, Emerson and Gilbert Aesthetic Gymnastics was held April 11. The features of the evening were the “Veil Dance and Drill ‘Raym de Soled’ ” and the “Aesthetic Dance Movements” eight in all.

Digitized by
-186-

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—A very useful booklet has been published by Howard George, 4359 Frankford Ave., Philadelphia, Pa., in which he gives the 1911 Rules for Graded School Games as played by the pupils of the Public Schools of Philadelphia. The booklet contains the rules for Soccer Football, End Ball, Corner Ball, Captain Ball, Dodgeball (several variations).

—Under the auspices of the Young Men’s Christian Association of Elgin, Illinois, the Ninth Annual “Gymnastic-Athletic Display” was recently held. The program consisted of a “Grand Entree of all Classes” Apparatus Work, Fencing, Singing, Club Swinging, Tumbling and Statuary Groupings. Mr. James S. Andresen was in charge, and from reports this exhibition was a great success. We congratulate Mr. Andresen on his success.

—The National gymnastic championship was won at the West Side Y. M. C. A., New York, April 15 by P. Krimmel, (son of our colleague Fritz Krimmel), of the New York Turn Verein, with a total of 147.70 points.

Second in the all-around championship was W. Heisler of the Bohemian Gymnasium Association of the east side, New York, and third place went to E. A. Hennig of the Germania Turn Verein Vorwaerts of Cleveland, Ohio.

One of the big surprises of the championships was the downfall of Henry Harris in the club swinging event. He started off beautifully, and looked like a sure winner until toward the end, when he dropped one of his clubs. Harris is entered from the Pastime Athletic Club, New York. His father, J. B. Harris, was the former Indian club champion, and held that honor for twenty years.

An unusual situation developed before the club-swinging event was finished. At the end two athletes were tied, Joseph Savage of the West Side Y. M. C. A., and E/A. Hennig of Cleveland. The judges, after some deliberation, decided to award each man with a medal, half of gold and hal'f of silver, and each contestant will be titled a champion.

Rope_Climb.—Won by G. F. Septhon, St. George’s A. C. ; T. R. Leissring, New York Turn Verein, second. Time—0:05 1-5.

Side Horse.—Won by T. Simmons, West Side Y. M. C. A., (37.40;) Roy

E.	Moore, Twenty-third Street Y. M. C. A., (37-°5>) second; J. J. Dailey, West Side Y. M. C. A., (36.45,) third.

, Parallel Bars.—Won by W. Dittman, West Side Y. M. C. A., (39*90;) P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein, (39*I5>) second; T. Simmons, West Side Y. M. C. A., (38.15,) third.

Tumbling.—Won by W. J. Bedford, National Turn Verein, (40^;) J.

F.	Dunn, West Side Y. M. C. A., (39^4,) second; A. Grundling, Jersey City High School, (3i1/'2,) third.

Horizontal Bars.—Won by E. A. Hennig, Germania Turn Verein Vorwaerts, (39.95;) P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein, (39.90,) second; T. R. Leissring, New York Turn Verein, (36.75,) third.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-187-

Long 'Horse.—Won by J, Gregor, Bohemian Gymnasium Association, (36.55;) P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein, (36,) second; W. Heisler, Bohemian Gymnasium Association, (35.65,) third.

Flying Rings.—Won by J. D. Gleason, West Side Y. M. C. A., (14;) O.

H.	Paul, National Turn Verein, (9,) second; S. L. Miller, West Side Y. M. C. A., (4^2,) third.

Indian Club Swinging.—Tie for first, place between Joseph Savage, West Side Y. M. C. A., and E. A. Hennig, Germania.Turn Verein Vor-waerts, (12 points;) R. W. Dutcher, New York University, (ii^4,) third.

All-Around Championship.—Won by P. Krimmel, New York Turn Verein, (147.70;) W. Heisler, Bohemian Gymnasium Association, second; (133.70;) E. A. Hennig, Germania Turn Verein Vorwaerts, third, (126.75.)

—Masterly form combined with hard, earnest effort won two national fencing titles for George H. Breed, of the Fencers’ Club, New York, in the finals of the annual championship tournament at the New York Athletic Club gymnasium May 6. Against the leading amateur experts in the country chosen after elimination series, Mr. Breed proved the most proficient swordsman with two styles of weapons—foils and duelling swords. In the sabres division he was not entered.

Mr. Breed’s total of victories for the foils competition, which began on May 5, was seven, two more than the total earned by his nearest rival, V. P. Curti, of the New York A. C. The duelling swords title he won by the same margin from A. E. Sauer, of the Illinois A. C.

While Mr. Breed fenced through the foils competition without sustaining defeat, he had no easy time. Dr. E. J. Gignoux, who eventually finished fourth, gave him a hard tussle in the second bout of the evening, forcing Breed to the limit of his skill to win -by 6 points to 5. Dr. Gignoux gained an advantage of three counts early in the set-to, before Breed rallied. A lively four minute exchange followed, during which Breed finally caught up and passed his rival.

In his concluding contest Mr. Breed found an equally worthy opponent in V. P. Curti, of the New York A. C., a clubmate of Dr. Gignoux. Again Mr. Breed fell behind at the start and had to fence at top speed to overcome the handicap.

The sabre competition, more spectacular than the rest because of the slashing, rushing sort of combat, resulted in a victory for Charles A. Anderson, of the New York A. C. Mr. Anderson took the title by winning six bouts out of seven, A. E. Sauer, of Chicago finishing second, with five victories.

Foils—Total score: G. H. Breed (7), V. P. Curti (5), Dr. J. E. Gignoux (3), S. Hall (3), L. M. Fleischer (2), Dr. F. W. Allen (2).

Duelling Swords—Total score: G. H. Breed (6) ; A. E. Sauer (4) ; J. W. Knox (3), E. B. Myers (3), Dr. J. E. Gignoux (2), P. Benzen-berg (2).

Sabres—Total score: C. A. Anderson (6), A. E. Sauer (5), J. W. Knox (4), C. A. Bill (3), J. B. B. Parker (2), F. J. Byrne (1).

Digitized by CjOOQle
-188-

Books 01 Physical Trailing aid rotated Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add xo °|0 for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (1« Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries, COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. t, 2, g, 24, 72 and 149 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D..... 1.50 Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D...........................  1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen...........................................:........... I. OO

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D...................... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey.....................50

Physical Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M.	D..........................................................75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D.................................25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ...................................................    .20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—Bv Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D.......................................... 1.00

Tactics.

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson..........................30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden..............50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton..........................................   30

Drills and Marches,	by	Rook.......................................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren. .	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman................................ 30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen ...................................................... 1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse..........:.........50

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander..................50

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse........."............ 3.00
-189-

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, Ml D.......................... ...................   .35

Tactics, School.—By Wm. A. Stecher........................       .60

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren....................................50

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann.....75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz..............................  1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00

Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Chib Exercises...................... .25

Exercises with the Dumb-Bell, Indian Club and Steel Bar, 1000.—*By

F. J. Harvey...........................   ................  .	50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen ................................................... 1.00

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch.......................................10

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D. ; arranged by Frances N. Boynton......35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton...............*.. 1.00

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz..................60

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rings and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey...........................................  .50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth........................ 1.00

Games.

A Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Brenner...... 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer..........50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline	Crawford................ 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson.............. 1.00

chenal................................................... 1.50

Games; Captainball, Podgeball,	Soccer,	Football.................10

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton.......................................... 1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold...................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnastic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen..........75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey..........70

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer. ...	.75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft ............................................   1.50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gym-

Digitized by
—1VK)—

nasties. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson...... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell................................. 1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch.........................15

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton........................,	.30

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin....*.........................  .75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey.........50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford.................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal............................................'.......... 1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison.       --------,.......... 1.10

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nils W. Bergquist....................... 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer...........75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin.................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D............. 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestljng, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood....................................................25

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayo-

At Home in the Water, by Geo. H. Corsan.........................   .75

net Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott...............25

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages.................................25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md....................  .25

Fencing Instructor, by H. A, Colmore Dunn.......................   .25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D...	.25

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth............................................    1,00

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner...................................25

Muldoon’s Wrestling............................................    .25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each.............45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part 1.	80 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar....................... 70

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars.....................  55

Part III. 50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.......................55

Part IV. 70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs........................70
—191-

Part V. ioo Free Pyramids.....................................85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses.....................70

Second Part:	40	Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses..................50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders......................... 1.00

Pyramids for Strong Men and Gymnasts, by F. J. Harvey..............50

Swimming, Art of.—Illusti^ted; by Rich. F. Nelligan.............. ,65

Swimming* by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated..... 2,50

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling ................................................... 25

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E. H. Arnold, M. D..........................................  35

Gymnastics, Progressive Lessons in.—By Anton Leibold...............75

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold. .. ■ .65

Physical Training, Manual of.—By T. Toepel, M. D...................50

Physical Culture. Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson.............  .	.35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin...........  1.00

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each.......... . 20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades...........................   .35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades............................ 135

Part III. Fifth Grade .....................................  .50

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

75c, III 75c, IV............................................ .60

Subjects related to Physical Education.

•

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D.....................$	.02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.50 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. 1.00

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren............50

Civips and Health, by William H. Allen.......................... 1.40

Control of Body and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett......................50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.50

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.....................   1.20

Games; Captainball,	Dodgeball,	Soccer............................. 10

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.............................50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing, Eating; by W.

A. Spinney...............................................   1.20

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock....................     1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...............55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D........... 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw......................1......... 1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D........... 1.00

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ella B.

Hallock.......................................................45

Lateral Curvature	of	the	Spine, by	Lovett..................   1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D......................60
-192-

Measurements, Manual for Physical—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D..	.	75

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L.......... .........25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.. *....................   1.2a

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift......---------*.....-------- 1.50

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustrated.......i... 1.00

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. H. Arnold

M. D........................................................     35

Open-Air Schools, by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D................... 1.35

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams............................. 1.95

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..	.	75

Playgrounds, American.—By E. B. Mero............_................. 2.0a

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer.......... .	10

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart............................ 1.65

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Lorna Higbee

Leland  ...................................................    2.5a

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D..................... 1.50

Physical' Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe................... 1.00

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...__ -.55

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D_______ 1.75

Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch.............................................. 1.00

Reproduction, by W. S. Hall, M. D................................. 1.00

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D......................... 1.25

The Body at Work, by F. Gulick Jewett.............................  .50

Training in Theory and Practice, by A. Maclaren.................... .50

The Playground season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to nse the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such fceachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

By SHtarie <&ra&.

Mailing price 75 cents.	MIND AND BODY,

Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia.

Coming West for fork? Or Pleasure?

JUNE 12 TO JULY 21.

FOB PLEASURE?

Dancing, Play and Play Ground Activities, Physical Education not only for teachers, but for health seekers, and lovers of activity, A Boys’ and Girls’ Club, Popular readings by Professor Clark of Chicago, Growth and Education by Dr. Tyler df Amherst, Musical entertainments. 1000 students in 1910.

FOR WORK?

Opportunities for acquaintanceship in the community. Help in securing positions. Training for positions to teach physical education and to coach athletic teams.

An ideal summer city.

University of Utah Summer School of Physical Education;

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

Digitized by CjOOQle