MIND AND BODY

SEPTEMBER, 1909.

Vol. 16.

No. 181

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenlcer Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

BODILY EXERCISES AND NERVE ACTION.

By Dr. W. v. Gaza, University of Leipsic.

Translated bv Carl L Schrader.

The active part which the nervous system plays in the process of bodily activities has been a topic for discussion and lecture at various times, but has mainly been set forth from a one-sided, scientific point of view. The material available is either too theoretical and therefore for the laymen incomprehensible, or it is an attempt to make a practical application, which is based upon a too general conception rather, than ppon scientific fundamentals. .In my consideration of this subject it is not my purpose to discover something theoretically new, but to make known to the reader by means of practical examples the simple and undisputed physiological functions of the nervous system.

We will notice that the skill in performing gymnastic exercises is dependent upon the nervous system, and that the bending of arms, legs and trunk is not merely a muscular act. Let us go to the gymnasium for our examples. We see here a slender young man, not conspicuously muscular, perform the upstart (Kippe) in perfect form, and with the greatest of ease, which means the least possible expenditure of energy. He has the body under complete control, his swinging motion is without apparent effort and is exactly timed. But there is also another man of decided muscular development, who can lift heavy dumb-bells and can with ease throw the former man in wrestling. He too tries the upstart, gets partly up on the bar but falls back again, in spite of his powerful arms. The willpower is present, but the body does not yet obey, which however may be accomplished by him through further practice. We will see later of what the practice and the final learning must consist. What takes place when we perform the upstart? From a quiet hang we start a swing, and the body, completely straight is brought above the bar, an elevation of 1.5 meter. To do this we have gone through several movements. We remember that we raised the legs at the end of the forward swing and then forcibly extended them from the hips, and up we were. W'e may say: “Our will is master of the muscles, all I need do

Digitized by t^ooQle
-170-

is to will and the arm or leg bends; the will need only to innervate, and the body obeys/' It is not as simple as that however, for if it were, the muscular beginner of whom we spoke before, should have been able to do the exercise. No, the will can only command previously acquired movements, which are simple and which are performed slowly. In the case of the upstart, the changes of movements follow so rapidly, that they never enter the seat of consciousness; they are completed before the concept can reach the brain. Those muscular movements, however, which we can innervate with ease, are controlled by the will, or are performed consciously. Those who can execute the upstart know, that the various parts of the exercise can not be followed consciously, because they occur too rapidly. We may have a fair conception of the entire process, but the individual muscle actions we cannot follow. The nervous system must have been active however, since the stimulation of muscle for contraction can only take place through the nerves. We will see later from whence this nervous energy comes. This much we know, that the process is not a simple one, and that, since muscle power alone is unsufficient, those areas of the nervous system, which control it, must possess the capacity for training. Gymnastics in a certain sense then means more nerve than muscle gymnastics. We must make clear to ourselves what processes are necessairy in .the nervous system for muscular movement. We will at once be confronted by the fact, that the reflex action plays a most important part. The question arises now: How is a reflex muscle movement brought about*" If the hand accidently touches a hot surface, it withdraws involuntarily, so that only a blister results, which means, that an expedient process has taken place; all reflexes are primarily an arrangement of expediency.

The consciousness of pain and the stimulation of the muscle through the brain would require too long a time to prevent the damage. Nature has therefore devised a shorter wav. The nerve fibre in the skin, which experiences the intense heat impression transmits it to its cell in the spinal cord, and to the first station: from this sensory cell other fibres lead in various directions, some along the cord to the brain, but one, the shortest one, communicates directly with the parallel lying motor cell, which in turn transmits the impression to the muscle, causing the necessary contraction. This transmission by way of the involuntary or reflex track is the shortest process possible and results without the aid of consciousness. By far the greater number of movements are reflex. We walk, run, swim and exercise largely mechanically, that is, by means of reflex muscle processes, but all of these activities we first had to acquire with great difficulty, and in this acquisition lies the kernel of the question we have before us.

It seems strange, that man, who is destined to grow into the highest developed being and who performs so difficult a task as writing automatically, should enter this world so completely awkward and helpless, with only the reflex ability of taking food, to cry and a few other awkward muscular movements. The animal is nearly master over its body when born, for it svfims, runs and even flies upon its arrival.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-171-

How does man learn to walk etc.? The nerve tracks are present at birth, hut in order to have a reflex action without.exertion, the process of stimuli transmission must have been repeated many hundred times, and must have been aided by the sense organs. The eye regulates the movement of the hand in writing, the, ear controls the movement of speech, caused by the vocal cords, which are influenced by the muscles of the throat. During the period of learning the brain, the intellect, the willpower, all play an important part. After a general estimate has been made, the lower centres gradually take up the work mechanically until the act is performed in-the shortest and most practical way. What do we gain from this for our theme under consideration:	We will

again return to our example, the learning of the upstart on the horizontal bar. We agreed above, that an exact understanding of all the movement processes in this exercise was impossible, so that intellect, the highest of brain functions, even in presence of the necessary muscle power, would be of no avail in attempting to perform an impromptu upstart. It needs practice which may be aided by suggestions and help from experiences of others. The main problem without question is to try and experience the feeling of this coordinated movement; that is to say, to experience seperately, which extension of trunk, which bending, which effort with arm or leg muscles feels most advantageous at the certain and proper movement. It is not without some hesitation that we accept this to be a complete reflex process, for the feeling of equilibrium, which corresponds to the simple reflex action of the sensory nerve, is a complex sensation, which receives impulses from various centres. Thus the eye assists as factor of control, for we see in which position our body is. The major-work however is done by those nerves, which lead from the joints to the spinal cord and farther to the brain. These nerves enable us to know with eyes closed, whether or not our knees are straight, or the hip joint bent, and every gymnast knows how long it takes to acquire, and how difficult it is to maintain a purely automatic, reflex, gymnastic good form.

The task of keeping the legs straight is not so great wh^n we perform a slow exercise, since the eyes may judge and the will has time to direct the necessary legmuscles to action. If howevey the time is limited, so that brain impulses can not cover the long distances rapidly enough, the form must be the result of reflexesemmating from the cord, and where these reflexes fail, the form in a quick exercise is bound to be poor, the legs will be bent, which means, that the reflex of the joint nerves, back of the muscle, has not been sufficiently trained. At this point it is necessary to mention, that the so-called natural aptitude is to he found mainly in the possibility of accumulating quick reflexes; it is equally selfevident, that practice can compensate for much which is lacking in natural skill.

Another significant fact here is this:	We possess the feeling of

equilibrium and know when our body is balanced. If we turn the body we shift the centre of gravity and in order to re-establish the equilibrium we must fin£ a new problem. The muscular energy necessary to accomp-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-172-

lish this must be accurately measured, must neither he too much nor too little. If we perform the upstart with too much swing, we fall forward over the bar. The aim must be to bring the centre of gravity of the body directly above the hand supports, and above the fulcrum, which is the bar. . The action of the muscles to gage this, is purely reflex, intellect is of no avail in this part of the performance. Another gymnastic exercise, where the factor of equilibrium, by which we mean the accurate measuring of force, is essential, we have in the hand stand. Here we see how fine the reflex nervous system operates. Try if you please to give a pendulum swinging on an^axis just enough swing to have it stop above. I doubt whether this is possible.

On the whole it may be said with safety, that all these movement processes of the body are more or less dependant upon the shifting of the equilibrium in so far as it enters the state of feeling, and further, that the re-establishing of the equilibrium is aided, if the process is a prolonged one, by functions of the higher centres, if on the other hand the process is a sudden one, two things can take place.

1.	,The re-establishing of equilibrium fades, because the reflex tracts have not been sufficiently trained, and the intended movement is not a success, or4;he effort may result even in a fall.

2.	* The equilibrium is re-established by means of the reflex muscular action.

With it all the brain plays a not unimportant part. When a new unknown movement is to be studied, it requires a certain amount of energy and courage to overcome the unpleasantness which manifests itself when the equilibrium is disturbed; it furthermore requires presence of mind to prevent our doing something wrong, which is apt to lead us to do just at the deciding moment. In this sense then gymnastics are educational; they develop in the course of time a self-consciousness of bodily ability and prepares for situations with which our life’s paths are strewn, where it depends upon courage and presence of mind and where the faith in our bodily power and agility serves us a good purpose.

German gymnastics possess these characteristics to a great degree. It’s inexaustible store of exercises in the various phases, the organic progression, the possibilities for further development and the impossibility of stagnation, will always remain its innate power. Every one who turns to this form of gymnastics is at once placed before problems, which he must conquer, and for which he must strive, be he a beginner or one already efficient. This labor however is a joyful one, it cultivates in the abused nervous system of the modern man fallow regions, not that it adds additional burden to the already overworked centres.

The one-sided mental activity of the nervous system finds compensation in muscular movements and in the occupation of other centres. We choose as example an exercise requiring considerable skill. This was done to illustrate the point and is not to be interpreted as meaning, that skill is the only aim of exercise. Let us say something then about the exercises of strength. The lifting of heavy weights may be practiced, likewise the slow pull up on the bar or the back an^ front levers. Many of this type of exercises appear to be performances of skill as for

Digitized by
-173-

example the pushing up to a hand stand. This however is a much simpler performance and more certain than the swing up to a hand stand. It is for this reason that a judge at competition will always exact something extraordinary in strength exercises from the competitor, because there is less danger of failure, since skill is practically zero, and muscle may be depended upon much more than nerve. In the slow strength performance their is time enough for the various senses to cooperate and act under the influence of the will. Those strength exercises performed while the body is suspended are pure power tests, while in those exercises of strength where the centre of gravity of the body lies above the point of support and is to be raised or is to be held in position as in pushing to a hand stand, the sense of balance plays a considerable part in addition to power. Willpower predominates in all of these exercises, and the utmost exertion can bring about unexpected results. It is thus easily understood how muscular individuals, commanding over no skill, can accomplish remakable feats in strength tests, such as weight-lifting etc. Generally speaking the one hundred and one hundred and fifty meter sprints are more of a strength test than one of endurance. It is possible for man to keep muscle in a constant state of contraction from 11—18 seconds.

Another form of exercise which shall be briefly considered here is that of free exercises, which are generally classed as movements of skill. Those simple exercises which consist merely of trunk-turning, kneebending, arm-swinging etc. and which only have for their aim the developing of strength, are more exercises of endurance than skill. The Swedish movements largely consist of such types; but if we accept tHe principle, that besides health and strength we are to give due attention to skill and beauty of form, than we are compelled to reserve a preeminent place for german gymnastics. We certainly do not aim to be strength and health fanatics; we wish to experience the joy which comes with the satisfaction of being master over our body. Those who understand German gymnastics in its entirety know, that all these special view points are contained in it, not however to the extent of our sided completeness. For the same reason we must discarh the so-called gymnastic machines, which are flooding the world, accompanied by the advertising drum. Here too we have wholly a mechanical performance, in which the nervous system has no part. All of these special systems lay claim to the promotion of health, which in a measure is true; but they are only transitory, because they suffer from a common Weakness, namely that they are automatic and monotonous. Now that we have dwelled at length upon exercises of skill, let us enumerate the various forms of exercises which fall under this heading.

Some athletic events, some games, certain kinds of free exercises, fencing and pre-eminently exercises upon apparatus; furthermore fancy skating, diving, snow-shoeing in mountainous countries, mountainclimbing etc

In our consideration of the subject we have learned that the will is only responsible for certain kinds of movements, particularly slow and

Digitized by v^ooQie
-174 -

deliberate ones, while all of those movements, which we have pleased to call exercises of skill have received their impulse in a shorter and more direct way.

We have here then a most economic process, in which those nerve functions, which would overburden the brain, are left to the lower centres for execution, a most bureaucratic division of labor indeed. In order that these nerve tracks may transmit safely and quickly at the desired. time, they must be traversed frequently; the connection in spinal cord and brain must have been established many times to insure accuracy. Thus we can conclude, that skill has a foundation in the nervous system; the so-called tendency is mainly an ability of rapid stimuli connection in the cord and brain; its development however can only result from prolonged exercise, just as this is the case in the development- of muscular power.

THE PROPER BALANCE BETWEEN MENTAL AND MUSCULAR TRAINING IN THE SCHOOL CURRICULUM.

By E. W. Garrison, Pres, of N. Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts.

(Address before the Department of Physical Education, National Education Association, Denver, July 3 to 9, 1909 )

The Phraseology of my topic appears to take for granted some very fundamental and even revolutionary doctrines, namely, that there should be a place for physical training in the curriculum; that it should be, theoretically at least, co-ordinate with mental training and that there should be an effort to construct a curriculum which would embody a fair balance between them. It would be superfluous to say that these exceptions are not generally granted, or at least not generally acted upon by the curriculum makers. In general, physical training has no place in the curriculum It is therefore co-ordinate only with the other things that are left out entirely, and the question of balancing it with anything else does not get considered.

Even in those schools where there is regular physical training work under special teachers, the ordinary attitude of the school authorities is represented by: “Now, children, let us lay aside our books for a moment and open the windows and take a few deep breaths, and we will be better a]?le to go on with our studies.” That is to say physical training when it is considered at all, is usually considered as an interlude in the curriculum rather than a part of it. Children are stopped occasionally in their work to take some exercises and gi few deep breaths just as they are stopped at noon to eat their dinners, the purpose being in both cases to maintain at least a minimum degree of physical fitness for mental work without any more real idea of training in the one case than in the other.

In high schools and colleges physical training occupies a somewhat more conspicious place in the life of the institution, but is usually still more obviously outside of the curriculum that in the case of the grades.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-175-

Here it is usually a question of athletics and sport, of recreation, of school or college spirit. Even in those institutions which maintain a well equipped physical department and have required gymnasium work with the accompaniment of physical examinations, anthropometric charts, and special prescriptions for corrective exercises, this work is ordinarily considered as somewhat apart from the real curriculum. It is like the opening of the windows and taking a deep breath in the grades. It is intended to keep a student in good health while he is taking his college course, but it is not itself a part of the college course.

Speaking generally we may say without substantial error that at the present time physical training is not in the school or college curriculum at all in any vital sense, and it is a fundamental necessity that it should be given a place not only in the life of the school, but in its curriculum.

The increasing emphasis which modern psychology and pedagogy place upon the significance of the Vdy ought to make it possible in the not distant future to give to the training of the body that place which it deserves in the total scheme of education. It would be commonplace to repeat what we all know perfectly well, that modern psychology is not so much the science of mind, as we used to be told, as it is the science of personality; that personality is distinctly a sensory-motor concept involving not only states of consciousness but processes of muscular and motor reaction. We do not make so much use as we used to of the old statement originally made in the interest of sound religion and the spiritual life, “that man is a soul and has a body.” However, it may be hereafter wc are fairly convinced that in this present world man is a verv interesting complex of soul and body, and that he is the bodv part of him just as much as he is the soul part. Browning, prophet in this as in most other things, says “soul helps body more than bodv helps soul.” The flabby muscle is closely akin to the flabby will, and the Hamlets who stood hesitant and wavering between their conscience and their task are suffering from a defect which has at least half of its roots in the physical organism. Thev have not developed the mental and muscular habits involved in translating ideas into acts. The man with a thoroughly healthy and efficient nervous svstem seldom goes far-wrong. No man’s morals can be much better than his nerves. And mental and muscular training must go together in the discipline and development of the nervous system.

■ The motto “A sound mind in a sound body” is a good motto, but it must not be interpreted as one would sav “good water in a silver pitcher.” The sound mind cannot be whollv sound unless it is connected with a sound body. This conception of the essential unity of the personality and the closing of the gap between the intellectual and the physical, ought, I say, to give great encouragement to those who are trying to secure proper recognition for the physical side of education. Tt also presents a warning against a process of physical education which shall be narrowly physical—as the old scheme of things, perhaps we should say the present scheme—is narrowly intellectual. The student

Digitized by t^ooQie
-176-

is not a disembodied spirit while he is studying mathematics, literature, and science and he must not be considered as a de-spiritualized body while he is doing physical training. He is at all times a personality which feels, thinks and acts.

In constructing a curriculum which shall include training of all necessary kinds in proper proportion it-.is necessary to consider the amount of training in the several subjects which the student gets outside of the curriculum. It is conceivable that there are some processes in which the child needs training which nevertheless need not enter into the curriculum at all, because they are sufficiently and satisfactorily taken care of outside of the school.

This principle is relied upon by a good many people as an argument against giving much attention to physical training in schools. They admit that children need physical development, of course, but say that they get plenty of it outside of school hours, and that the play instinct can be depended upon to lead a child into all the physical exercises that he needs. The principle is souqd but the application is fallacious. While it is true that the average boy gets considerable physical exercise in an incidental way, it is equally true that he seldom gets enough of it, and still more true that he does not get the right kind, and truest of all that he does not get it in its proper relation to the other elements and other activities of life and so is not led to an understanding of the moral value and significance of clean, strong ard perfect manhood. It is for the special advocates of physical training to claim boldly that the incidental and miscellaneous exercises which a boy or girl gets out of school is just as inadequate to the proper development of the personality on its physical side as is the miscellaneous thinking and learning which a child does outside of school hours to the development of the personality on the mental side.

Some of our foremost educators have recently been lamenting the decline of intellectual interest in American colleges and the craze for athletics, which they consider partly the result but chiefly the cause of the decline in scholarship. The facts upon which this indictment of the colleges rests are too familiar and obvious to be disputed, and in view of this situation it may seem that the time is not opportune for an appeal for an increase of emphasis upon physical training. But let us have recourse to the homeopathic principle “similia similibus curantur,” the free translation of which is, “the hair of the dog will cure the bite.” If our colleges are suffering from too much of one kind of emphasis upon things physical, let us try more, but of another kind.

It is to be admitted freely that many of the defects of college life are connected more or less directly with athletics, but it can scarcely be said that they are due to the overwhelming zeal for training for bodily perfection. This being true, I repeat the suggestion that we need to have both in school and college, not less, but more emphasis upon the physical side.

All education may be considered as a preparation to meet the emergencies of life. And, roughly speaking, the man who can meet the

Digitized by LjOOQle
-177-

most emergencies and the most important emergencies in the most efficient way is the best educated man. Modern scientific pedagogy has gone far toward shaking our faith in the efficiency of general training through formal discipline, and has given us the idea that mental discipline has its chief if not its sole value in the field in which it is acquired. It is for this reason that a good many people have come to believe that a young man is better prepared for business by the study of economics and commerce than bv a study of Greek. Discipline and training are applied to actual life with a percentage of loss which varies inversely, and a percentage of efficiency which varies directly, with the similarity between the field in which they are acquired and the field in which they are used. Is it not a reasonable proposition to maintain that the exigencies of every day life are quite as closely akin to the exigencies of football and baseball as they are to the problems of higher education? If so, we have a sound theoretical basis for maintaining that a boy will carry into the activities of business and social life the qualities of accuracy, patience and determination which he learned at football, with less loss than the similar lessons which he may have learned in connection with calculus.

A few suggestions as to how this larger emphasis upon the body in the interest of a completely developed personality may be applied to the curriculum.

In the public schools there should be not only systematic physical exercises, which should be given in close connection with the instruction in physiology and hygiene, but there should also be the largest possible amount of muscular activity in connection with all studies.

An alternation between mental and muscular activity in the schoolroom will not give as satisfactory results as the combination of the two processes which are both ideational and motor. In securing the proper balance therefore between mental and muscular training, the curriculum makers will have to consider not merely the question of getting a new subject into the crowded course of study but the much more comprehensive question of a revised and improved method of teaching the old subjects.

In high schools and colleges a fair start toward this combination of mental and physical activities has already been made in the introduction of manual training courses and laboratory methods. But in addition to this we shall ultimately have to work out a plan for departments of physical training which shall be far more comprehensive in their scope than .anything that has been hitherto attempted and which shall be co-ordinate in dignity and credits with other departments. They should include four elements:

1.	—Systematic exercise for all students, suited to their individual needs, such as is now given in colleges having well equipped gymnasiums and competent physical directors.

2.	—Theoretical work in physiology and hygiene. This should be as rigidly scientific in character as any other work done in the college and should be done as part of the work of the department of physical

Digitized by Google
• ITS

education. It would include work in nutrition and sanitation. This part of the work and the practical part, the exercise, are related somewhat as lecture and laboratory are related in chemistry.

3.	—Thorough and careful supervision of athletics by the department. This would make it possible to escape the perils of the professional coach, whose only anxiety is to develop a winning team; will de-commercialize college athletics so that we can have the kind of games that are good for the boy without reference to the gate receipts, and wTill open the way to the development of a spirit of clean sportmanship, which is getting to be a far rarer quality than it ought to be in American college athletics as at present conducted. If the colleges are suffering from too great emphasis upon athletics in the student consciousness, the cure lies not in the abolition of football but in the development of departments of physical training which shall see that it> ministers to education and not merely to excitement.

4.	—The work of such a department including the points already mentioned, could be'made a point of departure from which to approach a large body of material, both scientific and historical, which is at present but little used, and a point of contact through which to touch and quicken the intellectual interests of a certain class of students whose college work has hitherto been perfunctory and unprofitable. At the present time a boy who happens to have a consuming zeal for micro-lapidoptera can take courses in the department of entemology and be lookedupon as a shining light in the most strictly intellectual side of college life. But the boy who finds his most immediate interest in the achievement of his own bodily perfection (which seems to me quite as reasonable and useful an enthusiasm as the other) finds that this interest leads to nothing which the college sees fit to recognize.

The college ought, in some way, through its department of physical education to make the connection between this kind of boy’s natural interest in physical things and the world of culture which seems to him shadowy and valueless. If it is the business of education to take a person where he is and lead him step by step to where he ought to be then the department of physical training has an open door before it. I am Greek enough to believe that if we treat physical science in a cultural way we shall get not only health but culture out of it. The working out of the details of such a program will call for much psychological insight, pedagogical sagacity, and breadth of educational sympathies. It will also call for a good deal of common sense. But it is worth the effort in view of the magnitude of the opportunity which the colleges and high schools now here, to develop, not as an extra or an excrescence but as an integral part of their curriculum, co-ordinate with their most scientific departments, a department of physical education which shall embody and express the recognition of the large place which modern educational theory ascribe to the body in the development of a well Tounded and effective personality.

ISP* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—170—

OPEN-AIR SCHOOLS IN LONDON.

By Katherine A. R. Colgan, Philadelphia.

In 1907 the London County Council began the experiment of removing from the ordinary class-room children of delicate health and anaemic tendencies. These were then placed in open air schools. During 1908 three of these schools were in session. They have now passea the experimental stage and are a fixed fact in the school system of London.

The children attending the open air schools are selected by the Council’s medical officer, preference being given to those who reside in the neighborhood of the schools. The term extends from the middle of June to the end of October. Each school has a head teacher with three assistants. In addition to the teachers there are also a nurse, a cook, a cook’s helper and a schoolkeeper (janitor). About 70 pupils are allowed to each school, yet in the one I visited I found 84 pupils.

The school hours are so arranged that pupils are removed from unsanitary home conditions for a greater part of each day. The sessions open wdth breakfast at 9 in the morning and close at 7 in the evening. Three free meals a day are furnished, and all work, study, play, eating and resting are done out of doors. The curriculum is a much modified, ungraded one; it bears little or no comparison with that followed in the usual type of school. The health of each pupil is under close daily observation and a careful record of the result is kept. So gratifying have these results been that those interested in these schools hope to see the school term prolonged beyond October and the number of schools considerably increased.

It fras with many of the facts I have just written in my mind that I started out one bright October day to find Birley House Open Air School. After crossing Tower Bridge a pleasant drive of several miles on the top of a ’bus brought me to the village of East Dulwich. At the far end of the main street I found the school. An imposing mansion stood in the midst of a large demesne. Venerable trees shut out the view of the public highway. Within the old-fashioned garden the roses were still abloom in the mild October air. Beyond the garden stood the orchard and farther on stretched rows and rows of cabbages, and other vegetables. Far back at the extreme end of the grounds rose a great vine-clad summer house and this summer house, garden and orchard formed the classroom of the open air school.

But where were the pupils? When I asked that question the head mistress, who had been conducting me, led me toward a plain wooden structure. I approached it from the rear and when I obtained a view of the front I noticed that it was inclosed on three sides only and resembled a commodious stage in one of our theatres. On this stage, was seated a nurse watching about seventy boys and girls who reclined in canvas chairs. Nearly all of them were sleeping and the strong daylight was softened bv a canvas awning which was stretched above their heads.

The head mistress explained that this was the rest period. I had reached the school after the close of the morning session and the serving

Digitized by v^ooQle
-180-

of lunch. After lunch the pupils take this enforced rest which lasts two hours.

I had missed the hours for the study branches, but I was taken to the books the children had been using. Their geography is the great piece of earth bounded by the hedges of Birley House. In a section of the grounds is a space in which the pupils have modeled all the land divisions; the water divisions appear when the hose is turned on and the rivers rush down the watershed to the sea or meander quietly around the little islands.

Farther on I met great maps of the continents and countries formed from the clay of the garden. - England’s map had the lightships off the coast indicated by toy vessels. Diminutive houses showed her great centres of population, and the leading industries were indicated by samples of the manufacturers and products. Each map covered greater area than the floor space of the average classroom. I saw this geography during an extended dry spell. I was informed that during the usual damp British weather the pupils are kept busy renewing their land divisions and their maps.

The history class seemed to have monopolized the space around the vine-clad summer house. They had been tracing the growth of civilization and the history of England. Here they had built the cave of the cave-dwellers. Two of the little chaps I had watched sleeping could find shelter in it. Near by stood the home of the lake dwellers, while an Indian wigwam may have been the type of the nomad’s habitation. Stonehenge was there to tell of the Druids in Britain long ago. A Roman encampment was somewhat the worse for being abandoned, and a Norman keep and castle frownend sullenly at us.

All these were the work of the children, and the clay of the garden furnished their material. My conductress informed me that the pupils lived the life of the people of each age, studied and took keen delight in fashioning the objects which illustrated it.

When I climbed into the vine-clad summer house I found proof of this, for the floor and seats were littered with the pottery of primitive peoples. The summer house was the children’s kiln.

Writhin easy reach of the summer house I found the artificial pond which contained the frogs, toads and newts for nature work. In close proximity to the pond goldfish sported in a tank.

All the beautiful grounds through which I was wandering are under the care of the pupils of the school. They weed the garden, cultivate the ground, plant the cabbages. The vegetables used at their meals are of their own raising.

“Do they ne^er rob the orchard?” I asked, for I had noticed it was unprotected by a hedge. They did, the head mistress replied, when the school was first opened, but the dishonesty and ingratitude of the act were constantly dwelt upon by the teachers and now even the windfalls are religiously brought to the mistress; for the children at last realize that the orchard and all it contains is a sacred trust for the good of the school.

When I left the sunny grounds and went into the dim quiet parlor

Digitized by v^ooQle
-181-

over our cup of tea the head mistress told me* much about the school. She regretted I had missed the morning session, as the period after the rest hours is given up to gardening, modelling, games, singing and dancing. It was then I learned with whai keen anxiety each pupil is watched to note the progress toward health. Not gain in weight alome is taken into account ; at Birley House the heads of the school place more reliance on the haemoglobin test.

When tea was over we returned to the stage from which the nurse had been watching the children. In the meantime I found that this seeming stage was a shelter to which the pupils could retreat in case of rain. By the time I reached the shelter the reclining chairs had been removed, the awning taken down and the pupils had gathered for their games, songs and dances. I watched them go through their sleeping song; then they played a game beginning with the words “Old Roger is dead and gone to his grave.” A few more games, played with great glee, some songs and a delightful Morris dance brought the rosy color into the childish faces.

Twilight was gathering over Birley House as I walked down the garden paths and watched the pupils of the school seating themselves 8round the tables for the evening meal. A band of happy, hungry youngsters is the last picture I carried in my mind from the open air school.

SCHOOL REFORM.

Translated by Carl Schrader.

It is time that we return to the rational method of training our youth practiced by the old Philanthropists, namely the practical occupation with objects of his varied environment, to educate him in all mental activities, thus to render him more efficient, more skillful belabor and better fitted for life.

Today the happiest and most valuable/years of youth are wasted in dreary school prisons over shelf worn books of wisdom, and one may think that every boy had to become an irritable shriveled up grind and as though all youth was predestind for the chancery.. We need more doing than knowing! More joyful spirit and health and less monotonous mind drill which leads to mental inertness. Mommsen in referring to the mental overfeeding of youth said : “Geese that are crammed get sick.”

We need more harmony. The labor principle as driving power must bring physical and mental tendencies to full development. We want a live and adjustable school organism. We want education, not only one sided mind culture.

GUTHSMUTHS’ TEN COMMANDMENTS.

THE 8th COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt develop thy body harmoniously—neither in part, nor one—sidedly, in order, that thy strength may be wholesome and not wanting.

INTERPRETATION—Thou shalt develop and perfect thyself, in order that thou mayest not be as one powerful of arm and weak and heavy of foot. Therefore thou shalt not have preference for any one exercise, but engage in all alike since wholesome power, and skill, can not be of one part alone.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-182—

USEFUL DANCING FROM THE STANDPOINT OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Hemenway Gymnasium Harvard University,

Everyone familiar with the subject wrill admit that the chief essential in any system of physical training is voluntary movement. In this process is implied the improved action of the brain, heart, lungs, muscles, and nerves as well as all the other organs and tissues, upon the perfect condition of which health and happiness depend. By voluntary movement I mean, of course, all movements which are initiated and directed by the will. Passive exercises such as riding, sailing, and massage, although valuable in restoring disordered functions and in conserving what has already been attained through personal effort, would never have given man the power and efficiency which he has to-day. All of man’s victories over nature and the animal kingdom have been won by a steady persistent, unrelenting effort of the will. All of the advancement that has been made in the arts and sciences has been through the efforts of men who have held themselves down to regular systematic work day after day, and year after year. In that very suggestive book, “Work and Rhythm/ by Karl Buecher, he tells us that primitive man does no less work than civilized man, but he does it in a very irregular way. He obeys the impressions of the moment. He does not know the difference between play and work. All his efforts are desultory; he follows nature, and eats only when he is hungry and sleeps only when he is tired. This is the nature of a life that knows only present necessity, in which there is no time for meals, no regular time for anything. In the child of to-day we find the same lack of continuity, the same impatience of restraint. The activity of the child is play. As soon as one sets for him a serious object, to be followed out seriously and methodically, the very activity that has just been practiced with pleasure awakens distaste and repulsion. Only long education bridges the deep chasm between mood and duty.

Very fortunately for mankind the physical, mental, and moral activities of the body in work differ from those in play only in aim, not in kind. Muscular contractions must necessarily be followed by flexions, extensions, and rotations of the head, trunk, or limbs, whatever be the motive that prompts them, and upon these simple muscular contractions depend the anatomical, physiological, and hygienic value of any system . of physical exercise.

In our enthusiasm for athletics we often forget that various forms of labor, such as plowing, sowing, spading, sawing and chopping wood, were once on the list of physical contests at county fairs in this country”, and still are in parts of Australia. From my own observations I know that these labor contests were entered upon with the greatest interest and enthusiasm. In fact, what were the farming experiences of the past generation, especially at haying and harvesting times, but prolonged athletic contests in which man was pitted against man, and work began at four o’clock in the morning and continued frequently until eight

Digitized by v^ooQle
-183-

o’clock at night? The thrifty farmer soon learned that the best way to get the largest amount of labor from his men was to kindle among them the spirit of emulation, put the smartest man in the lead, and reduce every variety of work as far as possible to a rhythmic process. As soon as men were induced to work in rows, as in mowing, raking, and hoeing, the labor output was nearly doubled. Every contractor and manufacturer who is on to his job, as the phrase goes, knows the value of introducing rhythm into his work, and of making one set of men follow in the footsteps of another. This is a form of union in labor that results in an increased productiveness, in as much as it regulates for each man the effort he must put forth as well as the pauses of rests he may take. Sometimes these rhythmic processes in labor are greatly facilitated by singing, as has been shown by the sailors’ chanteys, the harvesters’ songs, and the plantation melodies that have come down to us from previous generations. The swash of the oar, the swish of the scythe, the buzz of the saw, the ring of the hammer on the anvil or the axe in the forest, have all served to mark the measured efforts of man in the rhythmic processes which he has introduced into his labor.

When I was at Yale College some twenty-five years ago, they had in the gymnasium a lot of metallic pulleys which were used in connection with the rowing machines. I waited to get rid of.these pulleys, because they were so noisy that they interfered with the other work of the gymnasium. The crew, however, maintained that the rattling sound of the pulleys enabled them to keep stroke better, and to do more work with less fatigue, than any noiseless arrangement could do. The hoys were right, and I received then and there my first lesson in the importance of rhythm of sound as well as rhythm of movement to men engaged in hard work. The reasons are apparent. In any task that can be set for a man two sides are to be considered—a mental and a physical. Not only is a mental effort required to start an exercise or a piece of work, but it is often required to supervise or keep up the mental or physical effort after it has been begun. Now, it is possible to relieve the mental strain by substituting automatic activity for that usually directed by the will. To make work easier the beginning and ending of a movement should always be between equal periods of time and space. *Through the movement of the same muscles following at like intervals and of like strength, the bodily functions thus set in activity continue mechanically, without demanding a new exercise of the will, until checked by some chancre of purpose. It is a common experience that weariness disappears with practice. The reason is that at first the power expended is now too little and now too great, and an uneconomic use of power results. Practice means adaptation. The movements of the muscles are brought under better control of the will. Every movement in work consists of two elements put together—a stronger and a weaker, rise and fall, push and pull, stretching out and drawing in. Out of this process comes the rhythm that we are familiar with in various forms of labor, as we have already shown.

If a tone rhvthm can be introduced in conjunction with a movement rhythm, it both lightens the work and advances it. Then again

Digitized by VorOOQle
-184-

rhythm lightens work because it makes it conform to the'organic nature of man. The action of the heart, lungs, legs, and arms is naturally rhythmical. Rhythm advances work because it awakens feelings of pleasure, and efforts are continued for the sake of the pleasure afforded. Swedish gymnastics for the most part are laborious because they are not rhythmical. Every Swedish exercise, with its artificial movements and sustained positions, requires a distinct effort of the will. It is this very feature about Swedish gymnastics, which, in addition to their value as corrective agents, makes them almost indispensable in a complete system of physical training. The ability to make yourself do the thing that is to be clone when it is to be done, without waiting for the mood, spirit, or anything else to move you is, as Huxley well says, the most valuable acquisition ever attained by a man in his life. But unfortunately for Swedish gymnastics, only about ten per cent of the community have this kind of ability, and they are directing their energies through force of will in other directions This class, including college students and professional men, come to the gymnasium wearied in brain, but not in body, and demand recreative exercises and plays and games instead of disciplinary gymnastics. On the other hand, the remaining 90 per cent of the community, including women and children, have not the ability to hold themselves flown persistently to a disagreeable task because it is thought to be the proper or the correct thing to do. Such mental and physical efforts as they usually make are prompted by the stimulus of necessity, and all extra efforts must afford immediate pleasure in the doing, or promise of pleasure, as the reward.

It is just here that rhythmic exercises that may be done to music add greatly to the attractiveness of the gymnasium and the resources of the physical instructor. This is, as we have shown, because our lives have been attuned to rhythm through centuries of rhythmic efforts, and our very organisms now cry out for rhythmic influences. This. demand for rhythmic exercises is felt all the more keenly at the present day, because the introduction of steam power, electricity, and labor-saving machinery has taken this factor out of our lives. Instead of our setting the pace for tools, implements, and machinery, as we have long been accustomed to do, tools and machinery now set the pace for us, and we are struggling to adapt ourselves to the new condition of affairs. Hence the high nervous tension, the pent-up feelings and emotions, and the universal desire for a motor outlet. What wonder that ragtime music (which is all rhythm) has been take]} up by the best society, and that even royalty and our much beloved President of the United States have become enamored of it. It simply reflects an organic necessity, greatly intensified by the conditions under which we live at the present day.	(To	be	concluded.)

—Your magazine is the peer of them all from the standpoint of practical usefulness to the physical director.

Very much pleased with your “Notes and Comments”—agree with you heartily in }rour outline of what physical training should be.

John F. Murray, Y. M. C. A., Pottsville, Pa.

Digitized by

Google
-185-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—THE CARE OF THE EYES. The following recoommendations were recently made by the women Principals of New York:—

1.	That hereafter no calendered or coated paper be permitted in the text-books given to the children, as the dazzle of such paper is injurious to their eyes.

2.	That half-tone pictures be not permitted in school books, but that simple, easily seen, outline pictures be substituted for them.

3.	That the length of line in school books be from a minimum of 2^4 inches to a maximum ©f three inches.

4.	That the space between the lines be not less than three mm.

5. That in reading the children hold their books at an angle of approximately forty-five degrees, an that in oral reading they be required to look uq frequently.

6.	That after a lesson demanding close work, the children be asked to look up at the ceiling or out of the window to change the focus of their eyes and rest the muscles of accommodation.

7.	That class rooms be equipped with loose chairs of different sizes, so that children may sit in seats that fit them, placed where they can see best.

8.	That in the first two years of school all writing be upon blackboards instead of paper.

9.	That all rooms in which artificial light is burned continually be closed.

10.	That no part-time classes be permitted to occupy any rooms in which the light is not entirely satisfactory.

11.	That electric bulbs used in lighting class rooms be made of frosted glass, and that clusters of such bulbs be provided with pale amber shades to screen the pupil’s eyes from the direct rays of light.

(School Bulletin.)

—PHOTOMETRIC EXAMINATION OF SCHOOLS. Rumberg Quissfeld (Prog. Med. Woch., November 13, 1908) concludes these to be requisites of proper school buildings:

1.	They should stand north, northeast or northwest.

2.	They should lie as high and open as possible.

3.	They should have large windows, reaching to the ceiling, with a glass surface of 1.5.

4.	They should have a depth of room of not more than double the height of the window, so that the light may fall direct on each place.

5.	Very small window-bars.

6.	Smallest amount of wood in the window frames.

7.	The most practical position of the teaching-room on that floor.

8.	The curtains should be light gray and very translucent, so that only the direct sunlight is shut off.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-186-

9.	The walls should be white or gray, and no objects should be on

them.	,	.	•	*;

10.	No plants should be in the windows.

11.	A succession of objects for instruction in the classroom, with direct and permanent sunlight, under special care for the children’s work, in order to avoid even the best curtains.

(Medical Review of Reviews.)

—HOLIDAY CAMPS. Brion, of Zurich, in 1876, took a large number of poor children from Zurich to the country. In 1878 the movement was taken up by Frankfurt, and now “there is hardly any large city in Austria or Germany that does not every summer send its poor and sickly school children out camping for about three or four weeks.”

In France they are working for vacation camps and have a special newspaper for the purpose. Since 1881, thirty-four to thirty-eight per cent of the children in the public schools of Copenhagen have been sent to the country for vacations. This comes about in one of three ways: (1) Country folks invite their relatives; (2) farmers open their doors to city children; (3) in the last year a number of vacation camps were opened by the agitation of the teachers’ associations. To one of these teachers’ associations the government has granted a twenty-five years’ lease of a public forest for the purpose. Railroad corporations (government and private) and steamship companies give free transportation in all cases both ways. In 1906 17,400 children were furnished such free transportation under the direction of the city schools.

(School Hygiene.)

MONATSSCHRIFT FIJER DIE PHYSIKALISCH-DIAETE-TISCHEN HEILMETHODEN.

Under this title Mr. J. F. Lehmann of Munich, Germany, publishes a new monthly journal devoted to physico-dietetic methods of treatment. It takes the place of the “Blaetter fuer klinische Hydrotherapie” which was founded by W. Winternitz in 1891 and is edited by Dr. Julian Marcuse and Dr. Alois Strasser. Among the 70 co-workers of the journal we find such eminent names as Drs. Gmelin, Frankl, v. * Noorden, Kolisch, Winternitz and Winkler; also three Americans, viz: Drs. S. Baruch, C. Beck and H. F. Wolff of New York.

.The editors in their introduction state, that this monthly takes the place of the “Pages for Clinical Hydrotherapy,” “the tradition of the former journal is maintained, namely, that hydrotherapy is the beginning of all physical endeavor, tending to regard it, genetically, as the most important of this kind of treatment physiologically anti clinically.

Presentday problems have been added, such as dietetics and air-treatment, radio- and electrotherapy, balneotherapy and climatology, gymnastics and massage and also psychotherapy, knowledge and the application of which having become an indispensible armament of the physician and practioner of today. Our main object will be to satisfy the needs of the practical physician and to foster the embodiment of

Digitized by Y^OOQle
-187-

physico-dietetic treatment into the practice of medicine. In this respect this journal is principally distinct from our worthy contemporaries who brought these methods of treatment to the clinics.”

Judging from the first three issues of this monthly we can certainly recommend it to every teacher of physical education, particularly those who are also physicians. There is so much good and practical reading matter in each of the issues that its study would add immensely to the knowledge of our colleagues.

—PROF. E. BAELZ, UEBER DAS HEISSE BAD. Monatsschrift filer die Physikalisch-diaetetischen Heilmethoden. Jan., 1909. I. 1. The author states that during the middle ages hot baths were in general use in Germany but were forgotten after the thirty-years-war. Since 1893, after his journey in Japan, Baelz states, they have again been made use of. Still,.they do not receive the degree of attention they deserve. By hot baths he means, baths which are taken in water warmer than the temperature of the body, that is, above 98%° F. The full effect is obtained at 106° F. or more, for from 10—30 minutes. In Japan 500,000 people take advantage of the public baths which have a temperature of from 112 to 120° F. These baths raise the temperature of the blood and accelerate the pulse. Deep breathing is produced, the skin is reddened and perspiration is abundant. If, however, very hot baths are taken the reverse is at first observed, to be followed by a decided acceleration of the function of circulation, respiration and perspiration.

Rules for the application of hot baths:

1.	A well ventilated room is required.

2.	When the head gets hot, cold applications are indicated and should be used.

3.	A very hot bath should be preceded by a hot shower over the head.

4.	The hot bath should be taken while in a sitting position rather than an inclined position.

5.	After leaving the bath a cold douche over the head is refreshing.

6.	Catching cold after the bath io impossible because of the paralyzing of the peripheral vessels, reflex action by the vaso-motor system now being impossible.

7.	If a warm bath be taken catching cold is very easy.

They are contraindicated in heart disease, atheroma, sensitive nervous system and organic disease of the nervous system, fevers, tuberculosis and diabetis.

They are indicated in acute colds, muscular and articular pain, angina and bronchitis. Also in diarrhea from exposure to cold, rheumatism, gout, syphilis, scorfula, croup, especially , pseudocroup and emphesema. The greatest amount of good is attained by hot baths in capillary bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia in children, even if fever is present. In acute nephritis hot baths with tonics for the heart are very useful. In chronic pelvic exudates and dysmenorrhea, especially at the beginning of the period they are also of great benefit.

Digitized by L^OOQie
—188—

—PROF. KARL v. NOORDEN, “Ueber Uebungstherapie und Fluessigkeitsbeschraenkung bei Zirkulationsstoerungen.” Monatsschrift f. d. Phys.-diaetet. Heilmethoden. Jan. 1909. I. 1. v. Noorden in a ipemoriam lauds M. J. OerteFs idea of exercise for the heart in heart disease. He says that we may think what we will concerning the methods coming into consideration in exercises in heart-disease, we must now, after the lapse of 25 years, conclude that it was a therapeutic deed of the first order, when Oertel propounded the principle of exercise for the heart against the then prevailing idea of sparing the heart's activity.

Hydrotherapy is also nothing more than exercise for and of the heart. This is also true of carbonated baths of which the same may be said as of muscular work for the heartaffliction, if properly applied. Oertel prepared the soil for what is being done in this line today. Nowadays we apply exercises interchangably with rest. Rest is especially indicated when there are signs of loss of compensation. Exercise maintains and increases the strength of the heart muscle.

It is w^ell not to drink liquids freely in heart-disease, no matter whether compensation exists or there are signs of rupture of compensation. This is a prophylactic measure and no more than 1^4—1 % liters of liquid should be taken per day.

—The daily papers report the discovery and isolation of a germ causing the disease called trachoma. This discovery has been made by Prof. Richard Greeff of Berlin, who is attached to the Eye Hospital of the University of Berlin.

Trachoma is a disease of the eyelids, usually beginning as an inflammation of the upper lid and resulting in granular masses gradually forming on the under surface of the lids. These granular masses have the appearance of bunches of grapes. If the disease is not treated, and it must be remembered that the treatment and cure is protracted, the inflammation spreads by conguity of tissue and may cause opacity of the cornea, resulting in blindness. The isolation of the germ of this eye-disease will undoubtedly prove of value to treatment and more rapid cure than has heretofore been possible.

—A REPORT FROM MANILA has it that Dr. Moses Clegg, bacteriologist of the Bureau of Science at Manila, has succeeded in cultivating the leprosy bacillus. Dr. Clegg made cultures from living lepers and the bodies of victims of leprosy. A relationship between Ibis germ and that of amoebic dysentary seems to exist. The Bureau of Science has prepared a vaccine to be used for experiments for the purpose of establishing a specific treatment for leprosy.

August 24, 09.

— Mind and Body, Milwaukee, Wis.- Enclosed please find subscription for “Mind and Body”. It is more than wo’th the money and I wish it an increasing circulation for next year.

Yours	L.	R. Burnett,

Gunningham Park Gymnasium, East Milton, Mass.

Digitized by AjOOQie
W ______ m Published Monthly.

yyyNp AND BODY. freidenker publishing CO.,

Sibecriptioi Price, $1.00 per Year.	ItGIwaulcee.	'Wleconetn.

*T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THE CINCINNATI TURNFEST was a great success. From the reception on Wednesday until the distribution of diplomas Sunday evening every hour of the day from seven o’clock mornings until nearly eleven o’clock nights was crowded with some kind of representative gymnastic work. It is impossible to review the separate events, and it is equally difficult to say which exercises were best, as so many wonderful productions from all gymnastic fields were shown. Teachers who were fortunate enough to be present received new inspiration. Having seen the best in many lines they will continue their labors for the physical uplift of their pupils with renewed strength and confidence, and in this manner the impetus given to rational physical training by the * Cincinnati festival will be felt all over our country.

—IN THE COMPETITIVE WORK at Cincinnati 103 societies took part with 1466 participants (active Turners). The smallest class was composed of six men, the largest of thirtysix. 32 societies and districts showed model exercises, besides the mass-exercises shown by approximately 10,000 pupils, of the public schools of Cincinnati; 609 ladies took part in the mass and in the model exercises for women, and 247 seniors showed that men over 35 years of age are by no means too old to take an active part in a national festival.

^-A ROLL OF HONOR. At the Cincinnati meeting of the teachers of physical training a request was made to honor men who had taken an active part in the competitive work of at least four national festivals by publishing their names. We gladly do so and hope that the endurance shown by these veterans may prove an incentive to many men to keep up their regular physical training work. Now, what does the participation in at least four national tumfests mean? A young man must be at least eighteen years of age before he can enter a turn-verein; and he must practice for years before he has acquired the all around development required by the turners of one who may be selected to enter competition at a national festival. We may therefore safely say that a gymnast who has taken part in four national festivals is at least thirtyone years of age and has been a regular attendant in a gymnasium for sixteen years. Therefore, all honor to men who by example have shown what we as teachers of gymnastics preach i. e. that gymnastics may be made attractive to the expert as well as to the novice. Here are the names;

Digitized by v^ooQle
-190-

SEVEN NATIONAL FESTIVALS*

LOUIS EILERS, 54 years, St. Louis Turnvereiti.

ERNST OERTEL, 50 years, St. Louis Turnverein.

SIX NATIONAL FESTIVALS.

JUDGE JOHN ROEHM, Dayton Turngeineinde.

EDMUND LINX WEILER, Dayton Turngemeinde.

ROBERT HERMANN, 40 years, Milwaukee Turnverein.

FIVE NATIONAL FESTIVALS.

FRED. OLT, Dayton Turngemeinde.

HERMANN KREIBOHN, 41 years, Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis. H. REINBCKB, Eiche Turnverein, Chicago.

WILLIAM BERWALD, 40 years, Germania Vw., Cleveland.

KARL ZANTINER, 42 years, Germania Vw., Cleveland.

FOUR NATIONAL FESTIVALS.

GEORGE SCHAUMBURG, Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis. WILLIAM SEXAUER, Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis.

GEORGE STAPF, Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis.

GEORGE EYSER, Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis.

JOHN SEIDENSPINNER, 40 years, Akron Turnverein.

ERHARD ROSE, Turngemeinde Cincinnati, O.

OTTO SCHMIDT, Turngemeinde Cincinnati, O.

F. H. SCHUBERT, Johnstown Turnverein.

MAX HESS, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

JOHN GRIEB, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

RUDOLF FUERLE, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

PHILIP KASSEL, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

PAUL WENDLER, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

—PRESIDENT GARRISON’S paper read at the Denver meeting of the N. E. A. and printed in this issue will givemuch enlightenment to such leaders in the physical training world who have as yet not grasped the idea that gymnastics is more than muscle-building, and more than a hygienic messure. It is one of the encouraging signs of the times that some schoolmen are beginning to recognize the great importance that gymnastics, in its all-embracing sense, has in character building. We would suggest that our readers bring this paper of President Garrison’s to the notice of every school superintendent and college president who needs_ enlightenment.

— THE AGITATION IN FAVOR OF SUNDAY REST on the continent of Europe has led to an inquiry into the value of rest as a preventive of accidents. In France, Belgium, andGerraany, statistics have been obtained which show that rest has a value which not even the abuse of the rest day • by some as an occasion for debauchery is able to offset. In both Belgium and France the smallest number of accidents in connection with industries is found to occur on Monday, and the number increases to maximum on Saturday. The increase is regular except that Thursday

Digitized by

Google
-191-

sliows a larger number than Friday. Friday has a number larger than any of the first three days of the week, but slightly smaller than Thursday. The figures for Belgium, reduced to percentages and taking the record for Saturday as the base, are Monday 84, Tuesday 88, Wednesday 94, Thursday 97, Friday 96, Saturday 100. At the Herault chemical works the percentages are respectively 68, 72, 89, 81, 100.

The fatigue that comes with work, increasing as the day advances, is held to be responsible for a similar increase of accidents. The Berlin Institute of Insurance finds that 28 per cent, of industrial accidents occur during the morning, 72 per cent, in the afternoon. A tabulation of 5,534 industrial accidents in France shows the same thing. Accidents are more numerous each successive hour of the morning up to 11 o’clock when workmen begin going out to lunch. Accidents begin again with minimum at noon and increase each hour up to 6 p. m. The number of accidents between 5 and 6 p. m. is double that between 8 and 9 a. m., and nearly seven times as great as that between 6 and 7 a. m., although in the factories investigated the full number of workmen is engaged at the earliex hour.

The congressional investigation in connection with the bill limiting the hours of work for railway employees proved that many railway accidents were due to overwork. The European figures show that the same thing is true of accidents in factories. The general adoption of Saturday halfholiday in this country has the effect of cutting out the most disastrous period of the week.	“Chicago	Tribune.”

CINCINNATI TURNFEST.

A girls school passing the stadium during the parade.

Digitized by c^ooQle
-192-

GYM NASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—The Amateur Athletic Union championships will not be the only attraction in the stadium of the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition, which opens in Seattle on June 1, but the fair will be a magnet for sportsmen of everj sort—land, water, and aerial. Plans for the balloon contests are not yet completed, but there will be many notable air battles, both between heavier-than-air machines and dirigibles. These contests will include short and distance flights.

It is planned to hold at least one regatta each month on Lake Washington during the fair.

For the long-distance power boat race from Vancouver, B. C., to Seattle, starting on June 29, a five-hundred-dollar cup is offered. This race will be held under the auspices and rules of the Pacific International Power Boat Association. An additional prize will be given to the winner in each of the four classes. The measurements and restrictions are based on the Marblehead-New Rochelle race, with a modifying clause on the rate of beam to waterline length.

Mountain climbers from all parts of the United States and Canada have received an invitation to compete at the exposition.

CINCINNATI TURNFEST.

A good view showing the wonderful location of the stadium, also showing the great crowds that daily took an active interest in whatever was going on.

Digitized by ooQle
-193-

THE DANGERS OF DUST.

We are constantly reminded of the harmfulness of inhaling dust and, notwithstanding the publicity of the facts, dust is everywhere in evidence, in the streets, public places, such as theaters, clubs, churches, gymnasiums, cars, and in the home. There should be no excuse for this. If those in authority would make war upon the broom and duster in homes and buildings where people congregate, as well as those who continually persist in sweeping sidewalks without moistening the surface; those who sweep the dust and tilth from their doorsteps, as well as stores, into the street instead of indoors to be gathered up and burned; war to a finish with especially surface car corporations, the cars of which pull from the streets all manner of filth and character of germs to be breathed by pedestrians and deposited in the homes and stores along the street and indeed for blocks adjacent; if some means were devised to prevent the dust of our thoroughfares from being whipped into the atmosphere we are compelled to breathe by the rapidly moving motor car, there would be less cases of pleurisy* pneumonia, tuberculosis, influenza, tonsilitis, bronchial catarrh, diphtheria, and other infectious diseases to numerous to mention.

Public opinion must bring these innovations and corrections about. Competent persons must be placed in positions to inagurate these changes and be held accountable for their enforcement. It will take time, and there will be opposition from those ignorant of the dangers of inhaling the dust of our cities, but public opinion can force our officials to take action if an organized movement is started and persistently followed up. As an evidence of the power of public opinion we can instance the recent movement in New York City to Pasteurize milk. The health officials opposed the movement until it was made plain that the people would insist upon being obeyed. Then and not until then did the City Health Department heed the strong voice of the people who must in all cases be the final arbiters of public improvement.

Abolish the broom and the duster in our homes, where the beginning should be made. Let those who should know set the example to those less enlightened. Do away with carpets nailed to the floor; if coverings must be used let it be rugs, which can be frequently remowed and cleaned by the steam or vacum process and not by beating them upon the roofs or under someone else’s windows in the yard. Compel all to sweep into the home or store, where the dust may be gathered up and burned, rather than into the streets. Make it unlawful to sweep or dust theaters, clubs, churches, cars, etc. The vacuum or pneumatic processes will remove the dust without a particle being driven into the air we must breathe or the possibility of its settling upon the pictures, mouldings, etc., whence it is only dislodged by wind or vibration. Force the street car companies to sprinkle the streets, or better, devise a pavement which will not harbor dust, and this should apply to all thoroughfares in cities.	Hygienic	(Jazette.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-194-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

SARGENT SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT.

— On May the 29th the school held the 27th commencement exercises, graduating a class of 34. In addition to these Dr/Sargent bestowed honorary diplomas upon Miss Bancroft of Brooklyn, Miss Beiderhase of New York, Miss Thayer o* Ithika, N. Y., and Miss Mayhew, University of Wisconsin. The commencement address was given by Dr. Albert Siebert of Berlin, Germany, who is spending a year in this country partly as exchange professor and partly as ministerial representative studying conditions of physical education in this country. His subject was : “The development in physical education in Germany.”

The' president of the graduating class presented to the school from the class a school seal which hereafter will be the official seal on the diploma. The seal was designed hy Professor Leroy Sargent and is beautiful, both from the artistic point of view as well as from the significance of the discription which goes with the emblem.

Some of the positions filled by the graduates are :

Miss Harrall, Wheaton Seminary.

Miss Hosmer, Indianapolis High School Miss Smith, Supervisor of Schools,

Evanston, 111. Miss Davis, Normal School.

Miss Child, Girls School, Piedmont,Cal. Miss Syfard, University of Minnesota.

Miss Johnston, Normal School, West

Chester, Pa.

Miss Maynard, Tudor Hall,Indianapolis Miss Greig, Belmont College, Nashville. Miss McNally, StateNormalSchool,Iowa Miss Nyman, University of Wisconsin. Mr. Miller, Cheshire School, Conn.

Changes of positions: Miss Dunsford from Bradford Academy to Albany State Normal College ; Dr. Helen Dobson from Washington to University of Wisconsin ; Miss Diall from Vassar College to Simmons College.

The class of 1908 held a reunion in the school on the 28th of June. About twenty responded to the roll call.

CINCINNATI TURNFEST.

On the Stadium. School children rehearsing their exercises during the rush

of business hours.

Digitized by LjOoq le
-195-

HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL 1909*

The attendance this past summer resulted in a total of 160 of which 100 were women and 60 men. Of these 83 took the full course, 67 tHk practice course only, and 9 the theory course only. The teaching force numbered 32 with 10 student assistants. Practically every state in the union was represented, six from the Pacific coast, showing that the reputation of the school reaches far beyond the home state. The first summer course at Harvard was given during the summer of 1887 making this the 22nd course. The registration for this time is 2435 representing an individual membership of 1893. The four years’ course has now been in vogue for eight years, during which time 48 diplomas have been issued. Among those receiving them were graduates from the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven School, Sargent School and Milwaukee Seminary, who finished in less than the required time. In addition to the regular course a special course was held, treating of the Playground. Dr. Curtis of Washington delivered 25 lectures on that subject and three instructors gave instructions in the practical occupations. With this additional course the day’s program ran from 8 in the morning till six at night with but one hour for dinner. Were it not for an unusually cool gymnasium this work would perhaps be too much, but the average temperature in the gymnasium is about 75°, which, considering the hot weather during the course, is very low. Weekly Socials help to make this course a pleasant one. Saturday afternoons are spent in outings to the various beaches. The summer school is growing to be more of a Mecca every year for gymnasium instructors as they are always certain to meet many friends.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

THE PROPER RELATION OF ORGANIZED SPORTS ON PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS AND IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By Lorma Higbeb Lelvnd, Playground Architect anl Organizer.

(Abstract of paper read at Denver Convention, N. E. A., 1909.)

THE PLAYGROUND STANDS FOR NATURAL EDUCATION, RACIAL EDUCATION, SELF EDUCATION. It furnishes practically the only place in the city where the child is not obliged to do things foreign or distasteful to its nature. Play is nature’s short cut to experience. It teaches the lessons which were beneficial to the race in past ages. The play director is the interpreter of race tradition and has become necessary by the civilization, which prevents the child from observing adult activity under favorable conditions and opportunity for imitation. The play instructor secures his influence because he knows more things which will interest the children than their natural street leaders. The child is always the supreme judge of the efficiency of his leadership.

PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES MUST BE RECREATIVE AND INTERESTING. A system of educational play for the playground must be prescribed with freedom for the child to chocse the games he will play. His choice can be guided to ethical, educational and hygienic ends, but these ends must be achieved on the playground, through the recreative application of play.

THE SCHOOL STANDS EOR THE ACQUIRED EDUCATION OF CIVILIZATION. Its system, developed by adults, represents the

Digitized by GooQle
-11 6-

ideals toward which the race is consciously working. To the child, the school represents external authority, and order, as do the teachings of parents, the church and society; it is the personification of the “eternal musts’'''; the place to learn to work at disagreeable duties. School life should promote a^high sense of duty as opposed to inclination; therefore, the teacher is necessarily a disciplinarian and often a task master.

THE SCHOOL SHOULD MEET THE NEEDS OF THE AVERAGE PUPIL. The brightest at school must be kept back in order not to outstrip the dullards. Necessarily the passing mark is such that every student with proper study can reach it. Such methods raise average intelligence, the chief concomitant of civilization, but tend to limit individual initiative.

THE DISCIPLIN OF SCHOOLS AND PLAYGROUNDS IS ANTITHETICAL. The disobedient child is kept after school as punishment; the playground excludes him from the games and grounds and makes the play so interesting that the child is punished.

SCHOOL SPORTS SHOULD DEVELOP ALL THE CHILDREN. Schools and playgrounds are both necessary to complete education. Each should follow its own traditions. Therefore, a system of sports for public schools should be:

FIRST. Educational, teaching what adults decide best for the children.

SECOND. They should meet the hygienic, social an I educational conditions obtaining with the majority, who may be under-fed, with insufficient sleep, and living under unsanitary conditions. The stimulus of intense competition may lead the ambitious, nervous child to greatly exceed the safe limitations of his strength. *

THIRD. They should be compulsory and a regular part of school work, with standards within reach of the average child.

FOURTH. They must be adapted to school equipment without extensive costly immediate.changes.

LASTLY. Thev must not lose their identity as sports. COMPETITION IN SCHOOL SPORTS SHOULD BE SUFFICIENT ONLY TO HOLD THE INTEREST OF THE CHILDREN. School sports should prepare for free competition on the playground. Informal, intra-school contests, or the formation of teams bv choosing sides in the physical training classes should be sufficient to hold interest. Active participation by every pupil and equal development of all players should be the ideal of school sports.

THE PLAYGROUND SHOULD DEVELOP LEADERS. The traditions of the playground are such that it furnishes unequaled opportunity, in an atmosphere of liberty, for the development of leaders. The child is here not shielded from the consequences of his own misdoings. Many of the forces of education are material. Too much of this good thing creates dependence. It is sometimes claimed that things are made too easy for the children, that knowledge is fed to them in homeonathic, sugar-coated doses. The playground represents life standards of child civilization. In order to “make” the team it is necessary to “deliver the goods.” If little Johnny “muffs a pop-up,” his peers sit in judgment and the jury of equals pay no attention to the plea that “he did his best.”
-197-

The verdict is “give him the sack off the team/’ There is no 65 per cent, passing mark on the plavground.

INTER SCHOOL COMPETITION CAN BE CARRIED ON BEST THROUGH THE CO-OPERATION OF THE RUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS. Playground, school sports, under the joint control of the public schools, private and parochial schools, and playgrounds should furnish opportunity through competition for the development of leaders. Only those passing certain physical and mental standards should compete. Teams including all those who “passed,” in*field sports should be formed to compete with respective teams from other schools on the playground. There would be first, second, third, etc., teams for each sport in each school. The total score would he the combined score of all the teams; district games would be played off in the nearest playground. The championship meet could be made a great Fourth of July Festival. Prizes should be inexpensive, ribbons and banners to go to the team, school and playground rather than to individuals.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND MANUAL TRAINING SHOULD BE CORRELATED THROUGH CONSTRUCTIVE PLAY. The child’s instinct for play should not be satisfied with ready made toys. Children should work for their play to derive educational benefit. The “official bats and balls” and other equipments used for school and playground games should be child made; the champions, those who make the best goods and play the best game. Playground and school sports can direct the dynamic stream of play into the channels of “Play craft,” where its force can become accustomed to industrial uses. If money is spent on materials and instructors to teach the children to make their own play supplies, some temptations would be removed from politicians and others who are “not in business for their health.”

THE DANGERS OF COMPETITION. Competition, unless carefully regulated, leads to specialization, introducing commercialism and corruption in athletics as well as in sports Children’s sports should He developed for the sake of the children, not for the sake of the game and the spectator. American sports, especially in College, High School and Athletic Clubs, are professional in methods and ideals, because they are intended mainly to interest the spectator, and not for the benefit of the player. The playing rules for professionals and amateurs should be on an entirely different basis. The educators of our country can absolutely change the tendency of our national games by controlling the rules committees. These committees have been generally made up of professional coaches and others, who, judging from results, have been interested largely in the money side of the game. Naturally thd tendency of the game has been towards specialization. Nominal clean sport campaigns may be necessary and right among professionals, but for amateurs, reform should strike at the roots of evil by modifying the conditions which cause corruption, rather than by treating symptoms with the antidotes of “registration of teams,” who must use “official balls,’" etc., the proceeds from the sale of which pay the expense of whitewashing, and the advertising of official sporting goods. Children, who have not been subjected to corrupting influences, naturally love fair play and play the game for the game’s sake.
-1'.'8 -

EDUCATORS SHOULD PREPARE AND PUBLISH MODIFIED RULES TO DEVELOP CHILDREN'S SPORTS WITH AMATEUR IDEALS. The control of rules committees, modifications and publication of rules, governing the sports of schools and playgrounds should be in the hands of educators, physical training teachers, hygienists and others, who are not dependent upon commercial interests in securing and holding their positions. Such a rules committee should modify our traditional games to adapt them to city, school and playground conditions and should publish these modified rules and keep control of the situation rather than permit the publication and control to be taken up by the same interests which have done so much to specialize American games. When the children's games of our country follow in the commercial and professional footsteps of the games for adults, as now played, then amateur sport in America will indeed be dead.

A GIRLS’ ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

By Lena Hoernig, Kansas City, Mo.

One of the flourishing student societies of the Kansas City Manual Training High School is the Girls’ Athletic Association. The meetings are held on Friday afternoon after school hours in the gymnasium of the school. The object of the society is as its constitution says : “To further indoor and outdoor physical activities as a means toward physical, intellectual, and moral growth.” The membership is limited to students above the freshman year, and only those are eligible who are doing good work in their school studies. Basket ball playing is one of the features of the weekly meetings. Interclass games are encouraged, but games with teams from other schools are not played. Once in two weeks there is rendered a half hour musical and literary program. Roll call is answered with a quotation on physical education, (Miss McKinstry’s booklet of quotations has proved of valuable service). Debates, essays, and reviews on physical training subjects form a prominent feature of the program. During the year ending December 1908 a series of essays was written on the history of dancing. Occasionally one of these essays was published in tie student magazine, “The Nautilus.” The open session given by the society for the 2000 pupils and patrons of the school, February 4, 1909, was based upon this study. It consisted of national dances in costume, and short talks by the girls‘about the dances.

At present the main line of study is “Public Playgrounds”. At each meeting there is a paper or review of some phase of the subject. The public playground system of Kansas City is still in its infancy, and perhaps the influence of the high school girls will promote its growth. There is but little opportunity for outdoor physical activities allowed by the school facilities. Girls of the society have taken an active interest in cross country walks. It is to be hoped that the Girls’ Athletic Association will continue to grow and yield a good influence, besides affording recreation to its members.

Digitized by C^ooQie
— 199 —

JALEO DE XERES.

A Spanish Dance.

Arranged by Miss Lena. Hoernig, Director of Girls’ Physical Training Manual Training High School/Kansas City, Mo.

Music : “Jaleo de Xeres.” Charles Voss.

(a)	Slide left diagonally forward, rise on left, and close right to left, arms

intermediate amplified position ..................................... 1

(b)	Step right backward and point left in 3rd position, arms intermediate

position ..........................................................   1

Waltz turn to left, arms intermediate changing ........................ 2

Repeat (a) and (b) .................................................... 2

Pirouette left, arms in	3rd	position .................................. 2

Repeat above	beginning right ......................................... 8

Repeat all ........................................................... 16

II.

(a)	Stamp diagonally backward with left and draw right to left, arms third

amplified position .................................................. 1

(b)	Repeat ............................................................... 1

Balance left forward, arras intermediate position ...................   1

Balance right forward, arms intermediate position ...................   1

Repeat (a) and (b) ......................................*............. 2

Pirouette left, arms in third position ...............................  2

Repeat above	beginning right ........................................  8

Repeat all ........................................................... 16

III.

Step left diagonally forward and swing right diagonally forward toward left, arms intermediate	position ................................ 1

Digitized by L^ooQle
-200 •-

Step right forward, close left toward right (5th raised), arms intermediate amplified position ......................................... 1

Two glides" left backward (Spanish draw) ............................. 2

Repeat beginning right ............................................... 4

Repeat beginning left ................................................ 4

Pirouette right, arms in third ......................................  2

Step sideward right, cross left in rear, bend knees, bend trunk forward,

left arm circle downward ........................................... 1

Straighten trunk and knees, circle left arm to 5th position, right arm

back and down .....................................................  1

Repeat all the above beginning right ................................ 10

IV.

(a)	Stamp left sideward and draw right to left foot, arms third amplified

position.................................................................  1

(b)	Repeat..................................................................   1

Balance left and right, arms intermediate position ........................  2

Repeat (a) and (b) ......................................................... 2

Pirouette left.............................................................. 2

Repeat above beginning right ..............................................  8

Repeat all...............................................................   10

V.

Step left diagonally forward and swing right diagonally forward toward

loft, arms intermediate position.........................................  1

Step right forward, close left toward right (5th raised), arms intermediate amplified position........................................ 1

Transfer weight to left, step forward on right, and swing left diagonally

forward to right arms intermediate amplified changing....... ............. 1

Step on left, close right to left foot (5th raised) ........................ 1

Two draws backward, arms third amplified position........................... 2

Pirouette left, arms in third position....................................   2

Repeat beginning right...................................................... S

Repeat all ................................................................ 16

VI.

Two waltz steps 4|4 turn left, arms intermediate position changing... 2 Step sideward left and draw right to left, arms third amplified position

and repeat ...........................................................     2

Repeat above waltz turn..................................................... 2

Pirouette left.............................................................  2

Repeat above, beginning right .............................................  8

Repeat all...............................................................   16

VII.

Leap sideward left, cross right in front and 4|4 turn left ................. 2

Kneel on right knee, move body in circle to left, arms in fifth position ...	4

Rise pirouette to left, arms in third position............................   2

Repeat above beginning right................................................ 8

Repeat all ............................................................     16

Finish with attitude, left foot in rear, arms in second position, open (figure.)

A SONG-DANCE.

By Bertha Frances Thompson, Hartford, Conn.

THE SWING.

How do you like to go up in a swing, Up in the air so blue ?

Oh, I do think ft the pleasantest thing Ever a child can do.

Up in the air and over the wall, Till I can see so wide,

Rivers and trees and cattle and all Over the countryside—

Till I look down on the garden green,

Down on the roof so brown—

Up in the air I go flying again,

Up in the air and down.	Rob.	L.	Stevenson.

Digitized by v^-ooQie
J. G. Faton

-201-

I.

(a)	Step sideward with the right foot, raise and extend left leg across

the right, hopping on the right.

Same to the left.

Repeat for 4 measures.

(Girls may grasp their skirts with the arm movement.)

(b)	Slide right sideward ; raise right leg sideward with the arms raised

sideward (3rd position amplified), then step right sideward and extend left leg across with a hop, as in (a), carrying the left arm across to the right.

Repeat to the left. 4 measures. •

II.

(a)	Slide obliquely right forward, rise on toes and sink (3 counts).

The right arm is raised obliquely upward, palm toward the front (4th position reversed), and the left is held sideward, or, for girls the skirt may be held in left hand.

Slide left obliquely backward, rise on toes and sink (3 counts).

The right arm is lowered while the left arm holds the same position* Repeat for 3 measures.

Fourth measure—Step right sideward, raise right arm forward and carry it sideward and downward in a circular movement, (Heels are together at the finish.)

(b)	Repeat (a) starting with the left foot. 4 measures.

III.

(a) Place the right leg just behind left (5th position), bending the knees (3 counts). The right arm is raised up overhead, curved and slightly forward (5th position) and the left raised in 3rd amplified, or holding the skirt.

Straighten the knees and place the right foot obliquely forward (3 counts). Lower the right arm in the direction of the right foot and bend the trunk slightly toward it, the left arm is in same position as before.

Digitized by t^-ooQie
-202-

Repeat same. 2 measures.

Same movement as in 1 (b) with the right foot. 1 measure. Pirouette to tk left. 1 measure.

(b) Repeat (a) starting with the left foot and pause at the end of the pirouette with arms raised forward in an open salutation.

4	measures.

PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY.

Milwaukee, Wis., June 5th, 1909.

Mass Exercises.

PART I.

Exercise 1.

Girls: Left about face in 4 steps ............................... 1—4

Three steps forward with raising of arms sideward upward on

the first step and lowering them on the 3rd step.......... 5—8

Repeat the facing	and	the	marching ........................9—16

Boys: Same as the girls, but beginning with the marching forward. Exercise 2. Raise arms sideupward slowly in 8 counts and lower them in like manner, passing the shoulder level on the 4th and 12th

counts ...................................................1—16

Exercise 3. Toestand and raise arms forward upward ................... 1—2

Return ....................................................  3—4

Squatstand and raise arms sideward ........................ 5—6

Return .................................................... 7—8

Repeat ..................................................  9—16

Exercise 4.	Repeat Exercise	1 ....................................... 1—16

Exercise 5.	Repeat Exercise	2 ........................................1—16

Exercise 6.	Repeat Exercise	3 ........................................1-16

Exercise 7*	Four times left	face (four *4 turns left) each one executed on

the first of 4 steps on place ; raise arms forward with 1st, upward with 2d, lower them forward to shoulder level on 3d and downward on 4th tgrn ................................ 1—16

PART II.

Exercise 1. Three steps forward and 14 turn left with closing of heels on

the 4th count............................................. 1—4

Two somewhat larger steps sideward left and 14 turn right on

the 8th count...........................................   5—8

Same right.................................................9—16

Exercise 2. Raise arms forward, slowly ...........i.................. 1—4

Move them sideward palms upward, and lower head backward 5—8

Return ....................................................9—16

Remark : Place hands on hips at the end of last movement.

Exercise 3.

Girls :	Squatstand and straighten	arms forward..................... 1—2

Toestand and move arms sideward, palms upward ............. 3—4

Return ..................................................   5—8

Repeat ..................................................  9—16

Boys:	Same as girls, but beginning with toestand.

Remark : The movements of the exercises 3, 4, 5, and 6 must be executed on the first of two beats.

Exercise 4. Stride left sideward ...................................   1—2

Twist trunk left........................................... 3—4

Return ..................................................   5-8

Same right ..........................................      9—16

Exercise 5. Straighten arms upward—Lower them left to shoulder level—

Return—Same right ........................................1—16

Exercise 6. Stride left forward—Lower trunk forward—Return-Same right....1—16 Exercise 7. Repeat exercise 7 of part 1, but right ..*................1—16
Repeat part 1.

-203-PART III.

PART IV.

Exercise 1. Three steps forward with raising of arms forward upward on 1st, lowering them sideward on 2nd, raising them upward on

3rd and lowering them	forward	downward .................... 1—4

Four steps on place ........................................ 5-8

Three steps backward with the arm exercise of the forward

marching ................................................  9—12

Four steps on place .......................................13—16

Exercise 2.	Raise arms forward upward	slowly	in 4 counts ............. 1—4

Lower arms sideward, palms upward, and lower head backward slowly ................................................ 5—8

Return .................................................... 9—16

Remark : At the end of the last movement place hands on hips.

Exercise 3. Repeat exercise 3 of Part 2.

Remark : The movement of exercises 3, 4, 5 and 6 must be executed on the first of two beats.

Exercise 4.	Lunge left sideward .....................................  1—2

Bend trunk left ............................................ 3—4

Return ..................................................... 5—6

Same right ................................................ 9—16

Exercise 5. Straighten arms upward—Three quarters of a circle iqward—

Return-Repeat ...........................................  1—16

Exercise 6, Lunge left forward—Lower trunk forward, chest touching thigh—

Return—Same right ........................................ 1—16

Exercise 7.	Repeat exercise 7 of part	1,	but	right .................. 1—16

*

INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING and SCHOOL HYGIENE.

' Special Exercises for Gymnastic Exhibitions.

ARRANGED BY

Third Grade..................................

Fourth Grade.................................

Fifth Grade..................................

Sixth, Seventh and eighth Grades.............

EXPLANATORY NOTES.

The exercises are arranged in three groups. The double count is to be used, namely, two counts for each movement. All exercises are to be executed left, right, and repeat left and right. Between each group a sixteen count period of rest takes place.

Music—For Grades Three to Seven, a march or two-step, 2-4 time.

For the Eighth Grades, a waltz, % time.

Starting Positions—For the ring exercises, the ring is carried in the left hand. For the reed exercises, reeds vertically upward, arms bent, hands before shoulders.

Wands, dumb-bells and clubs, the usual starting position.

Rings can be purchased at any department store. Ordinary towd rings are used. Reeds should be 8 feet long, and cost about* 5 cents each.

Rings and wands are best trimmed with ribbon' streamers.

The reeds can be trimmed with white, red and blue cheese cloth, or with paper flowers.

The pupils stand in ranks of four, two girls and two boys, as follows: Girl» boy, girl, boy.

....Mr. Allen.

....Mr. Toll;

.Mr. Ruther. . Dr. Fischer.

Digitized by v^ooQle


-204-

Calisthenics for the Third Grade.

GROUP 1.

Exercise 1.

a.	Raise arms forward 1—2.

b.	Raise left arm upward, swing right arm backward 3—4.

e. Return to position a 5—6. d. Return to starting position 7 — 8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

a.

,b.

c.

d.

Exercise 2.	a

Raise arms sideward 1—2.

Raise left arm upward, right arm b. back of body 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.	c.

d.	Return to starting position 5—6. d. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

Raise arms forward upw. 1—2. One-fourth turn left, swing arms downward backward 3—4. Return to position a 5—6.

Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

Raise arms sideward upward (clapping hands) 1—2.

Lower arms to the sideward position 3—4.

Return to position a 5—6. Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

a.	Step left forward and raise arms forward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, raise left arm upward, swing r. arm backw. 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6,

d Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward and raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, raise left arm upward, r. arm back of body 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Step left backward, raise arms forward upward 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn left, lower arms to the forward position 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Raise arms sideward upward (clapping hands) 1—2.

b.	Bend knees and lower arms sideward down (placing hands on floor), 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

a.	Step left forward, raise arms forward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk forward, lower arms downward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward, raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk sideward left, raise arms upward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5-^6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-205-

Exercise 3.

a.	Step left backward, raise arms forward upward 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn left, bend trunk forward, swing arms downward backward 3—4

c.	Return to position a 5— 6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

PC

Pose—Boys : Bend knees and place Girls: Point step sideward,

Exercise 4.

a.	Raise arms sideward upward (clapping hands) 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk backward, lower arms to the sidew. position 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

$E.

hands on floor 1—8.

raise arms to a circle overhead 1—8.

Exercises with Rings for the Fourth Grade.

GROUP I.

(Carry the ring in the left hand). Exercise 1.

a.	Point step left sideward, raise arms forward, grasping ring with both hands 1—2.

b.	Turn trunk left 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Point step left sideward, raise arms upward, grasping ring with both hands (ring vertical), 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk sideward left 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat t—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Point step left sideward, raise arms upward, grasping ring with both hands 1—2.

b.	Cross dip step left backward and place ring on head 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7— Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Point step left sideward, raise arms upward, grasping ring with, both hands 1—2.

b.	Cross dip step left backw., bend trunk obliquely left forw., lower arms downward, ring touching the floor 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP II.

During the sixteen counts intermission, pupils are to form couples, one standing back of the other, grasping rings.

Exercise 1.

a.	Raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Rise on toes, raise arms upw. 3-4

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return t;o starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk left sideward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by
—206-

Exercise 3.

a.	Raise arms upward 1—2.

b.	Front pupil bend knees 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

During the intermission, pupils are to

Exercise 4.

a.	Point step sideward (front pupil with left and rear pupil with r. foot), raise arms upward 1—2.

b.	Charge sidew. (vf\th the pointed foot) arms crossed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Alternate 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

P III.

form circles of fours, grasping hands.

ExERcisE 1.

a.	Bend knees, raise arms forw. 1—2.

b.	Rise on toes, raise arms uow. 3-4

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Raise arms forward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk backward, swing arms upward and sideward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Raise arms upward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk forward, swing arms downward backward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Point step left backward, raise arms upward 1—2.

b.	Kneel on left knee, lower arms to the forward position 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

POSE.

Open circles outward, outer pupils kneel, inner pupils point step sideward, arms upward 1—8.

(Tc be continued.)

BOOK REVIEW.

—“ATHLETIC GAMES 11ST THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN” by Gertrude Dudley and Frances Kellor. 268 pages 5x7*4 inches. Published by Henry Holt & Co., New York. Mailing price $1.40.

The book treats in part I of the value of games for citizenship and social education; for educational ends; and of the responsibilities games place upon teachers. Part II speaks of the present conditions in schools, colleges and social organizations; also of competitive and public games. Part LIT speaks of methods of teaching and training.

This is the best book of its kind we have ever seen. There is little in it that any teacher of gymnastics would not uphold. The only part that could be criticized is the title, and the use of the word “athletics.” What the book speaks about is the value of “highly organized games”

Digitized by L^ooQie
—207—

(not athletic games) in the education of women. (See Athletics for Girls in the June issue.) But as said before, this is the best book on the market speaking of the influence of games on character, and it should open the eyes of many teachers to the moral as well as the physical dangers of games conducted as “athletics” instead of as essential parts of physical training. Placed in the hands of school superintendents, principals, teachers, schoolboards etc. who as yet do not see the true relation of games to educational ends, the book will be of great value. No teacher of gymnastics should fail to read it. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“THE FOLK DANCE BOOK” compiled by C. Ward Crampton, M. I)., Director of Physical Training, New York Public Schools. 81 pages, Sy2xliy2 inches, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New Y'ork. Mailing price $1.65.

The book is a collection of 43 dances (desrciption and music) for the use of teachers in schools and playgrounds. In the introduction Dr. Crampton says:	“Folk dances should

serve only their legitimate purpose, namely:	recreation	and

other results supposed to be derived from informal gymnastics. Of course, no one expects that the educational, corrective and disciplinary results which we can best obtain from formal gymnastics, will ever be supplied by the folk dances, nor do we wish them to subserve the functions of atletics, athletic games, or even aesthetic dancing. They supply a charming addition to our physical training procedure and we can expect large results from their intelligent use.” The book may be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

-“FOLK-DANCE MUSIC” by E. Burchenal and 0. Ward Crampton. 54 pages, 9*4x12 inches, published bv G. Schirmer, New York. Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00, postage extra. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. This is a collection of the piano music of 115 folk-dances and should be a valuable aid to teachers when they use these dances.

When, in the preface, the compilors state that “for correlation with other school work folk-dances illuminate history and geography with an immediate interest, while occupations become live and real when enacted in such play-dances as the Danish Shoemakers’ and the Swedish Weaving Dances” we agree with them. This (besides exhibitions) is the natural place for folk-dances. But when they sav that folk-dances develop grace, that they prevent bad posture better than do corrective ( exercises, that their cultural and directly utilitarian effects are much greater than so-called educational gymnastics, yes, that they are especially valuable as hygienic and educational gymnastics, then we pause to wonder what kind of gymnastics the compilors have seen. The same wonder arises when we read the statement that “folk-dances form a natural means of development of the playspirit which is too often forced

Digitized by

Google
—208 —

into dreary singing games.” Dreary singing games indeed. Go to the countries where on special occasions you will see the folk-dances spoken of and see what the young children (in which the playspirit is strongest) are doing, you will find them singing these dreary singing games day for day. Go into any playground where real playground teachers who are directing the play of the children (and not preparing for an exhibition or a fieldday) are at work, stay there for the whole day and see what the children really are doing. If there is any spontaneous activity at all along lines of singing or dancing, what will you find? A folk-dance? hardly, it will he a little song-play, an endless repitition of a simple melody accompanied by bodily movements with which the children are familiar. These are the natural folk-dances for children, and if more time were devoted to teaching correct forms of these activities (to replace the corrupted forms often found) the play-spirit shown would be more natural than that fostered by trying to teach children the movements of a shoemakers5 dance in a country where shoes are made by machinery, or of a harvesters5 dance where the grain is harvested by a McCormick harvester.

There is room enough for folk-dances in this country without “slinging mud55 at gymnastics. As a part of an exhibition, a national holiday, or as correlated with studies in school, etc. etc. a folk-dance would be eminently proper.

—LIFE5S DAY. Guide-Posts and Danger-Signals in Health, by 'William S. Bainbridge, A. M., M. D. 308 pages, 5x7*4 inches, publiched 1909 by Frederick A. Stokes Co., New York. Price, postpaid. $1.50.

This book is based upon a series of lectures delivered at Chautauqua. Advocating moderation and common sense, its philosophy of cheerfulness and hope will be welcome to all who try to go through lifers journey with open eyes and who strive for high physical and mental standards. Part I treats of heredity and environment; Part II of the dawn of life; Part III of Life5s morning; Part IY of Midday; Part Y of Twilight and the last few lines of Night. With its wise mixture of concrete facts bearing upon all processes that occur during “Life5s Pay” and its reasoning as to the why and wherefore, the book becomes one of the most valuable of its kind issued in recent years. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“DAS WANDEBN”—Tramping—by Raydt and Eckardt, published last year by Teubner of Leipzig has been republished this year in an enlarged form. ,This is No. 7 of the little publications of the German Playgrounds Association, and like all of the other publications of this wonderful society is full of useful information to those who are looking for light and guidance in the various activities that lead to a more healthful life for the masses. 160 pages, 5x7 inches, price, Mark 1.20—mailing price in our money about 50 cents. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by

Google