MIND AND BODY

Vo!. 35	JUNE, 1928	No.	370

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm> Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

♦ — — ♦

RESULTS OF QUESTIONNAIRES ON THE TEACHING OF SWIMMING IN FOURTEEN ACCREDITED COLLEGES.

Ann Avery Smith, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Ohio University.

From thirty questionnaires sent out to departments of Physical Education for women among a list of accredited higher institutions and normal schools of Physical Education, fourteen were filled out and returned. These fourteen questionnaires were received from the following colleges and universities: Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania; Barnard College, New York City, New York; Chicago University, Chicago, Illinois; Denison University, Granville, Ohio; Lake Erie College for Women, Painesville, Ohio; Iowa State University, Iowa City, Iowa; University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois; University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota; Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois; New York University, New York City, New York; Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio; University of Texas, Austin, Texas; Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio; University of Texas, Austin, Texas; Wellesley College, Wellesley, Massachusetts; University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.

The questionnaire read as follows:

1.	What swimming stroke do you teach first to beginners?

Digitized by CaOOQle
98

2.	What advantages do you feel that this stroke has over others that you might teach?

3.	How many lessons does it take to teach an average person to swim for instance, the width of the pool or twenty feet?

4.	Do you instruct with the use of land drills?

5.	Do you find that your pupils vary a great deal in the speed with which they learn or does the class keep pretty well matched until they learn to swim, with varying ability of course?

6.	How proficient a swimmer must your student be before you instruct her in a simple standing front dive?

7.	Do you use any system of graded achievement tests in instructing your swimming classes?

8.	Is actual college credit given for Swimming in your institution any time in the four years of your college course or is Physical Education required for two or more years and no actual college credit given?

9. On what do you base your semester grades in swimming?

10.	In what order do you generally teach the following

strokes:

a)	Resting Back

b)	Side

c)	Elementary Crawl

d)	Breathing Crawl

e)	Breast

f)	Trudgeon

g)	English Over-arm or Side Over-arm

h)	Racing Back or Inverted Crawl

I.	A summary of the answers to the first question of the questionnaire is as follows:

a)	Eight Departments of Swimming teach the Resting Back or Elementary Back Stroke first.

b)	Four teach the Elementary Crawl.

c)	One teaches either the Elementary Back, Side or Crawl according to the individual learner. This questionnaire specified that on the whole, most individuals learn best with the Crawl.

d)	One other taught the dog-paddle.

In summarizing the first six questions I have used the above groupings for purposes of comparison and conclusions.

II.	The answers to the second question stated that the eight instructors who taught the Resting Back Stroke first, did so for the following reasons:

1.	“This stroke does not involve the complications of breathing.”

2.	“The face is held out of the water.”

3.	“It is a stroke of simple coordination.”

4.	“It can be taught in a few lessons. Students thus feel that they can accomplish something in a short time and they thus gain confidence.”

5.	“The secret of relaxation is learned in this stroke more than in others.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
99

6.	"Stroke that can be relied upon when beginner is learning more advanced strokes.”

7.	"It is an easy progression from back float.”

8.	"It teaches body balance.”

Though it is true that the Resting Back Stroke when executed as a finished stroke does not involve inherent complications in breathing, there are few, however, who are able to keep their faces out of the water while they are first learning to do either the arm stroke alone or foot kick alone; not to mention coordinating them both together. Some girls can so concentrate on their arm and leg action and on the joy and desire to move in the water that the matter of water in both eyes, in the face, up the nose and in the mouth is of small ado. However, the majority of girls cannot forget themselves, physical discomfort, or fear of the water, so that they can freely concentrate their thoughts on bodily movements. These students must be taught to adjust themselves and become unmindful of the water lapping over the face. If beginners are not trained to breath in through the mouth, the majority continue to breathe through the nose as in every day life. Thus water is breathed into the head. The mouth furnishes the means of inhaling more air in a shorter length of time than does the nose. It is difficult to blow water out of the nose while it is comparatively easy to spit the water from the mouth. In teaching students to inhale through the mouth, it is well also to teach them to exhale through the nose. In this way water can not only be prevented from coming up the nose but any water that may be in the head is blown out. To teach a stroke without also giving instruction in breathing is not to be thoroughly in sympathy with a student’s needs and feelings. The need to breathe rhythmically is of major importance and learning to swim must build up around this need. Persons naturally wish to guard against anything that inhibits a ready supply of air to the lungs. Much of the fear which beginners have of the water is centered around fear of water inhibiting breathing. To teach a beginner how to hold his breath and how to breathe in through the mouth and exhale through the nose is to teach the basis of the science of swimming. A lesson on breathing does much in lessening a beginner’s reasonable fear of the water.

The Resting Back Stroke is indeed a stroke of simple coordination. The arms and legs, “bend”, “reach”, “stroke”, and “hold”, at the same time. This year as an experiment in our Swimming Department, we taught 50 beginners in two classes of about 25 each, the Resting Back Stroke as the first stroke. In two other classes, adding up to 50 beginners, the Crawl with breathing was taught first. Care was taken that none of these girls had had any instruction or had learned anything about swimming. As far as speed in learning to navigate is concerned, those who were taught the Crawl had a slight edge on those who learned the Back Stroke. The former group learned to kick across the pool or 20 feet before the back strokers could cover that distance. On the 6th lesson both groups could swim with*

Digitized by CjOOQle
100

coordinating arms and legs together, the width of the pool. There were about four exceptions to this statement in each group. These eight girls were inhibited by their inability to control fear, which prevented them from trying every new progression as readily as the others in the class. The back strokers, I believe, had attained a greater perfection of form in their stroke by the 6th lesson than the girls who were learning the Crawl with breathing. As far as speed was concerned, however, in the 20 foot, the crawlers were seconds ahead of the back strokers. It was necessary to teach the crawlers more of a variety of material than was necessary in the resting back stroke swimmers. In teaching the Resting Back Stroke, only six different procedures on side of pool as land drills and nine different procedures in the water were used. In teaching the Crawl, nine different procedures on the side of pool and thirteen different procedures in the water were used. These added procedures used in the teaching of the Crawl served rather to add variety to the lessons than prolong the speed of learning to swim however. Repetition and emphasis of the fewer points over and over again in the teaching of the Resting Back Stroke served to bring about perfection in stroke, but became monotonous before the whole stroke was learned by the class.

I do not feel that the Resting Back Stroke group had any more confidence as a whole than the Crawl group, at any stage of the process of learning to swim. Though the average student possibly is able to do a more perfect Resting Back Stroke than Crawl with breathing in the same number of lessons, I do not think imperfection in stroke lessened the crawler’s confidence. In the first place, beginners are usually so very much surprised and pleased with themselves to be able to keep on top of the water at all that they usually think they are “getting along” excellently as soon as they can navigate with feet off the bottom of the pool.

The secret of relaxation is not learned in the Resting Back Stroke any more readily than in other strokes. An individual must learn to relax in order to float either on the face or on the back or to do any stroke whatsoever. It is almost impossible for a person who is fearless of the water and who is able to swim to do so for more than four or five strokes with muscles contracted and tight. It is just that much more impossible for the beginner to swim who has less knowledge of the water and is fearful of it unless he has learned to relax in the water. That the Resting Back Stroke furnishes more inherent qualities, than the Crawl for instance, for teaching the “secret of relaxation” is hard to comprehend. If anything, the Crawl offers more possibilities for relaxation than does the Resting Back stroke. This is especially true of the Crawl foot kick as compared to the Resting Back Stroke foot kick. Throughout the three movements, “bend,” “reach”, “stroke” of each leg in the flutter kick, the legs are comparatively extended and relaxed. To execute the frog kick definite contraction of muscles are necessary. For instance, in the “bend” position, the hip, knees, ankles are bent . pnd toes extended in a definite contracted position. The effort

Digitized by CjOOQle
101

to “reach” around the water with the legs until they are extended diagonally sideways and then to “stroke” the legs together demands coordination and definite contraction of muscles. The only time the legs are really in a relaxed position in the frog kick is during the “hold” when the legs are held together in the extended position before the next bend.

The four who taught the Elementary Crawl first did so for the following reasons:

1.	“The elementary crawl is the easiest progression from a face float”.

2.	“The elementary crawl proves an easy progression to the Side Stroke and to the real Crawl with breathing”.

3.	“The Crawl is a most efficient stroke”

4.	“It is more generally used.”

5.	“It can be learned in a shorter time than any of the others; other strokes could be learned later.”

6.	“The beginner in learning the Crawl learns the fundamentals of swimming at once, the breathing, rhythm, the best all-around arm and foot work.”

7.	“Skill may be acquired in the least time.”

8.	“This stroke is best equipped for all purposes after the skill is acquired.”

“The elementary Crawl proves an easy progression to the Side Stroke and to the real Crawl with Breathing.” In considering the rhythm used in the Side Stroke and that used in the Crawl, and also in considering the foot kicks of each, this statement does not seem to pass without question. The elements or movements of arms and legs which go to make up either the Elementary Crawl (which I interpret to be the Crawl without regular breathing) or the Crawl with regular breathing are performed in continuous rhythm. The elements of movements which go to make up the Side Stroke are something to this effect: (a) “Bend” up both arms and legs: (b) “Reach” out both arms and legs;

(c)	“Stroke” with upper arm and legs (the under arm remains in an extended position over head; (d) "Hold” the under arm in extended position over head, upper arm in extended position at the side, legs together and toes pointed; (e) “Stroke” with the under arm. Of course these above mentioned elements are executed in continuous rhythm. However the element of “Hold” which is so important to an efficient Side Stroke is not a common element to the Crawl at all. Also the "Bend”, “Reach”, and "Stroke” of the Side Stroke foot kick is entirely dissimilar to the flutter kick of the Crawl. The Side Stroke helps the Crawl in-as-much as it aids in doing the arm strokes with breathing. The students are used to swimming on the side and find it an easy matter to turn the face to the side in inhalation.

“The Crawl is a most efficient stroke.” I believe the writer meant that the Crawl efficiently done can bring a person from one point to another in quicker time than the same person could arrive there while doing any other stroke in the same degree of efficiency.

Digitized by
102

“It (Crawl) is more generally used.” This statement is indefinite. It is true that the Crawl is more generally used for Marathon Swimming races; and is one of three strokes (Crawl, Racing Back and Breast) used in speed races. However, in Life Saving, the Side Stroke is most generally used.

"It (Crawl) can be learned in a shorter time than any of the others; other strokes could be learned later.” This may be true in the case of most strokes except the Resting Back Stroke. The Resting Back Stroke can be learned in at least as short a time as the Crawl can be learned. The average girl of college age has not developed her body to such a state of coordination nor has she established the kinesthetic sense such that she can learn in one, two or even three forty-five minute class lessons how to move arms alternately through the “Bend”, “reach,” “stroke” (which each arm executes alternately in the Crawl) and at the same time pass the legs up and down to the rate of 3, 4 or 5 kicks to every complete "bend”, “reach,” “stroke” of the arm and also manage to inhale from the side of the mouth during the “stroke” of one arm and exhale with face under water during the alternate arm “stroke”. The Resting Back stroke in which the Arms and Legs execute the “bend”, “reach”, “stroke” and “hold” at exactly the same time, does not necessitate the degree of coordination that the Crawl does.

“The beginner in learning the Crawl, learns the fundamentals of swimming at once, the breathing, rhythm, the best all-around arm and foot work.” The coordinaton learned and effort put forth in learning the Crawl by a beginner when she is anxious to learn and willing to put forth all amount of energy to learn, lays an excellent foundation for all other swimming and diving instruction. Other strokes are quickly learned with efficient teaching after a person has mastered the Crawl with breathing so that it can be done efficiently. In teaching the Crawl to the girls who have learned the Resting Back Stroke and Side Stroke, I find that I have practically the same problems in teaching them that I had in teaching the Crawl at the first of the year to beginners who hadn’t had instruction in any stroke. In teaching the Resting Back Stroke and Breast Stroke to the group to which I have already taught the Crawl and Racing Back Strokes, I do not have one student in this group who has any unusual degree of difficulty in learning either stroke, Resting Back or Breast Strokes. Possibly the Crawl furnishes such a feat of coordination that all other strokes may be learned easily in comparison.

The college which taught either of three strokes felt that the advantages gained depended entirely on the individual learner. Some beginners learn better with one stroke, some with another, while on the whole, most learned best with the Crawl.

To allow students a choice of which stroke they wish to learn is probably an excellent way to teach small classes composed of girls who wish to learn to swim possibly one stroke for recreation purposes. When college credit is given for swimming as for other college subjects, a swimming program which calls definitely for

Digitized by Google
103

certain teaching procedure of strokes and dives is probably more practical from both the teaching and student view-points.

The necessity of having a definite procedure in teaching strokes in teaching college classes thruout the year, was brought to me emphatically this year as a result of the experiment which we are conducting at Ohio University. In teaching the hundred beginners this year, it was planned that fifty of them in the course of two semesters or a year should be taught five strokes in the following order: (a) Resting Back; (b) Side; (c) Crawl;

(d)	Breast; (e) Racing Back. It was planned that the other fifty should be taught the same strokes in a different order: (a) Crawl; (b) Racing Back; (c) Resting Back; (d) Breast; (e) Side. The students were urged to plan their schedules of classes for the second semester such that girls who were being instructed with the first order should continue to be in a class with those who had been instructed in the first order. Those instructed in the strokes in the second order should continue to be in a class taught with the second order. At the end of the first semester, groups A and B (first and second groups resepectively) had learned tne first two strokes under each given procedure. In signing up for Swimming, the second semester, some of the students who had been taught the Crawl and Racing Back stroke found it impossible to take Swimming at any other time than when the students who had learned the Resting Back and Side in their classes. An Order A student in an Order B class would have been at a marked disadvantage if allowed to remain in the latter class as far as learning new strokes was concerned. In class instruction such a student would be taught but one new stroke, (the breast stroke) during the second semester. She could, however, be taught individually, but as far as the class work was concerned, she would be at a marked disadvantage.

It seems practical, especially for beginners who do not have knowledge of strokes, that they be taught the strokes and diving in a definite procedure thruout the year. Thus in the second semester, at no matter what hour Swimming is taken, each student will have the opportunity of receiving progressive lessons.

The one college which taught the dog-paddle first did so for the following reasons:

1.	“There is little coordination necessary in the dog-paddle, yet it supports the individual.”

2.	“Side stroke is merely the dog-paddle on the side with greater relaxation.”

The number of lessons, stated below, that it takes to teach a "good dog-paddle” convinces its lack of efficiency as a stroke to teach to beginners. The dog-paddle is not a recognized stroke having any great amount of practical value, in light of the fact that other strokes such as the Resting Back Stroke and Crawl can be learned in less time, and at the same time be of real value to a swimmer. No further conclusions need be drawn as to the advantages or disadvantages of teaching the dog-paddle as a foundation stroke for beginners.

Digitized by v^ooQle
104

III.	It takes the average beginner three or four lessons to learn to swim the Resting Back Stroke the distance of about twenty feet.

In regard to the Elementary Crawl, one specified that this could be taught in one lesson; another teaches the Crawl with Breathing in two lessons; a third instructor teaches it in four; and a fourth specifies that from four to eight lessons are necessary.

It is taken for granted that the teachability of college students everywhere in the country is more or less constant. Concerning the above statement in regard to the number of lessons which are necessary in order to teach the average person the Elementary Crawl, I conclude that each one of the instructors either teaches the Crawl by a different method or that each has a different idea of what constitutes the Elementary Crawl Stroke.

In using either the Side or Back or Crawl in teaching a beginner, four to six lessons are necessary.

To execute a good dog-paddle takes from six to ten lessons.

IV.	In regard to the fourth question, seven instructors out of eight teaching the Resting Back first, used land drills. One did not.

All instructors teaching the Crawl first, use land drills in teaching.

The instructor teaching either Side, Back or Crawl used land drills “a little”.

One teaching dog-paddle used them "a very little”.

It appears that thirteen of the fourteen instructors teach Swimming with the use of land drills. Some instructors used land drills to greater extent than others of course. Swimming land and water drills and diving land drills seem to be necessary to the most efficient methods of teaching Swimming and Diving. In land drills, the instructor has a chance to stress the elements which go to make up a complete stroke, away from the distracting influence of the water. The student has the opportunity of learning these elements well and does not have to have the trying experience of being a splasher, who, when she courageously “strikes out” runs the elements of her stroke together. The “edges” of each element of his stroke become so “worn down” that her whole stroke is all in a whirl. A stroke such as this lacks mechanical efficiency to such extent that it can not hold the student to the surface of the water. In most cases the student can do little with her limited knowledge, but to sink. Repetitions of the act of sinking with every attempt to swim destroys the student’s confidence in herself and increases her fear of the water.

For the teacher to effectively emphasize the different elements of the stroke she is trying to teach, it seems necessary that first of all the student be in such a position that she is able to give her entire concentration to the actual movements she is trying to learn. With part of her thoughts on the temperature of the water, another part on the distracting water itself, and still another on the important item of keeping the body on the surface of the water, but one-fourth of the student’s attention can be given
105

to the actual movements to be used in swimming. Even to teach a new foot kick to a swimmer while she is hanging onto the side of the pool or an arm stroke to a swimmer when her toes are giving her support on the railing around the pool is a difficult preposition for a teacher. Though the student then has a certain amount of support, still her major interest, which after all is a me st important one, is that she remain on the surface of the water.

In teaching a stroke while the students are in the water, it is necessary that the teacher explain a great deal as at any other time. However, here she is at a marked disadvantage as far as speaking is concerned, because with the students in the water, she has to make her voice soar above the sounds of splashing and lashing water, and rubber caps pulled down over the student’s ears. Therefore, for all practical purposes for both students and teachers, it is best to teach the elements of a stroke first as land drills at the side of the pool very much as an instructor teaches an informal class in gymnastics. Then the same elements may be taught as water drills, and finally tried with the body in floating position on the surface of the water. The movements of a stroke or the run and jump of a dive can first be taught “on count” and then when the movements are well learned, then the same movements can be done in swimming or diving rhythm.

For example, the movements of the Resting Back and Breast Stroke kick can be taught from a sitting position on the floor, legs together, arms extended backward with hands on the floor for support.

The first position or “Bend” can be taught as the first movement, toes extended, ankles bent and everted, knees, and hips bent, heels held together and knees well apart, toes pointed laterally. The next movement can be taught more as a supplementary movement to the “Bend” position. It may be called “Heels Apart” position. Toes are extended, ankles, knees and hips still in “Bend” position, but heels are moved about one and one-half feet apart. The “Heels Apart” movement is preliminary to the “Reacn” movement which is an attempt to reach around the water and thus get as much water between the legs as possible, preliminary to the "stroke”. In the “Reach” position, the student’s ankles, knees, and hips are extended and legs held well abducted. The “Stroke” is the next movement. Here the legs are adducted or brought together. The "Hold” should be taught as part of the stroke. In this position, the legs are held together, toes pointed for a period of three or four counts. In teaching the “Hold” as part of the movement necessary to the whole foot stroke, the teacher is teaching an item which makes for an efficient stroke. The “Hold” in the land drill teaches the student to “glide” on his stroke afterwards when he is doing it in the water. The ability to hold the legs together for a short period after the stroke, enables the swimmer to get the maximum results of his movements with the least amount of energy expended. When each of the above movements are thoroughly understood,
106

then these can be executed by the student in rhythm. Finally they may be executed in uneven, or swimming rhythm. In swimming rhythm, the “Bend” position is a separate movement, while the “Heels Apart”, “Reach Around”, and “Stroke” are amalgamated such that they appear as one movement. Like the "Bend” the “Hold” is a separate position.

By this time the student understands thoroughly what she is supposed to do in the water and is ready to do the foot kick of Resting Back and Breast stroke as a water drill, while hanging on the railing around the pool on the back for the Resting Back kick or on the stomach for the Breast stroke kick. The movements may be done in this position in the water until the student adjusts her movements to the water. Here they may be done in even rhythm, and then in swimming rhythm.

The student, provided she has already been taught to float on back and face, is ready to swim using these movements. While doing this kick as the Resting Back or Breast stroke kick, the student may say each movement over to herself as she swims: “Bend”, “Heels Apart”, “Reach Around”, “Stroke”, “Hold” 1 - 2 - 3 - 4”.

The arm stroke of Resting Back or Breast can be taught in much the same way. Coordination drills of arms and legs working together, may also be given on land. The coordination of arms and legs working together can readily be established after the arm and leg movements have been learned as separate units.

Land drills pave a way of understanding of swimming and diving. They serve as a factor in the decreasing of fear in beginners. After having been taught a land drill, the students know exactly what they are supposed to do on entering the water. They have but then to concentrate on something they have already learned and are then apt to think “more and more of what they are doing and less and less of the self that is doing it”.

V.	In regard to the fifth question, four of those instructors who taught the Resting Back stroke first felt that their students varied a great deal in the speed with which they learned. Two reasons were given for this: 1) “Competition and psychology of class influenced learning”; 2) “Fear of water”. The four others who taught Resting Back stroke first felt that their pupils kept pretty evenly matched. One instructor states, “I do not find that the pupils vary a great deal in the speed with which they learn. There is no question but that the ability to learn a stroke varies but one can so present the work as to keep all people active and interested.”

Of the four who taught the Crawl first, two stated that their pupils “varied greatly in the speed of learning.” One of these states that this was due to the “grit of the individual and individual motor outfits.” The other two stated that their classes “kept well matched as a whole”.

The instructor teaching either Side, Back or Crawl felt that her pupils “varied greatly in the speed with which they learned.”

Digitized by IjOOQle
107

The dog-paddlers kept pretty well matched until they learned to swim with varying ability.

The use of land drills is a factor in keeping a large class of beginners from varying a great deal in the speed with which they learn to swim. It is rather important when one instructor has the responsibility of teaching a large class that she try to teach every individual to swim at the same time. In the majority of classes of about twenty-five to thirty-five beginners, there are some girls who require veiy little instruction in order to swim. In the same class there are those who learn to swim with great difficulty. Hence it is necessary to regulate the presentation of progressions to meet the needs of the medium group. The instructor who states “There is no question but that the ability to learn a stroke varies but one can so present the work as to keep all people active and interested" uses land drills in her teaching. Land drills seem to offer one means of presenting the work which helps to keep the class from varying a great deal in the speed in which they learn. If those who have difficulty in learning to swim, learn exactly how a stroke is done through land drills, all that remains is practice of these movments as water drills until coordination becomes thoroughly established and automatic. These girls may be urged to swim more frequently than the class meets.

With thorough understanding of a stroke, ability to execute each movement which goes to make up a stroke, ability to coordinate arms and legs together, less tax is placed on “the grit of the individual and individual motor outfits", and more on a student’s concentration and kineaesthetic sense.

VI.	In regard to the question on a simple standing dive, two instructors out of the eight who taught the Resting Back first did not teach diving until their students were able to take care of themselves in deep water. One of these specified that the following is necessaiy before a simple standing front dive should be taught:

1.	“Must be able to swim Back Stroke one length of pool in good form.”

2.	“Must be able to swim Side Stroke one length of pool in good form.”

3.	“Must be able to swim Bide Overarm one length of pool in good form."

4.	“Must be able to swim two-hundred and twenty yards free style in good form.”

Four other instructors who teach the Resting Back stroke first felt that very little skill in swimming is necessary but that the student should be able to reach the side of the pool by swimming. One of these four instructors more or less left the diving up to the students. “Often we teach diving to girls who can only do the Resting Back Stroke though most students can do the Side Stroke before they want to begin diving.”

The two other instructors who taught the Resting Back stroke first teach a sitting dive as soon as their students are at ease in shallow water. “We start the beginners in a sitting dive

Digitized by
108

as soon as they have learned to get their feet under them from a front float. When they can swim on their backs a few strokes, we have them jump (feet first) into deep water. We start the intermediates (those who have started to work on Side stroke) right away in a plain front dive off the side of the pool.”

The other instructor who taught the Sitting Dive first does not have her students do a standing dive until they can swim Side stroke in deep water.

Of the four who taught the Crawl first, two did not teach a simple standing dive until good form in strokes was learned. One of these instructors stated: “A girl must be able to swim in deep water with ease and no fear, tread water, have a fair knowledge of the Crawl stroke, — any one of the other fundamental strokes (Side stroke preferred) in good form.” The other instructor stated that is necessary to ‘‘swim one hundred yards in fairly good form in any one stroke”.

A third instructor who taught the Crawl first stated that it was necessary to be able to swim the width of the pool before the simple standing front dive should be taught.

The fourth instructor who taught the Crawl first states, ‘‘As soon as a student can swim across the pool, start her on a kneeling dive. As soon as unafraid of entering water head first from this position, teach the standing dive.”

The instructor who taught either the Side, Back or Crawl strokes said that her students must be able to swim one hundred and thirty-six feet before the standing dive is taught because, until they cover this distance, they are not allowed to swim freely in deep water. She also stated that she does not think this length of swim really necessary to learning to dive.

The dog-paddler ‘‘must be able to confidently execute a face float, a back float and turn from face float to back float in deep water” before the simple standing dive is taught.

The above show a great variety of opinions concerning the necessary proficiency of a swimmer before the simple standing front dive be learned. In summarizing, six out of the fourteen instructors feel that a girl must be more or less an advanced swimmer before she be instructed in diving. Others of the opinion that it is only necessary that a girl be able to float and stand from a float. Some deem it necessary to teach a sitting dive first,—some a kneeling dive, before the standing dive be attempted.

Most beginners have fostered the idea from some source or other that to dive is a very difficult, dangerous, fearsome thing to do. Evidently some instructors feel exactly the same way about it since they advise that a person become an advanced swimmer before she learn the elements of a simple standing front dive. Since instructors feel as they do about diving, it is not surprising that the student senses that there must be danger connected with the simple act of pushing off from the side of a pool bead first.

Digitized by v^ooQle
109

I do not know why a beginner should not be taught^how to push herself from the side of a pool head first, as soon as she knows how to float and to stand on the bottom of the pool from a float. It is not necessary that a person must learn to dive in deep water. In fact it seems better that he does not. There is not the safety connected with deep water that there is with shallow water, shoulder height. In teaching a new experience, every element of danger should be absent. There is another reason why it is well to teach diving in shallow water. That is that beginners learn to keep their arms overhead until the hands strike the bottom of the pool. It is important that this habit be formed. Then students never have to meet with accidents and experience the unpleasantness of having their heads “cracked on the bottom”. Students are surprised when they are instructed to try to touch bottom on every dive. They seem to think it a fearful, unheard of thing to do. In trying to go straight to the bottom, the dive can not “go flat”. Thus he indirectly learns to do a clean cut dive.

Another element in insuring a diver’s safety and happiness is to have each diver “catch” the following diver. The “catcher” must be in a convenient position such that he is ready to give any service or aid necessary in helping the diver regain his stand on the bottom. The “catcher” supports the courage of the diver to a great extent. Such remarks as these go on between the diver and the “catcher”.

Catcher (standing in water arms outspread). “Come on, I’ll catch you. It isn’t half bad.”

Diver, “Now be sure and catch me! Are you ready? Here goes!”

As a further precaution to the diver’s safety, the instructor can give manual assistance to assure that the diver enters the water at the proper angle. The proper stand for a beginner’s standing dive may be taught as a land drill. The position is as follows:

(a)	Arms extended overhead so that the arms touch the head in front of the ears; thumbs locked.

(k) Feet together.

(c)	Kneea i»«nt and separated.

(d)	Trunk bent forwani from the waist. In land drill, after assuming this position, students should nractice falling forward on their hands on the floor and then straighi.e*ing out their knees. This is a good preliminary to falling into the w«tor in diving the instructor can guide the student’s proper entry into tw. water by placing the hands on the diver’s shoulder blades and untw the arms. When the student says she is ready to dive, the instructor is enabled to send the diver into the water at the proper angle.

In learning diving and swimming at the same time, the two grow hand in hand. In a few lessons knowledge takes the place of fear. There are many good swimmers who have never been taught to dive and who have an unwarranted fear of diving. With

Digitized by CjOOQle
110

instructions in the elements of both to beginners, such a state cf mind is avoided.

Teaching diving and swimming hand in hand implies the need of teaching a stroke which allows the diver to recover himself on his stomach. Such strokes are the Crawl, Breast and Side stroke. However girls can learn to come up and turn over on the back for the Resting Back stroke, though it is a more complicated process.

The process of learning to enter the water head first should be as short and efficient as possible, if the instructor is ever going to have the opportunity of teaching anything except a beginner's standing dive. To teach first a sitting dive, then a kneeling dive, before a simple standing dive can be taught, must have a bad psychological effect on the student. It tends to give the student the impression that to dive from a standing position is indeed a hard and difficult thing to do if it necessitates so many preliminary steps. When she does begin to be able to fall off from the standing position, she thinks she can do a truly remarkable feat. In truth this is a very simple thing to do and should be treated as such. The diver has but taken the first step in the process of learning to dive. Why not give the first step its proper place and start diving instruction in the standing position. The trunk and knees can be bent so that the student is almost as near to the water as she would be in a kneeling or sitting dive.

VII.	In regard to the question on graded tests, of the instructors who taught Resting Back stroke first, six each used their own original systems of graded achievement tests in the instructing of their swimming classes. The other two who taught the Resting Back first did not use any system of graded achievement tests at all.

Of the four who taught the Crawl Stroke first, three did not use any system of graded achievement tests in instructing. The other instructor used the Intercamp Life Saving Tests for Elementary, Intermediate and Advanced Swimmers.

The instructors who taught either Side, Back or Crawl used their own systems of graded achievement tests.

The instructor who taught the dog-paddle first-**00' used her own system of graded tests.

To summarize, eight in»*raetors use their own Graded achievement tests. One’ Inter-Camp Life Saving Tests. Five do not use aw* shaded achievement tests to aid in teaching and grading- in the graded achievement tests, the teacher may fD^j«ae every detail that she wishes the student to learn. In passing off each test, the student gains a definite feeling of accomplishment. A responsibility is taken from the shoulders of a teacher who teaches with the assistance of graded tests. The teacher no longer has to make the students want to learn to swim. They try to learn to swim in order to pass off each test. If the passing of a certain number of tests is necessary for a good grade, then the incentive to pass off the achievement tests is indeed

Digitized by CjOOQle
Ill

great. With her achievement down in black and white, the beginner especially is encouraged to think more of his progress than of his reactions to the water.

VIII.	Nine instructors out of fourteen answered the eighth question. Of these, six stated that their college or universitygave no college credit whatever for swimming at any time during the four year course. One stated that the negative college credit was given during the two required years of Physical Education. One stated that positive college credit was given in the two years in which Physical Education was required but not after this time as an elective. The other questionnaire stated that positive college credit was given during four years of Swimming or other Physical Education subjects.

When positive credit, even though very little, is given, the students take their Swimming as seriously as they do any other college subject. Besides working to learn to swim well, students also work for a grade. This makes it doubly necessary that they actually learn how to swim and dive regardless of how much fear complex they are handicapped with. No student wishes to flunk in Swimming any more than in any other subject, especially when it is a subject from which a positive grade point must be had.

IX.	In answering the question "On what do you base your semester grades in Swimming?” three types of answers were given. Six instructors of the fourteen graded on such qualities as “effort”, "proficiency” "attendance”, "amount accomplished”, "effort”, ."ability”, "spirit”, "improvement”, and "progress”. These six did not state that they used graded achievement tests (which many of them said they used) to aid in ascertaining what grade a student deserved.

Three other instructors stated that the skill of the student, as determined by the graded tests, along with "improvement”, “attidude”, “attendance”, "interest”, "progress”, were considered. This system is used at Ohio University.

Three others graded only on the achievement tests which the students could or could not pass. These three instructors approach methods in grading used by instructors of academic courses. It is up to the individual student to learn enough to pass off the tests or she does not receive a passing grade.

In twelve of the fourteen "attendance” was an important item in determining the grade.

Two instructors stated that no grades were given in Physical Education subjects.

X.	In regard to the last question, no two colleges taught the listed strokes in the same order. Only twelve of the fourteen answered this question. A table showing the teaching procedures of the eight different strokes is as follows;
112

	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L
Elementary Back			 1	1	1	1	1	1	1	2	2	5		3
Side			 2	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	3	3		4
Elementary Crawl 			 3		4	5	1	2	2	1	1	1	1	1
Breathing Crawl			 4	5	5	6	3	5	6	4	4	2	2	2
Breast			 8	7	6	7	7	7	7	8	8	4	4	7
Trudgeon 			 7	4	5	4	6	4	5	6	6	7		6
English Overarm				 6	3	3	3	4		4	7	5	6		5
Racing Back 			 5	6	7	8	5	6	8	5	7	2	3	8

In but few cases are the strokes with similarities, taught adjacent to one another in the teaching progression.

In six cases of the twelve the elementary crawl is taught as a progression in the teaching of the Breathing crawl. A seventh instructor did not teach the Elementary Crawl even as a progression but taught the Crawl with Breathing from the start as we do here at Ohio University. These eight instructors feel that justification for teaching the Elementary Crawl lies merely in its value as a progression rather than as a stroke in itself. Persons can not swim the Crawl easily, with assurance for any appreciable distance until the breathing rhythm is well learned.

The remaining five instructors used the elementary Crawl either as a stroke in itself or as a preliminary to a disismilar stroke such as the Side Stroke.

In six cases, a, b, f, h, j, k, the similarity of the Crawl with the Racing Back stroke is noted and used to make the teaching progression from one stroke to another easier. The Crawl stroke executed in the prone position of the body and the Racing Back stroke executed in a supine position are identical strokes in regard to the stroke elements or teaching points, through the difference in bodily position causes necessary modification in the direction of movement and use of arms and legs. The foot kick for the Crawl and the Racing Back may be learned at the same time. Students may be taught to kick while hanging to the side of the pool, first in a prone position for the Crawl, and then in a supine position for the Racing Back stroke. This variety is added to the teaching of the foot kick and the student is rested though he keeps in continuous motion.

In but one case, that of j, is the similarity between the Resting Back stroke and Breast stroke recognized and used. The foot kick of these two strokes are also identical except that one is executed in the prone position, and the other in the supine

Eosition. While hanging on the side of the pool, the student may e instructed to do the Resting Back kick. Then he may be instructed to turn over on his stomach, and do the identical kick on his stomach. As in the case of the Crawl and Racing Back strokes, this method of teaching not only simplifies the teaching of the two strokes, but variety, and the change of position rests the swimmer.

Of the eleven who taught the Side, English Overarm and Trudgeon, six noted the similarity between the three and made

Digitized by CjOOQle
113

use of it. All three strokes use the scissors kick. The English Overarm especially is a very easy progression from the Side stroke. The coordination of the arm and legs working together is not changed. The only difference between the two strokes is that in the English Overarm, the “bend” and “reach” position of the top arm are executed above the surface of the water, rather than below, as in the Side stroke. Between the Trudgeon and English Overarm, there is much similarity. The coordination of arms and legs working together are identical. The difference is that the Trudgeon is swum in a more or less prone position, thus allowing the “bend” and “reach” of the underarm as well as the top arm (speaking in terms of the English Overarm) to be executed above the surface of the water.

Conclusion

Judging from the answers to the questionnaires, among these fourteen colleges, fifteen including Ohio University, there are almost as many different ideas of methods, and procedures of teaching swimming and diving as there are colleges and universities. At the present time a student transferring from one college to another would be taught Swimming with different methods, different stroke progressions, and even as many different ways of doing the same stroke, as colleges she goes to.

Though methods of motivation necessarily vary with instructors, ways of executing strokes and dives need not be any more variable than methods of Arithmetic. Possibly more unification of methods and procedures among college Swimming departments in the teaching of Swimming and Diving would bring forth increased knowledge and growth in the field of teaching of Swimming and Diving, and also a higher quality of results among students of Swimming and Diving throughout the country.

RESEARCH HIGH SPOTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By James JSdward Rogers

The other day a prominent educator challenged the profession of Physical Education when he said there was little research in our profession, and whatever research is to be done, must be done by the psychology and science departments that have experts. This statement was well received by physical educators who seem to forget or do not have knowledge of the research being done in our field by our own experts.

Research is the vogue in all fields of education. It is proper that we should have science and methods and tests applied to our progress so that we can get real educational results. We should be acquainted with research in health and physical education. There is much being done and yet a good many of

Read at the National Convention of the American Physical Education Association in Baltimore, May, 1928.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
114

the rank and file seem to be ignorant of the fact. The purpose of this paper is simply to give a sketchy outline of some of the main bits of research.

In Dr. F. R. Rogers, Dr. David Kingsley Brace and Mr. C. H. McCloy we have three educators trained in the field of physical education that are recognized as experts in the field of educational measurements. They are all doing original research in the field of measurements and tests and rank well in the country among people qualified in this research work. Not only should we know their studies but we should know that they are recognized as competent mathematicians. There are others also of our profession who are competent in educational measurements and who are doing some original work.

In the field of physiology, many of our own people are doing some original thorough investigation. We should know of these and should again have confidence that our own people are qualified as physiologists and scientists to conduct laboratory experiments. I need but name the work of our secretary, Dr. J. H. McCurdy and Dr. William T. Bowen.

In the field of educational psychology as applied to our work we have Dr. Clark Hetherington, Dr. Jesse F. Williams and other men who rank high. In brief, not only should we know of the different surveys we have made in respective branches of our profession, but we should have confidence in the fact that we have psychologists, physiologists, scientists and educatonal mathematicians trained in statistics and measurements competent to command consideration and commendation.

In the field of educational measurements and tests as applied to physical education, I wish to draw particular attention to four studies.

1.	School Administration Series, Tests and Measurement Programs in the direction of Physical Education by Frederick, Rand Rogers, Chief of the Physical Education Bureau, New York State Education Department, Bureau of Publication, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City, 1927. One of the great values of this scientific and technically written book is that it gives us capacity tests for classification of students. It is the nearest thing we have to the I. Q. in general education. It gives us strength index by which students may be classified. It will be possible for us to have boys and girls play on teams with more or less equal capacity. It will be possible for us to grade our work better. It will enable a coach to get a better knowledge of his athletes. Its great educational value, however, is that it will permit us in physical education to do what the

I.	Q. has done in physical education, to classify students according to their inherent strength and capacity.

The second worthwhile book in this field is by Dr. Bruce, Measuring Motor Ability, A Scale of Motor Ability Tests, A. S. Barnes & Company, New York, 1927. It is an attempt to find

Digitized by UjOOQle
115

activities of motor abilities that can be measured and secured. This book has skills of motor ability tests adapted to the schools.

3.	The work of C. H. McCloy you will find scattered throughout the latest numbers of the Physical Education Review and such studies as Athletic Handicapping by Age, Height and Weight” and on "Using the Spirometer as an Instrument of Precision”. He is constantly making contributions to this field and his studies of girls athletics in Detroit will be helpful when published.

4.	The work of Dr. McCurdy and his committee which for two years made studies in motor ability and posture skills you should be acquainted with. Much work is being done by our people in this field of tests and measurements. There are at least four outstanding contributions of which we all know.

Another book valuable in this field is that of John F. Bovard and Frederick W. Cozens, "Tests and Measurements in Physical Education, 1861-1925, A Treatment of the Original Sources with Critical Comment.” This book is most valuable and every one should have a copy. It tells of the investigations by Hitchcock and Sargent in the field of Anthropometric measurements. In the field of strength tests it mentions the work of Sargent, Galton, Kellogg and Martin. In the field of Cardiac functional tests it outlines the work that Crampton, McCurdy, Meylan, Foster, Barach, Barringer, Schneider amd others have done in this field. This book also outlines the splendid tests and studies made by the different universities. There is the Sargent test for speed and endurance; the Tumerbund class pentathlon; Meylan’s test for grading in physical education; Sigma Delta Psi requirements; University of California efficiency test; University of Oregon physical ability pentathlon; University of California, Southers Branch test; University of Illinois test; Ohio State efficiency test; Metcalf’s proposed test; and the National Amateur Athletic Federation Scoring table. Then there are the tests for girls and women with which we should be acquainted; Proficiency test, University of Oregon; Test of the College Women Directors of Physical Education and scoring system suggested for college women (Collins and Howe).

Then there are the different tests as applied to the elementary and high schools; Athletic Badge tests; Richards’ efficiency tests for grade schools; Age-aim charts, Philadelphia Public schools National Athletics for boys and girls; Detroit decathlon, boys’; California decathlon and New York State physical ability tests. Also there is the Indices for measuring physical efficiency and the Neuro-muscular control tests. So we see that in this field of tests and measurements, our own people have competently done a great deal of work.

When it comes to the field of physiological investigation research much has been done and is being done by our own physicians who are trained in physcial education. We should be acquainted with the work of McCurdy, Bowen, Dublin, Hill, Schneider, Jackson and others.

Digitized by C^ooQle
116

Time and space will only permit us to high spot certain studies made by physcial educators both in this country and abroad. For instance there is the book on Heart and Athletics by Dr. Felix Deutsch and Dr. Emil Kauf translated by Dr. Louis M. Warfield. This is a scientific study and we should know the results. The book is composed of graphs, charts and scales, and is scientific in method. Some of the conclusions briefly stated are:

1.	“That athletics bring about changes in the heart in a not inconsiderable number of cases which, in the present state of our knowledge cannot be looked upon as harmless .

2.	The following paragraph is significant: "It was shown that among the various types of exercise which place the greatest strain upon the circulatory apparatus and therefore most readily lead to changes in the heart, rowing, bicycling, and skiing stand at the top, while boxing, football (soccer) and fencing hardly ever give rise to cardiac enlargement. Between these stand swimming, hiking, light and heavy athletics. Further proofs sire furnished by case records that the heart changes can be the result only of dilatation."

According to the researches of Kaufman and the statement of Starck, it has been shown that nervous influences can lead to changes in the size of the heart. It should therefore be seriously considered whether one should allow a neurotic to undergo the excitement of competitive contests. Have the advocates of an intra-mural non-competitive program for girls a proof here for their principle?

In regard to food and fuel of athletes, are we acquainted with **the work of the German physiologist Meyerhof and the English physiologist A. V. Hill*? Do we also know of the recent conclusions of Henderson & Haggard on the fuel of muscular work from investigations on the Olympic championship crew of 1924? The Scandinavian physiologists Rrogh and Lindhard * * * have also made some interesting investigations in this field.

We ought to be acquainted with the best studies of nutrition. In the field of light, the ultra violet rays, there are some interesting studies:

1.	Hess, A. F. The Ultraviolet Rays of the Sun, J. A. M. A. 84: 1033 (April 4) 1925. Steenbeck, Harry; and Daniels, A. L. Irradiated Foods and Irradiated Organic Compounds, ibid. 84:1093 (April 11) 1925.

2.	Park E. A. The Etiology of Rickets, Physiol. Rev. 3:135 (Jan.) 1923.

♦When a Muscle Contracts, editorial, J. A. M. A. 84:442 (Feb. 7) 1925. ♦♦Henderson, Yandell, and Haggard, H. W.: The Maximum of Human Power and Its Fuel, Am. J. Physical. 72:264 (April) 1925 ♦♦♦Krogh, A., and Lindhard, J. Biochem, J. 14:290 (July) 1920.

Digitized by Google
117

3.	Hess, A. F.; Weinstock, Mildred; and Helman, F. D.; The Antirachitic Value of Irradiated Phytosterol and Cholesterol, I. J. Biol. Chem. 63:305 (March) 1925.

In the field of heat, ventilation and health we should be familiar with some of the outstanding studies and research. Do we know of the work of Dr. Leonard Hill, London, England; Dr. H. M. Vernon, London, England; Prof. C. E. A. Winslow, New York State Commission on Ventilation chairman; Dr. Frederic S. Lee, Columbia University; William E. Watt, pioneer in the field of modified window ventilation; Dr. George T. Palmer, American Child Health Association; Dr. William Alfred Sawyer, chief of Medical Department, Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; John Rankin McLure, whose original work in the field of present ventilation practices in school buildings has awakened great interest in school ventilation? In this field there are also the studies of J. S. Billings, C. E. Winslow and L. Greenberg.

I wish to call your attention to the presidential address of Dr. Diehl, Minnesota University, who as president of the University Health Service Society presented a long list of technical research in the field of health and medicine that touches our field of physical education.

At the same annual meeting of this University Health Service Society held at the Hotel Astor in December, and found in their report, Dr. L. I. Dublin of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company gave a report on the Relation of Athletics and Athletes to Longevity. He told of previous studies made and gave a valuable bibliography. There is also the interesting work of Dr. A. V. Hill of England who made some interesting studies at Syracuse University.

I am sure that many of us are acquainted with the splendid work of Prof. Bird Baldwin of Iowa University and Prof. Jackson at the University of Minnesota, in their studies relating to the correlations between ti»© nbvsiological and chronological age as affecting growth, height, weight, --.atomical changes, etc.

men there is the long list of studies i feeing to the efficiency of the child in the school work as regards ilTneao anc| absence; physical defects and retardation, health and acceleration ana tj-q! motion. I am sure we are acquainted with the surveys of the different health organizations which clearly show that physical education affects absence, retardation and promotion. It is impossible to stop and tell of the studies of the American Child Health Association, the studies of the American Federation of Organizations for the hard-of-hearing and similar organizations.

Special attention should be given to the recent studies in tests of circulatory fitness mad« by E. C. Schneider* and Abby H.

•Schneider, E. C. A. Cardiovascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency. J. A. M. A. 74; 1507 (May 29) 1920; Mil. Surgeon 520 18 (Jan.) 1923.

Digitized by
118

Turner.** In these clinical studies an attempt has been made to study the cardiovascular reactions and to try to determine the extent to which various forms of physical exercises may be warranted.

A group of interesting studies with which physical educators ought to be acquainted are those in regard to the relationship of disease and fatigue. May I quote the following studies:

1.	Abbott and Gildersleeve: The Influence of Muscular Fatigue and of Alcohol on certain of the Normal Defenses, Univ. Pennsylvania M. Bull. 23:169, 1910.

2.	Fatigue and Resistance to Disease, editorial J. A. M. A. 79:2165 (Dec. 23) 1922.

3.	Boycott, A. E., and Price-Jones, C.: Experiments on the Influence of Fatigue on Infection, J. Path. & Bacteriol. 29:89 (Jan.) 1926.

In our different universities there are many theses for Masters and Doctors of Philosophy degrees that show possibilities in research made by our people. For instance there is the study by L. F. Zwarg on the Influence of Age, Height, Weight and Weight-per-inch upon Motor Ability of High School Boys, made in partial satisfaction of the requirements for the Master’s Degree at Teachers College, Temple University.

In regard to college athletics and health, we should be acquainted with the studies of Green way and Hiscock*.

Again I am sure that some of us are acquainted with the studies of Henderson & Haggard of Yale University, who for many years have been giving attention to studies of blood and circulation, and have recently perfected a method by which the amount of blood circulated by the heart can be measured with a considerable degree of accuracy.

In regard to educational measurements and tests I refer you to the following:

Athletic Research Society, Report of 1920-1921- American Physical Education Association, 93 Westford Avenue, Springfield, Mass. An interesting summarized ~rv,rt of the nature and use of various tests of athletic	,and	Physical *icu»y.

Barringer T. B >‘"1 ne Circulatory Reaction to Graduated Work as a Tp°* oi the Heart’s Functional Capacity.” Archives of internal Medicine, March, 1916, Op. 365-381. A test which interprets physical efficiency in terms of a delayed rise in blood pressure. A valuable test for the physician.

Foster, W. L. “Test of Physical Efficiency”, American Physical Education Review, December 1914. A statistical formulation of a simple test for testing heart efficiency and general circulatory action. A useful test.

Gilchrist, Edward, “Statistical Studies of the Athletic Ability of Boys and Girls and Socialized Achletics,” School and Society,

•Turner, Abby H. Am. J. Physicl. 80:6(1 (May) 1927

•Greenway, J. C. and Hiscock, I. V.: Mortality Among Yale Men, Yale Alum-pi Weekly 36:1086 (June 11) 1926,

Digitized by
119

January 29, 1921, pp. 143-49. See also School and Society, May 18, 1918, pp. 597-99. A scientific presentation of experimental data regarding the performance of boys and girls and standard athletic events.

Rapeer, W. L. “Minimum Essentials for Physical Education and a Scale for Measuring Physical Efficiency,” Sixteenth Year Book, National Society for the Study of Education.

Sargent, D. A., “The Physical Test of a Man,” School and Society, January 29, 1921. pp. 123.

Schneider, E. C. "A Cardiovascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency,” Journal American Medical Association, May 29, 1920, p. 1509. A scientific presentation of a physical efficiency test based on a statistical study of the tests by Foster, Crampton and Meylan.

Stecher, W. A., Educational Gymnastics, J. J. McVey Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 1917. A scientific presentation of age standards and tests of physical efficiency for elemenary and secondary schools.

Wyman, Agnes R., Physical Efficiency Tests as a Means of Determining the Type of Physical Work a Student Should Do, Barnard College, Columbia University, New York City.

Williams, J. F. & Finkelstein, W., “Correlation of Efficiency Tests”, Journal American Medical Association, May 13, 1922, p. 1454.

Bean, R. B., Composite study of weight of vital organs in man. Am. Jr. Phys. Anthropol. 9:293-319. J.-S. 1926.

Davenport, C. B. Human growth curve. Jr. Gen. Physiol. 10:205-16. N. 20, '26. Demonstration of public school health examination at Racine, Wis. Nat. Health 8:702-3. O. ’26.

McCloy, C. H. Weight Standards for the Individual. Am. P. E. Rev. 31:919-26 S. '26.

Oleson, R., and Taylor, N. E. Endemic Goiter and Physical Development. P. H. Rep. 41: 1881-95. S. 3, '26.

Truesdell, D., and Croxford, G. Periodic Variation in Blood Pressure, Pulse and Physical Efficiency Test. Am. Jr. Physiol. 79: 112-8 D. '26.

In regard to studies in physiology and anatomical studies, I refer you to the following:

Bilhuber, Gertrude, Functional Periodicity and Motor Ability in Sports.

Bliss, James G., A Study of Progression Based on Age, Sex and Individual Differences in Strength and Skill.

Blood Changes and Their Significance in Exercise and Training, Edward C. Schneider.

Blood, Sugar Content of the, in Runners Following a Marathon Race, Burgess Gordon, L. A. Kohn, S. A. Levine, Marcel Matton, W. D. M. Scriver, and W. B. Whiting (Abs. Jr. A. M. A. Aug. 15, ’25.)

Blood Changes and Their Significance in Exercise and Training Diet, Discussion of, Dr. Edward C. Schneider, 178, 250.
120

Blood Pressure, High, The Effect of Machano-Therapeutics on the Maximum and Minimum of Readings in Cases of, Edgar F. Cyriax (Reprint from The Medical Press and Circular.)

EXTRACTS FROM DR. SCHMIDT'S “PHYSIOLOGY OF

“EXERCISE"*

Translated by William A. Steelier

The Physiological Value of the Different Kinds of Exercises

We shall next review the results of the previous discussions in order to give a short summary first of the different types of exercises and second of the physiological values of each. There are two large groups of movements. The first group consists of movements in which each exercise represents a series of parts that are gathered together as a coherent whole. These exercises can be invented and performed in an endless variety while standing, sitting, or lying, also with hand apparatus and upon fixed apparatus. They are designated as (a) general exercises of strength, (b) local exercises of strength and (c) exercises of skill.

In contra-distinction to these, there is the second group of movements or exercises consisting of a rhythmic succession of the same movement that can be continued for an indefinite period. The number of such exercises is limited. They consist of (d) exercises of endurance and (e) exercises of speed.

Wrestling, putting up heavy dumbbells and lifting heavy weights belong to the group of general strength exercises. These exercises demand a maximum of exertion of large muscle groups combined with the act of pressure. Even if these exercises strongly stimulate breathing and the heart (although they do this only for a short time) they nevertheless are of questionable value for heart and lungs, because of the effect of pressure. Pressure stops breathing, fixes the thorax, injures the elasticity of the lungs so as to lead to emphysema. An exercise of this kind can also injure the heart, because at the moment of exertion the arteries of the heart, expecially the corinary artery, are empty at a time when the heart really should contain much blood in order to continue its work efficiently. The sudden pouring in of venous blood into the right auricle and chamber of the heart may, in a weak heart, easily lead to a dilation. These exercises however greatly stimulate metabolism. So far as the nervous system is concerned, the exercises demand great will power, so as to incite large muscle groups to exert themselves to their utmost. The active muscles gain much in strength and in mass, the increase, however, being in the thickness of the muscle rather than in its length.

The local exercises of strength and the exercises of skill make up for the bulk of material of the different systems of school

’Continued from last issue.

Digitized by Google
121

gymnastics. Although there is no definite line of demarkation between these groups of exercises, the main aim of local exercises of strength is to exercise and strengthen smaller muscle groups so as to develop maximum strength. The exercises of skill however, have as their principal aim the improvement of coordination between brain and nerves so as to control the body through will power. While this means the use of only single muscles momentarily even to the highest degree, many muscles are used, however, only in a medium or slight degree in the solving of difficult coordination.

The exercises of this group embrace the free exercises in standing or while sitting or lying. If they consist of simple movements that are repeated often, or if they are combined with long poses, they may be classified as local exercises of strength used to strengthen definite muscles or muscle groups. This is true particularly of the trunk exercises with poses. In combined free exercises, especially in those performed in a swinging, spirited manner, where the effect of the movement is increased by the use of light dumbells or of iron wands, the improvement of coordination comes more in the foreground.

In apparatus exercises it is still more difficult to separate the development of strength and of skill. According to Du Bois-Fey-mond, static exercises present longer muscular contractions. It may be assumed that exercises in which there is a maximum exertion of single muscles or of muscle groups will be found more often while performing on the following pieces of apparatus: horizontal bar, boom, parallel bars, ladder, rings and climbing poles or ropes. In movements where a sure control of the musculature through skill predominates, exercises on the following pieces of apparatus will be found: vaulting on the buck, horse, boom with saddle, pole vaulting, parallel bars, also in the leg swings of the horse. To these exercises may be added: jumping over a rope or bar, hurdling over all kinds of hindrances, like fences, ditches, planks, etc. This group also embraces the various forms of throwing and putting (ball, shot, discus, spear, javelin, hammer, etc.) All these throwing exercises, as well as the jumping, are dynamic in character.

The effect of local exercises of strength and of exercises of skill upon the growth of the organs of respiration and circulation is beneficial, but of very short duration. They may bring about a better development of the thorax and, under some conditions, an improvement of the breathing mechanism. For the cultivation of all parts of the lungs to their fullest capacity, however, these exercises are neither intensive enough, nor of sufficient duration. Free exercises and exercises upon apparatus help to develop the auxiliary muscles of respiration rather than the more important fundamental muscles. Added to this is the fact that some local exercises of strength, particularly those of the static form, often are combined with the act of pressure, and under such conditions have deleterious consequences.
122

So far as the musculature is concerned it can be said that if the exercises are wisely chosen that the effect is splendid. The muscles do not become thick and massive, but long and slender, so as to be able to perform large, all embracing contractions; by means of local exercises of strength it is possible to develop definite and important muscle groups. As already stated, the muscles of the trunk, so far as they are conducive to an upright carriage, and also the abdominal muscles are particular cases to be bene-fitted by these exercises.

The main value of local exercises of strength and of exercises of skill lies in the improvement of coordination of that part of the nervous system that controls the voluntary movements of the body. Their aim is to lead to a perfect control of the body under all conditions by the will; as an expert pianist, after a glance at a page of music, is able to strike all the keys and play accurately a harmonious composition, so the expert gymnast should be able to coordinate the endless nerve and muscle connections that are necessary to perform a beautiful and harmoniously constructed exercise as soon as this has been described to him. It also should be remembered that courage and determination are awakened and strengthened, especially by exercises on apparatus. The main value, however, of exercises of skill is in the domain of nerve education.

The following exercises are to be classified under the head of exercises of skill and of endurance: walking, marching, mountain climbing, running, dancing; also swimming, rowing, skating, skiing, and bicycling. These all are forms of movement used in moving the body from place to place. These exercises are undertaken with the mission of moving the body in the shortest space of time to a given goal. If the object is to cover the greatest distance in a given time, then, during exercises of quickness, the work of the heart and lungs is increased to the extreme limit of their capacity and to the beginning of signs of exhaustion. These organs perform a maximum amount of work similar to that of muscles during an exercise of strength. If, however, such an exercise is slowed down to a pace where it is possible to perform it for a long time at the same speed, then a balance can be established between the amount of work performed on the one hand and the capacity of heart and lungs on the other. When such a balance is arrived at, the exercise becomes one of endurance and can be continued for hours.

The main exercise-value of exercises of quickness and of endurance, therefore, lies in the strongly increased rhythm and consequent strengthening of heart and lungs. Exercises of quickness rapidly increase the work of the heart and lungs to maximum possibilities. Every part of the lungs is brought into action, which during ordinary exercises is only slightly the case. When, however, the limit of exertion has been reached, then signs of exhaustion of heart and lungs appear, namely: on the one hand breathlessness, and on the other, an increased pulse rate, a weak and even an intermittant pulse. It is breathlessness particularly

Digitized by kjOOQle
123

that compels one to an immediate cessation of an exercise. During rest, breathlessness usually disappears very rapidly. Attention is called to the fact that through proper exercise breathlessness can be avoided to a considerable extent or at least modified. This is the reverse in exercises of strength, with their accompaniment of the act of pressure, which can not be avoided.

In exercises of endurance the extent of respiration is increased considerably; at the same time, however, the rhythmical movements and the depth of respiration tend to assist the circulation of blood in the veins and so bring about, to a considerable degree, a distinct relief to the heart. When, however, an exercise of endurance is increased far beyond the usual and beneficial limit, then the heart load is increased by the rapid accumulation of fatigue-stuffs in the blood. As a result of this, the work of the heart becomes insufficient, and a dilation results, often only momentarily, but at times causing permanent damage that may go so far as a permanent dilation.

Exercises of speed and of endurance greatly stimulate metabolism, because they demand large, and at times extreme amounts of work with the accompanying expenditure of energy. The muscles also, are strongly engaged, but not to their maximum capacity. In exercises of speed, therefore, local exhaustion of working muscles does not result, because the work is divided among the massive muscles of the legs and hips (which constitute over one-half of the muscles of the body). This distribution is the reason why exercises of endurance can be continued for such a long time. Only during an extreme extension of exercise of endurance do symptoms of exhaustion of the muscles manifest themselves.

The effect of exercise upon the nerves is important. Exercises of speed demand short, but maximum efforts of the will only when they assume the character of competitive exercises, as for instance in running, rowing, swimming, etc. As competitive exercises they demand the quickest covering of a definite distance in the shortest time. Exercises of quickness when performed at medium speed, and ulsu exercises of endurance, because they are half automatic, and as such are largely reflex in character, have a recreative effect upon brain and nerve function. Because of this they allow a full enjoyment of the beauty of nature with its beneficial, elevating effects upon the mind. This is particularly true when tramping over hill and dale, mountain climbing, rowing, and also when bicycling on a good road. Only when exercises of endurance are extended inordinately, the general exhaustion resulting therefrom has a detrimental effect upon the nervous system. The recovery therefrom, however, is more rapid and complete than it is from nervous exhaustion resulting from excessive mental work or after mental exhaustion.

Attention should also be called to the fact that cold weather exercises like skating and skiing, also swimming, because of the loss of warmth through the skin occasioned by them, have a splendid value in inducing vigorous exercise so as to replace this

Digitized by v^ooQle
124

loss of warmth. They also are a splendid means of accustoming the body to a large range of temperature variations.

The remaining groups of exercises are the exercises of attention and alertness. Marching tactics and memorized drills belong to this group. Long drawn out free exercises, wand, dumbbell, and club exercises, when consisting of many count movements, usually can be placed in this group. Tactics are marching exercises performed by a group of participants. Their main object is to have a group of persons perform some evolutions. Like in the system of Spiess, these evolutions with their intricate ramifications are made an end in themselves. It may be granted that for parades, and for military reasons the practice of such drills and formations becomes a necessity; but the use of such movements beyond that necessary for the conditions named above, is an unpardonable misuse of time that may be used for physical education ends. All the formations, facings, wheelings, etc. have practically no effect upon the development of heart, lungs, etc. which should receive first attention in a system of physical education for the youth. They do however, demand a continuous mental attention and effort, thereby adding to the strain upon the brain that in school already has sufficient work to do. To children that crave for vigorous muscular action after the muscular inactivity of the schoolroom, such exercises are a form of torture.

The same condition prevails so far as many of the dances and rhythmic drills are concerned. Generally, these consist of a senseless aggregation of intricate evolutions accompanied by singing or music, demanding constant attention and memory work. This criticism does not apply to those dances that really arose among the folks of a country, termed folk dances. What is said applies to those socalled drills and dances composed by people who have no musical feeling and who have no conception of beauty or appropriateness. As a rule concoctions have no gymnastic value, and they are a mental strain upon the participants.

The object of exorcises of alertness is to prepare one to roaot quickly when confronted by unexpected situations demanding prompt action. Exercises of this type are games, fencing and wrestling. Games in a great measure contain all the values of exercises of speed; while wrestling belongs to those exercises of general strength demanding utmost exertion. These forms of exercise have an element in common; they demand a sure and quick coordination of movements that have been determined upon by free action of the will. In games this occurs briefly only at certain intervals during the plays. Games therefore, retain the recreative character of exercises of quickness and of endurance. Fencing and wrestling, on the other hand, (eye to eye and body against body) demand ceaseless attention that may lead to an exhaustion of the nervous system; This at least may happen when the opponents are evenly matched and passionately continue the contest.

(To be continued)
125

♦ .... ♦ Health education notes

Health Education.—A “Handbook of Suggestions on Health Education,” prepared for the consideration of teachers and others concerned in the work of public elementary schools in England is issued by the board of education on the authority of Sir George Newman, the chief medical officer. The physical health and condition of the child are, in the board’s view, the basis on which all mental education must necessarily be founded. Not only is the physically unfit child likely to be below the average of mental capacity, but the development of the brain and mind is largely influenced and promoted by the muscular activities. Accordingly, the purpose of hygiene and physical training is not only to improve the physical condition of children but to aid in the development of their mental powers and in the formation of character. Upward of 20 percent of children in attendance at school are suffering from acute disease needing treatment, and the practice of hygiene is necessary as a defense measure—a means of cure or prevention. In a child under 10 or 11, hygiene is to be taught as a rule by habit training. The first part of the “Suggestions” consists of subject matter for health practice and talks for young children, classified under various heads, which include cleanliness, clothing, food, fresh air and sunlight, breathing, care of the eyes, ears and teeth, "safety first,” and physical exercises and games. Cleanliness should be drilled into children till it has become a habit, and they can be accustomed to fresh air in the class room, put through a class breathing exercise, and trained in right posture and other matters. The second part relates to the instruction of older children, and contains outlines of health lessons for the information and guidance of teachers.

Cause and Treatment of Common Cold.—Cheney asserts that he has been able to induce all the symptoms of a cold, in varying degree from a simple coryza to that of grippe, by the induction of an artificial acidosis through the administration of ammonium and calcium chlorides. The degree of severity of the symptoms was in direct ratio to the degree of acidosis induced. The symptoms rapidly subsided on the administration of sodium bicarbonate in large doses by mouth and by rectum. If the disease is attacked when there is a beginning dryness in the pharynx or a slight coryza, or congestion of the mucous membrane of the nose, and alkalization is instituted by giving 60 grain (4 Gm.) doses of sodium bicarbonate every two hours for three doses, when usually the urine is alkaline to litmus paper, a “cold” can always be aborted. At the time of taking the treatment; the usual meal should be dispensed with or should consist of milk and some cereal, or soup or broth. If the bowels are constipated, they

Digitized by Google
126

should not be moved by a cathartic or laxative but the lower bowels should be relieved by a soap-suds enema. When a cold has advanced to the stage at which there is a hoarseness and a profuse coryza, or when this condition has advanced to what is generally termed “a cold,” Cheney gives an initial dose of 60 grains (4 Gm.) of sodium bicarbonate; 30 grains (2 Gm.) every two hours for six doses, then 20 grains (1.3 Gm.) every three hours during the waking period until the cold is checked. The administration of the sodium bicarbonate should always be in or followed by a large glass of hot water. Locally, he sprays the nose and throat with an alkaline solution, 1 drachm (4 Gm.) of sodium bicarbonate to 1 pint of water, morning and night. If the bowels are constipated, an enema of soap-suds will relieve the lower bowels.

Incidence of Hernia in Children.—Among 130,243 children, outpatients, seen by Paterson and Gray, 1,018 were suffering from hernia of some variety, that is, an incidence of 0.8 per cent. There were 773 simple inguinal hernias; operations were performed in 564, with four recurrences. Of the 209 cases in which operation was not performed the hernia had apparently spontaneously disappeared in 185, while in twenty-four the hernia was still present. The chances of a spontaneous disappearance of an inguinal hernia would appear to be better in females than in males. There were only eight cases of strangulated hernia in the whole series, and no case of femoral hernia was found. There were 214 cases of simple umbilical hernias; in forty-six operation was done; 101 disappeared spontaneously and in sixty-seven, for one reason or another, operation was not done. This implies that half the children suffering from umbilical hernia are cured spontaneously and do not require operation under the age of 12 years.

Physiologic Action of Tea.—McDowall concludes that the moderate consumption of properly made tea does not have any serious disadvantages and that, taken with meals, it acts as a useful antagonist to the somewhat soporific effect of the meal itself. It is, however, to be considered essentially a luxury, without any real value, except that it promotes a sense of well being. Its bad effect, if taken in excess, or if too long infused, may, in some persons, be considerable, although fortunately these effects are never permanent and disappear if the supply is reduced. An important practical point is that when tea has to be made in large vessels which require replenishing from time to time, some method must be adopted for removing the used tea leaves readily by having, for example, the tea suspended in small muslin bags or in a special wire gauze chamber. When urns are in use, the tea should be made in teapots by rapid infusion with boiling water and poured into the larger vessels, which may then be kept heated as required.

Digitized by v^ooQle
127

Treatment of Seasickness, Air-Sickness and Car-Sickness.—In order to avoid seasickness, a person should lead a very regular life during the voyage. Sleep should not be disturbed nor the digestive organs overburdened. One should spend as much time as possible in the horizontal position in a location amidships. The general psychic tension should be relieved with sedatives; barbital is the most suitable. Odors of machinery and of cooking should be avoided, as well as the wearing of any glasses to which one is not accustomed, and gazing at the waves or at the dipping tip of the mast. The fact that at the height of seasickness there is a fall in blood pressure and also that persons with high blood pressure are rarely seasick suggests the administration of blood pressure raising drugs. A combination of atropine and strychnine is recommended.

Fate of Patients with Open Tuberculosis.—Of 969 patients treated for open tuberculosis in sanatoriums between 1902 and 1922, 40 per cent were living in the spring of 1927; 83 per cent of these were able to work. The figures show further that a patient who is alive five years after sanatorium treatment of open tuberculosis may expect to live and be capable of work for a long time.

THE FALLING BIRTH RATE AND TAX PAYING CLASSES.

England can now be divided into two classes—those who pay taxes and derive no benefit from them except the usual ones, the preservation of order and the maintenance of our defenses, and those who, if they pay taxes at all, pay little and whose main concern is the advantages they can derive from the taxes paid by others. As a result of the socialistic trend of our legislation in recent years the burdens imposed on taxpayers have become too onerous for many worthy self-supporting citizens who cannot afford to bring up families. Their low birth rate causes concern to eugenists, who say that we are reproducing slowest from our best stock. In a joint letter to the Times, Major Leonard Darwin (president of the Eugenics Society), Prof. Elliot Smith and other eugenists argue that the allowance made for children in taxation should be increased. They refer to the fact that two distinguished American authors recently calculated that 1,000 college graduates will scarcely have 200 grown-up great grandsons, while 1,000 miners will have 3,700. We have no corresponding British figures and no past experience to guide us in this matter except perhaps the Roman empire at its climax. If this failure to reproduce took place, not only among those with a university training but also among all endowed with exceptional ability and energy, it would be a disaster. Income-tax payers, as a class, owe their position to the industry, forethought, self-control, and the intelligence of themselves and their ancestors. These qualities will tend to reappear in their descendants on account of both parental example and natural inheritance. Considerable sections of this

Digitized by
128

class are not having families large enough to maintain their numbers. It is desirable that their fertility should be increased. With this object the signatories suggest an increase in the income-tax allowances for children. An increase in the fertility of the income-paying classes can also be advocated on economic grounds; for the capital of a country consists not only in material things but also in the attainments of its citizens. Greater fertility among income-tax payers would result in an increased expenditure on education, with a consequent increase in the national capital, to the advantage of all classes. The present allowances for children are faulty: They are on a flat rate, with the result that they form such a small proportion of the total income of the well-to-do as to have no appreciable effect on their fertility. The larger the income, up to a point, the greater should be the allowances.

THE DRAWBACKS OF PROSPERITY.

The registrar-general’s decennial supplement for England and Wales shows how interesting statistics, usually regarded as dull and uninspiring, may become when intelligently analyzed. A fact that stands out is a greater mortality from high living and excessive drinking among the well-to-do than among the poorer. Thus diabetes affects chiefly the classes provided with the means of overeating and under-exercising. A striking example is the contrast between the farmer and the agricultural laborer. The farmer probably gets a good deal more to eat than the laborer. His diabetes mortality figure is 16, while that of the laborer is 7.3. It has long been believed that diabetes in later life is largely a disease of over-nutrition. Definite statistical evidence of this is provided by the fact that the mortality from this condition fell in this country, when supplies were restricted during the war, and has risen most since these have been restored. Similarly, the incidence of cirrhosis of the liver varies largely with financial means. “Mortality from this desease may be to some extent an index rather of spirit drinking than of alcoholism in general.” Heavy death rates from it occur among lawyers, authors, editors,

t'ournalists and actors, with those engaged in the liquor trade leading the list. In diseases of the digestive system there was a high mortality among barristers and dentists. Barristers had the highest mortality from appendicitis; other occupations with high mortality from it were auctioneers, architects and bank officials. On the other hand, nineteen occupations in the classes described as skilled, intermediate, and unskilled workers had no deaths from appendicitis. The appendicitis death rate was two and one-half times as great for the upper and middle classes as for unskilled workers, the lowest class of the population. Diabetes, appendicitis and suicide as causes of death showed high figures among farmers. The first may be associated with free consumption of an abundant supply of food, though good living is not recognized as a cause of appendicitis. The high rate of suicide is no doubt

Digitized by LjOOQle
connected withthfcrsgreat financial depression of the farming industry. “Plain living makes for health,” says the report, “but mortality rises again as poverty increases.” Farm bailiffs and foremen have the lowesK mortality of the 173 occupations classified, and the Church of England clergy the second lowest.

For many years	diet is an important

factor in the treatment of anemia. More recently experimental work has been done by Whipple, Robscheit-Robbiris showing clearly the value of certain foods especially liver, in accelerating blood regeneration, as this is the most pressing problem imper-nicious anemia where there is a rapid and abnormal destruction of red blood cells. This was a welcome announcement, and the importance of their work led others to investigate this problem with the result that in 1926 Minot and Murphy announced an effective cure for pernicious anemia built on a large proportion of liver.

Minot and Murphy announced the prompt and rapid increase in red blood cells and the marked increase in well being of forty-five patients with pernicious anemia who had been under their care and had received this new diet. These scientists made careful experiments with the diet in which liver is given the most prominent place. In fact, liver is found to be superior to other foods also rich in iron, that it is considered necessary to include from 90 to 200 grains (or 2 to 6 ounces) of liver daily in the diet. They place in the daily diet in the order of importance, calves’, beef and pig liver; kidneys; chicken liver; red muscle meat, devoid of fat; fruits (peaches, apricots, oranges, strawberries, grapefruit, blue berries, raisins, prunes) and vegetables cooked or raw (lettuce, spinach, asparagus, cabbage, carrots). Permitted also in the daily diet are one egg, milk (about one cup) tea, coffee, cocoa shells, potatoes, macaroni, toasted whole wheat bread, simple crackers, sugar (less than one ounce) relishes, poultry, fish and the shellfish. To be avoided are fats in excess of about two ounces daily (butter, cream, cheese, bacon and pork fat, salad oils and nuts.)

So far no definite explanation has been offered for the effectiveness of liver as a cure for pernicious anemia. But it is recalled that liver contains vitamins A, B and C being a rich source of the first. Whether the vitamins present in liver activiate the regeneration of hemoglobin in1 some such way as vitamin D favors the deposition of calcium in the bones as a preventive of rickets, has not yet been determined.—Connecticut Weekly Health Bulletin.

Digitized by L^ooQle
130

EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION

The Late Effects on the Children of the Food Scarcity During the War.

In the current number of the Archiv fur soziale Hygiene, F. Hoppe, school physician of Berlin-Charlottenburg, publishes a study on the late effects on children of the food scarcity during the war period, in which he reaches the following conclusions: In certain circles children of the war period present evidences of bodily inferiority that have a causal connection with the undernutrition of that epoch. As the effects are still observable in juveniles who are past 17 years of age and thus have passed through the more significant portion of puberal development, there is little prospect of these being entirely “outgrown.” These belong, as it was discovered on investigation, to certain definite age group. It has also been shown that it was precisely their age at the time of the greatest food scarcity that made these juveniles more susceptible and less resistant. The results of the investigation make it appear likely that around the ninth and the tenth year of life the resistance declines temporarily with a certain regularity, doubtless owing to definite physiologic processes. The theory is set up thus far, only with reference to the boys, and awaits confirmation.

Sunshine and Open Air and Health.

Dr. Leonard Hill, F. R. S., director of the department of applied physiology and hygiene, Natipnal Institute for Medical Research, lecturing on “Sunshine, Open Air, and Health” said that many people wear too much clothing. Artificial silk lets through 50 per cent of the good rays, and he commended the wearing of stockings of that material and of low-necked dresses.. They would never, he said, stop the decaying of teeth by the use of a toothbrush. The causes of it are wrong food, overfeeding, and lack of light and the open air. Millions of pounds are being spent on curative medicine which ought to be spent on preventive treatment. All hospitals ought to be provided with open-air balconies with special glass through which rays could be directed on patients in beds wheeled out of the wards.

Hereditary Factor in Acute Rheumatism.—Acute rheumatism is hereditary, but Jones says, this signifies merely that a child’s constitution is such that—given unfavorable environmental surroundings—his inborn tendency thereto is evoked, while in other and more favorable conditions it would not have materialized. The influence then of temperature, humidity, altitude or other environmental factors is truly speaking evocative rather than causative. The liberating stimuli thate licit thel atent hereditary bias may be positive, e. g., cold and damp, or negative, as lack of sunlight or vitamins. Hence, the degree to which the influence of heredity can be controlled will depend on the measure
131

of accuracy attained in identifying the evocative stimuli responsible in individual instances.

Calories.—Mere shortage of total calories is a common cause of malnutrition and underweight. It is often assumed that the appetite will insure the intake of a suitable number of calories; and in many instances it will. But appetite is easily perverted; it is more a matter of habit than many realize. The child who learns to drink coffee in infancy may satisfy his appetite with that and consequently not consume enough total food to satisfy the needs of his body. Likewise, the child who eats on the impulse and not at regular and suitably long intervals may fall short of the needed energy allowance. Moreover, the child who becomes undernourished through bad habit of living loses his keen desire for food and consequently goes progressively downward.

—Report, Joint Health Committee, Health Education.

Effect of Exercise on Oxygen Saturation of Hemoglobin.

—Experiments made by Himwich and Loebel indicate that in ill and debilitated persons during exertion, the volume of oxygen diffusing through the pulmonary membrane is not enough to saturate the hemoglobin of the blood in the lungs. This suggests that the pulmonary mechanism may be a limiting factor in exercise—a factor which explains in part the inability of sick persons to withstand exertion.

THE DIETARY DEFENSE OF SPINACH

In a review of current dietary practices in various parts of the world, a recent writer has remarked that in a civilized country where food is abundant and people are prosperous, people tend to cater to the sense of taste, and in so doing frequently spoil their diet through an unwise selection of food; in countries where food Is scarce and few articles are available, they tend to regard food mainly as an agency to relieve suffering through allaying the pangs of hunger. In the latter case, he adds, the diet is generally faulty because of its simplicity and the absence of an effective supplemental relation among the different articles eaten. The same writer has argued, particularly on the basis of experimental studies on animals, that milk and the leaves of plants occupy a unique position among the available foods, in that they are so constituted as to correct, when suitable amounts are included in the diet, the defects of cereals, tubers, roots and meats. Accordingly, McCollum has designated the corrective products as "protective foods”—a term that has attained widespread use. He argues that too little of the protective foods, milk, the leafy vegetables and fresh fruits are eaten, and that a movement toward stimulating the consumption of these classes of foods would go far toward effecting that improvement in our national health standards which the many agencies concerned with the public health are seeking.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
132

The program for improved nutrition through the institution of more rational dietary habits has already found widespread acceptance, particularly in relation to the child welfare movement. Children are being brought up to drink their milk and eat their greens with almost military precision and a crusader’s ardor. Some testimony of this is found in the public announcement of the completion of a community demonstration in child health work under the auspices of the Commonwealth Fund in a western city. A review of the alleged benefits as recorded in the daily press offers the comment that “Fargo consumes ten times as much spinach now as before the schools started to teach the value of green vegetables."

The liberal use of green vegetables insures a considerable contribution to the vitamin quota of the diet. Spinach, for example, has the highest content of vitamin A of any common vegetable that has been investigated, being weight for weight, when fresh, a little richer than butter. Weight for weight, too, it is about as rich as milk in vitamin B, and it contains antiscorbutic vitamin also. Furthermore, not only do the leafy vegetables tend through their bulk to prevent constipation, but they also furnish the relatively uncommon but highly essential element calcium. There has been some question whether the calcium in spinach is actually readily available for absorption in man. In the Nutrition Laboratory of the Bureau of Home Economics of the United States Department of Agriculture in Washington, McLaughlin has compared the calcium balance of a diet in which spinach supplied a very high proportion of the calcium with that of the same diet in which milk furnished an equal proportion of the element. The outcome gave a favorable report for the spinach, even when this furnished 70 per cent of the lime in the diet. This speaks well for the green vegetable that dietitians are wont to conjure with when nutrition needs a boost. It is nutritively wholesome, even if not always gustatorlly delectable.—Editorial, Journal of the American Medical Association.

CONSTITUTION AND CHARACTER.

The Aerztliche Gesellschaft fur Sexualwissenschaft und Konsti-tutionsforschung of Berlin convened, November 18 and 19. Specialists from other cities had been invited. The main topic discussed was “Constitution and Character.” The sessions were opened by the chairman, Max Hirsch, gynecologist, who gave a general survey of the development and significance of character research in therapeutics. F. Kraus brought out analogies and inner relationships between chemical and physical phenomena, on the one hand, and biologic and psychologic manifestations, on the other hand, and gave his conceptions of the relation between the psychic and the physical. He warned against bringing psy-

♦Reprint from the Journal of the American Medical Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
133

chology and biology into too intimate and unreserved relationship. The fact that, in present-day thinking, the ego is deduced predominantly from psychic factors appears to him just as onesided as— for example— the current exaggeration of the significance of internal secretions. The psychic and the physical are two distinctly separate manifestations, neither one reducible to the terms of the other; neither the doctrine of psychophysical parallelism nor the theory of identity can be seriously upheld. Kraus recommends, therefore, that psychology take psychic products rather than psychic processes as its point of departure. In studying psychic products we find such surprising agreements with the characteristics of protoplasm that the conclusion lies near at hand that our thinking is, in its expression, identical with the organizing principle of our body, in which connection, moreover, it must be considered that this body constitutes by no means a unity.

The Problems And Methods of Characterology

Kronfeld of Berlin entered into a somewhat detailed comparison of metaphysical psychologic endeavors and empiric, biologic efforts. From the methodological standpoint, he defined the limitations of various anthropologic measurements.

Ewald, psychiatrist of Erlangen, took Kretschmer’s famous “Constitution and Types of Character” as his point of departure, although he accepted the author’s expositions only in part. He praised Kretschmer for his keen physiognomic insight, but alleged that he often wraps an anthropologic, scientific cloak about his clearly observed and almost artistically described types. Ewald endeavors to get beyond Kretschmer’s rigid correlations between constitution and character and the assignment of definite temperaments to definite anatomic forms. He defines character (after omitting all considerations as to “intelligence” and “temperament) as a disposition to react in a given manner on the basis of feelings, will and instinct, and, to express it somatically, as a disposition of the autonomic and the central nervous systems to react in a specific manner. The psychic modes of reaction depend thus on the nature of the nervous systems. The farreaching character changes following encephalitis, such as were formerly observed only in congenital moral feeblemindedness, have revived the belief in an anatomically tangible substratum of character; in fact, the unwillingness to assume a definite localization of psychic qualities should not be exaggerated. Ewald considers the constitutional predisposition as more important than the environment. Of special importance are the electrolytic processes (potassium and calcium) as the inorganic, and the hormones as the organic, bearers of the electric manifestations, the smallest bodily components of character that are produced by way of the blood or the internal secretion. Ewald proposes a number of new notions or concepts that can be applied not only to the psyche but also to the body: intensity, extent, repression, inhibition.
134

Researches On Hereditary Character

Hoffmann, psychiatrist of Tubingen, discussed the subject of researches on hereditary character. Their purpose is, as in botany and zoology, to separate the genotypic and phenotypic elements; that is to say, to ascertain the genes or “radicals” of character that are transmissible independently of one another and to separate them from its external manifestation. To be sure, it is a long way still to the establishing of laws after the manner of the mendelian laws. Hoffmann gave a number of examples of heredobiologic analysis of personal character, which is most easily carried out in case of children of disharmonious parents. In this connection, he emphasizes the importance of changes in relative character structure: when a quality is transferred from the center of a parent's character to the periphery of the child’s character, or vice versa. Thus, for example, the simple and naive joyousness of the mother may take on an entirely different function if it is injected into the nature of the daughter, weighed down by the influence of the father’s disposition, and may be practically swallowed up as it serves as a convulsive compensation. Hoffmann called attention also to the importance of age in the differentiation of character. Thus, as he enters on the stage of puberty, a model boy may become a liar and a thief, or, again, wild boyishness may be transformed into sound mental staidness, or timid, schizoid psychopaths may become sober and stem professional men. We have not advanced so far that we can make any sort of prognosis as yet. Age often brings surprising changes. Hoffmann recommends supplementing in characterology definite quality terms by joining thereto certain notions expressive of instinct and impulse, but he would not go so far as psychoanalysis does and supplant the former by the latter.

The only psychologist to speak was the philosopher Professor Utiz of Halle. He emphasized in principle the possibility of collaboration in this field between psychology and the natural sciences, but stressed the need of each retaining its autonomy. He discussed then a number of separate problems; among others, the well known question as to whether hereditary disposition or environment is the greater force or influence in the shaping of character. He answered the question in the light of the William Stem convergence theory, which admits not only hereditary but also- external components. The idea of environment is a difficult notion in itself. What, for example, is the best environment for an artist: that which inspires him to produce the most and the best work, or that which the therapeutist or the moralist prescribes? There has been some difference of opinion as to whether a person’s own body constitutes a part of his environment. Itiz, calling on Aristotle in support of this view, denied energetically that the body is part of a person’s environment. Instead of seeking a primary cell as the foundation of character, peeling off, as it were, one tissue after another, and after the body is disposed of, paring down “feeling, willing and thinking,” it is more in or-

Digitized by LjOOQle
135

der to endeavor to discover definite" laws.” And there is no better way of discovering these laws than through observation of the conduct of man; for which reason it is not sufficient to include in characterology the theory of constitution, mimetics and graphology, but, going beyond these, the researches on the American theory of psychologic study termed “behaviorism,” which has become known in Germany chiefly through the efforts of the Biihlers (husband and wife), must be brought within the purview,.

The Berlin psychiatrist Hildebrand( Wittenau) delivered the final address, in which he dealt with congenital inferiority of character; that is, the character associated with an hereditarily psychopathic constitution, opening up thus the study of pathologic character. The speaker presented the essential nature of the psychopathic character as a departure from an ideal norm and not from a statistically computable average standard. He demanded for the recognition and differentiation of psychopathic character researches on the hereditary transmission of its various forms and sought especially to establish the different psychopathic types of character as the results of various degrees and stages of degeneration.

......

Gymnasium and playground

o-----	'	 -	<»

CAPTAIN BALL

1.	GROUND.—Divided into two equal parts by centre line across width. In each division there shall be a centre circle four feet in diameter and five circles round, three feet in diameter, ten feet from the centre circle and six feet from each other.

2.	TEAMS.—14 a side.

3.	APPARATUS.—Association Football.

4.	POSITION OF PLAYERS.—

There shall be one captain and five basemen in each team. The captain shall place herself in the centre base, and the five base-men in the five bases surrounding the captain’s base. There shall be, also, six guards in each team who shall place themselves one outside each of their opponents’ bases. There shall be two fielders in each team who shall place themselves on either side of the centre line.

5.	THE GAME.—The game shall be started by the ball being bounced or thrown by the umpire between the fielders. The ball shall be so bounced or thrown after each goal or at any time when the game has been interrupted. The ball shall not be in *

*Reprint from Physical Education, England.

Digitized by v^ooQle
136

play until touched by one of the fielders who stand upright, hands to sides, heels together, and on their own side of the line facing each other and their own goal. The ball may be caught, batted and thrown in any manner with one or both hands. object of the game is to score goals by passing the ball from the fielder or guardsman, via a baseman to the captain. The captain must have both feet inside the circle, if only one foot, no goal is scored and-the ball is returned by the captain to a baseman. A goal is not scored if the ball is passed directly from a fielder or guardsman to the captain.

6.	FOULS.—(a) Striking, wrenching, pulling or removing ball from another player.

(b)	Kicking ball or striking with closed fist.

(c)	Batting the ball and catching it again or deliberately rolling the ball along the ground and picking it up again.

(d)	Carrying ball or holding for longer than three seconds.

(e)	OFFSIDE. A captain or baseman shall be off-side if both feet are outside the circle. A guardsman shall be off-side if she enters the circle with one or both feet, or if she leaves her own half of the ground.

(f)	Obstructing a player with any part of the body.

7.	PENALTIES.—For Fouls (a) to (e), a free pass is given to player on opposite side, in a corresponding position to the one who made the foul. For Foul (f) a free throw to goal to the opposite side from any baseman the captain chooses.

NOTE, (i) When two players of the same side hold the ball a free pass shall be given to the opposite side.

(ii) When two players of opposite sides hold the ball at the same time, the umpire shall bounce the ball on the spot where it was held and between the two players involved.

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCING STEPS.

Arranged to various rhythms, by Albert Reichmann.

Files are counted off by twos, from right to left.

Files No. 1. Actives, Files No. 2. Ladies. Ladies take one step forward.

Group I. (A March in 4-4 time)

EXERCISE	I.	Counts

Place L. foot forward, raise arms forward.................1-2

Lunge L. sideward, swing arms down and side upward, and

bend arms to strike from head.........................3-4

1-4 turn left, place L. foot forward, and straighten arms

forward ..............................................5-6

Raise L. knee forward, bend arms in front of shoulders....7-8

Straighten L. leg backward, and lower trunk forward to balance stand frontways, straighten arms sideward (slow movement 4 Counts).......................................9-12

Digitized by Google
1S7

Place L. foot forward, circle arms downward, and bend

arms to thrust.......................................13-14

1-4 turn front, lower arms and close left to right.......15-16

Repeat to L. and R.

EXERCISE II.

Place L. foot sideward, raise arms sideward................1-2

1-4 turn L. place L. foot backward swing L. arm backward

R. arm down and obi. forward upward....................3-4

Kneel L. place hands on floor (crouching start)............5-6

Straighten knees a little, lean forward	(get	set)..........7-8

4 running steps forward...................................9-12

Leap into a balance-stand left, right leg well back, arms

swing upward, and sideward	during	flight............13-14

1-4 turn front on L. foot, close R. to Left, lower arms.....15-16

Repeat to L. and R.

EXERCISE III.

Files No. 1 perform 2nd No. 2. first exercise.

Group II. (Schottische Rhythm.)

EXERCISE I. SHOTPUT

Bend knees deep, hands on floor as if picking up the shot...1-2

Straighten knees, both hands over the R. shoulder, as if placing shot over shoulder, bend trunk slightly to

right, turn head left..................................3-4

Straighten R. arm upward L. arm sideward.....................5

Bend R. arm over R. shoulder, L. remains.....................6

Repeat 5 and 6............................................ 7-8

Swing L. leg sideward, arms remain in position...............9

Place L. foot in back of right and bend both knees a little.10

Like position 9.............................................11

Step left sideward, with both knees slightly bent...........12

Leap left sideward into side-stride-position, knees slightly bent ..13 Witb 1-4 turn left leap into balance-stand right, left leg well back, extend R. arm obi. fore upward, left arm backward..l4-15-16 1-2 turn left step left and right forward, natural arm swing .17-18

Balance hop left forward arms left third position........19-20

Swing hop R. backward. Arms R. lateral...................21-22

Repeat Bal. Hop L. forward...............................23-24

Place R. foot forward, extend both arms forward..........25-26

1-4 turn L. and lunge R. sideward, swing both arms downward and raise L. arm L. sidewards, and R. arm side

upward, turn head left...............................27-30

Close R. to left and swing arms side downward............31-32

Repeat all once more to same side.

EXERCISE II for Files No. I.

Raise left leg forward, raise arms forward.................1-2

Place L. foot backward, bend R. knee and lower trunk forward, swing arms down and sideupward. (Trunk, arms

and rear leg in a straight line).......................3-4

Place hands on floor, turned slightly inward...............5-8

Digitized by Google
138

Extend right leg backward, and bend arms.................9-10

Return to position 5-8..................................11-12

Straighten body, swing left leg forward raise arms forward....l3-14

Recover to fundamental position.......................  15-16

Repeat to right, left and right.

EXERCISE II for Files No. 2.

Triple balance-hop-turn L., arms left 3rd position .......1-4

Three soft steps backward and point left forward, arms move

through first to right lateral........................5-8

Swing-hop L. and R. sideward, arms 4th left and right...9-12

Three soft steps forward, the third step is into a balance step L. on toes and hold on count 4; arms move through

1st to left 3rd position........................... 13-16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Group III. (Mazurka Rhythm)

EXERCISE I.	Counts

Jump into a lay-out position L. backward, left arm backward, R. arm fore-upward...............................1

Change arm position, L. upward R. backward.................2-3

Swing R. arm fore-upward, with 1-2 turn	left	on heels........4

Bend L. knee, bend trunk forward, lower arms forward

(reach forward).....................................     5

Hold ......................................................  6

Change knee bend, circle trunk to right, arm circle to right and upward, at end of trunk and arm circle, straighten

knees................................................. 7-8

Bend left knee again and bend arms to	thrust.................9

1-2 turn R. on heels and raise left leg backward, extend arms

forward ................................................10

Recover.................................................... 11

Repeat right, left and right.

EXERCISE II.

Jump into lay-out position L. sideward, raise arms sideward

Move arms upward..........................................

1-4 turn left on R. foot, place left foot backward, left arm backward, with wrist turned inward (like in holding a javelin) right arm obi. foreupward, (look upward

toward right arm)....................................

Lunge L. backward lean slightly backward, arms stay in

position.............................................

Hold ............................................... .....

Three steps forward, right L. and right arms remain in

position............................................... 7-8-9

Leap into balance-stand left, left arm obliquely foreupward,

R. back (throwing the Javelin) 10, Hold 11..............10-11

Face front and close right to left, lower arms side downward .... 12

...1

2-3

.4

5

6
139

EXERCISE III.

Files No. 1. perform 2nd and Files No. 2. first exercise.

Group three is to be executed in the following manner:

1.	Exercise II will be performed first.

2.	Exercise I will be performed second.

3.	Exercise III Files No. 1 perform exercise 2, starting left.

Files No. 2 perform exercise 2 starting right. Execute 4 times. Finish by holding last position 2 measures and recover.

WAND EXERCISES.

E. Roehr, Mt. Vernon, New York.

Group I.

EXERCISE I.

A Raise wand 1. sideward (1). Raise wand upward (2) lower wand r. sideward (3) position (4).

B Fall-out 1. with 3-4 circle, swing wand to r. oblique sideward, the right arm is straight, left arm up and slightly bent—head turned right (5-8).

C Straighten left knee, thrust wand forward, shoulder high (9) bend r. knee and trunk forward with slight twist to left, head turned 1.	(10-11-12).

D Straighten trunk and r. knee, wand horizontally forward, shoulder height (13) 1-4 turn 1. kneel r., wand r. forward, the left arm is bent with 1. hand under r. armpit (14-15-16)

E Rise, and raise left leg backward, swing wand forward upward (17) layout left backward (18-19-20)

F Swing wand downward and back on right side, the 1. hand rests on r. knee, head in direction of wand (21-22-23-24).

G 1-4 turn r., fallout left sidweard, swing r. hand to 1. and in direction of 1. knee, 1. hand at r. shoulder, head front (25-28) H Close left to right, bend knees, wand shoulder high, horizontally forward (29-30); Position (31-32)

EXERCISE II.

A Raise left leg sideward, wand horizontally forward (1) point left back inward, wand right oblique sideward, right arm straight, left arm up and slightly bent (2-3-4)

B Release wand with right hand and handcircle left outward in rear of left shoulder (5), lunge with wand left oblique side-upward, right arm oblique side-downward (6-7-8)

C Hand circle outward in rear of left shoulder (9), reverse knee bend, lower wand left oblique downward, right arm right oblique side-upward (10-11-12)

D Layout left backward and swing wand forward, around, and in rear, the right hand grasping same and laying it in small of back (13-16)

Digitized by LjOOQle
140

E 1-2 turn left, with change of khee bend, swing wand up, bend trunk forward, wand right forward downward, left hand under right armpit (17-20)

F Straighten trunk and left knee slowly, raise wand horizontally upward (21-22)

G 1-2 turn right, swing wand forward downward and forward upward while turning, (the weight is on the right foot) left foot pointed backward (25-26), lunge forward left, wand right oblique forward upward (27-28)

H Raise 1. leg forward, lower wand horizontally forward (29-30), Position (31-32)

EXERCISE III.

A Raise wand left vertically upward, left arm up, right arm bent right hand at left shoulder (1) straighten right arm upward, wand horizontally upward (2) lower left hand to right shoulder, wand right, vertically upward (3) lower to position (4). B Raise left leg backward, wand horizontally forward (5), layout left backward, bend arms to thrust, wand horizontal (6-8).

C Raise left leg, lower trunk forward, straighten arms upward, balance stand right (9-12).

D Lunge left forward, cross arms right over left, wand horizontally in front of chest (13-16)

E Straighten left knee, uncross arms and raise wand upward, look up at wand, trunk well arched, the left foot in pointed position forward, weight on right foot. (17-20)

F Bend right knee and lower trunk forward, trunk well arched, look at wand (21-24)

G Straighten trunk and right knee, and with 1-4 turn left, lunge left sideward, wand oblique right downward in back, left hand is over left shoulder, right hand at right thigh, eyes front (25-28)

H 1-2 turn right, close left to right, bend knees, wand vertically forward, left arm down and right up (29-30) Position (31-32)

Group II—Wand Winding

EXERCISE I.

A Wind in left and wand left sideward (1-2), Wind in right and wand right sideward (3-4), Wind in left and cross arms right over left (5-6), extend left arm sideward (7-8)

B Release wand with right hand and swing wand horizontally forward, regrasp with right hand (under grip) near left hand and circle wand horizontally over head, lunge left sideward, arms sideward, wand in right hand (the left hand gives the wand over to the right hand while circling) (9-12)

C 1-2 turn right on right foot, grasp wand with left hand (under grip) lunge left and wind in, wand left oblique side-downward (13-16)

D Layout left oblique back-inward, unwind left and wind in right, wand right oblique side-upward (17-18)

E Unwind right and lunge left sideward with wind in left, wand left oblique side-downward (19-20)

Digitized by CjOOQle
141

F Release wand with right hand and circle left vertically downward, regrasp right, layout left oblique back-inward and swing arms oblique side-downward, wand in right hand (21-24) G Regrasp left 1-2 turn left on right foot, wind in left and cross arms in front of chest, right arms up (25-28)

H Unwind, left close left to right, bend knees, wand horizontally forward (29-30), Position (31-32)

EXERCISE II

A Raise leg left oblique side-forward, wand horizontally forward (1) Layout left oblique back-inward, wind in right, wand right oblique back-downward (2-4)

B Release left hand, circle wand back downward and forward upward, regrasp left end with left hand undergrip, and slide right hand up to left, lunge left obliquely forward outward and swing wand over left shoulder to strike (5-8)

C Release left hand and hand circle outward and oblique right downward, lunge left oblique backward outward, left arm left oblique forward upward, right arm with wand right oblique back-downward (3-8 turn left) (9-12)

D 3-8 turn right, close left to right and swing wand in right hand forward around and in back of back, left hand grasp wand on small of back (13-14), extend right arm sideward (15-16)

E Regrasp wand with right hand undergrip and with 1-4 turn left lunge right sideward and wind in right, wand right sideward (17-20)

F Release left hand and circle swing wand to right, up, out, down and regrasp with left, and with 1-4 turn right layout right backward and swing wand in left hand left oblique back downward, look back at wand with right hand on left knee (21-24)

G Swing wand forward, regrasp right, lunge right forward, wind in right, right arm straight forward, left arm in circle over head, look forward (25-28)

H Close right to left, unwind right, bend knees, arms forward (29-30) Position (31-32)

EXERCISE III

A Raise left leg sideward, raise wand left sideward, lunge left sideward, wind in right, wand right oblique downward in back of left shoulder (1-4)

B Release wand with left hand, fling wand back downward and fore upward, regrasp with left hand (5-6), at left end wind in left and cross arms in front of chest, right arm over left with layout left oblique back inward (7-8)

C Layout left sideward with trunk bend right sideward, extend left arm sideward (9-12)

D Straighten right knee and with 1-4 turn left raise right leg backward and lower trunk forward to a balance stand left, wand used as a support on floor (13-16)

E Lunge right forwardJ kneel left, unwind left and raise wand horizontally upward (17-20)

Digitized by CjOOQle
142

F Rise and straighten left knee and wind in left, wand left oblique back downward (21-22)

G 1-2 turn left, change knee bend, unwind left and wind in right, wand right oblique back downward (23-24)

H Release left hand and swing wand backward downward and fore upward, regrasp with left, slide right up to left and lunge forward right, swing wand fore upward and over head to a strike, look up, back arched.

I Close right to left, unwind right, raise on toes, arms up, wand horizontal (29-30) Positon (31-32)

«>------------------------------------------------- •

News, notes and comments

A 3-acre playground has been set aide for use of Chinese children of Los Angeles. Parents and children cleared the lot, and the playground department installed playground equipment, including a swimming pool. The children attend public schools during the day, and in the evening receive instruction in Chinese language schools.

Contests Between High Schools Stimulate Interest

Debating contests proved the most popular of the 16 varieties of State interhigh-school contests sponsored by the University of North Carolina, university extension division, during the school year 1926-27. Of 343 schools participating in the contests 223 entered for debates. The total number of high-school entries in the 16 contests was 720. Basketball brought out the next latest number of competing schools, 129. In baseball 73 schools competed, in football 38, in dramatics 45, and in mathematics 36. Language contests attracted 52 schools for contests in French 33 in Latin, and 4 in Spanish. Other contests promoted by the department were track meets, tennis, standard physical ability tests; and poster, typewriting, newspaper, and magazine work.

Play Days in Colleges and High Schools

By Marguerite M. Schwarz

During the next two years, the definite project of A. C. A. C.

W.	will be to promote Play Days in colleges and high schools throughout the United States. For those unfamiliar with the term, Play Day, a brief explanation is necessary. Play days were first held on the West Coast. Until 1924, the Triangle Conference between Mills, Stanford, and California participated in intercollegiate games. The 1924 Conference of A. C. A. C. W. at Berkeley brought forth the resolution requiring members to dis-

Digitized by CjOOQle
143

continue intercollegiate competition for at least three years. The Triangle Conference at once agreed to abide by the ruling of A. C. A. C. W., but they were unwilling to discontinue all athletic relationships, and so a Play Day was planned.

The plan of a Play Day is this. Squads are formed which consist of a definite number of participants from each college. For instance, there will be six girls from Mills, six from Stanford, and six from California on each squad. The competition then is squad against squad, rather than each college against the other. The activities vary from hop-scotch and marbles to Hockey, Tennis, and Swimming.

A spirit of free informality reigns, unhampered by the desire to win at all cost, and the strain of close and intense competition. So this is our goal—a Play Day for every member, a Play Day which emphasizes “sport for sport’s sake” and places no premium upon winning.—The Sportswoman, 1928.

Championships

Philadelphia is the champion ice cream eater of American cities, with a record of eight gallons per person per year. New York, runner-up in the competition, has a record of seven gallons. Whether there is anything to get “het up” about as an ice cream champ is a matter of opinion, or sporting blood. Still, it might have Been watermelons or huckleberry pie, and at least, ice cream isn’t messy.

Funny thing, though, this competition business. It runs all the way from fleets and armies down through boxing championships, foot races and other sports to bathing beauties and the best-dressed man. There is even a rare boy or a girl who gets a pretty card testifying to the fact he or she holds the school championship for regularity of attendance, a performance that doesn't usually get the winner a whole lot of credit with the other pupils. It does illustrate, however, the strength of the competitive spirit among human beings, and while a lot of envy and heart-burning may be mixed up with the struggle, it is emulation that keeps most people doing their best, that and the spur of necessity.

—Evening Bulletin, Philadelphia.

Terminology of Swedish Gymnastics The issue of the “Terminology of Swedish Gymnastics,” by the Ling Association is a brave if belated step. It is easy to picture the vast amount of argument that spilled itself over the Committee Room table before agreement on a single point was reached. When an expert Committee publish such a definition of “Standing position” as is referred to by our reviewer, it is clear that the differing views of the compilers necessitated a great whittling down of meanings and intention before any “least common denominator,” could be found. The various college render- *

* Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education

Digitized by CjOOQle
144

ings of the original terminology in English (i. e., Nils Posse’s) have diverged so long and so far, and have had so many additions, that we believe no one—unless it be Signor Mussolini— could now draw up and get accepted a complete and logical nomenclature. However, if the present effort to get an University Diploma in Physical Education matures, a standard terminology will certainly be required, and we intend to experiment with the practicability of the Ling Association’s publication by using it in this Journal from now onwards.

The Changing Forms of Gymnastic Teaching.—An Englishman's View.

It is quite a comfort sometimes to be able to view the battles of the gymnasium from the safety of a journalistic desk, and feel involved neither in the risk of producing perfect carriage in stiff and bored classes, nor bodies so lithesome that all personality has been worked out of them! “Theory of Movements’’ must now be the must confusing subject to be responsible for on the College curriculum. Right choosing of exercises for table-making must be a more difficult business than ever it was in the days when the teacher adhered, firmly and undividedly, to the “Swedish System.” It must be far harder for the rank-and-file gymnast to select the constructive principles on which to build his work, and to feel confident that the means employed will attain to the ends desired.

There is much chasing after the Dalcroze, or Bukh or Bertram, and culling of the flowers of method or movement from every source that discloses itself. This proves two things—or one twice over—i. e., that teachers have become restless and dissatisfied under the older discipline and have acquired an insatiable thirst for novelty, seeking to ensure the freshness of their teaching by an ever new focus for attention. Put bluntly, the search after newness and variety is quite as much on the teacher’s behalf as on the child’s. It is so easy to forget, that, to the child—everything is new.

While it is important that we should not go on, as we did for many years, smugly satisfied with old principles, just because they were at one time the most highly authenticated, so it is equally important that we should not allow our educational purpose to be deflected in the direction of every new fashion without making adequate observation to gauge its results.

The great criterion of the worth of this or that type of movement or method is its ultimate result on the whole child— in fact, on the mass of children grown up. We owe loyalty to no system except that of consistently providing the best we know for the young things under our charge; and for results we must not keep our eyes glued to the gymnasium, but seek for them in ease of movement of every-day life, in efficiency of the bodily mechanism to meet wear and tear, and perhaps in harmony of conduct. The teacher needs faith quite as much as freshness, and never more so than today.

Digitized by

Google