MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	NOVEMBER, 1927 No.	363

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

♦-------------------------- ■	  4

Original articles and reprint§

i<	•	»

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF SOME MEDICAL EXERCISES USED IN PHYSICAL DRILL*

By Surgeon Commander H. B. Hill, M. B., M. R. C. P., R. N. R. N. School of Physical and Recreational Training.

In response to many requests for further information on the above exercises, since the publication of former papers in this Journal, the following might be of interest, especially in view of the attached amendments, which are based on these remarks.

Leg deflective exercises are said to quieten the heart and reduce its rate to normal after exercise, much more quickly than if no exercises were done. The same effect is claimed for breathing exercises; the rate of breathing and the rate of pulse are supposed to be reduced when these are performed after such exercises as running. It is also claimed that both the leg and the breathing exercises have a calming effect on the body. (38)

Reprinted from the Journal of the Royal Naval Medical Service, January, 1926.

(We are indebted to Surgeon Commander Hill for permission to publish this

^	Digitized	by Google
242

These exercises can be looked at from three points of view, from experience in physical training, from simple facts and from the general and accepted medical opinion.

(1)	Experience In Physical Training.

During seventeen years’ connection with physical training I have never been able to deflect any further blood after heavy exercise into the legs of other people, or into my own.

I have never found that a leg or breathing exercise, as advocated, reduced either the rate of the pulse or respiration, or brought them to normal sooner than is usual. Indeed the reverse is the case.

Faced with this, which is contrary to some tenets, one looked around for explanations or support, and authoritative confirmation of one’s results.

Searching for the origin of these beliefs in deflective exercises one finds that they were based, presumably, on two facts of physiology, only partially understood twenty years ago.

It was stated that expiration slows the heart-beat while inspiration increases its rate. It was believed that if after heavy exercise long expirations were given the heart was slowed. It is known now that this form of arrhythmia disappears entirely when the pulse-rate is increased, in fact this disappearance is a diagnostic point for this arrhythmia, and distinguishes it from all others. (1).

If this is so the advocates of using a breathing exercise to slow the pulse are basing their claims on an alleged physiological reaction which does not exist. Breathing “exercises” do not reduce the pulse-rate or calm the heart. The rate and rhythm of natural breathing should not be altered, the attention should not be concentrated on the breathing, and above all the arms should not be moved.

The deflective leg exercise is apparently based on the fact that a muscle at work contains more blood than a muscle at rest—“as much as two and a half times more.”

(2)	Simple Facts.

It is advocated by people who apply these leg deflective exercises that they should be done after violent effort, such as “running all out” in long distance cross-country racing, and after such severe strains as prolonged tugs-of-war, etc., in order to attract or deflect the blood from the heart to the legs, thereby relieving the heart and reducing its rate of beat.

It is obvious that a man after a cross-country run has had a surfeit of leg exercise. His legs are as full of blood as they can be, not only due to the call of already overworked muscles, but also due to the effect of gravity which, as the heart and circulation weaken, gets stronger and stronger and comes more into force. The blood tends to “pool” in the legs, which tends to anaemia of the brain and the respiratory and cardiac centres; the pulse and respiration get rapid, giddiness is felt and collapse

Digitized by
243

imminent. If that takes place then the body is at last in the right position for recovery, namely, lying down.

The difficulty in these cases is to get blood out of the legs and normally distributed again, and nothing should be done to prevent this. The vessels of a muscle remain enlarged even after contraction has ceased (2), and the blood they contain should be removed from the legs. It is also erroneous to think that any stretching of the veins of the leg can take place, as their proximity to the long bones would prevent this. The blood cannot be “pooled” in the legs by stretching the- veins.

Suppose we pursued the theory of a leg exercise further, and that after a man had run for miles, and gravity was beginning to exert its power, we could artificially dilate his legs to hold still more blood, what benefit could possibly accrue? Rather place an exhausted man on his back, massage and raise his legs if necessary.

The effect of "pooling” or deflecting blood unnaturally from the heart to the legs is seen from the following. The advocates of leg exercises after “heavy exercise” omit to take into consideration that gravity acts on a weakened circulation. This is an important practical question especially during anaesthesia when the forces which counteract the bad effects of gravity may not be working efficiently, and if the legs are hanging down the result may be serious. (3) The blood will pool in the legs. The same danger occurs in giving an anaesthetic to anyone sitting upright. Blood again pools in the legs causing collapse.

A similar action of gravity in depleting the centres of the brain is seen when a man suddenly and unexpectedly has to spring on to his feet from the lying position. He may be seen to stagger and fall. He is often dizzy. There is a temporary anaemia of the brain because the vasomotor system has been caught napping, and the circulation, instead of being kept evenly distributed about the body, falls, and collects in the legs and abdomen as a result of gravity. It will thus be seen deflecting blood from the heart to the legs is unscientific and undesirable, even if it could be done after exercise.

Gravity, also, in those who have to stand for a long time and get tired, produces varicose veins in the legs.

• The symptoms produced in health by heavy exercise and overexertion are identical with those produced by slight exertion when the heart has become weakened from other causes. (4).	'

Heart failure means the inability of the heart to maintain circulation efficiently (5), and the less the efficiency of the circulation the more is the effect of gravity felt. (6). Therefore the exhausted heart after exercise, with a tiring circulation, is very prone to be acted on by gravity, and no blood should be artificially deflected to the legs. The movements of the body and legs during a leg exercise only increase effort and the work of the heart after natural exercise, and cause its exhaustion to last longer.

Digitized by VjOOQLc
244

To attempt to slow the rate of the heart beat by strategy or artificial exercise when the nervous system is regulating it according to bodily need in a strong and healthy man, is undesirable. The relationship of the tissues of the nervous system and circulatory system to one another has existed for many ages, and the body only asks to be let alone to regulate itself after exercise, and not be interfered with.

A weakened heart, from exertion or any other cause, is exhausted and embarrassed, and I know of no physician who would get a cardiac patient with embarrassed heart and swollen legs out of bed to do a leg exercise to calm his heart. The heart in either case is unable to maintain an efficient circulation, and cannot put up with any more calls on it, such as the movements of the muscles in the heaving up and down of the body, and contraction of the muscles engaged in balancing the body, in a leg exercise; a very heavy burden.

Exertion during any condition where the circulation is deficient, and cannot be increased in response to the increased need for blood, will lead to a fall of blood-pressure, the heart being incapable of supplying enough blood to correspond to the call for the increased flow (vaso-dilatation), in the working muscles or legs, or if there is already an increased flow, especially if augmented by gravity, fainting may be caused. (7). The same effect is seen in C O 2 poisoning, where even a slight exertion produces fainting with absolute certainty and may be fatal.(7).

Respiratory distress is the outcome of a disturbance of the respiratory reflex on account of the heart being unable to supply purified blood to some part of the respiratory system (8), and a leg exercise by deflecting still more blood to the legs would tend to deprive the system of oxygen and prevent the circulation from going to the help of the respiratory system.

The potent effect of a leg exercise in disturbing the heart is well known to physicians who, when testing a heart to find out how soon it can be disturbed or exhausted, request the patient to walk a few steps, or to walk, or rim up a few stairs. That is, they subject him to effort; a leg exercise is effort.

In some cases a few steps will suffice to bring out all the symptoms of exhaustion. This is what a leg exercise tends to do after heavy exercise; when the heart is getting exhausted it tends to add to the exhaustion and prolong recovery, the “pulse ratio” in each subject increasing in height according to the difficulty of the exercise employed. (9). As the work increases, the rise in pulse-rate immediately after the exercise is greater, and the time taken for the pulse to return to its original rate longer. (10).

Another potent effect of a leg exercise is shown by the fact that the effort of walking, especially uphill or against a wind, is well known to cause an attack of angina pectoris. It has been established that a long and strong contraction of a hollow mus-

(3)	Medical

Digitized by
245

cular organ can produce intense pain and the reflex path has been shown. (11). McKenzie also applied this principle to the explanation of the pain of angina pectoris on the ground that as the heart cannot give this long sustained strong contraction, although the stimuli are there, the heart muscle produces pain on the principle of the “summation of stimuli”. For angina does not come on at the first step but after some steps, or after a little while. (11).

From this it can be seen that heart muscle is exhausted by leg movements, and the continuance of effort can bring on angina, and as a leg exercise is an effort it is not wise to apply such an exercise to a heart exhausted after heavy exercise. Not that angina necessarily will be caused, but a leg exercise must be farm from calming.

Again, walking across a floor or up a few stairs or uphill causes the heart to do more work than is registered by the quickening of the heart-beat, because the output at each beat is also increased, and therefore the work done by a heart when beating at, say 72 to the minute, may vary very greatly. (12). For the same reason the work of a heart during a leg exercise is increased, whatever the pulse may do.

In all tests and experiments the individual nervous effect on the pulse must be eliminated. Pulses do alter when undergoing examination by a medical officer; greatly in examination for health insurance, less so in examination for the ordinary state of health, and least in P. T. examinations if the medical officer is known. A normal pulse rate ranges from 60 to 90 beats a minute, with an average of 66.6 lying down, 70.5 sitting, 78.9 standing (14). Some authors lessen the range and name an average of 72-84 (15). The increased muscular expenditure required to move the body from the sitting to the standing position increases the rate of the heart-beat by at least 12 beats a minute. (16).

After testing the normal and usual rate of a pulse when the subject is lying down, sitting and standing, regulated exercise can then be carried out by the subject, by placing a foot on a chair and standing alternately on the floor, or in other words, alternately raising the right and left foot on to a chair. Do it at the rate of five times in fifteen seconds and an average pulse after this is 96 (17). That is, the pulse is raised after a simple leg exercise.

A good indication of the reaction of the pulse to exercise of this sort is the ratio between the average pulse-rate for the two minutes immediately following the exercise and the pulse-rate at rest, namely the “pulse ratio”. (18). The circulation rate decreases rapidly in the first two minutes after an exercise, and then more slowly (19). A leg exercise would postpone this decrease.

A leg exercise is a balance exercise in addition, for when a leg exercise is done, not only do the muscles of the leg contract, but the muscles of the trunk in addition. '^hgzep;j)o@(tifpd[g man is
246

after running, the greater and more widespread is the contraction of other groups of muscles of the body as they seek to help the legs. This general contraction cannot in any way calm the body, and interferes with the descent of the diaphragm.

A leg exercise after heavy exercise has all the elements of “effort” in it, concentration of mind and muscular contraction, plus balancing efforts. "Effort” is exhausting. (21).

It is a common mistake when studying a movement to consider only the muscles actually supposed to produce that movement. In pushing a dumb-bell at arm’s length above the shoulder, muscles moving the elbow-joint and perhaps raising the arm are the only ones usually considered, but the entire muscular system shares in the effort. The flexors of the hand are required, the muscles that support the shoulder-girdle, the muscles that rotate the scapula. These muscles are attached to the ribs and the spine, and these have to be supported on the palvis by the trunk muscles, and the pelvis is supported on the legs, all involving muscular contraction; and the more tired the arm muscles become, the more do the body muscles contract in sympathy. Hence the thorax is fixed and the abdominal muscles contracted.

This spreading contraction can well be seen when using the "grip machine” on piers, into which one puts a penny and grips a handle and tries to ring a bell. The grip is a tiring effort, and as one tires, more and more muscle groups come into play, and before one lets go the body is bent in a crooked and convulsed attitude in front of the machine, the effort now having spread over the whole body.

The same with the legs, the more tired the legs the more do the other muscles of the body contract during a leg exercise. As intensity of a simple movement increases, group after group of unassociated muscles contract in sumpathy. (22). This widespread muscular contraction increases the work of the heart, in whatever way the blood may be deflected.

In testing the heart of a trained man, great importance is attached to the rapidity of acceleration of the heart-beat on exertion, and the rapidity of its return to normal after exertion is over, and anything imposed on a heart to interfere with this natural return to normal is not good practice.

When the body is at rest the heart overcomes the resistance opposed to its work with ease, employing only a portion of its power. A muscular contraction does not necessarily involve the whole of the thick fibres of a muscle, the number of fibres employed varying with the intensity of the action. (23, 39). At the same time the heart is rebuilding its store of energy ready to be liberated when the next call is made by the body for more work. A leg exercise is more work. After severe exercise the store of reserve force of the heart becomes exhausted, and if effort be persisted in the exhaustion will be prolonged. A leg exercise prevents the heart from resting and recuperating.

Of all viscera the heart is most sensitive to stimulation, and the result of stimulation is most readily reqOjj^^djg This readi-
247

ness to respond to stimulation is necessary for the demands of economy, for it is on this account that effort can be undertaken with ease and comfort, the heart-rate increasing with the demand made by effort. (24). A leg exercise is effort.

In mild rhythmic movements of the body the blood-pressure rises gradually, but never attains a great height. It remains up after the exercise has finished but drops to subnormal more quickly than the pulse-rate. The pulse-rate rises abruptly, remains high, and drops slowly after the exercise. During this period the circulation is carried on with increased force and rapidity. (25). A rhythmic leg movement has this effect.

The speed and efficiency of recovery of a muscle after exercise, especially heavy exercise, depends upon its “oxidative mechanism of recovery” (26). Any muscular movements retard this, as lactic acid will still be produced and the oxygen debt increased. (27). Lactic acid is liberated in large quantities with ease in the body on muscular movement. Leg exercises keep the lactic acid of the body at a high level and increase the oxygen debt.

It has been suggested to me that a leg exercise can be done and have its full effect, if a man bent his knees and remained in a crouching position, the vessels of the leg being thereby stretched and the blood “deflected” to them from the heart. This was put forward as a method of eliminating up and down movements of the body and legs, the lifting of either being work. I had only to point out that the man was really sitting on his heels, and would be much more comfortable if he sat on a stool.

Leg movements, as seen above, from the simplest to' most complicated, increase the work of the heart.

Muscular work demands an adjustment of the respiration, circulation and glandular activity to meet the needs of the muscles, the co-ordination of those systems, being carried out by the nervous system. (9). "As in man, true rest is obtained by the great anthropoids only when the body is laid prone upon bed or tree scaffold.” (41).

Speaking of the upright position, Keith says: “The researches of Dr. Leonard Hill have made us aware of the elaborate mechan-anism needed to regulate the arterial blood-pressure when the posture of the body is changed. In the early pronograde'primates the vasomotor postural mechanisms must have been already highly evolved, but it is clear that, with each step towards the plantigrade posture of man, there must have been further specializations in the reflex centres which control the distribution of the blood and in the structures which support the weight of the blood mass”. (41). When the heart is exhausted gravity is very likely to upset this elaborate mechanism which prevents the blood of the body pooling in the legs.

(To be continued).

N. B. The reference numbers apply to a list of books which will be given in full at the end of this arti<$fnizedbyGoogle
248

INSANITY AND FEEBLEMINDEDNESS

A recent issue of the Mental Hygiene Bulletin calls attention to several outstanding misconceptions regarding insanity which should be corrected. These misconceptions, which are quotes later in this article, form a very serious obstacle in the treatment and alleviation of mental upsets, just as ignorance regarding infections is a serious obstacle in the treatment of all the common contagious diseases. These diseases are being conquered by increasing knowledge of their cause and the manner in which they are spread.

For some reason the public knowledge regarding the so-called mental diseases has not made the same progress as has been made in other lines and as regards mental disease, we are today in the same relative stage of information as we were years ago regarding the common infectious diseases.

Mentality is not a tangible thing that can be dissected or isolated. It is the outward manifestation of the function of the central nervous system just as strength is the outward manifestation of the function of muscles. All living things have strength and the degree of strength is designated by the words strong or weak. These, of course, are only relative terms, for the weak man might indeed be much stronger than the strong baby.

Insanity and sanity are likewise only loosely applied terms designating relative degrees of mentality. The socalled insane adult may possess much more mental ability than the so-called sane baby.

The faculty of sight and hearing may be hard to understand. But sight which enables the person to recognize objects at a distance is a function of special organs and nerves. When there is a disturbance or an injury to these organs or nerves, the power to see is destroyed.

Mentality is a function of the central nervous syetem and is a composite of the abilities to perceive, remember, measure values and direct muscular activity. Any disturbance or injury of the central nervous system will disturb the function of this system with a corresponding disturbance of mentality.

We inherit from forbears certain physical characteristics which include blue eyes, Mack hair or a big nose. Some persons inherit a physique or constitution which permits them to be more susceptible to a specific disease than other persons. There are those who naturally have a weak abdominal wall and such person is more likely to suffer a rupture or hernia than one whose abdominal wall is normally strong.

In exactly the same way we inherit a central nervous system each with its own limit of capacity. In this way and only to this extent sanity or insanity may be inherited. We inherit the structure which produces function but we do not inherit the function. Function may be cultivated to any degree within the limits of the capacity of the structure. Musicians may be bom but the degree of musical skill within the limits of capacity is de-

Digitized by VjUUv 1
249

termined by cultivation. Inherited physical handicaps set a limit to plysical strength but physical strength may be greatly increased by cultivation.

It is actually very difficult to say just what is the limit of capacity because very few persons have ever developed any talent to the limit of physical capacity. It is obvious, then, that if mentality is a function of the central nervous system it is clearly dependent on the integrity of the central nervous system and the development by training of structure producing this function.

The point which it is most important to clarify is that there is nothing more mysterious or supernatural about mental disease than there is about disease or ailment of any other part of the human body. The so-called mental diseases are subject to and amenable to the same governing laws of nature that control all disease.

Oddities and peculiar mental traits are not, strictly speaking a disease, but are the result of habits and environment just as one develops a characteristic mannerism or as stammering is a habit.

, The second fundamental point to keep clearly in mind is that feeblemindedness and insanity are absolutely separate and distinct. Feeble-mindedness is a lack of mental development which is occasioned by physically limited mental capacity. The feebleminded person is a mental dwarf just as Tom Thumb was a physical dwarf. The insane person is one with a normal capacity fundamentally but whose mentality has been disturbed by diseased or injured central nervous system structure. The disease may be by infection and the injury by emotional shock or environment.

Mental Hygiene Bulletin, from which the following is quoted, gives ten misconceptions concerning mental deficiency which still linger, and opposite each it states what science is teaching today;

1.	Misconception!

That feeblemindedness is a mental disease.

Today's teaching!

That feeblemindedness is an arrest of intellectual growth in the early developmental life of the individual.

2.	Misconception!

That feeblemindedness can be cured like mental disease.

Today's teaching!

That true feeblemindedness is an organic condition involving a lack of development of brain tissue and cannot be cured in a medical sense.

3.	Misconception!

That feeblemindedness is always hereditary.

Today's teaching!

That many of the feebleminded, estimated as approximately half, owe their mental defect to accidental causes, sxa&Ias prena-
250

tal neglect, injuries at birth, and early childhood diseases like scarlet fever, infantile paralysis, and “sleeping sickness."

4.	Misconception!

That sterilization is the best solution of the problems of the feebleminded.

Today'8 teaching!

That sterilization will not solve the problem because feeblemindedness is not always due to a defective germ plasm, and because in our present state of knowledge about the laws of heredity we cannot say how much or when feeblemindedness is transmissible.

5.	Misconception!

That the feebleminded are all a menace to society.

Today's teaching!

That the feebleminded are not necessarily delinquent or criminally-minded per se, and that their occasional danger to society depends upon other factors besides their mental defect. There are good feebleminded as well as bad feebleminded.

6.	Misconception!

That segregation in institutions is the only way to control the feebleminded.

Today's teaching!

That segregation is necessary only for the low grades of feebleminded and for the relatively few defective delinquents, or the incorrigibly bad feebleminded, for whom little can be done in school or at home.

7.	Misconception!

That the feebleminded are a total loss to society.

Today's teaching!

That most of the feeble-minded, if taken early, can be trained to do productive manual work, and with understanding, guidance, and supervision can lead happy, useful and social lives.

8.	Misconception!

That the feebleminded are not teachable at school.

Today's teaching!

That their intellectual capacities are too limited to profit from the ordinary school curriculum, but that they can be taught a trade in the special classes which are being provided in increasing numbers in the public schools.

9.	Misconception!

That the feebleminded are all equally mentally defective.

Today's teaching!

That there is a gradual curve from the extreme condition of the idiot, whose “mental age" is one or two years, to the moron and borderline cases, in which the “mental age” ranges from eight years to normal.

10.	Misconception!

That the feebleminded are readily recognizable.

Today's teaching!

That the diagnosis of feeblemindedness is frequently a difficult matter, even when the intelligence test is administered by an

Digitized by VjOO^ IC
251

expert psychologist, and that the psychiatrist must often be called in to eliminate various causes of remedial mental backwardness before a condition of true mental defect is established.

Then about so-called insanity—

1.	Misconception!

That insanity comes suddenly.

Today's teaching!

That insanity develops gradually over shorter or longer periods of time.

2.	MisconceptionI

That once insane always insane.

Today's teaching!

That many of the insane are restored to health after a period of hospital treatment.

3.	Misconception!

That insanity is a disgrace.

Today's teaching!

That insanity is a condition no more to be ashamed of than pneumonia or a broken limb.

4.	Misconception!

That insanity is an unfortunate visitation to be regarded with resignation and fatalism.

Today’s teaching!

That insanity is mental disease and should receive medical attention, just as tuberculosis, cancer or other physical conditions.

5.	Misconception!

That mental disease is incurable.

Today's teaching!

That many persons with mental disease are being cured today and restored to health and normality.

6.	Misconception!

That asylums for the insane are dreadful places and that admission to them rings down the curtain on the lives of the victims.

Today's teaching!

That our asylums are being turned into hospitals in which the insane receive medical care and treatment, and from which between 25 and 40 per cent are discharged recovered or improved.

7.	Misconception!

That emotional shock, the loss of dear ones, disappointment in love, economic loss, and other human misfortunes cause insanity.

Today's teaching!

That personal misfortunes and tragedies are frequently the precipitating causes of insanity, but that the accumulation of a variety of factors inherent in the progressive life experience of the individual is really responsible for unsettling mental balance and bringing on mental breakdowns.
252

8.	Misconception!

That insanity is a specific disease entity.

Today's teaching!

That "insanity” is a convenient term used by the courts to denote irresponsibility in the eyes of the law, and that there are many different kinds of mental disorder just as there are many kinds of physical disorders.

9.	Misconception!

That nobody can guard against mental disease.

Today's teaching!

That there are usually danger signals and symptoms of an approaching breakdown that can be recognized and medically dealt with.

10.	Misconception!

That a person is either sane or insane.

Today's teaching!

That there are different degrees of mental health, just as there are varying degrees of physical health.

11.	Misconception!

That “nervous breakdown” is a disease of the nerves.

Today's teaching!

That “nervous breakdown” is in reality a mental condition in which there is seldom anything wrong with the nervous system.

GAMES IN THE WET WEATHER

One of the biggest difficulties with which the teacher has to contend is conducting the organized games period when the weather makes it impossible to go outside and no hall or gymnasium is available for work indoors. Unfortunately it is customary to forego the work altogether and to devote the time to the teaching of some other subject; nor, I believe, is the time thus lost by organized games, ever made up when the weather is more kind. The time lost during the present season must have been very considerable and this is a lamentable state of affairs.

The most sensible solution of the difficulty is perhaps to make a note of the time lost by organized games and “won” by other subjects and to balance the unequal distribution of time by devoting longer periods to games when the weather conditions are more satisfactory. This perhaps is not always possible however, and, in fact,, during long spells of bad weather it is not always desirable, for giving games in a large “dose” does not entirely make up for the long period of inactivity. Of course, this point might be met in some cases where a playing field is situated near the school by making the time-table elastic and arranging for the organized games period to be taken whenever a bright spell of weather shows.



•From “Physical Education”, England. Digitized by Google
263

In any event the time set aside for organized games should never be lost. In the first place, there are quite a number of minor games and athletic events which can be taken in the ordinary class rooms. Thus, for example, ball throwing games.

(a)	Set a basket on the table and allow each child to throw a ball into the basket from the sitting position. This game can be varied in many ways.

(b)	Children arranged in teams, either seated in the desks or grouped round the wall. Many variations of “Pass Ball Relay” can be played.

(c)	Children seated in desks across the seats. Arch Ball or Side to Side Passing.

(d)	Standing Broad Jump, Standing High Jump, Chalk the Line, and other simple athletic events.

There are also many quieter games which can be played which give training in skill rather than in muscular activity. A large number of such games may be found in all good game books.

On some occasions it may be found desirable to devote the games period indoors to the description of some game which the children will be taught at a later date, or to a criticism of a game which the children already play. Thus, if it is a class of boys, the game of football may be taken and the children given a brief lesson in tactics, team play, and so on. If girls, then a short talk on some common mistakes which the girls persistently make will be valuable, especially if the blackboard is made use of. At other times the children could be encouraged to make observations themselves and to discuss any particular games which merit attention. The lessons can never be dull and should prove a means of enlarging the child’s outlook and strengthening his powers of observation. It should be clearly seen from these few remarks that the teacher need never be at a loss on a wet day, and in fact by giving short talks more time will be left for actual performance when the fine weather arrives.

CHILD HEALTH HABITS

By Helena L. Williams

Science and human ingenuity have given us many labor saving devices for running the household and increasing its efficiency, thereby making possible more leisure and better health. There is one problem, however, which cannot and probably never will be solved except through painstaking watchfulness and application. That is the matter of inculcating good health habits in our children. Psychology teaches us that the habits formed during the first six years of life remain most strongly fixed during the years to come. Consequently, among those of first importance to parents shold rank the habits of cleanliness, simple living and self control.	Digitized	byGoogle
254

Children seem to have a natural distaste for all of these. And frequently mothers give up the struggle in the hope that “Johnny will grow out of” this or that. It is difficult not to give up; but if mother would only face the fact that negligence in the matter of habit forming paves the way for future mental and physical disturbances, and for unhappiness for themselves, they would redouble their efforts.

For example, cleanliness has more than an esthetic value. All about us are the germs of tuberculosis to which children are particularly susceptible. In fact in our larger centers of population as high as 90 per cent of us may be infected with the tubercle bacillus before we become adults. Someone seated next to us in the trolley car or theatre coughs or sneezes without covering his mouth or nose with a handkerchief and we breathe in the bacilli. Sputum is brought into the home on the soles of shoes, because somewhere a careless consumptive has expectorated on the street; the germs also cling to food; they are transferred to the mouth by hands that have played with dirty toys. This is the reason why hygienists emphasize the importance of washing the hands before each meal and of washing fruit before we eat it.

We cannot teach the value of fresh air and sunlight too soon to children. The healthiest babies are those that sleep outdoors and have daily regulated sun baths. The desire for exercise comes natural to all young things, but frequently there are so many chores to be done in the house or on the farm that it becomes overwork. It is better to leave a few tasks undone and so give the growing boy or girl an opportunity to have sufficient rest as well as play exercise so that he can develop resistance against disease. To be sure, nothing develops muscles except to use them. But hard work has stunted many young bodies through constant over-fatigue. The reasons for all this should be taught to the growing child so that he may have a respect for adequate sleep and recreation.

Good food is perhaps the most important item and frequently the most disregarded one in the life of the child. The children of the poor are not the only ones who are undernourished; those coming from well-to-do homes are often so pampered in matters of diet that they are underweight and otherwise below standard. The greatest harm generally comes from over-indulgence in sweets. The very best food for children is milk, at least one glass with each meal. Fruits, with the exception of unripe bananas and vegetables such as spinach, kale, peas, beans, carrots and onions are weight and strength producing. Much meat is not essential. Cereals such as rice and oatmeal are especially good. Pies, cakes and puddings should be given in moderation, tho the body needs some sugar and well prepared desserts have considerable food value. The most important thing to remember about diet is that it should be varied. Too many starchy <foods such as cereals, spaghetti and potatoes may be as harmful as a menu from which they were left out entirely.
255

Balanced food rations are as essential to normal health as a balanced temperament and emotions.

One of the greatest trials to mothers is the difficulty of getting children to bed. Nine or ten hours sleep are needed to keep the nerves and physical growth of boys and girls at par. Moreover, rigid discipline in regard to this helps the child to adjust himself to the world. He will not be resentful later on when he grows up to find that he cannot have his own way in a civilization that exacts compromise from all of us.

The National Tuberculosis Association considers the health habit training of children one of the most important factors in the eradication of the white plague as well as of other preventable diseases. A large part of the funds which the organization realizes through the sale of the Christmas seals each December, is utilized for that phase of its campaign.

FOOT TROUBLES

Practically all foot troubles are self imposed. They are usually of long standing having their origin in the wearing of improperly fitting shoes when young. By such shoes the soft and pliable bones and ligaments were moulded into bad shape and muscles did not develop symmetrically. Accordingly, to correct these evil conditions is no quick and easy task.

All corns, bunions and callouses are the result of either improper weight bearing, because of the deformity, or the result of pressure or friction from improperly fitted shoes on normal feet.

Foot troubles—“the evils of civilization” can be prevented, but once thoroughly established are difficult to cure.

The bones, muscles and ligaments of the foot make up a wonderfully complex and delicate mechanism. It works perfectly when properly adjusted but like all pieces of complex machinery it causes untold trouble when out of adjustment.

Going barefoot is the ideal condition for the foot. It was made to do its work that way. Shoes that cramp the toes and elevate the heels throw the whole foot out of balance and it must then cairy the weight of the body in an unnatural and strained position.

Those races of people who habitually go barefooted, or at most wear only sandals, do not know what foot troubles are.

It is exceedingly fortunate for children that sandals are being permitted them by fashion, but it is exceedingly unfortunate for older persons, girls especially, that fashion calls for high heels and pinched toes.

Such shoes are just as truly an impediment to healthy activity as is the bound foot of the Chinese women. To be sure they are not quite so extreme but the damage done is only a matter of degree.

To correct the evils which an ignorant and stimfol fashion brought about, a specialty of the medicil profession1’ nad to be
256

developed. Orthopedic surgery originally meant the corrections primarily of foot and weight bearing defects.

The long skirt which trailed the sidewalks two decades ago was then the proper thing to wear. With changing fashions, it is today an exceedingly ridiculous and absurd costume. When fashion permits a shoe that will conform to the natural beauty and symmetry of the human foot, the present high heel and pinched toe will appear grotesque and barbaric as the trailing skirt.

The sole of tne shoe should be broad enough to support the sole of the foot in every part, the heel low and broad, and the leather flexible enough to permit unhampered action of muscles.

Stiff leather may as well cause corns as tight shoes. The worst of all are shoes both tight and inflexible.

Stockings like shoes should be well fitting. If too small they cramp the foot—if too large, they wrinkle and cause abrasions.

Toe nails, if cut too close may cause intense suffering and may actually incapacitate. Where the nails are cut short and a tight stocking pulls the soft tissue up against the corners of the nails, there will result what is often erroneously called an “ingrowing” nail. The tight pressure of the skin against the sharp end of the nail must certainly cut the skin and when this becomes infected a serious injury is bound to result. The only remedy for this is to protect the soft parts until the nail grows out long enough so the skin cannot be pinched against the end of the nail. Nails should be trimmed straight across or square and should extend to the end of the soft part of the toe.

Continued pressure or rubbing causes a thickening of the skin at the point of pressure, or this may occur between the toes because of a tight shoe pressing the hard bone of one toe against an adjoining toe. The continued pressure of this hardened callous against the sensitive nerves underneath causes the pain of corns.

Just now children are being supplied with their heavy winter shoes. Discretion and common sense used in buying these shoes will result in life-long benefits.

Protect the children’s feet but do not abuse them.

MULTIPLE AIMS IN A JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE

OF STUDY

In the revised Course of Study in Physical Education for Junior High Schools in Philadelphia a plan has been adopted in which there are multiple aims in each school grade for each piece of gymnastic apparatus, and multiple aims in each of several track and field events for each age-group. Thus, there are three aims for the boys of each of the six grades (7a to 9B) on the flying rings, side horse, mats, ropes, and horizontal ladders. A like number of aims exist for the girls.

The lowest aim on a piece of apparatus in each grade represents a passing mark, Fair; the next aim, Good; and the highest aim, Excellent. The aims are all minimum requirements for the corresponding ratings.
257

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—BOYS SIDE HORSE

Grade

Fair

Good

Excellent

7A Run and jump Run and squat vault Front vault left and to a squat- forward with straight- right, with a running stand on saddle.' ening legs forward. start.

Rise to a stand.

Lower to a shin-stand courage jump for-ward.

7B Run and squat Front vault left and Wolf vault, with a . vault forward right, with a running running start, with straight- start, ening legs forward.

8A Front vault left Flank vault, left and Front-vault mount to and right, with right, with a running riding-seat on neck,

8B Flank vault, left Jump to a support Jump to a support and right, with frontways. Swing left front-ways. Swing a running start, leg forward under left left leg forward under

hand, right leg for- left hand, right leg ward under right hand forward under right to support rearways. hand to support rear-Three-quarter turn- ways. Legswing left mount right with leg- backward under left swing left to riding- hand, right backward seat on croup. Front under right hand to vault dismount right support frontways.

9A Jump with leg Jump to a support Jump and squat for-swing right for frontways. Swing left ward to support rearward underright leg forward under left ways. Swing left leg hand to cross hand, right leg forward backward under left riding-seat on under right hand to hand, right leg back-saddle. Three- support rearways. ward under right hand quarter turn- Swing left leg backward to support frontways, mount right under left hand, right Immediately swing to

a running start, start.

Swing to riding-seat on croup. Legswing right over end of

horse to momentary stand on board and squat vault.

sideward.

Jump to momentary stand and front vault.
Grade	Fair

left to riding-seat on croup. Front vault dismount right sideward.

9B Jump to a support frontways. Swing left leg forward under left hand, right leg forward under right hand to support rear-ways. Swing left leg backward under left hand, right leg backward under right hand to support frontways. Dismount backward.

258

Good

right hand to support frontways. Jump to momentary stand and front vault.

Jump to a support frontways. Legswing left under left hand to cross riding-seat in saddle. Three-quarter turn-mount left with legswing right to riding-seat on neck. Scissors backward. Dismount forward.

Excellent

sors backward. Place hands on end of horse and front vault dismount right sideward.

Jump to a support frontways. Legswing left forward under left hand and right forward under right hand to support rearways. Legswing left backward under left hand, right backward under right hand to support frontways. Swing left leg under left hand. Three-quarter turn mount left with legswing right to riding-seat on neck. Scissors backward, scissors forward. Frontvault dismount left sideward.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—BOYS ROPES

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Pendulum swing On 2 ropes. Grasp Climb all the way on 2 ropes in 2 ropes and jump to up. the bent arm correct climbing-posi-hang with knees tion with legs on one raised forward rope. Climb 3 steps.

(4 swings).

Dismount at end of backward swing.

7B On 2 ropes. Grasp 2 ropes and jump to correct climbing-position with legs on one rope. Climb 3 steps.

Climb half way up. Climb all the way Climb down.	up.	Climb	down	half

the length of the rope and then climb to the top again.

Digitized by kjOOQle
269

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

8A Climb half-way	Climb all the way	Climb up and down

up. Climb up.	2 times,

down.

8B Climb all the	Climb all the way	Climb all the way

way up.	up. Climb down on up, hand over hand.

the next rope.	Climb down on the

next rope hand over hand. Repeat immediately without a rest.

9A	Climb	all	the	Climb all	the	way	Climb all	the way

way up. Climb up. Climb down go- up. Climb down hand down on the ing from one to over hand without the next rope. another of three ropes, use of the legs. Repeat immediately without a rest.

9B	Climb	all	the	Climb all	the	way	Climb all	the way

way up. Climb up, using three dif- up, without use of the down going from ferent ropes. Climb legs. Climb down hand one to another down using the same over hand, without use of three ropes, three ropes.	of the legs.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—BOYS HORIZONTAL LADDERS

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Travel forward	Low ladder, chest Low	ladder, waist

and backward,	high. Jump	to	cross	high. Jump	to cross

outer	grip	on	seat on beam in	front	seat in front	of hands,

beams.	of hands. Double Double legswing to a

legswing to cross seat straddle seat in front on opposite	beam.	of	hands.	Grasp

Dismount sideward. beams in front of legs,

Legswing backward to a support lying position (frontways) feet on	board.	Bend and

straighten arms. Front vault dismount.

7B Travel sideward Low ladder, chest From a side-hang on along	one	beam	high. Jump	to cross	the	rungs,	front hand

and	return	on	seat in front	of hands,	undergrip	and rear

the other, with Double legswing to a hand unaer-grip, travel swinging.	straddle seat front of forward on rungs, skip-

hands. Legswing dis- ping one rung during mount sideward.	Digitizg^lGstep, |<with arm-
260

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

swing backward and downward beside the leg and a half turn of the body before grasping the next rung.

8A Travel	forward	Low ladder, waist Low	ladder, waist

on rungs, skip- high. Jump to cross high. Front vault, ping one rung, seat in front of hands, with a running start. Double legswing to a cross seat on opposite beam. Rear vault dismount over the ladder.

8B Travel	forward	Side stand	under	Low	ladder, waist

on rungs, skip- ladder, under grip on high. Flank vault, ping two rungs, front beam. Hip pull with a running start, up to a support frontways on top of ladder.

Grasp near beam and lower body to a hang.

Dismount.

9A	Travel	forward,	Low	ladder,	waist	Travel forward	in

hands on both high. Flank vault, bent arm hang, grip beams, knees with a running start, on rungs, raised.

9B	Uninterrupted	Low	ladder,	waist	Cross hang, grip	on

hand jumping high. Front vault,	beams. Turn over

forward on	with a running start, backward to hang

beams.	rearways. Return.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—BOYS MATS

Good	Excellent

Roll	backward.	Roll forward to	a

stand, immediately face about and roll backward to a stand.

Two continuous rolls Roll forward, ankles backward.	grasped.

8A Two continuous Roll forward, ankles Roll forward with rolls backward, grasped.	arms folded in front

of chest, finishing on

igitized byoS^-. foot.

Grade	Fair

7A Two continuous rolls forward, without permitting the head to touch the mat.

7B Roll backward.
Grade	Fair

8B Roll forward to a stand, immediately face about and roll backward to a stand.

9A Forward dive, knee high, and forward roll.

9B Headstand.

261

Good

Forward dive, knee high, and forward roll.

Headstand.

Cartwheel.

Excellent

Headstand.

Cartwheel. Momentary hand-

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—BOYS RINGS

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Pendulum-swing	Rings reach-high.	Rings shoulder-high,

with a half turn With a jump turn over With a jump, turn at the end of backward to a nest- over to a hang rear-each forward hang. Return, passing ways. Place foot on swing. (All through a momentary the floor, release grasp swings are fore- bent-arm hang.	and stand. Knees

ward in this ex-	may be bent during

ercise.)	the turn.

7B Rings reach-	Rings slightly above	Rings reach-high,

high. With a the head. Turn over Turn over to inverted-jump, turn over to a hang rearways. hang, feet placed backward to a Place feet on the floor, against ropes. Renest-hang. Re- Return, using a jump turn, passing through turn,	passing	through	a momentary a momentary bent-arm

through a mo- bent-arm hang.	hang,

mentary bent-arm hang.

8A	Rings	slightly	Rings	reach-high.	Rings	reach-high,

above the head. Turn over to inverted- Turn over to an invert Jump and turn hang, feet placed ed-hang, free. Return over to a hang against ropes. Return, passing through a mo-rearways. Place passing through a mo- mentary bent-arm the feet on the mentary bent-arm hang, floor.	Return	hang,

using a jump, bent-arm hang.

8B	Rings	reach-	Rings	reach-high.	Rings	jumj>high.

high. Turn Turn over to an in- From a straight-arm over to invert- verted-hang, free. Re- hang, turn over to an
Grade	Fair

ed-hang, feet placed against ropes. Return, passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

9A Rings jump-high. Short-Chip) swing; turn over to a hang rearways. Release grasp and drop to a stand.

9B Rings jump-high. 3 short (hip) swings, turn over to inverted-hang, feet against ropes. Close legs to a free inverted hang. Lower legs, passing throgh a momentary bent arm) hang, and jump to a stand.

262

Good	Excellent

turn, passing through inverted-hang, free, a momentary bent-arm Lower body to a hang hang.	rearways. Release

grasp and drop to a stand.

Rings jump-high. From a straight-arm hang, turn over to an inverted-hang, free. Lower body to a hang rearways. Release grasp and drop to a stand.

Rings jump-high. 3 short (hip) swings, turn over to inverted-hang, free. Lower to hang rearways. Return and lower legs slowly.

Rings jump-high. Turn over to an inverted-hang, free. Lower body to hang rearways. Return to bent-arm hang. Jump to a stand.

Rings jump-high. 3 short (hip) swings and turn over to inverted-hang free. Lower to a hang rearways. Return and cut-off left. Cut-off right to a bent arm hang. Jump to a stand.

NOTE: In the “Fair” and “Good” requirements the legs may be bent while turning over forward and backward; in the “Excellent” requirements the legs must be kept straight.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—GIRLS SIDE HORSE Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Run and jump Jump to support	Run and jump to	a

to riding seat frontways. Legswing double shin-stand, on neck. Leg- left over neck to rid- Courage jump, swing dismount ing seat. Change to left sideward, riding seat on croup with intermediate jump on board. Front vault dismount.
263

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7B Jump to riding Jump to support Jump to double shin seat on neck, frontways. Legswing stand. Rise to a Swing legs for- left over neck to rid- stand. Dismount ward and back ing seat. Legswing jumping forward with and immediate- forward and backward a 1-2' turn left to ly leg swing dis- and then legswing dis- right, grasping pom-mount left side- mount left sideward. mels when landing on ward.	the mat.,

8A Jump to sup- Run and jump to a port frontways, double shin-stand. Legswing left Courage jump, over neck to riding seat. Legswing forward and backward and then legswing dismount left sideward.

Run and jump to cross-seat on neck (on right thigh). 1-2 turn right with swinging left leg over horse to riding seat. Swing legs forward, backward and front vault dismount left sideward.

8B Run and jump Run and squat vault to a double forward with straight-shin-stand. ening legs forward. Courage jump.

9A Run and squat Flank vault left and vault forward right from a running with straighten- start, ing legs forward.

9B Flank vault left Jump to riding seat and right from on croup, swing legs a running start, backward to support lying position on end of horse. Scissors back ward. Dismount forward.

’

Run and jump to support with squatting left leg forward between arms to cross riding seat in saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand to support rearways. Dismount with legswing forward.

Jump to riding seat on neck. Change to riding seat on croup. Legswing right over horse to stand on board, and immediately flank vault left.

Jump to support with leg swing righf under right hand to a cross riding seat. Turn-mount right to a riding seat on croup. Scissors backward. Dismount forward.
I

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY, PHILADELPHIA, PENN. ACE AIM CHART (BOYS)

JUMP (Feet and Inches)

Age	Standing  Broad			Running  Broad			Running  High			Standing Hop Step and Jump			Overhead			Free Style			50-Yard			75-Yard			—*— 100-YangO		
	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	CJf
11	6.6	6.3	5.4	11 3	10.6	8.3	3.9	3 5	2.11	19.0	17.8	15 6	31	29	23	58	45	38	7.2	7.4	8.3	10 2	10 4	11.3	14.0	14.4	16. t
12	6.8	6.5	5.8	11.10	11 2	9 3	3.11	3.8	3.1	20 0	18.6	16 0	35	32	26	62	54	46	7.0	7.2	8 1	10 1	10.2	11.1	13.3	14 1	«!'
13	7.2	6.8	5 11	12 8	11 10	10 0	4.0	3.10	3 4	21.9	20.0	16 6	39	35	29	68	62	54	6 4	7.1	8.0	9.4	10 1	11.0	13 0	13 4	1K(
14	7.7	7.1	6.3	13.8	12.6	10.6	4.2	4.0	3.6	24 0	21.6	17.0	42	39	32	75	70	60	6.3	7.0	7.4	9.2	9.4	10 4	12 2	13 1	14.:
15	7 10	7.5	6 6	14 2	13.3	11.2	4.4	4 2	3.9	26.0	23 0	17.8	46	43	35	83	77	64	6.2	6 4	7.3	9.1	9.3	10 3	12.1	12.3	14. C
16	8.4	7.9	6 8	15 3	14 8	12 6	4 6	4 4	3 10	28 0	25 6	18.6	49	45	38	90	84	70	6.1	6.3	7.2	9 0	9 1	10 0	11 4	12.1	13.2

AGE AIM CHART (GIRLS)

BALL THROW (Feht)

DASH (Seconds and Fifths)

JUMP (Feet and Inches)

O  bfi  <	Standing  Broad			Running  Broad			Runnir g High			Standing Hop Step and Jump			Overhead			Free Style		50-Yard			75-Yard			100-Yard		
	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F	E	G F	E !	G	F	E	G	F	E	G	F
11	5.9	5.6	4.7	9.0	8.1	6 7	3.4	3.1	2.7	16.6	15 8	13.6	28	25	21	42	38 30	7.3	8.0	9.1	10.4	11.1	13 0	14 4	15 0	16.4
12	6.1	5.8	4.11	9.3	8.6	7.0	3.6	3.3	2.9	17 0	16 2	14 0	30	27	23	45	41 32	7.2	7.4	8.4	10.3	11.0	12.4	14.2	14 4	16. S|
13	6.3	5.11	5.1	9 6	8.9	7.2	3.8	3.5	2.10	17.10	17 0	14.10	33	30	25	50	44 | 35	7.1	7.3	8.3	10 2	10 4	12 3	14.1	14.3	16.2
14	6.5	6.1	5.2	9.8	9.0	7.6	3.9	3.6	2.11	18.6	17 6	15 6	35	32	27	54	48 1 38	7 0	7.2	8.2	10 1	10 3	12.2	14 0	14.2	16 if
15	S. 8	6.3	5.3	10 0	9.3	7 10	3.10	3.7	3.0	19.2	18.0	16 0	37	34	28	58	53 ! 42	6 4	7.1	8.1	10.0	10.2	12 0	13 4	14 1	16.(
16	7 0	6 6	5.6	10.2	9 6	8 0	4 0	3.8	3.1	?0 0	18 10116 5		39	36	29	62	57 1 45	6 4	7.0	8.0	10 0	10 1111 4		13 3	14 0	i6.d
265

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—GIRLS ROPES

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A	From	a stand.	Pendulum-swing on	On 2	ropes. Grasp

jump to straight	2	ropes in the	bent-	2	ropes	and jump to

-arm	hang on	arm hang with	knees	correct climbing posi-

2	ropes. Raise raised forward (4 tion with legs on one

knees at least swings). Dismount at rope. Climb 3 steps. 15 times.	end of backward

swing.

7B	From	a stand.	On 2 ropes.	Grasp	Jump	to correct

jump to straight 2 ropes and jump to climbing position, arm-hang on correct climbing posi- Climb at least 3 steps, one rope. Place tion with legs on one legs in correct rope. Climb 3 steps, climbing position. In this position raise and lower the knees 8 times.

8A On 2 ropes.	On 1 rope. Jump to	Climb half way up.

Grasp 2 ropes correct climbing posi-and jump to tion with straight arms correct climb- Pull up to a bent-arm ing position position, keeping the with legs on one feet in position and rope. Climb straightening legs as

3	steps.	much as necessary.

Return. 3 times.

8B On 1 rope.	Jump to correct	Climb all the way

Jump to cor- climbing position. up. rect climbing Climb at least 3 steps, position with straight arms.

Pull up to a bent-arm position, keeping the feet in position and straightening legs as much as necessary. Return. 3 times.

9A Climb half- Climb all the way Climb up all the ways up.	up.	wa^.	Climb	down on

a: ze thfe i next rope.
266

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

9B Climb all the Climb all the way Climb all the way way up.	up,	Climb	down	on	up.	Climb	down	half-

the next rope.	way	on	the	next	rope.

Climb up to the top and then all the way down.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—GIRLS HORIZONTAL LADDERS

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Travel forward Travel sideward on	ladder, chest

while swinging one beam with swing- high. Jump to cross-sideward, outer ing, changing alter- seat in front of hands; grip on beams, nately between a span legswing to cross-seat and closed grip.	on	opposite	side.	Dis-

mount sideward.

7B Travel backward, while swinging sideward, outer grip on beams.

Low ladder, chest high. Jump to crossseat in front of hands; leg-swing to cross-seat on opposite side. Dismount sideward.

Low ladder, chest-high. Jump to crossseat in front of hands. Leg-swing to straddle-seat in front of hands. Return. Dismount sideward.

8A Travel sideward Low ladder, chest Low ladder, chest on one beam high. Jump to cross- high. Jump to cross-with swinging, seat in front of hands, seat in front of hands, changing alter- Legswing to straddle- Legswing to straddle-nately between seat in front of hands, seat in front of hands, a span and Return. Dismount Legswing to support-closed grip. sideward.	lying position front-

ways on top of ladder. Front-vault dismount.

8B Travel forward Travel forward on Travel backward on on at least one- rungs, skipping one rungs, half the length rung during each step, of the ladder.

9A Travel forward on beams without swinging grasping both beams.

Travel backward on Travel backward on rungs.	rungs,	skipping	one

rung during each step.

Digitized by

Google
267

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

9B Same as 9A, Travel backward on Travel forward on but with knees rungs, skipping one rungs, skipping one raised.	rung	during	each	step,	rung	during	each	step,

with swinging the arm backward and downward beside the leg, and executing a half turn of the body before grasping the next rung.

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK-GIRLS MATS

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Roll forward	Two continuous rolls	Roll backward with-

without per- forward.	out permitting head

mitting head to	to touch mat.

touch mat.

7B Two continuous	Roll backward. Two continuous	rolls

rolls forward.	backward.

8A Roll backward.	Two continous rolls	Roll forward, ankles

backward.	grasped.

8B Two continuous Roll forward to a Head-stand, rolls backward, stand and immediately roll backward to a stand.

9A Roll forward to Roll forward, face Head-stand. Roll a stand and im- about, and immediate- forward to a stand, mediately roll ly roll backward to backward to a a stand, stand.

9B Roll forward, face about, and immediately roll backward to a stand.

Head-stand. Roll Cartwheel, forward to a stand.

Digitized by

Google
268

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL COURSE OF STUDY APPARATUS WORK—GIRLS RINGS

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

7A Rings reach- Pendulum-swing	Rings	reach-high,

high.	Three	with a half turn at the	With a jump turn over

step	run	for-	end of	each forward	backward to a nest-

ward	and	back-	swing.	(All swings are	hang. Return, pass-

ward	2	times,	forward	in this exer-	ing through a momen-

and then swing cise.)	tary bent-arm hang.

3 times with knees raised forward.

7B Pendulum-swing Rings jump-high. Rings shoulder-high, forward and Jump to bent-arm	With a jump, turn over

backward with hang. Double leg-	to a hang rear ways,

good form. swing forward and	Place feet on the floor.

Touch-step left backward several times	release grasp and

and right dur- (The Short Swing.)	stand. Knees may be

ing each swing.	bent during the turn.

8A Pendulum-swing Rings head-high. Rings head-high, with a halfturn Turn over backward to With a jump, turn over at the end of a nest hang. Return, to an inverted-hang, each forward passing through a mo- feet placed against swing. ((All mentary bent-arm ropes. Return, pass-swings are for- hang.	ing through a momen-

ward in this ex-	tary bent-arm hang,

ercise.)

8B Rings jump- Rings head-high with Rings head-high, high. Jump to a jump, turn over to Jump and turn over bent-arm hang, an inverted-hang, feet to an inverted-hang, Double leg-	placed against ropes, free* Return, pass-

swing forward Return, passing thru ing through a momen-and backward a momentary bent- tary bent-arm hang, several times, arm hang.

(The Short Swing.)

9A Rings head- Rings head-high. Rings head-high, high. With a Jump and turn over Jump and turn over jump turn over to an inverted-hang, backwards to an inbackward to a free. Return, passing verted hang free, nest-hang. Re- through a momentary Lower to a hang rear-turn, passing bent-arm hang.	ways. Place feet on

through a mo-	floor, release grasp and

mentary bent-	straighten to a stand,

arm hang.
269

Grade	Fair	Good	Excellent

9B Rings head-high Rings head-high. Rings reach-high. With a jump, Jump and turn ever Shortswing (from the turn over to an	backwards to an	in-	hips)	to an	inverted-

inverted-hang,	verted-hang, free.	hang,	free.	Lower to

feet placed Lower to a hang rear- a hang rearways. Place against ropes,	ways. Place feet	on	feet on floor, release

Return, pass-	floor, release grasp and	grasp and	straighten

ing through a straighten to a stand, to a stand, momentary bent-arm hang.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.*

By Sir W. Arbuthnot Lane, Bart., C. B.

(We are indebted to the New Health Society for permission to publish this article. “Physical Education Bulletin”, England.

The boys in our public schools (see note).suffer from three very serious disadvantages. Their food is most unsatisfactory, as has been proved by experts who have examined the diets of several schools, and have reported fully on them. Their sanitary arrangements are too often hopelessly insufficient, in some cases so defective as to amount to criminal neglect. Their physical training, such as it is, is carried on in the most hopelessly casual manner possible.

One of our most experienced anaesthetists said to me that perhaps what he considered his worst risk was the public school boy of about sixteen years of age, for the reason that he was badly fed, badly drained, and badly trained physically. While the evidence of the faulty diets and insufficient sanitary arrangements is overwhelming and generally recognized, the public is very ill-informed as to the damage these boys sustain from excessive exercise. In Canada and in the States the greatest attention and care is given to this question, and as the result one sees magnificent physique as a rule in those countries.

For example, in the University of Toronto the boys are collected in large buildings, where they have the advantage of a magnificent gymnasium, bathing pools, etc. They are carefully examined by medical men who are especially trained for this purpose, and are graded as to their capacity to perform physical work. Some form of exercise is insisted on for two or three years, but it bears a definite relationship to the physique of the individual. After the boy has left his college or university, he joins

NOTE—In England a “public school” is what here would be termed a private or boarding school for pupils who pay.

Digitized by GrOOgle
270

a club, in which he pursues from habit such games or exercises as his physical condition permits of.

Contrast this with the arrangements in our public schools and in our old Universities. They are usually small, antiquated, ill-constructed buildings, in which there is no sufficient accomodation or arrangements for such efficient physical training as exists on the other side of the Atlantic. There is no careful or thorough examination or classification of the boys, and it is usually left to a head master with no medical training to decide as to what games shall be played, or what form of exercise shall be taken in the event of a boy not wishing to play games. While some masters may occasionally consult a doctor, the majority exercise an ignorant and autocratic control which is too often productive of disastrous results to the boys under their care.

Medical men are only too familiar with the cardiac and other changes which result from this most imperfect and casual treatment, but do not display any very active interest in the matter.

I would suggest that a highly competent man be sent to such a University as that of Toronto, where he can have an opportunity of studying the very thorough supervision of the physique of exercises of the youth, and on his return to England he can stimulate the authorities of our public schools and the Government to take the matter in hand, and to deal with it thoroughly.

In England we seem to do everything in a half-hearted way, being satisfied because we occasionally secure prodigies, frequently from the Dominions, but we lack altogether that thoroughness which alone makes for success and for a healthy vigorous race. This thoroughness accounts for the steady advance of our opponents in games of all sorts and explains the deterioration of our representatives in the field of sport.

There are two reasons for the failure of our public school system in the matter of the physical training of our youth. One is financial, in that the boys are collected in comparatively small separate buildings and we do not possess men of the great philanthropic type that exist in the Western Continent, who are sufficiently interested in the future of their race to build magnificent establishments for this purpose.

The other reason is the appalling conservatism of our people in Great Britain. I would exclude those of the Dominons. It is only the other day that they developed enough intelligence to permit of the youth of the country deriving any benefit to their health from Sunday, by permitting them to play games on that day, the only one on which the vast majority of our workers could take any exercise. Anything more devastating to physical and moral health than the mid-Victorian Sunday would be hard to imagine.

This control is limited entirely to those who most require such exercise in the open air, since the rich can and do not only spend Sundays to their greatest advantage in the open air, but they are able to indulge on other days in the week than Sunday. However, the masses are now realizing the importance

Digitized t
271

of health, and they will force those in control to permit them to lead healthier and happier lives, free from the dominating influence which has till very recently been exerted to their disadvantage.

That this influence is employed to the very serious detriment of the physique of the boys in the public schools can be readily demonstrated by watching the way in which they spend their Sundays. They, however, unlike the boys in the working classes, get plenty of exercise during the week and do not call so much for our sympathy, however greatly one may regret the system.

Instead of limiting the opportunities for exercise of those who have got to work hard for their daily bread during the week, let us do everything in our power to encourage them to make the most of Sunday and to afford them every opportunity and facility for doing so.

DISPOSITIONS AND HEALTH

By Elizabeth Cole

“How to Start the Day Wrong”—we’ve all learned ways of doing that-dropped a spot of egg on a clean suit, missed the best train, forgot to take important papers. All kinds of little petty things can make the best natured among us start the day wrong. And from then on everything else goes wrong. Irritability, discontent and complications seem to follow. And why? Because we’ve let a little thing upset us. Our dispositions have had a pin stuck into them and that pin goes on tormenting. Enough pricking pins may do really serious damage.

A sense of humor often saves the day. But a sense of humor is incompatible with a nagging pain or a constant weariness; even the worry that something may be wrong sours the milk of good cheer in most of us. Certain great ones of this earth like Helen Keller succeed in keeping sweet in spite of ill health but for most of us, good disposition bubbles up only out of a healthy body and a healthy mind.

Have you ever gone about your business with a tormenting pain or a tired feeling and found that you snap at your fellow workmen and say things you don't really mean? You sometimes quarrel with your superior, or exaggerate wrongs, real or fancied. Sometimes this results in the loss of a job. Unrest and trouble in factories, offices and homes are many times traced to the fact that physical fitness is not made the fundamental asset. When a person's physical condition is out of tune his mind will not play harmoniously so that if sudden trouble comes he is unable to meet it rationally. Whereas the healthy man seldom harbors a grievance and can look at the world sanely and optimistically.

Your days will start right if you know how you are physically. Have you had a good overhauling by your doctor recently so
272

that you know there is nothing the matter with you? Let him tell you whether you are eating the right food. He will remind you that you need eight hours sleep with plenty of fresh air in your rooms. Probably he will ask if you are getting some exercise every day and if you are keeping your body clean inside and outside with water? See your family physician and let him look you over.

Periodic physical examinations are urged as part of the educational campaign carried on by the National Tuberculosis Association and affiliated associations throughout the country. Their aim is to eradicate tuberculosis by teaching healthy daily living, and their work is supported by the penny Christmas seals sold in December.

< •——	'■ — ............................. ■ <»

Gymnasium and playground

<» 1 "

ROPE SKIPPING EXERCISES—1927

Music—Parade of Wooden Soldiers—Victor Record 73400 Steps— In the stepping step the spring is made from one foot to the other, as in running in place.

In the jump the spring is made from both feet, landing is on both feet.

Formation—Ranks of six, in open order, numbered from right to left.

NOTE: The rope is turned forward unless otherwise stated. Introduction—8 counts Stand with arms sideward, rope back of ankles.

Part I (32 counts)

Two leap steps (right foot) forward (2 turns) and 4 jumps in

61ace (4 turns), facing left on last jump, 8 counts.

Repeat 3 times on square left, 24 counts.

Part II. (28 counts)

Swing rope backward and forward stepping over rope (right foot), and two stepping steps forward (2 turns), 8 counts.

Repeat twice, 16 counts.

Swing rope backward and forward stepping over rope, 4 counts.

Part III (32 counts)

a.	With 2 leap steps forward and 4 jumps repeated, Nos. 1, 3, and 5 move in counter clockwise direction, encircling Nos. 2, 4, and 6 respectively, who stand in place with knuckles on hips, 16 counts.

b.	Nos. 2, 4 and 6 do the same, moving in a clockwise direction, 16 counts.

Part IV (8 counts)

Stand in position with arms sideward.jZ6d by Google
273

Part V (64 counts)

a.	Two balance hops left forward (2 turns) and 4 jumps in place (4 turns) 8 counts.

Repeat right, 8 counts.

b.	Files 1, 3, and 5 face left, 2, 4, and 6 face right. Repeat “a”, finishing with turning to the front in 4 leap steps in place on the last four counts (4 turns) (alternate files have changed places), 16 counts.

c.	Repeat "a”, 16 counts.

d.	Files 1, 3, and 5 face right, 2, 4, and 6 face left, and repeat “b”, 16 counts. (All files have returned to original places.)

Part VI—Interlude (20 counts)

a.	With arms sideward, rope held in rear, a bounding swing hop left and right and a triple balance hop turn left, 8 counts.

b.	Repeat opposite, 8 counts.

c.	Stand with arms sideward, rope back of ankles, Nos. 1, 3, and 5 facing left. Nos. 2. 4 and 6 facing right on last count,

4	counts.

Part VII. (32 counts)

a.	Two leap steps forward, right shoulders passing, and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

b.	Two leap steps forward and 4 jumps in place, facing about on the jumps, 8 counts.

c.	Repeat "a”, left shoulders passing, 8 counts.

d.	Two leap steps forward and 4 jumps in place, facing front on jumps, 8 counts.

Part VIII (8 counts)

Stand in position with arms sideward.

Part IX. (44 counts)

Two leap steps forward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

Two leap steps moving left sideward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

Two leap steps moving backward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

Two leap steps moving right sideward and hold rope in rear,

5	counts.

21 quick running steps backward, 3 step turn left, 2 jumps forward (2 turns), finishing with arms sideward, 15 counts.

MODEL EXERCISES Turnverein Germania, Los Angeles, Cal.

Arranged by Carl J. Mettler

Music:- “I Love You, California,”—by A. F. Frankenstein. Formation :-A column of Front Ranks.

Introduction:-.......................................... 4	Meas.

Open ranks by marching three steps forward, beginning left, Leap into a balance stand right......4 Meas.
274

Repeat three times, beginning left each time..........12	Meas.

16 Meas.

Exercise 1.

1.	Raise left knee, both hands on knee............... 1	Meas.

2.	Straighten left leg forward and arms forward...... 1	Meas.

3.	Position 1........................................ 1	Meas.

4.	Return to fundamental position.................... 1	Meas.

5.	Lunge left forward, raise arms fore-upward........ 1	Meas.

6.	Lower trunk forward, move arms sideward........... 1	Meas.

7.	Position 5........................................ 1	Meas.

8.	Return to starting position....................... 1	Meas.

9.	-16Repeat starting right........................... 8	Meas.

16 Meas.

Chorus (Trio)

Raise arms sideward, rise on toes, lower arms and heels.. 3 Meas. Exercise 2.

1.	Raise left knee, arms to	thrust............ 1	Meas.

2.	Stride left sideward and	thrust arms upward...... 1	Meas.

3.	Lower trunk forward.............................. 1	Meas.

4.	Swing arms backward.............................. 1	Meas.

5.	Swing arms forward..............................  1	Meas.

6.	Straighten trunk................................  1	Meas.

7.	Bend arms to thrust.............................. 1	Meas.

8.	Close left to right and lower arms to fundamental

position .......................................  1	Meas.

9.	-16Repeat.all, beginning right.................... 8	Meas.

Repeat all, left and right.......................16	Meas.

32 Meas.

Introduction:

Raise arms sideward, upward and rise on toes, lower heels

and arms sideward downward......................... 4	Meas.

Exercise 3.

1.	Raise left knee, arms to thrust.................... 1	Meas.

2.	Stride left forward and thrust arms upward......... 1	Meas.

3.	1-4 turn right, 3-4 arms circle left and	knee	bend left 1	Meas.

4.	Bend trunk forward lower arms finger tips touching

floor ............................................. 1	Meas.

5.	Position 3......................................... 1	Meas.

6.	Position 2......................................... 1	Meas.

7.	Arms to thrust..................................... 1	Meas.

8.	Close left to right and lower arms................. 1	Meas.

9.	-16Repeat all beginning right....................... 8	Meas.

Repeat all left and right......................... 16	Meas.

32 Meas.

Chorus (Trio)

Raise arms sideward, rise on toes, lower it§png(3p^heels 3 Meas.
275

Exercise 4.

1.	Raise arms sideward	and	left leg sideward... 1	Meas.

2.	Lunge left sideward,	move arms side upward........ 1	Meas.

3.	-4 Lower to a balance stand sideways left. Raise leg

sideward

Lower trunk left. Raise arms sideward and trunk

horizontal .................................................... 2	Meas.

5.-6	Return to position 2.......................................... 2	Meas.

7.	Position 1..................................................... 1	Meas.

8.	Lower arms sideward	and	close left to right. 1	Meas.

9. -16Repeat all, beginning right......................................... 8	Meas.

Repeat all, beginning left and right.................................16	Meas.

32 Meas.

Introduction

Raise arms sideward, upward and rise on toes, lower heels

and arms sideward downward....................... 4	Meas.

Exercise 5.

1.	Step left forward, raise arms forward............ 1	Meas.

2.	Lunge left forward, move arms upward............. 1	Meas.

3.	-4 Change knee bend and lower arms sideward and

trunk backward................................... 2	Meas.

5.-6	Return to position 2............................ 2	Meas.

7.	Position 1 ...................................... 1	Meas.

8.	Lower arms, close left to right.................. 1	Meas.

9.	-16Repeat all beginning right..................... 8	Meas.

Repeat all left and right........................16	Meas.

32 Meas.

Chorus (Trio)

Raise arms sideward, rise on toes, lower arms and heels.. 3 Meas.

Exercise 6.

1.	Point left sideward, raise arms	sideward........... 1	Meas.

2.	1-4 turn left, lunge left sideward, swing right

arm obliquely fore-upward and left arm backward 1 Meas.

3.	-4 Change knee bend and arm position, bend trunk

backward .......................................... 2	Meas.

5.-6	Return to position 2............................. 2	Meas.

7.	Position 1.......................................   1	Meas.

8.	Close left to right and lower	arms................. 1	Meas.

9.	-16Repeat all, beginning right...................... 8	Meas.

Repeat all, left and right.........................16	Meas.

Close ranks and march off.	32	Meas.

WAND EXERCISES

Arranged by Otto Boehmke For Men ond Women of the Turnverein Vorwaerts Brooklyn, N. Y.

Formation: Front rank of threes in open order.

Starting position: Fundamental position, wand/in front of body, upper grip. '
276

Music: “Snow Queen/' by Gustave Salzer

There are two counts to a measure. During the four measures of the introduction, the class stands at attention. For the first three exercises the first three parts of the music are played. Each part is repeated. Then there is a short part. For the second three exercises the same parts of the music are used including the introduction.

Each exercise is executed left and right, respectively outward and inward.

PART I.

Slowly raise left leg sidew. and wand foreupward (1-4).... 2 Meas. Lunge left sideward, lower trunk slightly left sideward, release wand with left hand and place left hand on left knee, fingers in front, strike wand upward and oblique right sideupward (wand is now in right hand and in line with shoulders and right arm),

turn head right (5), pause (6-8).................. 2 Meas.

Straighten trunk and left knee, 5-8 arm circle right downward and left sideward, regrasp wand with left hand, right arm is bent in front of chest (9),

1-4 turn left, bend left knee and raise wand upward (10), pause (11-12).......................... 2 Meas.

Straighten left knee and close right foot to left (13),

bend trunk backward (14), pause (15-16)........... 2 Meas.

Straighten trunk upward (17), bend left knee and place

right foot backward (18), pause (19-20)........... 2 Meas.

1-4 turn right, straighten left knee, lower wand left sideward to a sidehold left (21), bend left knee and lower trunk slightly left sideward, release wand with left hand and place left hand on left knee, circle right arm with wand downward and right oblique sideupward, turn head right (22), pause

(23-24) .......................................... 2	Meas.

Straighten left knee and raise left leg sideward, raise wand upward and regrasp with left hand, turn head

forward (22) pause (26-28) ....................... 2	Meas.

Lower left leg and lower wand foredownward (29),

pause (30-32)..................................... 2	Meas.

II.

16 Meas.

Slowly raise left leg forward and wand foreupward (1-4) 2 Meas.

Layout left backward, release wand with left hand, place left forarm in rear of body, strike wand oblique forupward to an oblique forupward position (wand in line with right arm) (5), pause (6-8) ................... 2	Meas.

Straighten right knee, 5-8 arm circle right downward and backward to a left rear horizontal position (right angle with shoulder on left side of body)—

Regrasp wand with left hand right, arm bent, right hand in front of left shoulder (9), 1-2 turn left, bend

Digitized by jUUVTL
277

left knee, raise wand upward (10), pause (11-12).... 2	Meas.

Straighten left knee, close right leg to left (13), bend trunk forward, place wand in rear of neck (14), pause (15-16) ................................................ 2	Meas.

Straighten trunk, straighten arms upward (17), bend left knee and place right foot backward (18), pause (19-20) ................................................ 2	Meas.

1-2 turn right, straighten left knee, lower wand to a rear horizontal position on left side of body (21), bend right knee, release wand with left hand, place left forearm in rear of body, circle arm downward and oblique forupward (wand in line with right arm),

(22), pause (23-24)................................. 2	Meas.

Straighten right knee and raise left leg forward, regrasp wand with left hand and raise wand upward (25), pause (26-28) .......................................... 2	Meas.

Fundamental position and lower wand foredownward

(29), pause (30-32) .................................... 2	Meas.

III.

The outer files repeat exercise I, beginning with the outer leg, the inner file repeats exercise II, starting

with left leg (1-32) ...............................  16	Meas.

Repeat same with opposite leg (1-32) .....................16	Meas.

IV.

Raise left leg sideward and wand foreupward (1), lunge left sideward and place wand oblique in rear of body,

right arm low, left arm bent over left shoulder (2), pause (3-4) ........................................  2	Meas.

Straighten left knee and straighten arms upward, wand up (5-6) bend right knee and right arm, right hand on left shoulder, wand left oblique sideup, turn head left (7), pause (8)	  2	Meas.

1-4 turn right, slide left hand to right hand, swing wand upward and then foreward to a horizontal forward hold, wand in line with arms, both hands on right end of wand (9), pause (10-12) .......................... 2	Meas.

Raise slowly left leg backward to a scale on right leg, move left hand back to the left end of the wand, wand is forward in horizontal position (13-16)........... 2	Meas.

Lower left leg and move wand to former position (17-20) 2 Meas.

1-4 turn left, slide left hand back to left end of wand and place wand left oblique sideupward, right hand on left shoulder (21), pause (22-24) .................... 2	Meas.

Straighten right knee and raise wand upward (25-26), bend left knee and lower wand oblique in rear of body, right hand low (27), pause (28).................... 2	Meas.

Straighten left knee, raise left leg sideward and raise wand upward (29), lower left leg and wand fore-downward (30).................... .......jgitize. .>Q.... 2	Meas.
278

V.

Raise left leg forward and arms foreupward (1), lunge left forward and lower wand oblique in rear of body, right arm low, left arm bent over left shoulder (2), pause (3-4).............................................2	Meas.

Straighten left knee, raise wand upward (6), bend right knee, move left arm oblique forupward, bend right arm and place right hand on head (7), pause (8)........ 2	Meas.

Change knee bending, bend trunk forward, lower wand downward between legs, right hand in rear, left hand in front (9), pause (10-12)....................... 2	Meas.

Raise right leg slowly to a scale on left leg and raise wand forward, sliding left hand to right hand, wand in line with arms (13-16).............................. 2	Meas.

Return to former position (17-20)...................... 2	Meas.

Change knee bending, straighten trunk upward, raise wand oblique forupward, left arm in front, right hand on head (21), Pause (22-24)....................... 2	Meas.

Straighten right knee and right arm and raise wand upward (25-26) bend left knee and lower wand oblique in rear of body, right arm low, left arm bent over left shoulder (27), pause (28)......................... 2	Meas.

Straighten left knee and raise wand upward and raise left leg forward (29), fundamental position and lower arms fordownward (30), Pause (31-32) ............... 2	Meas.

VI.

The outer files repeat exercise IV, beginning with the outer leg, the inner file repeats exercise V, starting with left leg (1-32) ..................................16	Meas.

Repeat same opposite (1-32)............................16	Meas.

On Wednesday, July 20th, at the British Medical Association Meetings, Dr. William Hunter gave what was termed an outstanding address on “The Causes and Cure of certain forms of Insanity.”

He states that of the 133,000 inmates of asylums, a large proportion of the insanity was due to poisoning of the brain by bad teeth. In paying a tribute to Dr. Cotton, of America, who had been studying this subject from 1919 to 1923, he asserted that on removing the causes of sepsis due to bad teeth, the discharges had been doubled from the mental hospital where Dr. Cotton had been carrying on his research, and the average stay of new patients reduced from ten months to three months.

This discovery is looked upon as being one of the greatest since that of Lister. One case was described .-of. <a patient who

Digitized byVjVJ\JV\
279

had been in an asylum for two years and was regarded as a permanent patient, but after the extraction of eleven decayed teeth, she recovered in a few weeks and has remained perfectly sane and well since. Apparently for some time the approach to such cases has been through the agency of psychology but what this science has failed to effect has in numerous cases been accomplished in a short time by removing the cause of septic infection arising from bad teeth.

Sir Berkeley Moynihan, the famous surgeon, said that looking back over a period of thirty years of practice, he was able to say that the removal of organic disease had often meant the removal of a neuro-psychosis and that Dr. William Hunter is applying the work of Lister to medicine. He anticipated that the effect in that direction would be as great as the effect of Lister’s work in the realms of surgery although—as Lister—• his voice had been like one crying in the wilderness.—Physical Education Bulletin.

WHAT POISONS KILL CHILDREN

Seventy children among the policyholders of a large insurance company were victims of accidental poisoning in 1924. Young children furnished the largest group. In fifty-seven of these cases the nature of the poison was ascertained. Strychnine, one of the deadliest poisons, caused 14 deaths; lye and other caustic alkalis, 6; fireworks, 5; vermin exterminators, which usually contain arsenic, 5, and kerosene and gasoline, 3.

The strychnine was taken in the form of cathartic pills by seven victims and in tonics by three victims. Strychnine is an ingredient of many “patent” or proprietary medicines, but the law in most States does not require any caution label to be placed on the package.

It is unpardonable negligence on the part of any government to permit any such deadly drugs to be dispensed in mixture for medical use without compelling the manufacturer to put a conspicuous warning label on every bottle or package. Parents should be repeatedly and emphatically warned to place every bottle, box, or package containing anything of a poisonous nature well out of reach of children. They should instruct the children, Just as soon as they are old enough to comprehend the matter, m the importance of handling poisons with care, the dangers of poisons, and especially the dangerous nature of many “patent” medicines. This should be taught in all schools as well as in the home.

Only when knowledge of these facts becomes universal and when the necessary precautions are taken in every household will we be saved from the deplorable and unnecessary loss of life from accidental poisoning.— Hygeia.

^Google
280

BOOK REVIEWS

“Dudley Allen Sergent”—An Autobiography, edited by Led-yard W. Sargent, with an introduction by R. Tait MacKenzie, M. D. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, 1927. Price $2.00. Bound in cloth, 8x5 1-2 inches, 221 pages, including notes, preface and introduction.

An autobiography which, one could tritely say, “should be read by every teacher of physical education in America" and still not exaggerate. The life of Dudley A. Sargent is an epic concerning the early struggles and successes of a man and his ideals. We believe that to date no single person has contributed more to the success of physical education in the colleges and normal schools than this man.

The book is excellently written and makes an interesting narrative for any reader. The urge of enthusiasm and the seasoning of humor are both apparent. It ends as did the author’s life— quietly and without climax.

H.	L. Conrad.

“Tumbling, Pyramid Building and Stunts for Girls and Women," by B. & D. Cotteral. Clothbound 143 pp. Price $1.60. A. S. Barnes and Company.

This book fills the need of the profession for a comprehensive, well-organized treatment of the material and methods necessary for instruction in tumbling. The exercises are classified according to type, and each type is arranged progressively. A wealth of material is offered ranging from easy exercises to those requiring a medium degree of skill. They are suitable for girls of junior high school age and upward. General principles are set forth, the practical application of which is well illustrated by means of excellent model lessons. Descriptions and explanations are simple and clear. Suggestions concerning points to stress and faults to avoid are very helpful. A liberal number of illustrations are provided.

Teachers who are interested in pyramid building will find a valuable chapter on this subject. It includes a large number of varied, attractive, yet easily executed pyramids for use above the sixth grade. Exact directions for building each pyramid, along with a set of general principles to be observed, are of considerable value.

The authors have anticipated the need for information regarding exhibition numbers. A typical exhibition involving the material of the book has been worked out. Better still, the basic facts underlying the organization and administration of exhibition work are explained so that the teacher, by applying this knowledge, can build up a first class demonstration.

Digitized byGhfePtife A. Gable.
281

“Special Day Pageants for Little People” by Marion Kennedy and Katharine Isabel Bemis. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Cloth bound, 48 pp. Price $1.50.

Primary teachers who are looking for appropriate material with which to celebrate “special days” that are now generally observed in our schools, will find such material in this volume.

There are twenty-one numbers for different days: New Year’s Day, Lincoln’s Birthday, St. Valentine’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, St. Patrick’s Day, Arbor Day, and so on thru the year.. They are designed in subject matter and manner of presentation for children of the first four grades. The authors claim that “each is based on educational psychological principles. Each develops a theme and drives home a subtle lesson that cannot fail to impress itself on the children’s minds.”

Simple costumes are suggested; effects are sometimes obtained thru the mere use of paper bands. The pageants are short. The rhymes used are appropriate but there is a regretable lack of action—no action, other than marching, is suggested in most of the numbers.

Janet B. Walter

“American Indian and Other Folk Dances” by Mary Severance Shafter. Illustrated. Quarto Cloth, pp. 77. Price $3.00. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

This is a book of Folk Dances which with two exceptions, according to the author, have never before been published. There are quite a number of North American Indian Dances in the collection which will undoubtedly be welcomed by and of service to those people interested in producing pageants and festivals. In the author's experience there has been a dearth of this material and she feels sure these dances will supply the need. She also recommends them as suitable for dances of camp fire girls. A number of new Armenian dances as well as a Portugese, Greek, Scotch, German, Spanish and Mexican dances are in the collection. The music for each dance is given, accompanied by a description of the dance.

These descriptions seem to be complete and clear and sufficiently simple to be practical.

Janet B. Walter.

“The Nations of the World”—A Pageant. Designed to show their contributions to civilization. Prepared by the Faculty of Public School 53, Buffalo, N. Y. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Cloth bound, 46 pp. Price $2.00.

This pageant consists of five episodes entitled The Spirit of Africa, The Spirit of Asia, The Spirit of Europe, The Spirit of South America, and The Spirit of North America.

Schools desiring a colorful pageant will welcome this one in which most of the nations are introduced. Tho there have been many pageants in which various nations are represented, another will doubtless be acceptable to those wishing a production with educational value.

Digitized by njOUvIL
282

In the foreword of the book it is stated that this is a pageant designed to show what the most important nations of the world have contributed to civilization, and yet in the episode dealing with European nations, we regret to note the omission of Germany, Russia and Belgium.

There is no description of scenes but the illustrations show a plain back drop. The costumes for each scene are described and instructions are given for the making of some of the necessary properties.

We are inclined to think that the pageant would be just as effective, and perhaps have a better climax, without the last two scenes of the last episode.

Janet B. Walter.

“An Athletic Program for Elementary Schools” by Leonora Anderson. Clothbound, pp. 134. Price $2.00. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York.

This book “presents a program of games built out of fundamental game elements, graded and adapted for use under school conditions. The aim is to give to elementary school teachers practical help in the organization and conduct of play activities. It is not intended to serve as a complete outline of physical education activities for elementary schools.”

The material is arranged on a seasonal basis using soccer as the Fall activity, dodgeball, captainball, and basketball as the Winter activities, and baseball as the Spring activity. Further classification and analysis of the fundamental elements of these activities is made to suit the various grades. Then around each of these elements or skills are built games or contests.

The latter part of the book is devoted to standardized tests which are intended “to serve as an incentive to the pupils for continued practice and improvement of skill and also to give the teacher some means of judging whether the group is up to standard or not.” The tests group themselves around abilities in speed, accuracy, and distance as applied to fundamentals in soccer, dodgeball, captainball, basketball, and baseball. The classification of boys and girls for these tests is the one worked out and used by Mr. Frederick J. Reilly of the Public Schools of New York City, involving all the factors of age, height, weight, and grade.

The injection of sound educational principles into the development of these athletic sports and games is a welcome feature, especially since the inherent fun and joy of these have not suffered from the method of treatment.

The book is a valuable contribution to this particular phase of physical education. It is very practical and is based on sound principles of play and education. Such a program suggests an immense amount of record keeping and paper work which lays the work open to criticism, especially from some of our "overburdened” teachers. In spite of this, however, there will be a good many who will find the time spent well justified.

Digitized by Go^feC. Kieffer
283

"Danish Gymnastics for Women” by Dorothy Sumption. Clothbound, pp. 189. Price $2.00. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

Miss Sumption’s book begins with a concise, explanatory introduction that should be carefully read if the book is to be fully appreciated. The aims, methods, value and adaptation of the work are clearly discussed.

The book contains a wealth of clearly described exercises accompanied by good illustrations. The exercises are divided into three classes, each with a definite aim. These aims are to develop suppleness, strength, and co-ordination respectively.

Miss Sumption states, and we hasten to agree, that the worth of the book is dependent upon the teacher’s ability to select the proper material. The teacher must be well-trained in physical education, must be firmly grounded in physiology and kinesiology, and must possess the ability to recognize the needs of her class. Many of the exercises are unsuited to the need and welfare of school girls.

The “no stop” method which is advocated by the author is undoubtedly rather too strenuous for many pupils. It is hardly possible to relax and rest one part of the body while another, part is vigorously active. This, however, we are told is what takes place.

As an aid to teachers, the author sets forth the principles which should underlie lesson planning. These principles are then followed by sample lesson plans.

The reviewer recommends this book to teachers who have the necessary basic training and knowledge referred to previously. However, it should be borne continuously in mind that Danish Gymnastics should be used only to enrich the present program of physical education, not ro teplace it.

Martha Gable.

“Adapted Group Gymnastics:” Lillian Curtis Drew Lea & Febiger, Phila. 1927: 150 pp. $1.75.

All teachers of physical education have met the condition of postural and structural abnormalties in their classes. Some of these abnormalties are slight, some are severe, with a natural distribution between the extremes. The problem of how to handle these cases is a serious one. Where shall the line be drawn? How much time should be given to it? Who shall do the work and where? Should not the regular course be sufficiently broad to take care of the special cases? The first step is to remove the contributory or underlying causes—poor eyesight, poor hearing, malnutrition, etc., otherwise treatment of the special case will have little effect. The author of “Adapted Group Gymnastics” makes no brief for the value of the work (it seems to be taken for granted), her thesis deals with the solving of the problem.

Every step in the work is laid out logically. She begins with the physical and medical examination,,^ the pupil, and takes
284

up methods of recording the results, showing copies of numerous forms and instructions relative to their use, accompanied by certain recording devices, with proper credit to their inventors. Some of the forms seem rather complicated, with a correspondingly large amount of clerical work—the bugaboo of the “average” teacher,—who usually must take care of this work.

The author next discusses the organization and administration of the work with a natural emphasis upon organization into groups. Following this is a classification of the various school exercises to be used and a “Faithful Five for Fitness” group of health practices. The exercises themselves are simple (usually no apparatus required); they are attractively named (“Windmill”, “Rocking Horse”, etc.); they are well chosen, and they are grouped according to purpose. Each group is numbered and each exercise is numbered within the group, making it rather easy for one to find a set of exercises or a single exercise for any of the numerous abnormalities discussed. Another attractive feature of the book is the line drawing of each exercise by the author. These drawings should be copied by the teacher at times and exhibited to the children as a stimulation to their work. Throughout the book suggestive diagrams, charts and graphs can be found which should motivate the work. One word must be said about the “Alphabet of Exercise” found opposite the title page. It is attractive, or rather “cute,” but it seems a little overdrawn in places, it shows “X-ercise” as the panacea for all ills—physical and mental.

“Adapted Group Gymnastics” should be of great assistance to those teachers of physical education whose time allotment and assignment allow for special work in group gymnastics.

Samuel J. Judelsohn.

“Measuring Motor Ability”—A Scale of Motor Ability Tests David Kingsley Brace, Ph. D.; A. S. Barnes & Co., N. Y. 1927 (138 pp.)	Price	$2.00

This book is a detailed scientific study of motor ability tests. The author has gone into the subject to a great depth, but has still been very rational in his claims. He set out to test not achievement or acquired skill, but native motor ability; not a restricted but a general functioning of body musculature; not a narrow selection but a variety of types of reaction; and withal, the test must be easily administered and simply scored. He succeeded in accomplishing what he started out to do.

It is true that we have had many tests that measured motor ability, such as tapping, tracing, etc., but they are too restricted, too narrow for use. We have also seen tests involving acquired skills—basketball and soccer goal shooting, high jumping, target hitting—but they are really achievement tests, involving of couse, motor ability, but the events are really acquired skills as a result of practice. The one point of doubt that arises is “can these tests of motor ability be used to properly classify a group of pupils for their work in physical educati^n^Q
285

The 30 tests selected can be called “stunts”—various types of activities such as agility, balance, control, flexibility and strength. They can be used for children or adults, from the age of 8 to 48 years,—rather a wide range for any test.

The administration of the tests is rather simple. They require no apparatus and they are scored as passed or failed. The children can score one another. The author claims the entire test can be given to a group of from 40 to 100 or more (above 10 years of age) by one examiner in a forty-minute period.

Dr. Brace goes into a very scientific discussion relative to the validity of the tests. This discussion of proofs or validification is so long and detailed that soon one could become lost in the maze of formulae of correlation and other mathematics if one allowed oneself to relax for more than a second or two. However, it is well worth going through as it shows how positive an investigator must be before claiming anything in a new field. The author shows that it is necessary to base one’s validification upon some criteria of accepted facts if there is no scientific proof to be used. Since there is no scientific criteria with which to make comparisons he must rely in this case upon

a)	Judgment ratings on motor ability by qualified judges,

b)	Scores made in athletic events,

c)	Proficiency in games of skill.

a)	The correlation with the first criterion resulted in a coefficient of .68, sufficiently high to show an acceptable correspondence between the two tests.

b)	The next criterion was the Decathlon Tests as used at the Lincoln School in New York. A correlation with the 10 events showed a coefficient of .80, much higher even than the judgment criterion.

c)	The third criterion took into consideration the motor ability of members of the athletic teams of a school as compared with the ability of the school as a whole using the Brace Tests. The results showed a superiority of 23.5 per cent in favor of team members, again showing .validity for the tests.

In scaling the tests it was found that a definite value of 1 for each test gave practically the same results after detailed correlation as the scaled weighing of the tests according to difficulty. This reduced the clerical work in connection with the tests to a minimum, an excellent point for other test makers to follow. In the scaling of the tests the T-scale technique was used, the modern accepted method.

To study the subject still further correlations were then made between the motor ability scores and

a)	Scores made on some physical education achievement tests (Baseball, Basketball, Soccer and Track and Field Events).

b)	Age

c)	Weight

d)	Intelligence
286

All the factors used in a) were measures not of£native motor ability, but of learning and achievement. Because of this the correlation was rather low. Track and Field events showed the highest correlation. With age there was a low correlation also, showing that the age of the pupil has little to do with native motor ability. With weight there was practically no correlation. With intelligence the correlation was slightly negative, but could be considered practically as negligible.

What is the value of these tests and how can they be applied? The author suggests the following:

1)	The motor accomplishment quotient will show whether the pupil is achieving what his motor ability test shows he should achieve,

2)	Pupil classification

3)	Diagnose special performance disabilities

4)	Assistance in evaluating activities in the physical education program.

5)	Assistance to other investigators in the study of motor ability.

Two questions arise in the mind of the reviewer after reading this admirable work:

1)	In working with mentally retarded pupils a distinct difference in co-ordination, balance and agility is easily seen—this is not only a result secured by observation, but also from investigation covering a period of seven years. The mentally backward child is far below the normal child in these qualities. Dr. Brace’s investigation, however, showed practically no correlation between his tests and intelligence.

2)	Age seems to play no part whatever in the tests, as the coefficients of correlation with age was .18 for boys and girls and .217 for college women. We have always worked—and quite satisfactorily—on the basis of age as the great determining factor in ability. No matter how refined a series of tests may be, the increased practice due to longer opportunity will surely develop native ability and skill with a corresponding increase in the score.

The number of pupils used in most of Dr. Brace’s correlations are rather small, thus weakening his proofs in some respects. It seems to the reviewer as though the last point made by Dr. Brace—“The Scale of Tests should stimulate other scientific efforts in the field of tests and measurements in physical education”—is the one that should be stressed. Educators who have available large numbers of pupils under their supervision now have a very definite, well selected, valid and easily administered series of tests to give their pupils. They should be given to large numbers of pupils, then the findings will bear more weight even if not explained in such detail as Dr. Brace has done. There is much to be done in this field, and “Measuring Motor Ability” has blazed the trail.

—Samuel J. Judelsohn

Digitized by VjUCJV LC