library

University ot Montana.

MIND

Vol. 25.

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mian.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah* EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

AND BODY

SEPTEMBER, 1918	No.	271

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

A MANUAL OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

Prepared for Civilian Use by the Committee on Physical Reserve of the National Security League

PREFACE

Men who have really kept themselves fit are few. Those who have conscientiously started in to do this and then abandoned it are a host! There are distinct reasons for this.

A jaded, exhausted man is of little use to himself or others, and it makes no difference in what part of this great scheme of ours he is placed. He becomes a weak link. Whether he be a soldier, a sailor, a factory operative, a foreman, a superintendent or an executive, his work is rendered only through his physical condition. The same is equally true of the woman. We have been sitting still as a nation until certainly all compelling truths of a startling nature were forced home upon us with a vehemence that has left us almost dazed. The examination of our people of military age, brought about by the draft, demonstrated how unfit we were to face war conditions. We were not the first to find this out, but, lulled into security through the sense of the thousands

Digitized by
194

of miles separating us from the scene of conflict, and the fact that we were not then involved, we calmly folded our hands and watched others go through the waking up process, while we slumbered on.

The object of the formation of this Committee of Physical Reserve is to correct this condition throughout the broad land. The instructions that follow are given in careful detail and are based on broad tests. The man or woman following them need in no way dispense with his or her own athletic pleasures — golf, tennis and the like — any more than men in military service dispense with their own physical work. The system is preparatory, exhilarating, and at the same time increases the strength of the heart and lungs, the suppleness of the trunk and, finally, keeps at a high point the resistive forces of the body.

THE DAILY DOZEN SET-UP "A shorthand system of setting-up exercises”

By WALTER CAMP.

Before commencing the Daily Dozen Set-Up, the leader should march the men at quick time for five hundred yards, then face them about and bring them back for two hundred yards on the double-quick, and the remaining three hundred yards at quick time.

The ranks are then opened so as to have sufficient space for the exercises.

The Daily Dozen Set-Up consists of twelve exercises which, for ease in memorizing, are divided into four groups, of three exercises each. Each exercise or movement is given a name, and the names of all the movements of a group commence with the same letter, thus

I.	1.	HANDS	II.	1.	GRIND	III.	1.	CRAWL IV.	1. WAVE

2.	HIPS	2.	GRATE	2.	CURL	2. WEAVE

3.	HEAD	3.	GRASP	3.	CROUCH	3. WING

These exercises are not difficult nor exhausting, and do not demand great strength for proper execution, but they are designed both from a scientific and a practical point of view, to give exactly the right amount of exercise to every muscle of the body. They are intended to promote suppleness and especially to strengthen those muscles which are seldom brought into play in ordinary daily life. A conscientious fifteen minutes a day with the Daily Dozen Set-Up will soon do more for a man than any amount of skillful physical feats or “strong-man stunts.” When one first practises these movements, their effect will be felt on the little-used muscles of the neck, back and stomach; yet they will not have the pronounced muscular fatigue which follows the ordinary exercises, and which is of more harm than good.

Any setting up exercises should be preparatory; that is, make men ready for the serious work of their day, and in no way exhaust any portion of their vitality. This modern “short-hand” method of setting-up leaves men in an exhilarated condition, and, instead of taking anything out of them, prepares the body for any kind

i'

Digitized by UjOOQle
195

of work that is required in the service.

Each exercise starts from the position of Attention:

1.	Heels on the same line, and as near each other as the con-

formation of the man permits.

2.	Feet turned out equally and forming with each other an angle

of about 60 degrees.

3.	Knees straight without stiffness.

4.	Body erect on hips, inclined a little forward; shoulders square

and falling equally.

5.	Arms and hands hanging naturally, backs of the hands out-

ward; thumbs along the seams of the trousers; elbows near the body.

6.	Head erect and straight to the front, chin slightly drawn in

without constraint, eyes straight to the front. See Figure 1.

The leader takes a position facing the men who should be so placed as to give ample room for unhampered movement.

Each movement should be executed in time with the orders or counting of the leader which should, with the exception of the Speed Test which is a catch exercise, be slow and measured. These exercises do not depend upon snap for their effect but upon steady, deliberate strain of. the muscles. Any tendency towards hurried, careless execution should be immediately discouraged by the leader who should, at all times, insist upon uniformity of movement.

In the following instruction, the preparatory commands are in black type, thus: Order. The commands of execution are in italics, thus: hands. Explanation of each movement is given in parentheses.

GROUP I

HANDS. Hands: Ready: cross. (At cross, arms are extended laterally and horizontally, palms down. See Figure 2.)

Order: hands. (At-hands, the arms are brought back to a position of Attention close to the sides. See Figure

1.	Especial care should be taken to see that whenever, thruout the exercises, this position is taken — as at the completion of each exercise — full control is retained over the arms, and the hands should not be al-

1.	Hands lowed to slap against the	2.	Cross

s‘:des audibly.)

Order: rest. (At rest, always return to a position of Attention. In this case there would be no change.)

Digitized by CaOOQle
196

2.	HIPS. Hips: Ready ■ cross.

Order: kips. (At hips, the hands are placed on the hips with shoulders, elbows and thumbs well back. See Figure 3.)

Order: rest.

3.	HEAD. Head: \Ready: cross. Order: head. (At head, the hands are placed behind the neck, index-fingertips just touching, and elbows forced back. See Figure 4.)

Order: rest.

The above exercises should be executed but a few times each, being preparatory to the Speed Test.

3. Hips	4.	Head

SPEED TEST In this, the preps:ratery ccmmard, Order, is emitted ar.dtthe leader gives the commands. Head, hips, hards, etc., in sharp succession, varying them, and cccrsic rally repeating a ccir.mand in a manner calculated to catch the unwary rapping.

Speed, Test, Omitting the Word "Order": har.ds, hips, head, etc.

Order: rest.

The length of time devoted to this movement is left to the discretion of the leader.

GROUP II

1.	GRIND

Grind: Ready: cross. Palms: turn. (At turn, the palms are turned up with backs of hands down and arms forced back

as far as possible. See Figure 5.) ^ Order: grind, one, two, three four, five, to	(At	and

\jin time with the leader’s measured counting, circles of twelve inch diameter are described with the finger-tips which move forward and downward, then backward and upward, the arms remaining stiff, 'and pivoting from the shoulders. On the backward movement of the circle, the arms should be forced back to the limit. A complete circle should be described at each count.)

Reverse, one to ten. (At reverse, the same process should be gone thru, the circle being described in the opposite direction.)

Order: rest.

Ten circles are described in each direction.

5. Grind.

Digitized by

Google
197	f

2.	GRATE.

Grate: Ready: cross. Order: grate, one two! (At grate, and

as the leader counts one, the arms slowly raised, as a deep inhalation is taken, to an angle of 45 degrees from horizontal, ahd at the same time the heels are raised till the weight of the body rests on the balls of the feet. See Figure 6. At two, the arms are returned to cross, as all air is exhaled, and the heels are lowered to a normal position. Care should be taken to see that the arms are not allowed to drop below the level of the shoulders or to rise more than 45 degrees.) Order: rest.

6. Grate (upper position) The arms should

be raised and lowered ten times.

3.	GRASP Grasp: Ready: cross. Order: Grasp, one

two, three, four! one two,three four! one, two!

(At grasp, the position, head, is taken. See Figure 4. With head up and eyes front, and in time with the leader’s counting, one, two, three, four, the body is bent forward from the waist, as far as possible. See Figure 7. The body is returned to upright in the same number of counts and at an unusually slow one is

bent as far back as possible 7. Grasp from the waist, being returned tq 'upright at two.Care should be taken to see tfiat this motion is sustained and not jerky.) Order: rest.

The entire movement should be repeated five times.

GROUP III

1.	CRAWL.

Crawl: Ready*: cross. Order: crawl, one, two, three, four! one two, three, four! (At crawl, the left palm is turned up and as the leader counts one, two, three, four, the left arm is raised and the right arm should be in a position of hands, and the left arm should be extended straight up with the palm to the right. See Figure 8. Then, as the leader counts one, two, three, the body is slowly bent sidewise from the waist, the right hand slipping down the right leg to or beyond the knee and 8. Crawl the left armjjending in a half circle over the head

Digitized by LjOOQLe
198

until the fingers touch the right ear. See Figure 9. At the position of cross is quickly resumed, and as the leader commences to count again, the right palm is turned up and the exercise completed in the opposite direction.)

Order: rest.

The entire movement should be repeated five times.

2. CURL

Curl: Ready: cross. (In this movement, at cross, the feet

are spread until the heels	are	
about twelve inches apart.	The	A
left foot remains stationary.	the	. *
right foot being moved to	ac- .	
complish this.)		JR

Order: curl, one, two, three four! one, tuo, three, four! one, two, three jour! (At curl, and as the leader counts one, two, three, four, the fists and lower arms are bent down from the elbows which are kept pressed back, and the fists are curled into the arm pits. This position should be reached at three, when the head and shoulders should be forced back very strongly, reaching the limit of motion at f See Figure 10. The leader again counts one,two, three, four. At one the arms are extended straight forward from the shoulders, palms down. See Figure 11. At two the arms begin to fall and the body bends forward from the waist, head up and eyes front, until, at Jour, the body has reached the limit of motion and the arms have passed the sides and have been forced back and (as the trunk assumes a horizontal position)

9. Crawl Crawl position

10. Curl Curl position

up as far as possible, that in this Figure feet incorrect, for this ex-wing position. For a counts one, two, three, straightened, reaching with arms straight at sumed at four. As ened from the should be taken, the the maximum as cross pletion of the move-should be retained ment, and exhaled as taken. Inhale thru The entire move-peated five times.

11. Curl Arms forward.

See Figure 18. (Note are together, which is ercise.) This is the third time, the leader four, as the body is an upright position three. Cross is re-the body is straight-position, a full breath lungs being filled to is resumed at the comment. This breath during the curl move-the wing position is the nose.) Order: ment should be re-

Digitized by
199

3. CROUCH

Crouch: Ready: cross.

(In this movement, at cross, the feet are spread until the heels are about twelve inches apart. The left foot remains stationary, the right foot being moved to accomplish this.)

Order: crouch, one! two! (At crouch, the knees are bent, and, with the weight on the toes, the body is lowered nearly to the heels, keeping the trunk as nearly erect as possible. See Figure 11. This is done at one and at two the upright position is resumed.)

Order: rest.

The entire movements should be repeated ten times.

GROUP IV

1. WAVE.

Wave: Ready: cross. Order: wave, one, two, three, four! (At wave, the arms are stretched straight above the head, fingers interlaced and arms touching the ears. See Figure 13. Then, as the leader counts one, two, three, four, a complete circle, of about twenty-four inches diameter, is described with the hands, the body bending only at the waist. The trunk should be bent as far backward as forward, and as far to one side as to the other. The body should be forward at one, to the right, at two, backward at three, and to the left at four. The motion should be steady and not in jerks.)

Reverse, one, etc. (At reverse, the same movement should be repeated in the opposite direction, i. e., to the left.

Order: rest. (At Order, the body should he brought to an erect position, stretching the arms up as far as possible; and at rest, the arms should drop slowly, laterally, to a hands position.)

Five circles should be described in each direction.

2. WEAVE

Weave: Ready: cross. (In this movement, at cross, the feet are spread until the heels are about twelve inches apart. The left foot remains stationary, the right foot being moved to accomplish this.)

Order: weave., one, two, three, four! one, two, 14. Weave three, four! (At weave, and as the leader counts

13. Wave

Digitized by
200

V

!

k

i

one, two, three, four, the body is turned to the left from the hips, the arms maintaining the same relation to the shoulders as at cross, until at one, the face is to the left, the right arm pointing straight forward (in relation to the feet) and the left arm straight backward.

See Figure 15. At the body is bent from the waist so that the right arm goes down and the left up, until, at three, the fingers of the right hand touch the ground midway between the feet. The left arm should then be pointing r straight up, with the face still to *—the left. The right knee must be slightly bent to accomplish this position. See Figure 15.' At four, the position of cross is resumed and as^the leader again counts one, tuo, three, four, the same movement is repeated with the left hand touching the ground this time. Thru-out the exercise, care should be taken that the arms remain in the same straight line, making no separate movement, but changing their position only as the trunk and shoulders are moved and carry the arms along. After this exercise has been thoroly mastered, the turning and bending movements made on the counts, one, and two,should be combined, i. e., instead of making the entire turn, as described above, before bending, turn and bend simultaneously. See Figure 16.

Order: rest.

The entire movement should be repeated ten times. 3. WING

Wing: Ready: cross. Order: wing, one, two,

15. Weave Bend position

16. Weave Combination turn & bend

I

<?

w

i



17. Wing Stretch pos

three, four! one, two, three, four! the leader counts one, tuo, three, four! the arms are raised laterally until they are extended straight upward at one. See Figure 17. At two, the arms begin to fall forward and downward and the body bends forward from the waist, head up and eyes front, until at four, the body has reached the limit of motion and the arms have passed the sides and have been forced back and (as the trunk assumes a horizontal position), up as far as possible. See Figure 18. As the leader again counts one,

(At wing, and as

18. Wing Wing position

two, three, four, the body is straightened, reaching an upright po-

Digitized by

Google
201

sition, with arms vertically extended at three. At four, the arms are lowered to a cross position but with palms up and arms and shoulders forced hard back. Very slow counting is essential to the correct execution of this exercise. All air should be forced from the lungs as the body bends forward to the wing position, and they should be filled to capacity as the body is straightened and the arms brought down. Inhale thru the nose.)

Order: rest.

The entire movement should be repeated five times.

Reprints of the foregoing can be purchased at a price of 10 cents in orders of five or more. Less than five copies, fifteen cents each. Addiess Mind and Body New Ulm, Minn.

LUNCHEON SOUPS FOR OFFICE WORKERS

By LEONARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., Ph. D., Assistant Chief Examiner, New York Municipal Civil Service Commission.

The physical inefficiency of office workers in the afternoon is a phenomenon well-known to business executives. It is usually caused by a hastily eaten, indigestible noon-day meal. Cheap meats poorly cooked are a heavy burden on the stomach of a sedentary worker. Indigestible pastry washed down with large quantities of ice-water will ruin any digestion. Chocolate, though undoubtedly nourishing, is a food so highly concentrated, that it has a constipating effect upon most office workers. Milk, though an ideal food for infants, is not always found either palatable or easily assimilated by sedentary workers.

It is easy to point out the dietary errors committed by office workers. When we bear in mind, however, that these office workers are at the present day salaried individuals who are suffering more severely from the high cost of living than wage earners, it is most difficult to plan for them nutritious and easily assimilated noon-hour meals which will conserve their physical efficiency for the afternoon work.

In this paper are given the results of a critical study and of a series of practical experiments undertaken by the writer at the request of a large employer of office workers, in an effort to make concrete economical recommendations to employees of this class regarding their noon-day meal.

The noon-day meal of an office worker must be nourishing, palatable, laxative and inexpensive. The office worker purchases meats and chocolates for their nutritive value; eats pastry and chocolate for their palatable qualities; drinks ice water for its supposed laxative influence; and buys all food of the cheapest quality and the smallest quantity because obliged to practise the most rigid economy.

After experimenting with sandwiches of various kinds, with well-made pastries, with well-cooked meats, with foods in concentrated form, with milk and milk preparations and with numerous combinations of these elements of the noon day meal it was decided to recommend the following noon-day meal:

Digitized by LaOOQle
202

Each employee was encouraged to bring to the office sandwiches and a piece of fruit. These can be supplied in every household from the family larder without additional expense. A can of soup was furnished to each employee by the management, together with a small electric stove easily connected to a light socket for use in heating it.

The can of soup is inexpensive and easily prepared. Hot water is added, the soup is boiled and is ready for service. The retail price of the soup is ten cents a can and the management is able to purchase it more cheaply in large quantities.

The dietary value of the soup is most important. A plate of hot soup at the beginning of the noon hour meal is the best known means of preparing the stomach for proper digestive functioning. It washes the stomach out, it warms it to the proper temperature, it stimulates the secretion of the digestive juices.

Soups are nourishing and palatable. The employee has a choice of twenty-one varieties and variety always enhances pala-tability: Asparagus, beef, bouillon, celery, chicken, chicken-gumbo, clam bouillon, clam chowder, consomme, julienne, mock turtle, mulligatawny, mutton, ox-tail, pea, pepper pot, printanier, tomato, tomato okra, vegetable and vermicelli tomato.

All soups are nourishing since they are built on a high grade beef stock or base. All soups are laxative in their influence because the drinking of a large quantity of warm water at the beginning of a meal always has a beneficial influence on the intestines. Since of the twenty-one varieties some are more nourishing than others and some are more laxative than others, provision was made for the recommendation of the soups best for each individual employee in accordance with that employee’s physical condition, by the physician of the management.

The specially high laxative value of some of these soups is better realized when it is borne in mind that vegetable soup, for example, contains carrots, turnips, sweet potatoes, white potatoes, peas, lima beans, corn, barley, rice, tomatoes, celery, onions, parsley, pastels, cabbage, leeks, okra, bay leaves, and spices. The high nutritive value of some of these soups may be learned frcm the fact that ox-tail soup, for example, contains the strength-giving broth and sliced joints of selected ox-tails, flavored with nourishing imported sherry wine.

The eating of pastry or candy in connection with the noonday meal was prohibited and the employees were encouraged to bring fresh fruit for dessert and the pleasing after-taste which most of them craved.

The eating of hot soups during the summer was encouraged because of its beneficial effect upon the stomach. Those employes who were found by the physician to possess specially robust digestive functions were permitted to substitute for hot soups the iced canned soup which possesses the same nutritive value although not as great digestive value. Some employees also made from the soup a crystal clear aspic by diluting the soup and adding gelatine.

The furnishing of canned soup to these office workers has re-

Digitized by LaOOQle
2j:j

suited in the substitution oI physical efficiency for physical inefficiency during the afternoon hours. It has improved the d’gest-ive functions of all the employees upon which their working ability depends to such a large extent, It has taught the employees a most valuable lesson in personal hygiene.

SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVING FOLK-DANCING IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

By LOUIS K. APPEL, Director Physical Education Public Schools, Holyoke,

Mass.

Although Folk-Dancing has made rapid strides since its introduction into the elementary schools, it fails, nevertheless, to produce the results which are capable of being attained. This is due to the fact that the present tendency is to neglect the boy and to curtail the use of dances when school conditions are unfavorable. To improve Folk-Dancing, then, it is necessary to give the boy proper attention and to devise methods by which dances can be done in spite of unfavorable conditions. This procedure will obviously necessitate a change both of present points of view and of existing methods.

A survey of the manner in which Folk-dancing is generally conducted justifies the point of view that the boys need not receive the same degree of attention that the girls do. That this attitude is erroneous can be easily seen by considering the motive and the values of Folk-dancing. To acquaint the child with the dances of the various nations, thereby showing him the historical development and the distinctive national trait, is the underlying motive. Truly, to become familiar with peoples and their emotions is as essential for the boy as it is for the girl! Of equal importance are the mental and physical values. Folk-dancing, it must be admitted, is an indispensable method of developing the mind and of cultivating grace, poise, and good carriage. Furthermore, it cannot be excelled in imparting rhythm, a vital requisite of all properly regulated movement. Who, in the face of such advantages can therefore assert that Folk-Dancing for the boy is not essential?

Even more deep-seated is the idea that boys and girls need not dance together. This notion seems to be based upon the fact that such a method of dancing is, for elementary school children, contrary to instinct, unnatural, and incapable of execution. Close investigation, however, shows that this is not the case. Because a boy may not willingly take a girl for a partner does not indicate that the procedure is contrary to instinct. Indeed, the reason is far more often self-consciousness or a disposition to avoid being teased. Furthermore, the charge that boys and girls dancing together is unnatural can be easily refuted. In the European countries, where the majority of the dances have originated, this method is universally prevalont for all ages. Even in our own country, practically every private dancing school employs this mode. Consequently, there seems little argument possible, to contend that this practice is incapable of execution. It is the experience of the writer that it is possible to put the plan of having the boys and the girls

Digitized by LjOOQle
204

dance together in actual operation—the proof lying in the fact that it has been successfully carried out in a school system comprising fifteen elementary schools in which all types of children and all nationalities are represented.

If a few suggestions are judiciously followed, it is easy to arrive at the point where the boys and girls voluntarily dance together. Perhaps the paramount idea is to introduce the method in all grades of all the schools or of the schools of a well defined section. In this manner the likelihood of one boy teasing another is reduced to nil. At the same time it is essential for the teacher to use tact, for many a case of apparent stubbornness or self-consciousness will yield to a sympathetic explanation of the “why” and “wherefore.” Furthermore, as this mode of dancing may be considered somewhat revolutionary, it is not to be expected that the goal can be reached at the outset. Indeed, success can result only by a slow and logical procession. Beginning with the dances where the boys and girls merely join hands, as in the Dance of Greeting, we can easily advance to those where the dancers lock arms or come into closer contact with each other, as in the “Ace of Diamonds”; and finally we can arrive at the point where the dancers take the ordinary social dancing position as in the “Bleking Dance”.

Although this operation may occasionally present small difficulties, the final result is worth the price of all efforts. Consider the fact that the boys become more courteous, more polished in their manners, and more gentlemanly in their attitude toward the girls, and then reflect whether it is not worth while! Again, think of the many favorable consequences that may follow from a cultivation of a better sense of rhythm, and then ask yourself if the boys should be denied their just share! Finally, measure the improvements in grace, carriage, and bearing, and then question yourself if these results can be accomplished by any other means!

It is obvious that Folk-dancing possesses many advantages which other physical activities do not. For this reason its introduction is ordinarily hailed with delight. But in attempting to perform the dances, the teacher often meets difficulties which seem insurmountable. In this respect, the city schools and the rural schools offer distinct problems.

In the city schools, the chief difficulty is occasioned by inadequate space. This may be overcome by using halls, corridors, and play-grounds whenever possible. There are some cases, however, where such space cannot be obtained. Thus it becomes necessary to execute the dances in the schoolroom. Poor as the facilities of the ordinary classroom are, nevertheless much can be accomplished. Dances similar to the “Dance of Greeting” can be performed in a circle formation around the seats. Dances like “Ace of Diamonds” can be remodeled both in steps and in figures, thus permitting all the children to dance at the same time. But some dances do not admit of such treatment. Then the only logical thing to do in to limit the number of dancers.

In the rural schools, the same conditions may exist, but usually the difficulty is of a different kind. I refer to that caused by having

Digitized by Google
205

young and older children in the same classroom. When the dances are simple, as in the “Dance of Greeting” all the children regardless of ago and grade can profitably perform them. The number of these dances la so limited, however, as a general rule, that we are forced to employ another method. Arranging the same dance in two or three grades of difficulty to meet the abilities of the respective children has proved very satisfying. To carry out this scheme me only requisite is a little skill.

It must be our aim, then, in order to place Folk-dancing upon the sound basis which it deserves, to correct current illogical points of view and to surmount conditions which threaten to impede congress. Only by doing so can we hope to have all the children derive from Folk-dancing the sum total of its manifold benefits.

THE TRAINING OF HEALTH TEACHERS

A new profession for teachers will be opened this fall when the Wisconsin Anti-Tuberculosis Association establishes a Course for Health Instructors, for the purpose of training normal-school and college graduates to supplement the doctors and nurses who are being demanded in increasing numbers for military service.

Since the science of medicine is becoming more and more the science of education, the teacher is the logical person to respond to the demand for health workers, great at all times, accentuated now by war conditions and the shortage of nurses. She has had practical educational training experience in dealing with children, which will fit her for the supervision of' health in schools. Her mind is well trained to receive the grafting of medical knowledge which is necessary to form her into the new type of worker—the health teacher.

There is a vast field of work awaiting the health teacher. She will be able, after training, to take her place immediately as inspector of health and physical conditions in schools, in city health departments, in factory weliare departments, in health stations and clinics, and in many other of the reconstruction activities which America is undertaking on an increasingly large scale as the war continues.

The course for health instructors will hold its first class in September, at the University Extension Building, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, under the supervision of Dr. E. V. Brumbaugh. The choosing of Dr. Brumbaugh to train these women in a new profession is significant as he was himself a teacher, principal and superintendent of schools before becoming a doctor and health worker.

The following is a brief outline of the work planned:

1.	Fundamental Principles of Health Administration.—It is the purpose of this course to give the worker a knowledge of the scientific facts upon which the administration of health work is based.

The bacteriological basis involved in the cause and spread of communicable disease, and the method of prevention and control;

Digitized by Google
206

the carrier problem: the problem of immunity; quarantine, disinfection and personal preventive and the function of milk, water and food as health factors are examples of the subject* that will be considered in this course.

2.	Social Service.—Instruction will be given in the principles

the vdiiuua terpen ot work that the social worker may expect to meet.

She will make a study of the family, as the unit of community life, and of the methods by which the disrupted family may be restored.

Attention will be devoted to method of approach in social work. She will be introduced, through the medium of special workers, into the individual problem of the social worker.

3.	Rural Health Inspection and its Problems.

4.	First Aid.

5.	Healti Games and Corrective Exercises.

6.	Propaganda.

7.	Elementary Psychiatry.

8.	Foods and Food Values.

9.	Elenentary Anatomy and Physiology.

—School and Society”

ANTHROPOMETRIC TABLE For boys between the ages 9-15 inclusive

(Compiled from the tests of 526 school children)

ELMER E. UNGER, Physical Director, Work-Study-Play School, Passaic, N. J.

The object of taking these tests was to establish some standard by which one might be able to know what the average grammar grade pupil should do, based upon three factors, namely weight, age and height. Nowhere, have we been able to find a table that will give average records for the average boy taking into consideration these three factors. Many tests have been taken, giving the averages of a number of persons of a certain age, but they do not take weight or height into consideration. I have now before me three different sets of tables made out by some of the most prominent men in physical education. One of these tables gives the different ages; another one gives the height; and the third one gives the weight, and under each table is given the averages that have been obtained from a number of different tests. If we should take the results under a cenain age and make an average, disregarding the weight and the height, it would be unfair to a great many individuals. For instance, averaging the results of boys 13 years old in the 70 pound class and under with the boys 13 years old in the 115 pound class and over, we find that most of the boys in the 70 pound class would fall far below the average, while the boys in the 115 pound class and over would be far above the average. Under these circumstances the little fellow would lose interest because he would feel out-classed, and the big fellow, because the work was too easy. Also many elaborate records of championship eve nts are kept, hut these are not for the average

Digitized by
207

boy. What we need is something with which the mass of children may compare efforts, rather than the records of champions.

When a boy comes to the gymnasium and asks how much he should be able to grip, how much he should lift with his back or his legs, the capacity of his lungs, how many times he should be able to chin the bar or the number of times he should dip, we need to be able to tell him what the average boy should do. If he does not come up to the average, prescribe exercises adapted to his needs and advise him to get busy and see how soon he will be able to meet the requirements.

In taking the tests, we first classified the boys into five different weights, namely 70 lbs. and under, between 70 and 85 lbs., between 85 and 100 lbs., between 100 and 115 lbs., and 115 lbs. and over. Next their ages were taken to their nearest birthday. Their heights were taken and the averages found.

The tests were taken upon the anthropometric apparatus from the Narragansett Machine Company, Providence, R. I., with the exception of the back and leg lifts. Since we had no back and leg dynamometer, we used the scales and grasped a bar which was attached to a chain running around under the scales. From the amount lifted with either the back or the legs, the weight of the body was subtracted and the result equaled the amount lifted. The strength of the forearms right and left (Grip) was registered in pounds. The lung capacity was registered in cubic inches. The strength of the upper arms, mainly the triceps, shoulders, and back (Dip) was registered by the number of times the pupil could lower and raise (push-up) his body from a prone falling position (lying support frontways) upon the parallel bars. The Pull Up was registered by the number of times the pupil could raise the body until the chin was level with the bar.

The pupils of the fifth to eight grades inclusive, excepting those excused from physical training on account of physical disability, took part. Each boy was given some practice before his record was taken.

The standards adopted in these tests for each class are the result of a careful study of the data obtained. They may have to be modified slightly in time, esp< ially in the back and leg dynamometer and the difficulty of ob;lining the results on a pair of scales, the standard may be found to be too high. The standard which we have submitted probably can not serve as a standard for every school. First, because of the small number of pupils contributing to the results and secondly, on account of so many different nationalities (19) of children involved; but they may aid in solving the two problems of establishing a classiination and physical efficiency standard of school children.

It is our intention to work out more standards such as taking the different measurements of the body, also a number of the different athletic events. T* ' following tables summarize the tests.

Digitized by C.ooQle
9]§00^)Aqp8Z!)!6!a



g

o

t

JJLLo JJLLo

c

2

8

PO

►

r

Age

Average Weight

Average Height No. of Obaervatioua Strength of R. Forearm

“ L.

Back

Legs

Lung Capacity

Pull Up Dip



No. of Observations Strength of R. Forearm »•	“ L. M

Back

" Legs

Lung Capacity

Pun Up Dip
o

o

o§



100 LBS. UNDER

								55.7  i i				inches  1 1																
11	83 2	65.7	8	42 5	39.6	154	201.6	119 2l3  1		10		12	52.4	51	198	230.8	129.5	3.2	9.2		20	47.4	45.3	176	216.2	124	3.1	9.6
										57.5  |		in	ches  1	1														
12	89.9	57.5	5	48.6	45.6	171.4	249.1	122.6	3.7	10.61  1		9	55.3	53.41  l	214.3	268	137.2	3.5	9.8		14	51.9	49.5	192.6	253.7	129.9	3.6	10.2
			1							' 59.8		in	ches	1														
13	94.9	59 8	23	53.7	49.2	188	260 4	128	4.1	11	1	39	61.2	58.7	216 1	283.4	142.8	3.9	10.6		62	57.4	53.6	202*6	271.9	135.4	4	10.8
										61.8		in	ches									1						
14	95.3	60.8	12	56	53.4	202 2	289	134.6|4.8|ll.7|			1	!16|68 !		66.3	221 2	304.2	148.1	4.4	11.3		28|62 |		|59.8|211.7|296.6|			1141.81	4.6	11.5

115 LBS UNDER

										59.9		in	ches														1	1
12	103	59.9	6	50 1	47	172.3	251.2	125 4	3.9	10		6	54	50.7	181.5	269	142.9	3.7	9.8		12	52.6	48.8	176.9	260.1	184.1	2.8	9.9
									6(	).6		Inc	hes															
13	103.4	60.6	7	57	53	189.8	286 8	139.4	4 2	11.4		12	64 5	59.2	211	312.4	155.3	4	11		19	60.7	56.1	200.4	299.6	147.3	4	11.2
										61.7		inc	:hes			1												
14	106.1	61.7	9	66.3	61.5	227	315.1	148.6	4.8	12		12	78.3	71.8	267.7	364.1	|  168.5	4.4	11.4		21	72.3	66.6	237.3	334.1	168.5	4.6	11.7
									6J	1.4		inc  1.	:hes															
15	107	62.4	5	74.1	69.4	239.2	230.3	150.6|5.6		13.8		1 8	82.1	77.3	261.2	376.8	175.5	5	13		18	78.1	78.8	260.2	853.8	168.0	5.8	13.4

115 LBS. OVER

13	118	68	4	62.4	1  57.3	1  207.6	290.6		t	13	ii	nches		217.6	316.4	163.2	3.8	12		8	67.7	62.8	212.6	303.3	162.2	3.9	11.8
								141.2)4		11.6		4 73	68.4														
14	121	64.2	6	72	66.2	241.6	330		6	4.2		inches		251.7	330.6	178	4.7	13		11	71.5	70.8	246.6	330.3	170.8	4.9	13.1
								162 6	5.2	13 2		5(81.1)76.4															
151	1123	66.3	6	1  85.3'|77.3		260	345.8		64	5.3		inches		269.8	395.7	190.3	5.2	14.6		11	88.5	80.4	264.9	870.7	184.6	5.5|	14.8
								178.9i5.8|l4				| eisi .7;	83.6														
WAND EXERCISE FOR SENIOR MEN’S CLASSES

By F. BURGER, M. D., Kansas City, Mo.

Music: Merry Hearts, March by H. O. Wheeler, Jenkins

Music Co., Kansas City, Mo.

Instruction for measures: Play first 32 measures and repeat,

three times using the introduction as rest periods.

Group I

1.	Stride left forward and raise arms forward,............ 1—2

Bend left knee and raise arms upward,................ 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat, ................17—32

2.	Stride left sideward and raise arms left sideward,... 1—2

Bend left knee and swing arms right sideward through

forward position,.......... ....................... 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,.................17—32

3. Stride left backward and bend arms to thrust.......... 1—2

Bend left knee and thrust arms forward,.............. 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,.................17—32

4.	Stride left forward and raise arms upward,............. 1—2

1-4 turn right on heels and lower arms to forward position 3—4 Return, 5- 8; same right, 9—16; repeat, .........17—32

Group 2

1.	Lunge left forward and raise arms forward, wand horizontal,	................................ 1—2

Bend trunk forward and bend arms to thrust,....... ...	3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat.....	........17—32

2.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms right sideward, wand

horizontal, ................. ................... ... 1—2

Bend trunk left sideward, raise right arm upward, left

hand under right shoulder,...	.. ................. 3—4

Return, 5-8; same right, 9—16; repeat,...............17—32

3.	Lunge left backward and bend arms to thrust, wand

horizontal, ............. ........................... 1—2

Bend trunk backward and thrust upward,............... 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat, ................17—32

4.	Lunge left forward and raise arms upward,.............. 1—2

1-4 turn right on heels, bend trunk forward, lower arms forward, wand parallel with floor, left knee remains bent, 3—4 Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,...........17—32

Group 3

1.	Place left foot forward (foot flat on the floor), bend right

knee and bend arms to thrust,.......................... 1—2

Change knee bending and thrust arms left obliquely

sideupward (right hand in front of left)............. 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,.................17—32

2.	Place left foot sideward, bend right knee and bend arms

to thrust, ........................................ 1—2

Change knee bending and thrust arms left obliquely

sideupward (right hand in front of left shoulder).. 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat, ................17—32

Digitized by CjOOQle
211

3.	Place left foot backward, bend right knee and bend arms

to thrust,......................................... 1—2

Change knee bending, thrust left arm forward, right arm

upward,...................... ........ ............ 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,..............17—32

4.	Place left foot forward, bend right knee and bend arms to

thrust................................... ......... 1—2

Change bending of knees, kneel on right knee and thrust

upward, ........................................... 3—4

Return, 5—8; same right, 9—16; repeat,................17—32

MILITARY TRAINING IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS

By A. M. HITCH, Principal Kemper Military School, Boonville, Mo.

Tho your committee at present consists of but one member, it has no difficulty in coming to a unanimous decision that military training in secondary schools as a means of national defense is ridiculous and the sooner forgotten the better. Our older brother, the Department of Superintendence, decided the question that way at its Kansas City meeting after a rather exhaustive report. Able commissions from .Massachusetts and from New Jersey have canvassed the matter ’fully and have advised against it. Not one of the great warring nations of Europe has anything of the kind. Defense is a man’s job, and as one committee said, nobody but a politician would think of shifting the responsibility from where it belongs to the shoulders of voteless boys and defenseless schools.

In these days of excitement when everyone is anxious to do everything possible to aid an unprepared country, it sometimes seems necessary merely to tag an idea military or patriotic to put it through. The committee in Massachusetts and New Jersey decided against introducing military drill into schools, a similar committee in New York was reponsible two years ago for the enactment of a law which provided for military training in all the high schools of the state.

I am told by a prominent New York school man that the working-out of this law for compulsory military training is a fine example of the “frightfulness” of hasty legislation.

Yielding to the pacifists or failing to realize the immensity of the task, the law makers limited the preparation for national defense to three of the 168 houis each week. (Uncle Sam has since demonstrated that it takes 168 hours a week for months toi fher with expert trainers and under war conditions to make soldi ts.)

Then it was found that schools were not supplied with competent military instructors, and what was almost as bad, they had no equipment. Under proper conditions the federal govern-

Digitized by LaOOQle
212

ment would undertake to furnish guns, which might be delivered in the course of time, but what about a drill hall! That is a necessity during the long New York winters. Most schools had no room available. With brave hearts the patriotic teachers made the best of it, and gave the drill in the school room in the aisles. To be sure it was limited mostly to calisthenics, uow under the circumstances parading under the name of setting-up exercises.

But here a complication arose. The authors of physiologies and the physical directors had taught that when one exercises so violently that he perspires he must take a bath and change his clothing. Alas, no money had been appropriated for uniforms and there was hardly a school in the state that had adequate bathing facilities, and in the smaller towns there were no facilities at xall. Hence a modification of the law: The exercises must not be of sufficient duration to produce perspiration. It was decided that a 2-minute period was safe. Hence, preparation for national -defense went valiantly by drilling the boys in school for two 2-minute periods between classes in the morning and repeating this strenuous training in the afternoon, exempting those that had employment out of school, and probably those physically incapacitated because of a tendency to perspire with too little provocation.

Evidently the man is not in a class by himself who wrote to a military school superintendent inquiring if he offered any courses in military discipline by mail,—if not, did he have any night classes in military discipline?

After being reduced to the absurd, the New York law was rescued by its friends and its enemies, amended by the legislature and re-interpreted by the Military Training Commission and Regents along the line of citizenship training rather than military training, and will probably prove a step forward in the physical betterment if not the military training of the school children of the state.

Because of the exemptions, the original military training law had applied to about 22,000 boys in the state; now it applies to 240,000. Just now 25,000 boys are actually enrolled for the training. The course so far has included chiefly the school of the soldier, the school of the squad and the school of the company. It is planned to include much that comes under the head of training as well as drill. The law now applies to all boys between 16 and 19 whether in school or not, and whether working or not. There are numerous exemptions along the line of vocational training and vocational experience.

An important feature of the law is the part that requires every school child in the state over eight years of age to have a certain amount of physical training which, by the regulation of the Regents, now amounts to a minimum of four hours and forty minutes a week.

The usual arguments against public schools attempting military .training may be summed up as follows:	(1)	The	training is not

Digitized by v^ooQle
213

effective unless supplemented by a subsequent course of adult training. (2) There is no reason for limiting the training to high school boys. The defense of the country does not belong to the educated alone. (3) The plan has been suggested partly because it looks easy to use the machinery of the school system for the purpose. (4) No great military nation of Europe has resorted to the training of boys. (5) Where it has been tried it usually fails to increase future enlistments. (6) Real training is too strenuous for adolescents. (7) The cost is too great to justify the results. (8) As a means of physical development it leaves much to be desired.

But the strongest negative argument is seldom mentioned and never stressed. The thing that makes a soldier is discipline. The only way a man can acquire the quality of discipline is to live with it. He may be “motivated” to pedagogical perfection with a dozen ambitions and purposes but until he can stand the “gaff”, sick or well, buoyant or dejected, night or day, he is a liability as a soldier. A three hour a week course won’t do much in this direction. A solid year in camp in early manhood is the only thing that will yield the result.

A good army then is made up of disciplined soldiers. An effective army must have size while it is training, both for the sake of the men and more especially for the officers. The men must get adjusted to a great organization, and the officers must learn by actual experience how to meet the problems of division and corps. Our army is getting that experience now for almost the first time since the Civil War. The high school corps at Jim-town that drills three afternoons a week, and the National Guard company at the same place won’t count for much.

The schools are largely responsible for having the question thrust upon them. They have shown an eagerness in recent years to father every kind of preparation and pre-preparations. A century ago schools were looked to for a supply of teachers, preachers, doctors and lawyers and the courses were arranged accordingly. Gradually other callings were dignified as professions and we find the schools turning out farmers and fifty-seven varieties of engineers. The attention was turned to the needs of the country for stenographers and bookkeepers, and the schools more than made good and threw in in addition thousands of salesmen and saleswomen, comptometers, file clerks, etc. This let the bars down for vocational training. Manual training supplied an opening wedge for carpentry, and all the trades walked in. “Conceivably” the voca-tionalists say, “the schools will in time teach every trade there is,” and they are marching gloriously towards this goal. Then came Mr. Booster who said, “If school is such a good thing, why confine its benefits to the kids? Let us old folks in on it.” And when Mr. Tightwad added, “Sure, why let these expensive buildings stand idle half the year?” the schools fell over themselves-crowding to the mourners’ bench to be converted into community centers and while some have backslid, many are living a happy and honored life as the benefactors of everybody and everything.

Digitized by CjOOQle
214

But the real test was yet to come. With this war madness seizing the world, people began to cast for an answer to the question, how can we prepare, how can we get an army? The answer was easy. Everbody goes to school, and everybody owes an obligation to the country. There is the organization, use it, drill the boys at school. Many a school manfully undertook the task, and many a school made a mess of it before it was discovered that drilling boys a few hours a week and making an army for a country of a hundred million people have almost no connection with each other.

Effective military training can be given in connection with school work but not in high schools and universities. The military institutions of learning patterned after West Point, of which there are about thirty-five of high school grade and five collegiate, have in the present emergency furnished from their graduates and former students about 5000 officers, more officers in fact than the army numbered before the war began. While pursuing their school work they had been living in barracks under a rather rigid system of discipline with daily drill and other military instruction and were good material for the army. This end is impossible outside of a boarding school, and this means of training cannot be universal because of the expense and for many other reasons. The preparedness program which a year ago advocated a military college in every state, now aims at nothing less than universal military training.

To rely on the public schools or secondary schools for any national defense is out of the question. But since the school attempts in every way possible to prepare a boy for the duties of manhood, it must not overlook the military obligation that may come with manhood. School teachers are inclined by some paradox, to be pacifists. Right up to August 1914 most of them believed there would never be another great war, and they taught it. Then for two years and a half they believed that we as a nation were above the carnage of Europe. But we are coming. Last year our older brother declared strongly for universal military training. It would be impolite to remind him what he said two years ago, but he ha<* changed his mind.

The preparedness idea has at last taken hold of us. We are anxious to do what we can. We have passed hasty legislation. We have in some cases asked school teachers to teach close order drill after school not over three times a week and for not more than an hour at a time, and thus fill the nation with trained men. We have in recent times painfully watched half a million men spring to arms in six months in answer to their country's draft. And do what we could, we realized at last that we were in the fix that the negro described as status quo. For real defense there is but one thing to do, and that is do like our most successful enemy and our most successful allies, — we must have universal compulsory military training for every young man about his twentieth year, and conducted and paid for by the federal government.

But tho the schools cannot furnish the country with a trained army this year or any other year, they have a tremendous duty to

Digitized by v^ooQle
215

perform in this connection. If the country gets on the sound basis of compulsory military training, the schools can give valuable pre-military training. A little military drill may be a part of this training but not the most important part of it. It takes a sound physique and robust health to make a soldier. This war has shown that in non-m.;,'taristic nations like England and America it takes only a few months to teach the men the necessary drill but it takes a year to give them the necessary physical training to endure the rigors of actual warfare. “Give me an athlete,” said General Leonard Wood, “and I will make a soldier in a few months.” You will note that vigorous athletic contests have been pushed in the various cantonments as much as the drill. The country has been combed to find athletes for the aviation section.

Thus you see one important requisite of a good soldier. What is the physical condition of the young men of the country? In the years 1914 and 1915 approximately 80 per cent of the applicants for enlistment in the Navy and Marine Corps were rejected for physical disabilities. The same percentage holds good for the army in 1915. An analysis of the defects that caused rejection reveals the fact that about 50 per cent of the disabilities would have yielded to remedial measures in childhood. For a fuller report see Chapter 19 on Educational Hygiene in the 1916 report of the Commissioner of Education. What was discovered by the first draft? With the physical requirements greatly modified, one-third of the 10,000,000 registrants are physically unfit for military service. Bad eyes, bad teeth, underweight and hernia are in order the main causes for rejection. The health department rather than the physical development department has the first duty towards these. But the more valuable two-thirds that have come to maturity reasonably sound leave much to be desired in the way of physical condition. Witness the long period of training necessary to produce physical fitness. Real physical education apparently hasn’t gotten very far beyond the “Be-it-resolved-in-convention” stage.

The thing that made famous the great public schools of England, like Rugby and Eton, was the sturdy manhood and physical vigor they gave their boys. Most of the good private schools of America pay as careful attention to the health of their students as to class instruction. A prime duty the schools owe the boy and the country is to make a good animal out of him. To that end the boy must have something that will get him out in the open. For that reason most military schools require daily drill, the greater the variety of drill the better. It is largely for physical purposes and is adapted to the capacities of the students. This is supplemented with a certain amount of required athletic training. Live boys choose their form of athletics but the ever-present dead ones are given a hike or put through calisthenics. No system of physical exercises has as yet been devised that will reach without compulsion all the boys in school. Physical laziness is probably as prevalent as mental laziness. This must be recognized and met in any solution of the problems of physical betterment. Com-

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
216

pulsory play is a paradox but a necessity. Get an idea from the Country Day schools which lengthen the day and include play. Or adapt the Gary system to local conditions, the recent experience in New York City notwithstanding. But all these things lose some of their value if they are not followed up with right living conditions out of school hours. Instruction in school and out is necessary as is also an esprit de corps that will make a boy adopt the wisdom of Solomon. A young man's glory is his strength.

Principals that are looking for some means of injecting better organization and discipline into their schools would find it profitable to study the High School Volunteer Idea. What the Boy Scout plan is for younger boys, this attempts to be for older boys. It has wonderful possiblities for the physical betterment of Hie entire student body, the formation of better ideals, and the practical application of moral lessons. Pacifists will find to their surprise that a study of the course of instruction reveals the fact that almost every season of the year has a “Minimum of drill.” It appeals to the adolescent’s gregarious and competitive instinct. A wise principal or instructor finds that his disciplinary assistants have not been added to but have been multiplied.

What makes a good soldier? A sound body, obedience, ability to fit into an organization and lead or be led, ability to take care of one’s self in the open, a good mind and good character. These are the very qualities that make a good citizen. Then why call them military? The H. S. V. does not. It doesn’t even use military titles for its officers. It is primarily an educational movement that is good for peace or war, good whether universal training comes later or not.

The growth of the idea is worthy of comment. In 1916 about

10,000	boys in secondary schools were being given military training. In spite of the fact that excellent cadet organisations had been flourishing in the high schools of Omaha, Washington, Boston and other cities for years, the number had not changed materially from year to year. According to the secretary of the H. S. Volunteers of the United States the numbers of high school boys taking military training under the High School Volunteer plan affiliated with the organization is now approximately 30,000. They are distributed through fifty-two cities and towns including the school systems of Chicago, Denver, Detroit, St. Louis, and other large places. The same authority estimates that at least fifty more high schools of good size have added military training to their curricula in the past year. If these latter have nothing but ordinary drill to offer their students, nothing but an inspiring leader will enable them to outlast the war.

The success of the plan depends greatly on the instructor. The thing will not run itself. The National Government has been sufficiently interested in the movement to furnish the necessary military equipment, including tentage for camping, when available, and officers and non-commissioned officers from the army, as instructors, when available. Since the war the army has not been able to spare any men but gave teachers who were designated by

Digitized by CaOOQle
217

their schools to conduct military work an opportunity to attend a training camp last summer to equip themselves for the military part of the instruction. The same may be done this year. Just before the war came, army men were being specially trained for this kind of work. To show its “‘non-military" fcharacter, it may be remarked that an army officer without special aptitude and training for this kind of work would be handicapped almost as much as a teacher without military training.

In conclusion: No system of military drill has as yet been devised that can be introduced into secondary schools as a means of defense at all adequate to the needs of the country. National defense is a paramount issue but a man's obligation. It seems clear, however, that the study of the schools is to bring the youth of the country into maturity sounder of body than is done at present. To that end physical development, health, sanitation, everything that will produce a sounder race physically, must receive the undivided and serious attention of all American schools. The Great War will not have been in vain if we are aroused from our lethargy to realize on our j>ossiblities. We can't beat the Ancients, “A sound mind in a sound body."

Read before the National Association of Secondary School Principals, Atlantic City, February 26, 1918.

The German Plan for Care, Re-education and Return to Civil Life of Disabled Soldiers and Sailors. At the fall meeting of the Swedish Medical Association, its president, T. Sjogren, reported his observations on a recent trip to Germany, in which he made a special study of the methods adopted in that country ‘To uncripple the war cripples." The report is published in full in the “Forhandlingar" of this association for Novemger 30, which has just been received. The following is abstracted from President Sjogren's report:

"In my visit to Germany for the study of this question, I spent most of the time at the institutions in the Brandenburg district, which is in the charge of the Third Army Corps. They are considered models in their line. The largest and best known is at Gorden, not far from Brandenburg am Havel, equipped for

1,000	beds. This large institution had just been completed for an insane asylum when the war broke out.’ It was then taken for a military hospital and curative workshop. The principles applied there in the after-treatment of the wounded differ in many respects from what has been practiced to date elsewhere. The greatest emphasis in the after-treatment is placed not on passive orthopedic movements but on active gymnastic exercises, carried out under military words of command. This principle was introduced by the chief medical officer of the Third Army Corps, General Leu, and I must confess that it strikes the medical observer as strange. But only by this means is it possible to get the wounded to use active exercises at such an early stage of the healing. This was emphasized by the wounded themselves as well as

Digitized by v^ooQle
by physicians. Dr. Leu’s fundamental idea was that the patient’s dread of pain from the active movements and the attending physician’s fear of disturbing the course of the healing, have been the reasons for the hitherto prevailing system of voluminous supporting bandages, even in cases in which they most certainly could be dispensed with. Under these efforts to spare the wounded extremity, weeks or even months pass without its getting any active movements, and the consequence is that it suffers from disuse, as also when crutches are used too long, or when after a wound of the chest, the man is told not to breathe forcibly and is kept long in bed.

“The principle has been overlooked that active movement, within the natural range of movements, in the static position for the normal play of the body and limbs, is the quickest of all methods for restoring approximately normal conditions in and the free use of a wounded limb so far as possible. It is of course not the idea to apply force; all depends on the persuading and convincing power of the physician’s word. Above all, the wounded man must gain confidence in himself and in the functional capacity left by the wound. Dr. Leu lays great stress on the difference between the exercises done under his orders and those generally used heretofore, exercises with expensive mechanical appliances, hot air apparatus, electricity, diathermy, etc. He points out that these mechanical exercises are not always done without pain, and they do not take the place of the natural movements, no matter how defective the natural movements may be done to start with. These natural movements can be done at any time and at any place, with increasing confidence and without the aid of any mechanical devices. Passive movements may re-enforce the active, but can never take their place. With the more extensive use of the whole body, the natural movements have a beneficial influence, not only on the wounded member, but on the whole organism and on the vital forces in general. To be able to aid in this and promote this is one of the most exalted tasks of the military hospitals, as many of the inmates have been weakened by loss of blood, suppuration and confinement to bed, so that the whole constitution has suffered. The most important organ of all, the heart, suffers earliest and most. In the same way as the skeletal muscles relax and lose weight and strength under the lack of exercise, the heart muscle becomes reduced in size and energy along with all the other muscles. Exercise, that is, systematic use of the skeletal muscles, implies likewise systematic use of the heart muscle, and this brings recuperation, the benefit from which is felt throughout the whole organism. This physiologic fact entails the consequence that the use of the whole body must be insured from the earliest possible moment, and as systematically as possible, rather than restricted local treatment, such as massage and passive movements. Only when we have succeeded in restoring as early as possible the free use of the body, are we confident that the functional capacity of all its component parts is on the highest attainable plane.

“These are the principles which guide the after-treatment
of the wounded in the district over which the Third Army Corps has control. How far they are followed in other parts of Germany, I am unable to say. But I could see for myself the fine results attained with them. During my visit to Gorden in July, I followed the program for an entire day’s work. There was present at the same time a commission of Holland physicians sent by their government to study the German system of caring for disabled soldiers. A gymnastic exercise began the day's work. A body of about fifty soldiers, some of whom had had an arm or a leg amputated and who had been provided with artificial limbs, or who had ankylosis or other injury, were lined up on a large open gymnasium field. The leader was a young staff medical officer who led the exercises with vim and lively interest. At his first word of command: ‘Attention’, no one would have imagined at a superficial glance that it was a company of cripples. From simple movements of the head, he passed to more complicated arm, leg and trunk exercises. As in the group of men there were a number of beginners, there was not much uniformity in the exercises. But all seemed to do them with a good will and with a spirit of emulation. After these exercises, more difficult ones followed. Around the exercise field there was a kind of race track, as for walking matches, with hurdles, the hurdles being thresholds of various sizes and shapes, to train the men who had lost a leg, ladders with rungs at different intervals and steps with the steps of different heights, deep sand over part of the route, etc. Then the men passed to sports, football, casting the disk, etc., with jumping exercises for the amputated. It was certainly a strange sight to see the men with one leg going through these various exercises and games. But no one could help being, impressed with the zeal and apparent pleasure with which the men took part in them; most of them were managed in competitive form. It should be added that passive exercises, massage, etc., are carried on along with these active exercises, but only subsidiary to the latter. The main aim is to start active movements at an early stage. Work on the stump is begun while the man is still in bed, mobilization of the nearest joint being the aim of this treatment.

“The introduction of this exercise method of treatment encountered'great difficulties at first, and this from a purely personal reason. The army medical officers who were to lead the gymnastic exercises were not found equal to the task. They had no knowledge of pedagogic gymnastics, and displayed very little interest in it. The underofficers who were available were mostly elderly, and were not convinced of the advantages of such exercises even when the good will was not lacking. After Dr. Leu in his indefatigable zeal for the effectual application of these principles of early physical exercises posted in all the hospitals in his district detailed instructions how the exercises were to be carried out, the war hospital physicians in general took up with zeal this service otherwise foreign to them, and they have even trained up valuable aids in the subordinate personnel at their disposal. —From “The Journal A. M. A., Febr. 9, 1918.

Digitized by LjOOQle
220

Morbidity under Prohibition. (Alkoholfcrbudets Virk-ninger paa Kommunehcspitalets VI Afd.). H. I. Schou.—In this communication from the Copenhagen public hospital, Schou compares the number of cases of delirium tremens and of trauma in drunken men during a period of municipal total prohibition and the period before it, and during a period of partial prohibition, in that a supposedly prohibitive price had been placed on liquors. The cases of delirium tremens in the last four or five years have averaged five or six a week, but during the total prohibition period weeks passed without a case. During the partial prohibition period there were also weeks without cases of delirium tremens but the number of “drunks” was even higher than usual, the restrictive measures evidently failing in their pui pose. Schou remarks that the weeks of peace and quiet in his service under total prohibition are now past, as drunkenness is as common as ever under the restrictive price, the so-called partial prohibition, but he does not expect the number of cases of delirium tremens to return to the old level, as it takes brandy to produce delirium tremens, and this is scarcely obtainable.—Abstract, The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., from Ugeskrift for Laeger, Copenhagen.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS

* The publishers of Mind and Bcdy wish to thank the various subscribers who have recently been sending in the names of new readers and to say in this way that the orders have had attention and are receiving the copies called for. Owing to the growing cost of doing business and the difficulty of securing sufficient help, Mind and Body will not send receipts where subscription money is sent in by check or money order, as these are sufficient receipts in themselves. If any subscriber send in payment by means of cash cr postage enclose an additional 2c stamp to cover the cost of mailing receipt. We much prefer that all send personal checks as in that way each one will secure a receipt when the endorsed # check is returned to him and the time paid for by the amount of ' the check will be indicated by our office in the lower left hand corner on the face of the check. This will serve every purpose and there can be no misunderstanding.

Subscribers should remember that there are no July and August issues and the September number has been delayed in order that the thousands of teachers on our mailing list might be at their school addresses and make sure of receiving their magazine. The postoffice department is already overburdened with work without handling the magazine twice or three times instead of once and for this reason the September copy has been held up and the Oct-tober number will follow shortly.	*

This number of Mind and Body is necessarily smaller than usual, due to the fact that the War Industries Board has issued an order that all publications must reduce the amount of paper stock^used a certain per cent before November 1. By reducing the size of the September issue we are meeting this demand immediately and later issues will be the usual size, 48 pages.

Digitized by o.ooQle
—— "	   '	"	'O

NOTES AND COMMENTS

- ~~ —	' i ’ i — -■ " i " n	'll)

AN INTERESTING CIRCULAR

By the National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union

July 31, 1918.

To the Societies and the Physicial Educators of the North American Gymnastic Union, Greeting:

Over sixty graduates of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union are in military service; those remaining, if between 21 and 31 years of age, will soon be called.

This will make it impossible for many of the societies to engage instructors for the next school-year.

Unfortunately this condition arises at a time when the people are awakening to the fact that more physical exercise is needed to make our men and women physically fit. The examination of ' the young men of draft age showed how unfit we were to face war conditions; it proved the necessity of systematic physical education for old and young, men and women. This will lead to an extensive demand for physical education, and no organizations are in a better condition to meet this demand than the gymnastic societies, which, established for this purpose many years ago, have constantly agitated for the extension of physical education. It would be a pity not to make use of the splendid opportunities offered by present conditions.

The existing lack of instructors must, however, be overcome. For this reason we appeal to our member societies and the graduates of the Normal College as well as other men qualified to act as physical instructors, to make some arrangement for the duration of the war whereby instruction in our gymnasiums can not only be continued, but extended.

In almost all cities where member societies exist, there are also a number of trained men and women well able to handle the gymnasium classes. Most of them are employed in public schools. We appeal to these men and women who received their training in the Normal School and the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, to come to the assistance of the societies. Do •not wait to be called, but present yourself for service. By the careful division of the work, much can be accomplished with little effort on the part of the individual instructor. In most cases it will not be necessary for each man or woman to handle more than one or two classes. While in many instances enough men will be available to handle all of the classes, it may be advisable to turn children’s and ladies’ classes over to women instructors.

Such work should not be expected to be rendered gratuitously, but the societies should appropriate the same amount expended for salaries heretofore, to be divided among the various men and women according to the services given.

Digitized by UaOOQle
222

War times demand sacrifices of everybody. It is the duty of the physical educator at this time to assist wherever possible, in the extension of physical exercise. It is the duty of the gymnastic societies to continue their good work, yes, to extend their efforts in order to help make our men and women and children more healthy. Never before was there more demand for physical training; let us make every effort to help the people to become stronger.

We hope that the district committees as well as the societies and instructors will be ready to arrange, in the manner indicated, for class instruction in our gymnasium, if the regular instructois have entered military service, and we should like to receive reports if such arrangement is made.

With Turner Greetings,

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

H. Steichmann, Secretary.

In the January 19th, 1918 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Clelia D. Masher of the Leland Stanford University, California, reports upon the results obtained by testing 45 college women, ranging from 16 to 56 years relative to muscular strength. The tests were made of the strength of different muscle groups involving their flexion and extension. The results obtained were compared with the results of a similar character made upon man. The conclusions reached are as follows:

There is no difference in the muscular strength of women and men which is due to sex as such. Such differences as are frequently found are due to differences in the use of muscles, brought about by the conventional limitations of activity or by dress. Marked overweight or marked underweight tends to lower the strength factor, as does the lack of co-ordination, which is too frequently found in women and exaggerated by their scant physical activity in childhood. The effects of muscular training persist long after the particular exercise has ceased. A high degree of muscular power in a woman in no way lessens her racial efficiency. Lack of muscular power, as in the pectoral muscles, may be a distinct racial disability.

It has been shown that periodic disability in a woman when no organic disease exists is readily eliminated. We may therefore

NOTE BY EDITOR:

To all physical training teachers it surely must be gratifying to hear that “there is no difference in the muscular strength of women and men which is due to sex as such/’ This should be comforting to those teachers who are trying to get their girls and young women to do more muscular work during their physical training lessons. That there are real differences in the “use” of the muscles is known to all teachers who teach boys as well as girls. In the tests made with over 10,000 schoolchildren in Philadelphia during the last 10 years this difference in strength in the usual track and field events ranges from 8 to 33 per cent in favor of the boys. The moral is plain. We should give the girls more work requiring strength, also work requiring coordination of a different type than presented in free exercises, that is exercises requiring agility, skill and adroitness.

Digitized by LjOOQle
223

conclude, that sex is not necessarily a disability, and that if some method be found of adjusting work to the individual strength under proper hygienic conditions, without reference to sex, there is no reason why the potential power of woman may not be used without danger of lessening her racial efficiency.

RECREATION IN THE CHILDREN’S YEAR

A feature of Children's Year which will loom large in the minds of the children themselves i s the Recreation Drive and the Patriotic Play Week which will culminate it. “To provide recreation for children and youth, decent, protected from any form of exploitation” ahd tc implant in the minds of children the idea that keeping fit is patriotic—this is part of the aim of the recieation drive.

The week, planned by the.United States Children’s Bureau in collaboration with the Child’s Welfare Department of the Woman’s Committee of the Council of National Defense and with the Playground and Recreation Association of America, is to be a time of review in each community of all that it is doing to provide for children’s activities. Local branches of organizations which promote physical strength and skill, such as the Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, the Dramatic League of America and the Junior Red Cross, will demonstrate their parts in community recreation. Pageants, folk dances and song contests are suggested as pleasing dramatic additons to the regular exhibitions of the organizations.

The first week in September will generally be observed as ■"recreation week,” but this may conform to their local activities, and it is suggested that the week be held at the time of the county fair, or a similar gathering, or even on successive Saturdays after the beginning of the school year, if this be necessary to enlist the aid of the teachers.

Local talent must, of course, work out in each community the plans which best represent its tastes and interests. But “every member of the committee should see that all the children who take part in the exhibition enjoy what they do; that they find real fun in getting ready; that they do outdoor things, and practice out of doors; that in every way the preparation count as protection of their leisure time.”

Mouth Spray as a Cause of Disease. Thousands of our soldiers who have been treated in army hospitals for respiratory diseases since we went to war, would not have had these diseases communicated to them had they and their fellow soldiers taken proper precautions against promiscuous coughing, sneezing and spitting. I think it is safe to say that a large proportion of the cases of respiratory diseases in the camps would have been prevented, had the men been more careful and broken themselves of this disease-carrying habit of unguarded coughing and sneezing.

But coughing and sneezing are not the only ways in which a spray of mucus and saliva is propelled from the mouth and nose.

Digitized by UjOOQle
221

When a man talks even quietly he sends out a finely atomized vapor from his lips. If the speaker talks loudly and excitedly, the speech becoming more explosive, then the fine droplets laden with microbes are sent much farther into the air. Now think how often you feel “the hot breath of the enthusiastic talker” as he stands closely facing you telling his story. This sensation is due to the impact on your face of the warm vapor from the speaker’s mouth. That vapor is composed of myriads of microscopical droplets of saliva and mucus, each charged with myriads of disease germs. Just because these germs are invisible is no reason to disregard them and not take intelligent precautions to prevent them from “landing a direct hit.” The best defense in ordinary conversation is to “keep out of range.” You don't have to push your face at a man to tell him something. Keep your distance, say four feet, and shower him with words, if you like, but not with infected spray. You wouldn't use his toothbrush or drinking glass and you don’t want the material which covers these two things sprayed in your face. Conversely you wouldn’t offer your friend your toothbrush. Be just as considerate with your talk spray.—Gen. G or gas.

During the winter the Welfare Committee of the Borough of Manhattan, New York City had a series of addresses on health topics delivered to the employees of the City of New York. These addresses now have been reprinted, each one separately, and may be had free of charge by addressing Dr. Leonard Felix Fuld, Municipal Building, Borough of Manhattan, New York City. The titles of the pamphlets are: Care of the Ears, Control of Communicable Diseases, How to Avoid Tuberculosis, Care of the Eyes, Hospital Treatment versus Home Treatment.

“The Koehler Method of Physical Drill” by Capt. William H. Wilbur, Infantry, U. S. A. 149 pages, 4 1-2 by 6 inches, 26 illustrations. Published by the J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, Price $1.00.

At this time when there is such a clamor for physical vigor the appearance of this book will be welcomed by all who have a conception of the part that effective drills play in the production of physical efficiency. Major Koehler has had charge of the physical training work at West Point for more than 25 years. A number of years ago he visited all the countries of Europe to study their army training. The method employed by him at West Point is the result of his own experiences and of the observations made abroad.

Captain Wilbur has been Major Koehler’s assistant at West Point for several years. He has put the West Point system into book form so that it now is available for general use. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers.

BOOK REVIEW

Digitized by