MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	FEBRUARY 1934 No.	418

Eyesight in Mental and Physical Development

Arthur P. Wilkinson, M.D., F.A.C.S.

The experiences of the early years of a boy’s life mold him into a certain type of individual, with actions and reactions as definite as chemical reactions. Whether changes take place in a test tube or in the boy makes no difference. But we roust realize that the biological organism is a very complex chemical factory. For example, our mouths water when we see good food. What has this to do with our present subject? It helps to show that for every action there is a reaction; personality is the sum total of reactions. Therefore, these first actions and reactions mean everything in the young, plastic individual.

The Making of an Introvert

The nearsighted child cannot cope with his playmates on the playground. He is never wanted on a ball team, for he cannot see the bah until it is within a few feet of him, whether it is at the bat or in the field. At basketball the hoop is indistinct. If he is strong and big enough he may play in the line on the football team, but it is difficult for the nearsighted child to weather the storm and become strong.

Early in life he finds that he gets more pleasure from reading than from playing games. At school he remains indoors and talks with the teacher, while the others are out playing, and he is often the teacher’s pet. It is quite easy for him to read, as the nearsighted eye needs to accommodate less than the normal eye. So the moderately myopic or nearsighted boy becomes a bookworm and, in time, an unbalanced individual, and does not develop the qualities that are needed for leadership in later life. He does not care to take walks nor does he appreciate a beautiful sunset. The trees appear to be large green blotches. No individual leaves are differentiated and the horizon is only a haze. Thus, he has none of the diverting influences that draw the attention of the normal child or the motor-minded boy to the roads, fields, parks and woods. Such a child soon appreciates that he cannot excell in games and gets satisfaction from conquest of the mind.

Unconsciously, he develops the attitude that ball games, fishing and walking are a waste of time, because he finds his games in books. Besides, it takes a whole day to go to a football game and come home again, while he may see a dozen games in print and go half or all the way around the world in that time.

Digitized by UjOOQle
258

Unfortunately, however, the armchair sportsman gets none of the fresh air, sunshine, and fellowship that are so important in stimulating an appetite, making strong muscles, and building up personality.

The nearsighted toy reads tour after hour with his head coming nearer the booK until, after a time, he rebounds as his nose touches the paper. But his spine cannot come out of the kink and he may grow up to be a pale, round-shouldered, stooped individual, who is a pathetic sight. Curvature of the spinemay occur among the nearsighted, and for this reason, as well as their more sedentary habits they may be good subjects for tuberculosis.

A nearsighted child is not dependent on others for his entertainment and is likely to grow rather contemptuous of their abilities. He adapts hi nr self poorly to his s rroundings and may become a disagreeable person.

Environment and parental training and influence are very important but these may fail to develop broader interests in the child if the eyes are at fau't. Bookworms possibly do make many contributions to the intellectual life of the race, but they might be able to do more if they were more likable and adaptable. It is usually possible to correct the defect; hence, it is all the more regrettable th .t unfortunate personality traits should be permitted to develop for lack of proper correction. When the sight is brought up to normal the child can do and enjoy the things other children do and. enjoy. We are told that “Teddy” Roosevelt was a very pale boy with a poor physique. He was nearsighted and this might have been a factor in his physical development, for we know that with glasses he did all the things any normal child or man could do.

The psychological complications arising in those afflicted with cross-eyes need not be elaborated here, since they are so obvious and have been so frequently considered.

Astigmatism and Eyestrain Affecting Personality

Astigmatism is simply an irregular curvature of the eye in one axis. When an individual with this defect focuses on the stripes of a suit in the horizontal, the ones in the vertical plane are not seen or are distorted. Individuals with astigmatism will often tilt their heads to one side and thus are often subject to lateral curvature of the spine.

Eyestrain of any kind brings premature wrinkles upon the forehead. Have you seen individuals with vertical wrinkles in the middle of the forehead and crow's-feet at the outer angle of the eyes? These people are nearsighted. Those who are farsighted have wrinkles across the forehead.

Many men and women who have become nauseated while riding in an automobile or train have doctored themselves for stomach trouble for months and even years, only to find themselves entirely cured when fitted with correct glasses, Often I have seen people cross as bears because they suffered from terrific

Digitized by
259

headaches caused by eyestrain. Glasses would surely help some. Peculiar manneisms may develop if visual defests are allowed to persist uncorrected.

The Making of an Extrovert

What are the characteristics of the farsighted child? His teachers say he is lazy, a mischief maker, inattentive, or motor-minded. “He is bright enough but just won’t study,” is often said of him. He plays truant and wants to leave school. He is a jolly good fellow; the girl is a tomboy. Huckleberry Finn was farsighted, I am sure. Some people might find a farsighted boy stupid; others will observe how well he can do some things. He hunts well and is an excellent shot. He is often a leader in athletics.

•

The farsighted child, as is the case with any child, mayor may not have good mentality; but he is consciously handicapped so far as near vision is concerned and may seem stupid in those very activities in which the nearsighted excel. Although the farsighted. child sees much better at a distance than at close range, he is always under more or less eyestrain. The ciliary muscle is a small muscle within the eye which adjusts the lens of the eye so that images are focused upon the retina, or sensitive part of the eye. In a farsighted child the ciliary muscle is constantly being used to focus the image clearly, whether it be in the distance or nearby; but the strain for close work is so much greater that he chooses those activities requiring distance vision and avoids those involving the greater strain—reading or close work of any kind. The human race has had many types of language for several millions of years but printing is a fairly recent method of expression. Thus the constant use of the eyes at close range is a newly acquired need. When we look into the distance the normal eye is relaxed; but when we are reading there is contraction of the ciliary muscle. When there is an error of refraction, particularly in farsightedness, there is an undue and often unbearable load on this muscle. You have possibly all heard of “ writer’s cramp” occurring after a person writes for a long time. In the same way, commonly, reader’s cramp, or spasm of the ciliary muscle of the eye, is found. Thus, a powerful athlete who would scoff at the idea of fatiguing his arm and leg muscles might suffer almost unbearable fatigue from the tiny muscles of his eyes.

It is easy to see why all of this is so vital when we realize that our eyes give us the larger part of our information. It is only natural that the nearsighted boy should become the peuliar anaemic, bookish type and that the farsighted boy should be such a healthy specimen, though unruly and sometimes a truant from school. But how can we expect the latter to be otherwise when his muscles in general are eager tb exert themselves and his eye muscle must be so strained that reading is really painful to him. No one would ask a child to walk on a sprained ankle without a crutch; we should consider it brutal to put a boy in a football game with a sprained ankle or back. Yet to a child with

Digitized by v^ooQle
260

crippled eyesight we say, “Go to school, sit down and study.” We keep torturing him until he leaves school and takes a job where the afflicted muscles may get that long-needed rest.—Extract	from “The Sight-Saving Review”.

Athletics and Mental Health

W. Herb rt Gr gson, Overbrook High School, PhiWelphia.

Athletics form a large and important part of the physical education program, especially at and above the secondary school level. During the past decade or so, athletics have developed to such an extent in high schools and colleges that there has arisen much discussion of their value.

The various objectives and outcomes of athletics are generally accepted at the present time as being either physical or social. The physical outcomes can be measured by objective methods, and are thus readily accepted by educators. The social^ objectives, such as cooperation [unselfishness], character training [honesty, loyalty, courage], and social adjustments, are measured largely by subjective methods, and for that reason are not so well accepted.

I should like to propose a third objective for athletics, namely, Mental Health. This objective, like the social objective, is not readily measurable, but rapid progress is being made in this respect through personality tests and other tests devised by psychologists and psychiatrists.

Mental health is a term coined by the psychiatrists. We might consider its meaning by using the term. A person has good mental health when his behavior response under varied situations comes within the bounds of accepted social conduct. Another indication of good mental health is emotional stability under stress. Mental health, moreover, refers to the whole personality—mind and body together—as exhibited by physical, social, ethical, and moral behavior.

It is necessary, then, to consider the causes of behavior. There is dissension in the field of psychology as to its fundamental causes. The Mechanistic psychologists claim that man’s behavior results from the sum totlal of experiences [sensory impressions], as mechanical as jerking the hand awiay when it is burned. The Purposive, Dynamic, and Psycho-analytic psychologists, however, believe there are inner urges, such as the desire to be superior, to overcome difficulties, to press on toward a goal, to express one’s individuality, which decides one’s behavior. I do not intend to go into a psychological discourse and develop a case with arguments and references. I will only state that I subscribe to the latter view. Man as a complete personality behaves, first, in response to certain fundamental tissue needs, such as hunger, protection, and sex. But after these have been

Digitized by v^ooQle
261

satisfied, he does not lie dormant, waiting for these needs to recur, but rather presses on, stimulated by these inner urges to express his individuality as a superior being. In doing this, however, man not only desires to be superior, but he desires to be recognized as such.

We hear a great deal about “sport for sport’s sake,” the “play spirit,” and “play it just for fun”. Many people think boys are just playing around for the fun of it in athletics, for the trips, or to avoid doing work or studies which are not to their liking.

I would forward the hypothesis that boys go into athletics to show off their superior athletic ability, to get recognition as being superior in an activity in which they feel they have the best chance for success and glory. I believe all extra-curricular activities, such as dramatics, music, art, debating, and journalism, along with athletics, are as important as the regular curriculum, in that they consist of the most “life-like situations” in all the school activities. Students throw their whole selves into these optional activities, finding in them a real “little life” as compared with the “big life” they enter after school days are over. The boys who go out for the athletic teams are simply choosing the activity in which they feel they have the best chance for success and recognition as a superior person. From my own experience as a high school and college “letter man,” from my discussion with many other such men, and from my experience in coaching many athletic teams, championship and otherwise, I find this philosophy sound and predominant.

There are certain psychological principles which aid us in understanding Mental Health. A person pushing toward a goal will at some time meet an obstacle. He may attack, or retreat, or seek a middle course. This mental situation is sometimes referred to as a cbhflict. Many qualities of a person’s character will determine whether he will attack, retreat, or adjust. The form of his attack, retreat, or adjustment will vary. He may attack with vigor, playing fair, and overcoming by superior ability. This, of course, is a manifestation of good mental health. Or he may attack as a maniac with blind rage and the possibility of criminal assault. He may retreat with discretion, or he might even commit suicide. He may adjust himself by choosing another activity which promises to give him as much recognition as a superior being, or he may give in to the obstacle as much as is necessary to get enough satisfactory recognition. We think of one as having good mental health, if he has met obstacles, solved his problems with the right amount of attack, retreat, or adjustment to give him satisfaction, and achieved the greatest possible recognition in his competition with others. Bad mental health results from inability to overcome obstacles, from failure, and from inability to receive recognition as a superior person along some line.

With Mental Health, then, as one of the objectives of athletics, it is necessary for physical education teachers to help boys

Digitized by ^.ooQle
262

select the branch of athletics for which they an best fitted. One of the most important reasons, perhaps, for the existence of an athletic coach, is to assist boys to win as much recognition as possible. The behavior of the coach, of course, is actuated by this same principle, but he must not use the team to secure recognition for himself as a superior coach to the detriment of the players. In the past, schools, colleges, communities, school administrators, and coaches have used athletic teams only for recognition of themselves as superior institutions or persons.

Since a certain amount of winning is necessary to indicate superiority, schools should be in leagues or conferences with other schools of like ability. In order that larger numbers of boys may secure recognition, schools must seek devices and new methods of organizing their contests. Why shouldn’t 20 boys play in a basket ball game, or 44 in a football game, an entirely new team going in for each quarter? In track one boy should be allowed to compete in one event only. 'In all sports there should he several competitive classes based on a composite of age, height, weight, and experience. The only thing that keeps “mass athletics” from real success is, that there isn’t enough recognition to go around for the third and fourth soccer, basket ball, base ball, and foot ball teams. And after all, perhaps, it shouldn’t be spread around equally. In life, only a few succeed and win high reward in the various trades, businesses and professions, according to their ability. So it is that membership on the varsity team will, [and should] always be present as the highest form of recognition in athletics. But there should not be so much recognition given to it that no other lesser team can get any. If in a league there were games between the second and third teams of all schools, and the results of all counted EQUALLY with the varsity team, the results would be a fair indication of the schools’ athletic abilities, and good mental health would be available to a larger number of players.

A check should be placed on the range of competition. This should extend within natural competitive and geographic limits. Thus the urban and suburban schools might compete for a city championship, or suburban championship, or a metropolitan championship. The inter-urban schools would vie for the county or possibly tri-county championship, depending on population and number of schools of like classification. But in NO case should it be desirable to go to National or State, or even district-within-state championships. Whenever this occurs, it is a Clear case of exploiting the team for recognition of coach, school official, or community official [such as Board of Trade]. Added to the physical strain on a team which goes out for such championships, is the effect on mental health. If the boys win, they have an exalted, disproportionate sense of their value to the community. If they lose, there is bound to be a feeling that the community has been let down, and schoolboys are not old enough to have to shoulder such responsibility. Good mental health requires moderation in the recognition of superiority. Schoolboys

Digitized by

Google
263

are not expected to solve the world’s problems in Science, Medicine, Commerce, or Industry, with the attendant reward of recognition as superior in that respect. Yet they are driven to State or National competitive levels in the realm of athletics because of the attendant recognition. <2

A school may aid this objective of mental health in athletics by a sensible program of recognition for all who strive in the various competitions. In athletics the highest award is the school letter. There should be several other grades of awards only slightly lower than the highest award. The school officials should assist the pupils in attaining an attitude whereby all those deserving recognition in the various actvities should be accorded it. Publicity in school and city publications, and student assembly exercises, in which honor is given to those to whom it is due, are very strong devices for improving the mental health of the students. This is especially necessary in schools where school spirit is lacking. Such publicity can be overdone, but when it is, it usually is because the school official is really after publicity for himself rather than for the students.

To summarize: Mental health is suggested as a third objective of athletics. One is said to have good mental health when he has solved his conflicts, and is recognized as having superior ability by his social group. His behavior results from inner urges to secure recognition as a superior person. Athletics are activities in which boys seek to secure recognition for superior ability. Boys will secure good mental health if they can win moderate success in athletics [or other activities]. Devices must be used to secure recognition in athletics for as large a number of boys as possible. Care must be taken not to use athletics to get recognition for coach, school, or community. Publicity, school letters, and assembly exercises are symbols of recognition of superiority.

The A. A. U. Convention and the International Metric Distances

By A. C. Gilbert, Yale, '08, Chairman, National Track and Field Committee

of the A. A. U.

Probably the most important subject discussed at the Annual Convention of the Amateur Athletic Union held at Pittsburgh, November 19, 20, and 21, 1933, and the most important vote taken, was on the question of continuing the International Standard or metric distances for running events. The reason of its extreme importance to track followers throughout America, and the world, perhaps, was due to the fact that an amendment

Digitized by UjOOQle
264

was submitted to substitute the English distances for the Inter* national Standard Distances. This amendment was first submitted to the Track and Field Committee, which committee is made up of fifty men, representing a cross-section of important administrative members in Track and Field, a number of whom are coaches of our Olympic Teams, and coaches of the larger universities and colleges as well. Particularly prominent among them are Lawson Robertson, Head Olympic Coach; George Bresnahan, University of Iowa and manager of the 1933 Track Team abroad; Henry Schulte, University of Nebraska; Dr. Frank Castieman, Ohio State; Ward Haylett, Kansas State; John Magee, Bowdom, and Harold Anson Bruce, Long Distance Running Chairman.

An opportunity was given for thorough discussion of this matter by everyone present at the committee meeting on Sunday evening, but the amendment was defeated by a unanimous vote. It then went to the whole convention, on Monday, where it was again discussed at some length and with considerable thought, and again defeated by a practically unaoimous vote. I think it is of interest to the members of the I. C. A. A. A. A. to know the reason for this important decision.

American Track Athletics, as far as international competition is concerned., is under the administration of the A.A.U. The

AA..U. is the sports governing body representing the United States and with the other sports governing bodies through out the world, forms the International Amateur Athletic Federation. At the present time the International Federation is made up of forty-one countries and the British Empire, consisting of Australia, Canada, Great Britain, Ireland, New Zealand, and South Africa. The A. A. U., the American member of the International Federation, a year ago adopted the International Standard, or metric distances, for running events. It was the forty-first country to adopt the International Standard, and right here it is important to call attention to an article in the British Olympic Journal, issue of October, 1933, entitled "Our International Adventures of 1933,” reading in part as follows:

“Unfortunately, the races are run on metric distances when matches are held abroad, and on English measure when events take place at home, which makes it difficult to compare results as between one festival and the next.”

This is the first indication that the British are beginning to appreciate, as well as we have ourselves in the last few years, the importance of the standardization of running events for all track athletics held throughout the world.

A letter from A. E. Kennelly of Harvard University, President of the Metric Association, states that a convention of the Metric Association is to be held at Cambridge on December 27th, as a society affiliated with the American Association for the

Digitized by Google
265

Advancement of Science, at which they hope to interest high school as well as college students in the meter, particularly through their relation to amateur athletic events.

The discussion at the Track and Field Committee meeting and before the convention forcefully brought out the importance of the educational work that must yet be done, and the general feeling was that the colleges and universities of this country can contribute much in this direction. Their cooperation is of extreme importance to accomplish the great good and the benefits that are bound to come from the universal use of the International Standard.

All present appreciated the strong sentiment there is in sport, and it is this sentiment that has brought such opposition as there has been to the adoption of the International Standard or metric distances for running events, due to the fact that many have felt it has deprived the old athletes of their well-earned laurels and records. Nothing could, of course, be further from the truth, because the old champions are not remembered by their records, that is, the actual times made in races, but by their achievements. In other words, those who are open-minded must appreciate and be impressed by the fact that the great names of Alvin Krenzelein, John Paul Jones, Bemie Wefers, Eddie Tolan, etc., are not remembered by the records they made, but are remembered by the outstanding performances of their day, and no change in this system, or any other system, will ever take them from the pinnacle they occupied in the period of their great achievements. These old records will stay in American books for all time.

The most important point brought before the committee and the convention was the fact that, just as it is in medicine, a prescription written by a doctor of the modem school of medicine can be filled in any country of the world, because it is written in the metric system—the established and adopted system that is used in this country and elsewhere. So it should be in sport. When a record is once made it should be recognized throughout the world, and not as it is now, just in the English speaking countries. Few athletes in America, or those lovers of Track and Field sports, appreciate the fact 5hat our so-called world records made in English distances do not carry the recognition they once did, due solely to the fact that forty-one of the countries of the world do not recognize these distances as official. Even when the Olympic Games are held in the United States, they must be held on the International Standard or metric distances for running events. In the past, American athletes, except in the period of the Olympic Games, have been deprived of the opportunity to compete for actual world’s records, and the rest of the world, that is, the forty countries that are members of the International Federation, never become acquainted with the achievements of American athletes; nor can they, because of

Digitized by

Google
266

the fact that it is impossible to compare the times of 100 yards with 100 meters, and we never know what foreign countries are doing as compared with our own.

Therefore, the reason for the unanimous opinion of the

A.	A. U. committee on Track and Field, and the whole convention, that the International Standard should be retained, was

1—	To insure this recognition of America’s leadership in

running events.

2—	To give an opportunity to American athletes to establish

world’s records.

3—	To better familiarize, prepare, and train our athletes for

the International Standard.

4—	To increase international publicity and the exchange of

information.

[a]	It is easily pointed out that the American public is more or less unfamiliar with the world’s record time in the International Standard; and newspapers a’-e reluctant to publish results of great meets in foreign countries.

[b]	In the running events it is difficult to make comparisons, owing to the two different standards

5—	To compare our Track athletic performances with those of other nations of the International Federation. We are not kept familiar with the achievements in foreign countries, and as a result, we under-rate our foreign competitors. We become very prejudiced to our own performances by lack of comparison. [NOTE: This accounts for the adverse criticism we have had from the public press many times as a result of our showings at the Olympic Games, due entirely to the lack of information regarding the records of foreign countries.]

6—	Simplification. No one can deny the fact that it would be simpler if all the standards throughout the world were exactly alike.

J-—Standardigation. No one can deny that standardization is the ideal to strive for.

8—	Mathematical calculation. The International Standard used is the metric measurement. The metric system is acknowledged by everyone acquainted with the facts to be the simplest. Many of our professions and scientific bodies have adopted tne metric system for convenience, simplicity, and time saved. It was legalized in this country in 1886 and is now legalized in every country in the world, except Montenegro.

9—	Educational. Through athletics, much can be done to familiarize the country with the importance of the metric system. If Track athletics could contribute something to this great educational movement, it would be of tremen-
267

dous importance to the whole world, in the universal, adoption of a system that is the hope of all thinking people. As was pointed out only recently in “Science, issue of December 1, 1933, page 500, the NRA under the indorsement of President Roosevelt, is bringing out a decimal-metric code for general use in this country.

Much educational work is yet to be done, and the universities should and must participate in this movement. The important thing is to educate the public so they are just as familiar with the fast time and world records in metric distances as in yards and miles, so that when they see races held under the International Standard it will be the same as though they were held under the English measure. Much has already been accomplished; much is yet to be done, but sports followers and lovers of Track and Field in a comparatively short time can accomplish this purpose, and that is the only remaining objection there can be to the adoption of the International Standard.—Bulletin 21,

I.	C.	A. A. A.	A.

ABILITY GROUPING AND INDIVIDUALIZATION IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Grover W. Mueller

[Continued from January issue]

PLAYGROUNDS In accordance with the fundamental principles of individualization the modem playground program is organized primarily with regard to the capacities, interests, and needs of the child. There was a time in the early development of playgrounds when almost any open area was considered to be an adequate playground. It soon became apparent, however, that supervision was necessary to maintain it as a safe and orderly place. Unfortunately much of the Supervision in the early days degenerated into policing which naturally was obnoxious to the children. Educators were quick to see the opportunities for educative experience in the playground and they developed a type of leadership and program which was attractive to the children and at the same time educationally worthwhile. Such a program was pioneered in the Philadelphia public school playgrounds. For purposes of practical administration the Philadelphia program was and still is grouped into three phases—the assembly, the period of vigorous activity, and the period of handcraft activity.

The selection of activities in our program has been determined by a careful study of the child’s outstanding physical, mental, and social characteristics, needs, and interests at each of several stages of growth. It should be noted here that in the selection of play-

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
268

ground activities secondary consideration is given to tbe common essentials necessary for adult life. It is true that there are some common essentials in the program which are necessary for adult life, but these are included primarily to meet present needs and to prepare for the levels of growth and development which are to follow immediately.

The teacher ascertains the distribution by age of the children attending the playground and of others living in the neighborhood so that she may point her program to greatest advantage. Studied effort is made to fit the selection of activities to the interests capacities, and needs of the age and sex groups in attendance.

The Assembly. Considerable difficulty is encountered in selecting suitable activities in connection with the assembly period when, as is usually the case, the children’s ages Cover a wide range. In such situations two assemblies are held in different parts of the yard whenever the total attendance makes it possible to do so successfully. If there is only one teacher, a pupil leader is placed in charge of one assembly. If only one assembly is practical, the major portion of the program is arranged for the predominant age group.

In the organization and management of the assembly program the individual child is of utmost importance. Benches are so arranged that those who come in after the assembly has begun can find a seat conveniently without embarrassment or annoyance to the others. Pupil leaders are delegated to welcome the individuals as they arrive and to assist them in finding seats. Children are addressed by their first names, and a personal interest is shown by the teacher in other ways, as a result of which warm friendships between the children and the teacher are formed. The children are made to feel that it is their own meeting. Individual expression is encouraged by frequently using activities suggested by the children and by permitting individual performance in songs, recitations, story telling, riddles, guessing games, and dramatics.

Although no goals or job units in knowledge or skills are set up, the teacher nevertheless emphasizes certain standards for which the children are to strive. These, however, are presented as means and requirements for getting mo*’e out of the activity. For example, clear enunciation in story telling is pointed to as a means of making the story more interesting and understandable rather than as a habit valuable in later life. So too in songs, tone quality and expression are emphasized as means of enriching the satisfactions derived from singing rather than as goals in themselves.

The Period oj Vigorous Activity. In the physical activities a wide variety of individual and group games, play, contests, stunts, dances, and athletics are provided which meet as nearly as is possible the several needs and interests. When given free choice, children and young men and women almost automatically join in the activity best suited to them.

Digitized by

oogle
269

In the organization and management of the physical activities certain principles of individualization are followed. In order to group children of like interests, abilities, and needs, the yard space is divided into three general sections, one for small or young children, one for intermediate age children, and one for older boys and girls. Within each of these areas court markings for a great variety of games suitable to the group are laid out. These are so arranged as to provide opportunity for a large number of children to participate simultaneously, and they are so located and arranged that no great inconvenience is experienced in choosing games or in changing from one to another.

The effective administration of this plan is possible only through the use of well trained pupil leaders. We have experienced great success in this way.

The Period of Handcmft Activity. The purpose of the handcraft activity as indicated previously, is not to develop carpenters, seamstresses, sculptors, or skilled workmen, but rather to satisfy inherent urges to create, and to make possible more effective expression of these urges.

The program of handcraft projects is arranged by the teacher on the basis of the varying degrees of ability and the different and changing interests of the individuals who attend. In order to insure suitability a wide variety of projects is included.

Individualization provides the keynote for the organization and management of the activities. Children are invited to join small groups which are established on the basis of the ability, needs, and interests of their members. These groups carry on under the direction of pupil leaders. The little children are arranged in intimate association so that they can easily follow their leader and have easy access to tools and materials. The older and more capable groups are less confined in order that they may have ample opportunity to work in accordance with their individual ideas and methods. This freedom of arrangement at the same time develops responsibility in caring for and conserving tools and supplies. Throughout all the groups there is an atmosphere of cooperative learning and doing which, although social in nature, still satisfies an individual need.

We have learned that one of the most effective methods of providing individualization on the playground is through the use of capable pupil leaders. These leaders, carefully selected and trained, make it possible to provide a greatly enriched program. Thus it has been possible in some playgrounds to provide simultaneously as many as fifty or more different kinds of game activities. It is a matter of great importance to recognize and meet the many individual differences in this way because the children may enter or leave the playground as they wish, and leave they surely will if the activities do not receive their interest. If a child sees only one or two activities going on in the playground, there is likelihood that none will appeal to him, but if there is a great variety he is almost sure to see something of interest to him.

Digitized by Google
270

One of the many values of individualization lies in its development of self-confidence, of a willingness to accept, and an ability to discharge responsibilities. The training and practice given to leaders in the playground results in securing these values. At the same time use of leaders helps in developing a certain amount of followership among the other children wnich also is valuable. These experiences, as has been shown, make possible a richer and more varied program which accommodates larger numbers of children with greatly varying interests and abilities, but they also provide vital training in citizenship.

The contribution of teaching method in an individualization program is of course of primary importance. Especially is this so when a time limit is placed on the performance of jobs or units of work. Here the teacher must be cautious not to become concerned primarily with the mastery and measurement of knowl-ledge and skills instead of with experiences, attitudes, and interests. Our playground teachers are called upon to use methods of teaching which are fitted to the individual as well as to the group. They analyze very carefully and quickly the abilities, interests, and needs of the individuals, for if they did not do so the pupils would leave, or at best become irregular in attendance. Presentation of new material is therefore accompanied by attractive devices and much enthusiasm, and is substantiated by a thorough understanding of child nature and psychology. Appeal to children’s curiosity, close observation of their reactions, and use of dramatization, all help in making the presentation effective. Close attention to pupils’ questions and to their trial achievements help the teachers in measuring progress and satisfaction in the activity. Throughout, the instruction is modified to fit individual and group needs and to inc ease the satisfactions derived by the children irom the activity. The teacher realizes that such satisfactions will encourage the child to greater and more sustained effort.

Thus we see that in our public school playgrounds, the individual child is not forgotten. On the contrary, the selection, organization, presentation, and management of activities are guided by the nature of the child at various stages of development. The whole playground is a social situation in which the child as an individual is considered to the greatest extent possible.

The Expanded Chest—Hjalmar Ling’s Opinion in the Light of Modern Ideas

Maj. Oswald Holmberg, Lecturer, Royal Gymnastic Central Inst. Stockholm.

In his Tillaegg till tdbellerna [Supplement to the Syllabus of Tables], 1866, Hjalmar Ling says: “One is once more reminded that only those exercises which are performed in positions giving the best conditions for full breathing, are of noticeable value. This

Digitized by v^.ooQle
271

requires, except where the trunk is stronpjy bent, temporary average position bigger than the normal average—one which occurs between expiration and inspiration in normal breathing. The endeavour in all positions and movements to keep constantly in mind the conditions for the development of the chest, is the most important law of educational gymnastics.” Herein Hj. Ling agrees with the opinion of his father, P. H. Ling, who in his syllabus of 1836 states, “In general, everyone should pay the greatest attention to the development of the chest.”

Hj. Ling, however, was mainly a man of theories, who had made it his aim in life to collect and arrange the works of his father. His sense of propriety and shyness did not make him suited for putting these theories into practice. This task fell on Lars Mauritz Toemgren. That Toemgren unreservedly shared the Lingian opinion regarding the importance of the development of the chest is clearly shown in his Laerobok i nastik [Textbook of Gymnastics], 1905, where, speaking of span-bendings, he says that they should be performed so that "the chest becomes more arched, thereby giving more space”; and in dealing with heaving-exercises, he states that their aim is “to give more room to the lungs, heart and vessels of the thorax and thereby aid the functions of these most vital organs.” That he also demanded this enlarged average position of the chest [which according to Hj. Ling was necessary for full breathing], everyone who has had him as a teacher can bear witness To Toemgren, this requirement became synonymous with gymnastic style.

The same opinion on the importance of the development of the chest is found in the Handbook of Gymnastics for the Army, 1902, but here it is stressed more strongly, and an influence on the development of the chest and its internal organs claimed through such simple positions as “yard standing” and “bend standing.”

How has the opinion, that the expanded chest is an essential for the value of a gymnastic position or movement, arisen? It is probably founded on the idea that a thorax of this type provides more room for the organs it contains, especially for the lungs—a condition which leads to better exchange of ar, and hence a richer available supply of oxygen to the blood. This again leads to increased metabolism, which is of such great importance to the organism. Thus a definite relationship, directly proportional to the dimensions of the thorax, ventilation of the lungs and metabolism, is assumed.

During the latter half of the 19th century, one of the “scientific” foundations of Swedish gymnastics was the idea that the movements of the thorax greatly contributed to its development, and attempts were made to prove this by measurements. These measurements were however of little value, partly because the experimentalists lacked the scientific education necessary for such tasks, and partly because no tests were made to ascertain

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
272

the functional characteristics of the thorax. Thus no clear indicative results were obtained to this most interesting question, namely the relationship between and function. It was not until recently that investigations fulfilling scientific claims were made by Professor Lindhard in the gymnastic laboratory of the Copenhagen University. By means of a	it	has	been

possible to obtain thoracograms of the dimensions of the thorax in a sagittal plane and of its contours in the horizontal plane, in various gymnastic positions.

In examining Hj. Ling’s and his successors’ supposed relationship between the shape of the thorax, ventilation of the lungs and metabolism, physiological experiments prove that within fairly wide limits metabolism is independent of lung ventilation, which probably has as its main object, not so much the supply of oxygen to the blood, but rather more the neutrality regulation, i.e., the regulation of production of carbon dioxide in such a way that the reaction of the blood is maintained constant. Furthermore, experiments show that the ventilation of the lungs [other conditions being equal] is mainly dependent upon the mobility of the thorax, and only to a slight degree on its volume and shape. An increased volume of the thorax does not necessarily give more room to the lungs; a lifting of the abdominal organs can give an illusory enlargement of the thorax.

The expanded chest in gymnastic positions [which according to Hj. Ling was necessary for “full breathing”] was always demanded by the old gymnasts in the fundamental standing position [erect standing] and Hj. Ling says in the Tillaegg, when dealing with the taking of this particular position, “It is done with some appearance of puffing oneself Up with pride, but without exagger-tion which would hinder breathing.” The Handbook of Gymnastics [for the Army], 1902, describes this position as one with "the chest pushed forward.” Functional measurements show that in erect standing the vital capacity of the lungs is diminished both as regards expiration and inspiration, i.e., the mobility of the chest is lessened. Examine the position of stretch standing, which apparently gives an increased depth of thorax owing to the lifting and moving forward of the sternum, and it will be found that the mobility of the thorax is lessened by some 10 per cent., and the residual air increased by about 18 per cent. The cause of this greatly hindered expiration is the enlargement of the lower thoracic aperture produced by the pull of the passively stretched front chest muscles, whereby the upward movement of the diaphragm is made difficult.

Passing on to the span-bend position, highly valued by Hj. Ling and his contemporaries [Toerngren’s Textbook is even decorated with a span-bending on its cover], the sagittal diameter of the thorax is less than in stretch standing. The depth of the arched chest in this position is thus not as great as many gymnasts believe. Spirometnc experiments show that the maximum
273

range of movement of the chest is lessened by about 21 per cent., and that the amount of residual air is greatly increased. Spanbending restricts breathing, both in inspiration and expiration.

The above three examples show that the enlarged average position of the chest lessens the possibility for “full breathing” the higher the arms are raised and the further the trunk is bent backward.

Examine now the conditions following a trunk bending forward-downward, i.e., in stoop-standing position. Here, the depth of the thorax is increased, but its functional conditions are practically the same as in stretch standing.

It might be of interest to note the influence of the reversed position of the body on the dimensions and functions of the thorax, as in hand-standing. The thoracogram shows here also an increased depth of thorax: spirometric tests show a decrease of mobility by not less than 29 per cent. This is caused by the strong hollowing of the loin with the stretching of the front abdominal wall, together with the pressure [weight] exerted by the abdominal viscera.

These last two examples do not give any firm foundation for argument that gymnastic exercises with increased depth of thorax are specially desirable. In this connection it may be mentioned that the back-lying position, which gives a relatively flat chest, comes functionally before stretch standing with its comparatively deep chest; and that such a cramped position as is arrived at from Kneel-sitting—Trunk bending forward-downward [“Greeting the Emperor”], allows considerably freer respiration than arch standing.

These examples show that an increased depth of thorax does not, as Hj. Ling assumed, give better possibilities for full breathing. The ventilation of the lungs is dependent upon the mobility of the thorax and diaphragm; if this is lessened, as in a trunk bending backward, by putting the arms in neck-rest position, or by the pull of the active abdominal muscles as in stretch-grasp crookhanging, then respiration is restricted.

The functional tests further show that positions which have been called “cramped” and thus considered dangerous, allow freer respiration than positions with an “open” chest. The fear of the cramped position has been so acute in some cases, that an attempt has been made to omit all heaving exercises in which the hands grasp with less than shoulder-width distance between them, as can occur in Undergrasp hanging—Arm travelling. I feel convinced that a spirometric investigation of the facility of breathing in Heave under grasp hanging and Heave over grasp hanging, would demonstrate the advantage of the “cramped” position.

The over-estimation of the value of the lifted chest and the believed detrimental effect of the so-called “cramped” positions in Swedish gymnastics have led to neglect of developing thoracic mobility, especially in expiratory movements. Many movements have been devised aiming at increased mobility of the chest in

Digitized by

Google
274

inspiration, but only rarely have these been followed by others furthering expiration. The limits of the mobility of the chest in this direction, therefore, have seldom been reached.

The critic may suggest that there are breathing exercises with the special aim of bettering respiratory functioning. Breathing e >arises in Swedish gymnastics have been given mainly with a depletive or calming aim. According to Toeragren they should also stimulate breathing through “stronger use of the respiratory organs.” That Toeragren did not think about increasing the mobility of the chest is clear from the following expressions. Breathing exercises, he said, should be taken “with the best carriage,” and again, these exercises “claim a lot as regards style.” By carriage and style Toemgren implied a position of the body embodying the expanded chest. It goes without saying that mobility of the thorax must suffer through this. The breathing exercises which are mentioned in his textbook demonstrate how alien this outlook was to him. Many are taken in starting positions, where chest mobility is greatly decreased, [e.g., Arch-standing: Fall-sitting. Span-bending], and only one of thirty-jive can be said to have any influence on expira.ion.

It may be contended that some typicai startirg positions in Swedish gymnastics, such as arch-hanging and	,	do

not—as Hj. Ling thought—allow free breathing: that, on the contrary, they restrict it, which unfortunate circumstance should prompt and demand development of the chest.

If the aim is a mobile chest, then the reply to such a contention must be a negative one. The general principle for obtaining greater mobility in a joint is to carry out movements further and further in all functional directions. How has this principle been applied in the above cases? Positions have been taken and movements executed with an increased average expansion of the chest, without going to the limit of thoracic movement in either direction. The result has been the raised average position with shortened inspiratory muscles hindering full expiration, in other words, a “stiff” chest.

This type of carriage, which Hj. Ling introduced into Swedish gymnastics and became so firmly rooted, depended perhaps on aesthetic reasons also. The opinion existed that this carriage was closely related to that depicted in ancient masterpieces. Apart from the fact that such a comparison between our gymnastic positions and those of the old masterpieces is difficult [the positions not being identical, it must be stated that the expanded chest position is not at all typical of these classic figures.

Is then the development of the chest without importance in gymnastics? No: Both the capacity and mobility of the chest must be developed, but this' should be effected through the natural use of the respiratory mechanism, neither through the medium of a lifted chest in all positions, nor through the volitional practice of formal breathing exercises. Natural breath ing cannot be reproduced volitionally. Exercises should be chosen which involve working big muscle groups and thus bring about a natural

Digitized by LjOOQle
275

physiological demand for increased- lung ventilation. Through this, the thorax with its internal organs [the Jungs and heart] will be developed by the only method which can be termed ro-tional Methods hitherto used in Swedish gymnastics have been artificial,' due to lack of knowledge of the complexity of the functions, both mechanical and chemical, involved m respiration.

Many gymnastic teachers perhaps will ask, “What, then, is to be our guide in gymnastics, when we cannot work for the development of the chest?’’ It must be remembered that the believed thoracic development in Swedish gymnastics to a certain extent has been an illusion. In a person just beginning gymnastics, one will often find a poking head, round-shoulders, poor chest muscles, and a weak and protruding abdominal wall, often combined with a lessened inclination of the pelvis. These all give the chest an appearance of being poorly developed.

How will such a figure change after a few years of correctly graduated gymnastic practice? The head will be carried well; the shoulders held back by the increased tonus of the abductors of the scapulae; the muscles of the chest, developed by heaving exercises, will give the top ribs a more rounded appearaace; the abdominal wall will no longer protrude and an increased inclination of the pelvis will make the waistline clearer. The most striking change will be noticeable in the chest, but the develop^ ment of this, owing to the above-mentioned changes, wall be more apparent than real. Gymnastics will then have produced an improved position of the chest, made more obvious through the generally bettered carnage.

Our guide in practical gymnastics must be the recognised style of the exercises, but the corrections in achievng this need not necessarily refer to the chest, rather to the position of the head, shoulders, back, pelvis, etc. It is not wise, as is sometimes done, to start an exercise [e. g., Trunk bending sideways] with a deep costal inspiration, as it cannot be correct to so utilise such a fine and automatically regulated function as breathing, with its far reaching effects influencing carriage. The chest must not, as the old gymnasts thought, be forced forward by span-bending, or in resistance movements in this or other positions, but should be encouraged to come forward by itself—partly through the use of form-giving exercises, and partly through exercises which create a demand for deeper breathing, e.g., running or ball games. Gymnastics of recent years therefore has developed on correct lines in giving more place to games and sports, both in the gymnastic programme itself and in physical education generally.

Tie discarding of the consciously expanded chest theory will not lead to a slack carriage, as many perhaps believe, but on the contrary will produce a freer and thus more beautiful carriage, with the natural curves of the spine duly emphasised.

There is yet another phase of this question, closely connected with the expanded chest, namely, the fundamental [erect] position. The easiest and most natural way for the gymnast to achieve tie more expanded elevated chest required by Hj. Ling, was to

Digitized by v^ooQle
276

hollow the loin and pull in the abdonrinal wall. This was actually-done, and it led to an element of stiffness and rigidity id the carriage and movements of the Swedish gymnast. This stiffening, which undoubtedly existed, gave rise during the 19th century to the opinion that the practice of Swedish gymnastics nrade the performer less adaptable to other physical activities, such as athletic sports and games, riding and even dancing. Swedish gymnastics was also accused of causing increased lumbar lordosis or hollow-back. Deep trunk bendings backward at the wall bars, span-bow at the beam, and other exercises, would act predisposingly; the corstant requirement of the arched chest wou'd develop and make it permanent.

In examining H,j. Ling’s drawings in Roere’selaera, 1880, illustrations are to be found of many figures illustrating trunk bending backward carried out to the very limit. It must not be believed however that these trunk bendings, which were always followed by a complementary bending forward, caused any lordosis. If some individuals, specially predisposed, developed a hollow-back it was not because of the deep trunk bendings backward, but most probably through the arcred chest demanded in all positions and movements.

The fear of developing hollow-back caused, at the beginning of the 19th century, a real “hollow-back panic’’ in the gymnastic world, which soon brought about changes in methods of working. In my opinion, these were not always valuable for the development of the gymnast. All deep trunk bendings backward were excluded and the high trunk bending backward introduced, i.e., the “bending” was taken in the thoracic spine, which for anatomical reasons does not permit of bending, but only of straighteoing. This was in direct contradiction to the Lrogian opinion, according to which the bending should take place in the whole of the spine and as completely as possible. P. H. Ling, in the Syllabus of 1836, even advocated a bending of the knees to allow the movement to be more extensive.

How does this new method turn out in practice? The commanding of a high trunk bending backward amongst men gymnasts, leads as a rule to a throwing up of the chest and a pulling in of the chin. The ability to isolate the trunk bending backwaid to any definite part of the spine demands firstly, a general suppleness in the spine as a whole, and secondly, a well developed muscular sense: but rarely are these two qualities found combined in men gymnasts. This method of working resulted in difficulty and stiffness in all movements claiming softness and suppleness in the sagittal plane; e.g., landings from overswings.

A result of the “hollow-back panic” was that some teacher prescribed active wo-k fo- the abdominals, diminishing the inclination of the pelvis and preventing lordosis. This led to an unnatural and stiff erect standing position. The stiffness of Hj. Liog's position was located in the back and chest; now it became transferred to the pelvis. The erect position should not be used to improve the carriage. Its faults should be eradicated

Google
277

by means of movements and not by a stiffening of certain parts of the body. Physiologists have shown that the change of the habitual length of muscles [which latter determines posture], is more easily and quickly obtained through dynamic rather tnan through static work.

At the beginning of this article Rj. Ling was quoted wherein he indicates that the development of the chest is the most important tenet of gymnastics. In this he founds his opinion on that of his father, P. H. Ling. While the latter did not give any detailed description of method, the former originated the demand for the raised average position of the chest, a stipulation which for years stamped Swedish gymnastics. Scientific justification, however, cannot be found for this, nor is it confirmed by modem research. The~e is reason therefore, for breaking away from Hj. Ling’s evaluation of the expanded chest.

This will not, as many older gymnasts iray perhaps imagine, involve a scrapping of the fundamental principles of the Lingian system: on the contrary it will produce a belated realisation of the basic thought, which for P. H. Ling was the leading one in formulating his system, namely, the adaptation of gymnastic movements to the laws of the organism.— 17. cf Phys. Ed. & Hygiene, England.

FIELD NEWS

James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service

Mr. C. R. Burkhardt, Supervisor of Physical Education reports that everything is progressing very well in Buffalo. There have been practically no reductions in staff. Mr. Burkhardt is a hard, conscientious leader and has done much to put physical education into education.

Max E. Alletzhauser is holding the line for physical education in Duluth. He is a pioneer in the Northwest and to date has been able to hold his program in spite of the depression.

A1 Wyman of St. Louis is one of the outstanding men in physical education and recreation. He is a graduate of Spring-field College and for years has been a leader in industrial recreation. He is now connected with the St. Louis Community Fund. He is an active member of the St. Louis Phi Epsilon Kappa and was a noted athlete in his school and college days.

The Indiana chapter of the Phi Epsilon Kappa initiated James Edward Rogers into honorary membership of the national FYatemity at a very impressive ritual and ceremony on December 12.

The St. Louis alumni chapter of the Fraternity held a very fine Christmas annual meeting with members of the family— wives, sweethearts and children were present. Honor was due to the Kindervaters on their fiftieth wedding anniversary. James E. Rogers addressed the group.

Digitized by CjOOQle
278

Emil Rath of Indianapolis is doing some serious writing in the field of teacher training and it is hoped that he will soon publish some of his writings.

It is hoped that the Phi Epsilon Kappa will hold a large, rousing meeting at the annual A. P. E. A. convention in April at Cleveland. This will be a splendid time to identify this Fraternity with the national association.

A large number of physical educators have taken advantage of the C. W. A. funds. Many of them are having their whole playground and athletics fields rebuilt and reconstructed. For instance, Birch Bayh, Director of Physical Education, Terre Haute, Ind., is having all of the school grounds la,id out, filled in, leveled, surfaced ahd drained from C.W.A. funds. This is an excellent opportunity for all physical education leaders to grasp.

A number of cities are using C.W.A. funds to get leadership for recreational purposes. A number of our city directors are opening up social recreational centers with these funds. Mr. Mueller of Philadelphia is opening twelve; Strong Hinman of Wichita is opening five; and Birch Bayh is opening up four.

There are many signs of improvement in school finance. Things seem to be getting better. One of the sure signs that education hit the bottom in June is that in all school tax returns in October and December there was a definite upturn. More people were paying their taxes in October and December than in June. This is a very good sign.

All those interested in teacher training are much concerned with the problem of combination teaching subjects. Many studies are being made as to what are the other subjects that physical education teachers are asked to teach. Three excellent, complete studies on this subject appeared in the October, 1933, Research Quarterly. They cover this topic rather completely.

. 1. A study of the Subjects Taught by 1037 Teachers of Health and Physical Education in the Public Schools of Indiana. H. E. Moore.

2.	A Study of Suitable Majors or Minors that are used in Combination with Physical Education. Dr. Claude W. Street.

3.	A Report on Teaching Combinations in Physical Education in the High Schools of Illinois—for Men and Women. Clifford E. Horton.

Bill Streit of Cincinnati is doing very fine things in that city, but one of the finest is building up a splendid spirit among his teaching force. Throughout the year they have dances, picnics, social recreational nights, and everything that builds for an excellent morale. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.

Digitized by LaOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	February	1934	No. 418

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor; 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

Philadelphia was the first city, and perhaps is still the only city, which has taken advantage of Federal funds to open a number of evening recreation centers. Recreational opportunities have been provided by this means in several modern junior high schpot buildings during the past three months. The public has taken advantage of the opportunities thus provided and the attendance beginning with the opening night has been very good. Various activities are provided, including some of a purely academic kind where there has been a demand for them. It is interesting to note that the greatest percentage of those in attendance elect activities in the gymnasiums.

A feature of the project is that all instruction is given by teachers who were selected from the unemployed. All of the instructors have had training in special fields and in the main they afre doing good work.

Additional opportunities for recreation are needed greatly in these times in most cities. They can be provided at very little cost to the communities with the aid of Federal money. Teachers of physical education can do nothing more worthwhile than to bring this fact to the attention of superintendents of schools and to arouse them to take action.

During the past three years much emphasis has been placed by many of our prominent leaders on the value and importance of city-wide physical education demonstrations by the public schools. That a demonstration can be a powerful factor in selling physical education to the taxpayers by educating them in an entertaining way with regard to objectives, content, and values, there can be no doubt. But if a demonstration is to have this desirable effect, it must be carefully planned and conducted. We attended two demonstra-

Digitized by LjOOQle
280

tions recently in suburban towns, each of which was advertised as one of a series of evening programs to bring to the attention of taxpayers the values of the several phases of the school program, but we are sure the support of the townspeople was weakened greatly. In one case extreme and ridiculous claims for physical education were made in a weak manner from the platform by a teacher, and in the other case the program consisted entirely of dancing and tumbling.

While city-wide demonstrations produce favorable results, we must not lose sight of the less spectacular but more valuable programs in individual school units. In the latter case many more spectators in the aggregate can be accommodated and it is possible to have many more pupil participants. The greater the number of participants the greater will be the active interest shown by parents, relatives, and friends. Furthermore, the school is able to make much more intimate contact with the audience in every way, thereby making more effective appeal from an educational standpoint and decreasing the likelihood that the audience will view the program as a mere spectacle.

The ideas expressed by Dr. Wilkinson with regard to the influence of eyesight on character and personality are of great importance to all people, and they should be disseminated widely. Were the facts stated by him generally known, the mental and physical development of thousands of boys and girls with defective eyesight would be favorably directed by means of early corrective measures. Furthermore, it would give us all a more sympathetic understanding of the peculiarities and eccentricities of many people with whom we come in contact.

The great significance of these matters to teachers is too apparent for detailed comment.

IMPORTANT DATES

Dates of the A. P. E. A. National and District Meetings 1934

National [with Mid. West]—Cleveland, Ohio, April 17 to 21 Eastern—Atlantic City, N. J., April 4, 5, 6, 7.

Mid-West—[Same as National]

Southern—New Orleans, March 28, 29, 30, 31.

Central—St. Paul, Minn., April 4, 5, 6, 7.

Northwest*—Spokane, Washington, April, 4, 5, 6, 7.

National Education Association Meeting

June 30 to July 6—Washington, D. C.

Department of Superintendents Meeting

February 24 to March 1—Cleveland, Ohio.

Mother's Day—May 13—is to be observed by women's clubs, men's clubs, .medical societies, chambers of commerce and other professional and civic groups who will join in community efforts throughout the nation to “Make Motherhood Safe for Mothers". This announcement is made by Mrs. Shepard Krech, President of the Maternity Center Association, New York City.

Digitized by v^ooQle
281

How May the Professional Preparation of Teachers of Health and Physical Education Be Improved?

By James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association.

The professional preparation of teachers of health and physical education can be improved in n\^ny ways but it would be well to concentrate on one suggestion—the need for setting up standards for teacher training institutions and the organization of an American Association of Teacher Training Institutions Preparing for Physical Education so that these standards will become effective.

There are now over 400 universities, colleges and teacher training institutions preparing teachers in two, three and four year courses. The two and three year courses are rapidly disappearing. There are over 215 institutions now giving four year major courses granting degrees for physical education. These institutions vary greatly in their plant, equipment, facilities, staff and courses of study. They have sprung up in great numbers in the past few years. Most of them are prepared to give a decent training; some are not. The problem is quite clear. To appreciate this problem an outline of the following factors will help:

1.	For the past ten years, 1920 to 1930, there has been a remarkable growth in physical education and the employment of physical education teachers. No subject in education has progressed more rapidly.

2.	Practically every modern junior and senior high school has been equipped with indoor and outdoor facilities— gymnasiums and play fields—which demand trained teachers.

3.	In the past ten years there has been practically 100% growth in the number of physical education teachers. In 1920 there were approximately 10,000; in 1930 roughly 20,000.

4.	This steady demand for trained physical education teachers has increased the number of institutions preparing teachers. In 1920 only a few public institutions were doing this. Ten years ago most of the institutions were private schools. Today practically every state university and many state teachers colleges give majors and minors. In one state there are fifteen institutions giving four year courses with large enrollments. In another state in a sparsely populated section of the country with a small demand for physical educators, eight state teachers colleges are planning four year courses. It will be impossible to absorb the graduates.
282

5.	It is roughly estimated that 4,000 teachers in physical education graduated last year.

6.	In 1920 the demand was greater than the supply. This past year, 1933, it seemed in many cases that the supply was greater than the demand. Many could not get positions; there were many applications for one job. Here is a problem of over-production the same as in the teacher’s field and in industry. Each year there will be a steady demand for teachers but not in the proportion of the sudden spurt and increase during the past ten years.

Is there not a need now to take inventory; realize that there is a greater supply than demand; that many institutions are not prepared to give majors; that in some states there are too many trying to fill this field, some equipped for the purpose and others not so well equipped—like the one state with fifteen institutions and the other state with three universities and colleges and also where the eight state teachers institutions are planning to give a four year course?

Is there not a need for us to protect—

1.	The superintendent who hires—should he not have a list of institutions that have adequate facilities and programs so that he knows he is getting properly trained and prepared people?

2.	Should we not protect the graduates who are seeking jobs? At present, persons graduating from the best schools have no better chance than the persons who come from the institutions which lack facilities, programs and faculties.

3.	Should we not also protect the institutions that have high standards? It seems to me that there is a need for setting up standards for teacher training institutions and to classify them as was done for the medical schools.

It seems to me that it might help to form an American Association of Institutions Teaching Physical Education just as you have the American Association of Universities and Colleges. Any institutions meeting the standards set up by this American Association would be accepted. These standards would cover such items as—

1.	Facilities.

2.	Faculties.

3.	Courses of study.

4.	Certification requirements, etc.

In this way the superintendent who hires, the applicant from a good school seeking a. position, and the institutions with high standards would be protected.

Another need in the improvement of professional preparation of teachers is preparing a physical education teacher in academic minors, but this is another problem—however, a very important one.

As you know, there are four national groups interested in this problem which we are discussing—
283

1.	The College Directors.

2.	The State Directors.

3.	The American Physical Education Association.

4.	The National Education Association through its Department of School Health and Physical Education.

These four groups are now concerned with the same topic. It seems to me that we ought to get together and help solve this perplexing problem.

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

II.	Teaching Procedures in Health Education.

(Cor.tirued from Dec.-Jan. Issue)

The laws of learning that were mentioned in the last article are pretty well known to most educators, but the repetition of them at this time will serve to demonstrate the difference between “lecturing” and “teaching”. They were the outgrowth of E. L. Thorndike’s experiments in animal intelligence performed over twenty years ago.* Thorndike's principal contribution to methodology was the following:

a.	The Law of Readiness [Mind Set]—When an individual is ready to act, to act creates satisfaction, not to act creates dissatisfaction [annoyance].

b.	The Law of Exercise [Practice-assimilation]—Repetition of the act by the individual strengthens the connection [“bonds”].

c.	The Law of Effect [Satisfaction]—When the connection is strong, satisfaction results from action and dissatisfaction from inaction.

As soon as these laws were understood by educators there was a renewed interest in the study of methods. It was not as if Thorndike had discovered something new. It was the fact that he had stated something that all teachers knew “instinctively” but had never been able to clearly understand. To illustrate how these laws operate in the learning process let us take a simple motor skill from the physical education course; i.e., the handstand.

The teacher establishes the law of readiness by [a] creating a favorable environment for its accomplishment and, [b] by demonstrating skillfully how it is done and what the finished product looks like. Now the individual scpiad members [pupils] are ready to try it. It will give them satisfaction to try the stunt. But the bell rings and the teacher says, “We won’t have time for that today. Pass to your locker room.” If the law of readiness has been effectively set up the annoyance caused by the post-

* Cf. Thorndike and Gates—“lGemen. Prin. of Ed.”—Macmillan 1929, 9.98.

Digitized by LjOOQle
284

ponement will be ameliorated by surreptitious trials at hand stands in the showers, locker room, play space, etc., despite safety hazards and lack of equipment.

Now we will assume that the skill has been properly demonstrated and the opportunity for practice is at hand. By proper exercising and elimination of useless movements the desired neuromuscular coordination may soon be acquired. But practice does not guarantee perfection nor even satisfactory performance. Practice is usually necessary for attainment of skill but it is not alone sufficient.* Practice [exercise] must bring some degree of satisfaction “and, in general, the greater resulting satisfaction the more productive [of learning] the exercise”.** The wise teacher provides this through encouragement, opportunities for practice with support [wall, leader’s hands], progressions, and variations.

The law of effect or satisfaction is not limited to any one part of the lesson, but is applied whenever pupils [or a pupil] are in a position to demonstrate the attainment of a knowledge, an ability, or a skill. The wise teacher, through creating opportunities for leadership and pupil demonstration in the course of any lesson, thus insuring a state of satisfaction, is making a major contribution to group learning. Thorndike says something to the effect that satisfying states or feelings strengthen the connection not directly, but by developing in the doer an emotional urge or feeling which is satisfying; and which encourages repetition in order to recapture this thrill of accomplishment. This is certainly easy to point out in gymnastic ana athletic skills.

Now, let us see how the laws of learning would apply to a common objective in First Aid, i. e., the ability to apply splints and support bandages to a fractured limb. The teacher may set up ‘readiness’ or ‘mind set’ by describing a situation in which an accident occurs.The class is questioned concerning the recognition of a fracture; the types of fractures; and the differentiation of a fracture and a sprain. The teacher then demonstrates the correct technique in splinting and supporting a fractured arm or leg. * By this time the law of readiness should be so well in operation that every pupil wants to apply splints, bandages, and slings.

The teacher, after demonstrating, distributes the necessary equipment and organizes the class so that the law of exercise may function. First will come ability; and then, after repetition, a facility in application that we recognize as skill. The law of effect or satisfaction will show itself in subsequent lessons when opportunities for “showing off” the newly acquired skills are at hand. There will also be a lot of “extra-curricular” bandaging done on members of the family.

NOTE:—The next article will endeavor to illustrate differences in psychological ftnjri logical methods of presentation of health education material.

•And still continuing; cf. Thorndike, E. L. “The Fundamentals of Learning”, Teachers College, Columbia, N. Y., 1932.

** Ibid P. 94.
285

HEALTH INSURANCE

The report of the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care and the discussions and controversies it has roused have brought prominently before the American public the magnitude of the outstanding problem the Committee was appointed to consider, a problem which has been defined by Dr. Olin West, secretary of the American Medical Association, as that of providing "adequate scientific medical care to all people, rich and poor, at a cost which can reasonably be met by them in their respective stations in life.”

The Committee find that although in 1929 the people of the United States spent 3,656 million dollars on medical services, equivalent to $30 per head, or about 4 per cent of the money income of the country, "many persons do not receive service which is adequate in quantity or quality and the costs of service are unequitably distributed.” They find also that because of the impossibility of predicting the onset or severity of sickness, budgeting for medical care on an individual family basis is impracticable, and that “on the present fee-per-service basis it is impossible for 99 per cent of the families to set aside any reasonable sum of money with positive assurance that the sum will purchase all needed medical care.” The result, say the Committee, "is a tremendous amount of physical pain and mental anguish, needless deaths, economic inefficiency, and social waste.”

The Committee were satisfied that the solution of the problem was not to be found in a reduction of physicians’ fees, for in 1929 one-third of all private medical practitioners had net annual incomes of less than $2,500, and the majority of the members recommended that the costs of medical care should be met by adopting the principle of insurance—by spreading the risk of sickness so that it is borne not by one pair of shoulders but by many. The recommendation is that organized groups of potential patients should unite voluntarily in paying agreed periodical sums into a common fund, and should arrange for the provision of medical care with organized groups of medical practitioners who would derive their remuneration from the fund. But eleven members of the Committee recommend that insurance should be adopted on a compulsory basis, and even those signatories of the minority report who are against insurance for medical care would prefer instead of the scheme recommended by the majority "the method to which European countries have come through experience, that is, a compulsory plan under government control.” To a European reader these recommendations are of special interest, for in Europe insurance against sickness has been widely spread among the poor for centimes. In a rudimentary form and on a voluntary basis it was undertaken by the guilds of the Middle Ages, especially the social guilds, which were associations of poor men and women coming together of their own free will to give practical expression to the need of mankind for mutual aid in times of trouble. And after the suppression of
286

the guilds during the Reformation the desire for mutual aid found a new outlet in the work of the friendly societies.

But though the work of the friendly societies was of immense social value it did not completely fill the bill. It appealed to the more far-sighted and provident of the wage-earners: the least provident remained outside the societies and when disabled by sickness became a charge upon public relief funds or private charity or both. Such persons would not come within the scope of health insurance without some form of compulsion, and years ago advocates of compulsory insurance began to be heard in England and Germany.

But compulsory health insurance, though it had some small tentative beginnings in the eighteenth century, was not introduced on a national scale until 1884, nearly two centuries after Defoe’s plan, when Prince Bismarck’s scheme became operative in Germany. Other countries soon followed, and compulsory health insurance is now in operation over nearly the whole of Europe and also in Chili and Japan.—Abstract from “Health Insurance in Europe” in January issue of The	Memorial

Fund Quarterly.

Effect of Cooking. Scientists Find Well-Done and Rare Meat Equally Nutritions.—A recent study by two British scientists on the losses suffered by flesh foods in cooking upsets a number of ancient and cherished ideas.

Thus, it is commonly believed that the right way to cook meat is to start the process at a high temperature. The idea is that the sudden application of a high temperature \o the meat will cause the proteins on the outride to coagulate, forming a sort of shell which will retain the water, the salts and other juices within the meat.

The study referred to, however, demonstrated that it makes no difference whether the meat is plunged straight into boiling water or slowly heated up to the boiling point. The current practice of first heating up the stove or the water seems, on the basis of these experiments a waste of fuel.

Those who like their meat well done will be glad to learn that underdone beef has no advantage in nutritive properties over the well cooked meat.

Pound for pound, overcooked meat contains more protein and probably more fat than undercooked meat, and is thus a more concentrated food.

However, roasting, grilling and frying meats lead to smaller salt losses than steaming or boiling, and since the best method of cooking is assumed generally to be the one which produces least loss, these would appear the preferable ways of preparing flesh foods.—New York Academy of Medicine.

Sickness and Depression.—Further preliminary analysis of the data of the sickness survey described in the October issue of the Milbank Memorial Fund, Quarterly Bulletin has confirmed

Digitized by LaOOQle
287

the results of that report. The results of the survey in three additional cities—Baltimore, Cleveland, and Syracuse, shows again that a large drop in economic status is associated with a high rate of illness. These families of the “depression poor” show a rate of disabling illness 60 per cent higher than that of their more fortunate neighbors who suffered no material loss of income from 1929 to 1932, and 22 per cent higher than the rate among families of the "chronic poor” who were in a condition of poverty even in 1929. Families of the unemployed have a disabling illness rate 66 per cent higher than families having fulltime workers.

School Nursing Consultation Service.—The Bellevue-Yorkville [New York] Health Demonstration has been constantly experimenting with the problem of adjusting the load of work to a limited number of staff nurses. To conserve nurses’ time aad to increase the effectiveness and extent of nursing service for school children, an experiment was tried out of substituting a school consultation service for nurses’ visits to the homes. The experiment has been considered successful. The parents in the district have responded very well. For the first six months of this experiment there was less time spent on school work by the nurses, a greater number of parents were contacted by the nurse, and more defects were corrected.

Consultations in school are not new but previously they had been held as a supplement to, rather than a substitute for, home visiting. This school consultation service was set up as a part of the established generalized nursing program being carried on in this district by the City Department of Health. The mother’s visit to the nurse was planned to give an opportunity not only for a discussion of the need for correction of the school child’s reported defects but for discussion and advice concerning the health problems of all members of the family. With a knowledge of the community facilities, the nurse may direct the mother to sources of assistance in social and economic difficulties^ and the opportunity is also afforded to advise medical supervision of all infants and preschool children either with a private physician or a well children’s clinic.

Home Treatment Of The Eyes.—I think there is very little understanding on this part of the public as a whole that a most potent antiseptic agent is supplied to tie eye by natural means: that is, by the tears. Laboratory experiments have shown that for most disease-producing organisms, norma) tears are hundreds of times more effective in protecting the eye than solutions of drugs in such strength as can be borne. The tears are supplied in amounts that are properly regulated, and counteract the effect of most air-borne bacteria. There is not sufficient reason for the regular use of eye baths, as there may be for cleansing the teeth or gargling the throat. The practice of giving eye baths with

Digitized by ^.ooQle
288

any solution when eyelids are not diseased, or except on the advice of an oculist, should be discouraged. People should not be influenced by propaganda from some radio stations or through beauty columns of some newspapers to indulge in practices that have no virtue in themselves and constitute unnecessary or even harmful attempts at hygienic practices.—The Sight-Saving Review.

New Antidotes for Ingested Poisons and Carbon Monox-id Gas. The shortcomings of ordinary first aid procedures in certain cases of poisoning are made apparent by recent developments and discoveries. Induced vomiting, and artificial respiration are well enough as first aid measures; but they should never be regarded as anything more than preliminaries to enlightened professional treatment. Regarding this last; Creston Collins, M. S. Johns Hopkins, writes interestingly in “The American Mercury”.* He first describes the advanced symptoms of strychnin poisoning in which induced vomiting and movement of the patient are contraindicated because of the severe convulsions that follow the slightest stimulation. “Now, however,” Collins states, “medicine appears to be in possession of a really ideal treatment, and when it can be administered with promptness there is immediate and spectacular relief from the agonizing symptoms, and nearly all fatalities can be prevented. This treatment depends principally upon the use of the derivatives of barbituric acid”. These derivatives, sodium isoamylethyl barbiturate, to be specific, exert a quieting and hypnotic action on the central nervous system. In advanced cases the antidote is administered intravenously in order to get quick results.

It is important to note in this connection that prior to the use of this antidote, 200 persons died annually in the United States from stiychnin poisoning. Approximately half of these deaths were accidental cases of small children swallowing a number of certain laxative pills containing but a sixtieth of a grain each. The fatal dose for very young children is but a fifth of a grain. The normal adult can take from one sixtieth to one twelfth of a grain as a tonic; but one and a half grains usually means death unless the antidote is administered.

Collins also describes how methylene blue, one of the anilin dyes, is proving effective in the treatment of cyanide of potassium poisoning and carbon monoxid poisoning. In connection with the latter he states, “The best immediate treatment, of course, is the long-used one of artificial respiration, preferably augmented with oxygen. But it is now considered advisable [for physicians] to supplement this with methylene blue, or sodium thiosulphate, or both.”

Of course, as in all other instances, prevention is superior to cure; and it is wise to remember when working with illuminating gas or about internal combustion engines that the atmosphere need contain only one-half of one percent CO to produce unconsciousness.

*August 1933; P. 468, Phaunacology, The Arts and Sciences.

Digitized by CjOOQle
289

William D. Riley, Consultant, Venereal Disease Control North Carolina State Board of Health, states that “amazing as it may seem, the number of rejected venereally infected men among the draftees in 1917 was so great that it was believed impossible for America to raise an army of sufficient strength to carry on its part of the war unless infected men were accepted and made fit to fight. Accordingly, the men who were returned to civil life in the first draft call on account of venereal infection, and those found to be venereally diseased in subsequent draft calls, were inducted into service, placed in base hospitals, and treated before they were instructed in military tactics.

Three Million School Children Reported Deaf. Ten

percent of the school population of the United States, or about

3,000,000 children, have measureable defects of hearing, according to the Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education. The committee has recommended, among other things, a uniform law in all states and cities requiring an annual examination of the hearing of school children as a part of the general annual health examination, emphasis on the means of preventing deafness, and, ultimately, the opening of clinics in the schools. In regard to the education of the moderately deaf, training in special classes in "an environment of speech” rather than in institutions, with instruction in lip reading, is recommended.—State Health News.

News Notes and Comments

Injuries To School Children.—Forty-four percent of all injuries to school children in 1932 occurred either on the school grounds, in school buildings, or on the way to or from school. Those on the school grounds took place mainly on apparatus or in football games, and those within the school buildirg happened chiefly in gymnasiums and shops. Automobile accidents were responsible for most of the injuries sustained by children going to or from school. Thirty-five percent of the injuries occurred at home, however, from falls, bums, cuts, etc., and 21 percent mainly as the result of street play. The National Safety Council supplied these figures.—School Life.

Juvenile Crime Problems.—Appeal of Director Merywea-ther, of the Philacbelphia Crime Prevention Association, for greater public support of supervised recreation for older boys is based on disquieting facts gathered from police and prison record^. He cites the arrest of 14,000 boys in the 16-21 age bracket in this city in the past 17 months, the 22 per cent of boy population in the Eastern Penitentiary, and the five-year decline in average age of major offenders as matters for study.

You can’t punch holes in the Meryweather argument that it is better public policy to encourage youngsters to play foot ball than to organize foot ball teams among prisoners. This is a

Digitized by U^ooQle
290

figure of speech meant to cover all publicly-provided recreational activities for youth. Unemployment among boys on the verge of manhood, originally due to general economic conditions and now aggravated by NRA conditions, emphasizes the need for action.—Pkila. Bulletin.

Physical Education Aided By The Recovery Program*

Physical education in the United States has been greatly affected directly or indirectly by the recovery program in the following ways.

N. R. A. [National Recovery Administration], whose codes banished child labor thus increasing school enrollment, affected all supplies schools buy, and sharply increased the extent of the problem confronting schools in helping Americans to make use of their leisure time to advantage to themselves and their communities.

P. W. A. [Public Works Administration] has allotted more than $50,000,000 of its $3,300,000,000 in grants and loans for the construction and repair of school buildings.

F. H. C. [Federal Housing Corporation] plans for slum clearance and large scale housing include conside*ation of nursery schools, playgrounds and other educational advantages.

C. W. A. [Civil Works Administration] has'engaged thousands of unemployed persons to paint and repair schools, improve school grounds and playgrounds which had been neglected due to lack of funds.

F. E. R. A. [Federal Emergency Relief Administration] is employing 40,000 unemployed teachers on six kinds of projects one of which is “to provide general adult education,” which includes physical education.

F. S. H. C. [Federal Subsistence Homesteads Corporation] whose plans include schools which will serve the educational, social and recreational needs of the community.

January SCHOOL LIFE, which summarizes education in the recovery program, contains official authorizations on which the emergency educational program is being developed, a sumnary of wh?t is being done under these authorizations, answers to the principal questions teachers and school officials raise, a description of a typical C. C. C. camp, a diagram map showing P. W. A. school and library allotments to December 6, an expia ation of the operation of the P. W. A. and C. W. A. as they affect schools, and 26 thumbnail sketches of Government organizations created to carry on the recovery program.

Backyard Playgrounds.—With the Tenth District Parent Teacher Federation and the Los Angeles Municipal Playground and Recreation Department co-operating m sponsoring the project, a city-wide back-yard playground contest has been proposed for the participation of Los Angeles parents and home owners.

The contest will be the same as that corducted by the same organizations last spring, during which hundreds of families be-
291

came interested in developing thei/ back yard enclosures as home recreation centers for the use of the entire family. A surprising amount of equipment and recreational facilities was found possible to be installed at little or no cost by ingenious parents entered in the contest.

The objectives of the Parent Teacher Federation and the Recreation Department in launching competition were announced as follows:

[al To stinulate parents’ active interest in the worthy use of their children’s leisure time.

[b]	To provide safe, adequate and desirable space and materials for home recreation.

[c]	To develop in the child a better appreciation of his home and a desire to make it the center of his play life.

[d]	To provide children with means for entertaining their playmates.

[e]	To afford parents an opportunity for supervising the recreation activities of their children.

[f]	To bring about a closer co-operation and understanding between parents and children though the medium of play.

[g]	To provide fathers with the opportunity of making a definite contribution to the play life of the family by the construction of facilities.

[h]	To stimulate a desire for beautification and utilization of back yards.

[i]	To provide worthy utilization of excess and waste materials.

We suggest that those who desire details of this contest

write to Samuel S. Friedman, Director of Public Information, or to "The California Classroom Teacher”, 425 M. Harris Bldg., Los Angeles.

A Program For Leisure Time Activities.—Pasadena, California maintains a trained personnel at the service of the public for advice, suggestions, information, instruction, or leadership in various activities ranging from dancing to swimming and handcraft.

In addition, the advertised list of services includes such items as dimensions for backyard playground plans, costume making and rentals, motion picture equipment loan department, circulating library of books on play and recreation, training course for play supervisors, tournaments, shows, band concerts, and several other things too numerous to mention.

Materials and equipment are made under the direction of the department wherever possible. Puppets, ping pong and pool tables, puzzles, and costumes are some of the products of this enterprising group. During the school year, six dramatic centers are maintained. Last year sixty-one performances were given. They attracted a total attendance of 37,193. A nominal fee of ten cents is charged. One half is sent to the department while the other half is retained by the center. Costumes are made by the patrons and are kept in a "prop room” which would draw the

Digitized by Google
292

envy of a professional movie studio. Costumes of 4,668 varieties are carefully classified and arranged.

FOREIGN NOTES

Aims of Education in Germany. The Minister of Education of Bavaria, Dr. Schemm, in a recent address, emphasized the need for greater uniformity of aims in the education of the German people and the German youth. He especially stressed the necessity for physical education. In this connection he remarked that if a person travels about in Germany and asks a physician about the state of health of the people in his community, he receives an answer something like the following: “We have six consumptive sanatoriums and an equal number of hospitals.” According to Dr. Schemm, this is a “miserable testimonial.” “A nation does not want hospitals for incurables, but physical education, as Father Jahn once taught.”. . .“In this way the ircrease of illness ard infirmities will be prevented, and we shall progress toward the day when hospitals will be transformed into gymnasiums.”

“We national socialistic teachers proclaim the battle

1.	Of sports organizations against hospitals and sanatoriums

2.	Of idealism against materialism;

3.	Of the thoroughness of German learning against intellect-ualistic perversion;

4.	Of the concepts of father, mother, nation, against the mob and collectivism.”—The News Letter, Philadelphia.

The Fifteenth National Tumfest held in the City of Stuttgart, July 21 to 30, was a huge success. It was the biggest and the best—over 650,000 people were present. Quite a number of our enthusiastic American physical education leaders were present. Some of them were Grover Mueller, Dr. R. Hofmeister, William Streit, Dr. Arthur A. Knoch.

Grover Mueller took excellent motion pictures of the activities. I had a personal, private showing and was greatly enthusiastic. I also had the pleasure of seeing another group of excellent pictures taken by Dr. Hofmeister of St. Louis. I do hope that these two sets of pictures could be shown together at the A. P. E. A. Convention in Cleveland in April as they supplement and complement each other and together they would make a fine, whole summary of the great Tumfest.—Jos. Edw. Rogers.

Book Reviews.

Fred E. Foertsch

Coaching High School Athletics by W. G. Campbell and R. K. Reed; published by C. C. Crawford, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Cal., 1932; clothbound, 5” x 7 1-2”; 207 pages; price $2.00.

Digitized by CjOOQle
293

This little volume contains much material concerned with the organization, management, and methods used in conducting high school athletics. The authors state in the preface that their primary aim is “to elevate the general tone of athletics” yet in a number of instances the practices advocated are not educationally sound.

The greatest weaknesses lie in the early chapters. The treatment of the aims of physical education in Chapter I leaves much to be desired. That the “Development of Mental Powers” should be listed as an aim in physical eduction sounds very much like trying to revive a skeleton of the past. To forecast that “the day of the ‘million dollar gate’ is not far distant” is quite inconsistent with modem trends in physical education. In Chapter II where “Coaching as a Profession” is discussed, the authors claim that “school authorities are constantly on the lookout for good coaching material” and further on it is said that “The whole field of coaching, from high school to university, is open to the well-trained coach who is .able to ‘deliver the goods’ ”. If these statements are taken in their conventional meaning educators must be taking a step backward rather than forward. There is no indication of the validity of these statements nor do the authors indicate how these statements are to be interpreted. In Chapter III the authors give a list of individual awards which may be used in arousing interest in athletics. Among the awards listed we find such things as giving sweaters, issuing passes to games, scheduling long trips at the season’s end, and granting special privileges. No considb ation is given to the evil consequences resulting from such practices. In order to arouse the interest of the student body bonfires, big parades, and snake dances are recommended. It is plain that mob psychology has not been considered in connection with such motivating devices. Night games are also highly recommended. The social dangers connected with night contests should be considered unless the reader is to have in mind only the small town situation and even here the practice is questionable. It seems that the real purpose of athletics has been lost sight of in these instances.

Greek Games by Mary P. O’Connell dnd Leila M. Finan; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1932; clothbound 9” x 11”, 155 pages; price $4.00.

An excellently organized account of Greek Games as given in the spring festival at Barnard College.

Part I gives the significance of the games, describes the setting, and lists the order of events. Part II deals with the general organization of the festival and activities of the various committees and faculty supervisors. With Part III we have a description of the beginning of the festival. This includes the mode of entrance with detailed descriptions of the movements of various participants and an explanation of the use of the music. Diagrams of floor patterns and the necessary musical

Digitized by CjOOQle
294

scores are included here. Part IV is an account of the activities of the Priestesses and Heralds. Part V explains the work of the lyric committee. Part VI provides a complete description of the dances and includes the full musical scores. Part VII discusses the work of the costume committee; Part VIII explains the work of the music committee; Part IX describes the athletic events; and Part X outlines the administrative organization of the Greek Games.

Photographs and diagrams of floor patterns are used throughout the book with excellent effect. The classified bibliography at the end of the book is of much value.

Those who are interested in presenting pageants and festivals will find in this book valuable methods of organizing and managing such projects.

As we pass on to such problems as organization of a department, financing athletics, sportsmanship, team spirit, eligibility, interschool and intraschool competition the discussion is on a better educational basis. The elimination of the “win at any cost” policy, the expansion of athletics by means of an intramural program, the placing of a limit on interschool sports, the organization of teams on the basis of physical ability, and the curtailment of schedules are among the most commendable suggestions offered.

Each chapter is supplemented by a set of questions and a list of well selected references. The thoughts suggested by some of the questions are often more valuable than the actual content in the chapter.

If the more crucial problems in the first few chapters were more thoroughly analyzed and accompanied by guiding principles based upon the philosophy contained in the later chapters the book would be of greater value to the average coach.

Fundamentals of Rhythm and Dance by Betty L. Thompson; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1933; clothbound, 7 1-2” x 10”, 230 pages; price $3.60.

Enrichment of life is one of the goals of education. This may be accomplished through various channels. One of the most enjoyable and vital channels is through an appreciation of rhythm especially in connection with dancing and music. The author in this book has made a real contribution in this field, ore which will enable teachers of dancing and physical education to understand better the nature of rhythm in various types of dancing and musical compositions to the end that the outcome of teaching may be enhanced.

The book is divided into four distinct parts. The first part takes up the “Fundamentals of Rhythm”. Here we have a discussion of the Universality and Value of Rhythm, a Vocabulary, Characteristics of Rhythmic Patterns and their prevalence in music, verse, and movements, and suggested lesson plans for teaching rhythmic patterns.
295

The second part of the book deals with the Creative Dance. It explains the aims and objectives of the creative dance, the body as An Instrument of Expression, Organization of Class work, Motivation, Costume, Music, Exercise, and rhythmic analysis of dance studies.

Part three takes up Tap, Clog, and Folk Dancing, and part four embodies a discussion on planning and organizing programs and festivals for public performances.

The book is excellently illustrated containing appropriate photographs, diagrams, and tables. The author has set up some spleodid tests in connection with the materials contained in the chapters on the practical work. These tests include the various elements concerning rhythm, steps, step patterns, and musical patterns. Each chapter is also supplemented by a bibliography of dances and sources of musical compositions including victrola records and piano scores. A classified index is contained in the back of the book. One of the outstanding characteristics of the book is the use of a simple and practical terminology. In speaking of the various dance elements the author employs such terms as step, hop, leap, etc. and when designating combinations of these elements as dance steps we have "step, close, step, hop”, etc. The value of the use of such terms needs no further comment.

No more thorough treatment of the subject nor more practical presentation has appeared within recent years. Without doubt this book will serve as an invaluable guide for teachers of physical education.

Health Facts For College Students by Maude Lee Ether-edge, M. D., Dr. P. H., Professor of Hygiene, University of Illinois; published 1933, W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia; 12 mo., 342 pages, illustrated; price $2.00.

In the preface, the author modestly and frankly makes no claims for original ideas in writing a hygiene text; and acknowledges her indebtedness to ‘many splendid books’. The text material has been used in mimeographed form for the last three years by the women students at the University of Illinois.

The contents includes material on hygiene of the nervous system, [Chapters II, III, IV, and V]; food and its relation to health [Chapters VI, VII, VIII, and IX]; reproduction, heredity, and venereal disease; hygiene of specialized structures and organs; and some miscellaneous subject matter pertaining to clothing, heating, water supply, sewage disposal, pulblic health supervision, and first aid. This last [Chapter XXVI] is regrettably brief, and lacking in adequate illustrations.

The material on hygiene of the nervous system and foods is very thoroughly treated for a text of this kind; and it is to be deplored that this thoroughness is missing in some of the later chapters. In many respects the illustrations are adequate; but some of them are too sketchy and are frankly unconvincing. I

Digitized by v^ooQle
296

can see no logical reason for segregating the discussion of venereal disease and having it precede the chapter on bacteria.

HOWARD L. CONRAD

Health Through The Ages by C. E. A. Winslow and Grace T. Hallock, 64 pp., ill., 1933, School Health Bureau, Welfare Division, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.

Health Through the Ages is intended to give boys and girls of high school age a sense of the agelessness of man’s search for health. This booklet begins with the medicine men and the magic of the Stone Age and traces, through various historical periods, the story of how man has learned to protect not only his own body but that of his neighbor.

The conclusion of the story deals with certain aspects of the medical science of modern times. It ends on the note that many secrets about the human body and its effective protection against disease remain unsolved, but that the scientific method which has led to the discovery of many natural laws can be depended upon to unveil new possibilities of health and happiness and efficiency for the people of the future.

This booklet is furnished free of charge for use in junior and senior high school classes on the basis of ten copies to every one hundred pupils.

Light And Shade:—A chart to accompany Health Through

The Ages, 1934, School Health Bureau, Welfare Division, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.

The chart, Light and Shade, is a pictorial supplement to the booklet Health Through the Ages. Its object is to show graphically and in brief compass what a use of the scientific method has been able to accomplish in decreasing superstition and guesswork about the causes and treatment of sickness and in increasing a knowledge of the natural laws by which the human body is governed. Its chief aim is to give boys and girls an appreciation of that spirit which entered medicine nearly 2500 years ago in the person of Hippocrates—the spirit of Science with its handmaids, experiment and observation.

The basis for the free distribution of this chart is one copy to a classroom.

“Athletics for Girls—A Digest of Principles and Policies” was especially written for suprintendents and principals of secondary schools. It was gotten together by the Department of School Health and Physical Education of the National Education Association. Miss Ethel Perrin was chairman of the committee. The first edition—which was a free one—has been exhausted. The National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street, Washington, D. C., is printing a second edition for which a small charge will be made. Ten cents for a single copy. Discounts: 2 to 9 copies, 10%; 10 to 99 copies, 25%; 100 or more copies 33 1-3%.

Digitized by v^ooQle
297

The book that is attracting a great deal of attention, entitled “The New Leisure Challenges the Schools,” has been published by the National Education Association. The volume is a result of a thorough survey of what schools are doing in training for leisure. The survey was made by Mr. Eugene T. Lies of the National Recreation Association. It contains many items of interest to Physical educators, especially, Part III, Findings as to the Content of School Programs for Leisure Education and Prevailing Teaching Practics in Physical Education and other School Subjects.

ROLL THE SHOT

Taylor Barrett, Woodstock School, Salt Lake City.

The game Roll the Shot is played with a round shot which is rolled into holes. The course may be made as iarge or as small as desired. When the holes have been made, a starting line is drawn at an agreed distance from the first hole. The order in which the participants are to roll is determined in any acceptable way.

To begin the contest, the one who has the first turn tries to roll the shot in the first hole. If he succeeds he may roll for the next hole and so on until he misses a hole or until the shot goes in to a hole and rolls out again. When the first contestant misses a hole he must allow the shot to roll until it comes to a stop, whereupon he marks the spot reached. The second contestant then takes his turn. The shot is rolled in turns until each one completes the course, always rolling from the point reached by the previous play.

The first to get around the course wins; the next one has second place; the next one third place; and so on until the last one finishes. The first one around the course gets the first turn in the next game; the second one gets the second turn and so on.

If a shot can be made available for each contestant, much time can be saved.

ROPE JUMPING

William E. Day

Judging from newspaper reports and the pictures in the illustrated magazines, rope jumping or “skipping” as it is sometimes called will probably become popular again as it is now being taken up quite feverishly by the so-called “Smart Sets” in the larger cities. Not only is tnere individual work being done but classes are being formed for instruction in this skillful pastime that is readily adaptable to men, women, boys and girls. Ball rooms, gymnasiums and even hotel roofs are used for indulgence in this rejuvinated pastime. Rope jumping is popular with boxers and wrestlers in training and recently has become the vogue of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
298

ladies who are anxious to "reduce”. Very little in the way of paraphernalia is needed, simply the price of sash cord, the length of which will depend upon whether it is desired for two or one, also upon the height of the "skipper”, Sash line is better than the twisted rope and a very light cord may be used by putting a small piece of tea lead in the middle of it.	BS

Rope jumping may be done by the individual, by partners, or a whole group. There is a variety of steps which will be described later. Like dancing, it is fascinating, for as soon as one new step has been learned another may be taken up. Some people regard rope skipping largely as an arm exercise, but a skillful rope jumper makes very little exertion with the arms merely using a slight motion of the wrist. If not overdone, it is a splendid exercise for the legs and lungs, and almost as good as horseback riding for stimulating the action of the liver. The jumping should always be done on the balls of the feet, in plain jumping the heels should be held closely together. Plain jumping should be practiced at first and the jumper should learn to swing the rope with but slight movement of the wrist with the hands held about the height of the waist.

Over-indulgence, tests of endurance, etc. should be avoided “Too much of one thing is good for nothing.” When possible the jumping should be in the open air.

The following exercises are described for the individual skipper, the performer swinging the rope:

1.	Plain jump—heels together and forward turn of rope.

2.	Plain jump—heels together and backward turn of rope.

3.	Alternate exercise one with forward swing of rope at the right side.

4.	Alternate exercise two with forward swing of rope at the left side.

5.	Swing rope forward, swing to right side—swing forward— swing to left side.

6.	Execute exercises three, four and five, swinging the rope backward.

7.	Swing rope forward and skip on the right foot, then on the left with alternate swing of rope.

8.	Same as exercise 7, swinging the rope backward.

9.	Plain swing forward crossing the arms in front on alternate jumps.

10.	Exercise 7 with raising of knee high and reach forward with foot as it is descending. Running motion.

11.	An exercise called the “High Jump” by the English is done by circling the rope under the feet twice during one jump.

Numerous variations may be added by any one, such as:

1.	Touching heel, then toe.

2.	Skipping on one foot.

3.	Crossing feet.

Some good lively music will add to the attractiveness of the skipping.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
299

A PLAN FOR RECORDING ACHIEVEMENT IN PHYSICAL

EDUCATION

By Grover W. Mueller

Teachers and administrators who are looking for suggestions in connection with the recording of pupil achievement in physical education and a plan for determining the relative achievement of a number of classes may find helpful ideas in the following copy of material used by us in the Philadelphia elementary schools.

The Forms which are reproduced here have been used by us with great satisfaction for many years. To be sure some modification has been made in the Forms from time to time in order that they might better suit the requirements of our program of activities and of changing administrative measures. Thus, until the present school year the Record Forms made provision for recording achievement in only four events; furthermore, they were so drawn up as to make it necessary for the teacher or pupil leader to record actual figures on the Form, and in consequence it was not readily discernible how good the achievement was beyond the fact of meeting or failing to meet minimum requirements. A glance at the present Forms will indicate the changes which have been made in these respects.

The use of such Forms in connection with achievement standards serves as a strong stimulus to both pupil and teacher. They show clearly not only actual achievement, but also the amount of progress, if any. Pupil leaders can easily do the checking for most events, leaving the teacher more free to give instruction. Furthermore, a variety of events is more likely to be included regularly in the program if a list of them is constantly before pupils and teachers.

It should be stated at this point that in our elementary schools physical education is taught by the regular classroom teachers and that a plan such as is outlined here is of even greater help to them than it is to the special teachers in higher schools.

As an aid in the testing and recording process we paint lines, numerals, and letters on the cement yards and on gymnasium floors to mark the achievement standards [excellent, good, and fair] in each of several throwing and jumping events for each age group. A scale is also painted with intervals of one foot. A sample of a typical layout for use in connection with the basketball far throw overhead appears on page 301. We use more than one variation of this layout, but they are all very much the same. One variation is that used only for boys or only for girls. - In this case the same standards are indicated twice, but each set is begun from the opposite end.

Digitized by LjOOQle
300

Such a layout makes it possible for each pupil to see at a glance the quality of his throw, how it compares with the accepted standards for boys of his own age group, how it compares with the standards for higher [and lower] age groups, and the actual distance of his throw. Further, it makes recording of the achievement by teacher or pupil leader a simple matter, the recorder merely noting if the ball reaches the F, G, or E standard distance, and then noting the result on the Form by means of a check mark. The thrower stands at or near that part of the starting line where his age has been painted. Other pupils may be practicing at the same time, or their achievement may be noted by other pupil assistants.

The advantages of such a plan must be apparent to the reader, so no further comment will be made.

The several achievement standards which we are using at the present time are reproduced here also. They are printed on the reverse side of each Record Form.

..................................School,	District	No...Term Ending.......193. . ..

Room.................... Grade.........

Class Average...........................................................  Teacher

EVENTS	P	F	G	E	TOTAL
1—Standing Broad Jump, One Step Jump						
2—Dodgeball, Farthrow Overhead						
3—Dodgeball, Farthrow Free Style						
4—Dodgeball, Accuracy Throw, Goal Shot						
5—Potato Race 						
6—Dash—30, 40, or 50 Yards	 ...					
7—Dash—75 or 100 Yards						
8—Chinning					
9—Push Up 						
10-Stunts 						
TOTALS					

TOTAL P's TOTAL F’s.

TOTAL G's TOTAL E's

TOTAL A......TOTAL B......	  %.

Form PE 22—Teachers Summary Record.

FORMULA FOR COMPUTING CLASS AVERAGE

xS-.......

x7-..................... CLASS	AVERAGE—

x8-............... TOTAL	BxlO	__

x9 ................ TOTAL	A
301

A TYPICAL LAYOUT FOR THE BALL THROW OVERHEAD

9i si n ei__________zi_________ it	oi	6	8

21-

n-

91-

81-

•HIO

-60

-58

-56

-54

02-

22-

\Z~

-52

-50

-48

O

o	a

92-

82-

-46

-44

08-

28-

*8-

98-

88—

-42

-40

-38

-36

-34

o*-

-32

Zf~

n-

9t-

-30

-28

-26

-24

os-

28-

19-

-22

-20

-18

98-

89-

09-

8 9	10	11

Boys

12

-16

-14

-12

13	14	15	16
D

CQ

n'

Cl

cr

o

o

eg



Achievement Record Forms For Elementary Schools

Room.

..........School,	District	No.....

Grade............ Team.

Term Ending.....................................193.

Record Periodically, With Check Marks [/,] The achievement in Each Event.

Teacher

Dash  30, 40, or 50 Yards		Dash 75 yards	Chin				Goal Shot	
PIFlGjE		P|FIG E	PrF|G|E				P,F|G|E	
I 1								
"I'T		1 1					-LL	

NAME

AGE

Years

Standing Broad Jump One Step Jump

P|F|G|E

Dodgeball

Farthrow

Overhead

P|F1G|K

Dodgeball

Farthrow

Free Style

P|FIG|E

Dodgeball

Accuracy

Throw

P|F|G-E

I

Potato

Race

P|FIG|E

Stunts

P F G IE

Form Pe 21—Achievement Record, Captain Girls—School District Of Philadelphia [July 1933}

........................................School,	District No..........

Room........................... Grade..................... Team...... Term Ending...........................................193. . . ,....

!

Record Periodically, With Check Marks [/], The Achievement in Each

Event.	...................................................... Teacher

00

O

to

NAME	AGE	Standing Broad Jump One Step Jump				Dodgeball  Farthrow  Overhead			Dodgeball  Farthrow  Free Style				Dodgeball  Accuracy  Throw  Goal Shot				Potato  Race			Dash  30, 40, or 50 Yards		
	Years	P	F	G	E	P	F|G|E		PIFIGIE				P|F|G|E				P|F|G|E			P|F|G|E		
							1											I			1	
							1											1				

Dash  75 or 100 Yards				Chin		
P|F		G|E		P|F	G|E	
						
						

Push Up

P |F |G IE

Stunts

P|F|G|E

Form Pe 20—Achievement Record, Captain Boys—School District Of Philadelphia [July 1933]

METHOD OF RECORDING ACHIEVEMENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ACTIVITIES

1.	At the beginning of each term each pupil is to be assigned to a team.

2.	The names of all the pupils on each team are to be listed on one sheet. The names are to be placed under “NAME”, according to ages

[e. g., all 12 years of age, then all 13 years of age, etc].

S. Opposite each pupil’s name place under "AGE” the age [in whole years only] to the nearest birthday at beginning of term.

4. Record periodically, with check marks [/], the achievement in each event.


Digitized by

O

o

&



Achievement Standards for Philadelphia Elementary School Boys

AGE	Standing Broad Jump  IFeet & Inches]			Dodgeball  Farthrow  Overhead  [Feet]			Dodgeball Farthrow Free Style [Feet]			Dodgeb  Accurai  Throi  [Hits  trials		all  :y  IV  —5	Potato  Race  [Seconds and Fifths]			50-Yard . Dash  [Seconds and Fifths]			75-Yard  Dash  [Seconds and Fifths]			100-Yard  Dash  [Seconds and Fifths]			Chin  [Times]			Push Up  [Times]			30 Yd Dash-  [Seconds & fifths]	40 Yd Dash  (Seconds & fifths]
Yn.	F |	G	E	F ,	G	1 E	F 1  1	G	E	F	G	E	F I	° !	E	F |	G	E	F |	G	E	F |	G	1 E	F	G	E	F	G	E	F	F
8	3-10	4- 9	5- 4	16	20	24	16	18	20				31-3	28-127-0		9-2	8-3	8-0								1	3	1	7	12	6-2	8-0
9	4- 2	5- 0	6- 7	17	22	26	22	25	29			1	30-3	27-1	25-4	9-1	8-2	7-4								2	4	1	9	16	6-1	7-4
10	4- 5	6- 3	6-10	19	24	28	28	34	40		1	2	29-3	26-2	24-4	9-0	8-1	7-3								3	5	1	10	19	6-0	7-3
11	4- 7	5- 7	6- 2	20	26	30	34	40	50		1	2	29-1	26-0	24-2	8-4	8-0	7-2	12-1	11-2	11-0	16-1	15-0	14-1		3	5	1	11	20	5-4 ,	7-2
12	4-11	6-10	6- 6	22 1	28	32	38	44	54	1	2	3	29-0	25-3	24-0	8-3	7-4	7-1	12-0	11-1	10-4	16-0	14-3	13-4	1	4	6	2	12	20	5-3	7-0
18	5- 1	6- 1	6-10	23	30	36	42	48	| 58	1	2	3	28-4	26-1	23-3	8-2	7-3	7-0	il-4|	11-0	10-3	15-3	14-1	13-2	1	5	6	3	13	21	5-2	6-4
14	5- 6	6- 5	7- 2	26	33	39	47	56	| 66	1	2	3	28-3	25-0	23t1	8-1	n-i	6-4	11-2	10-3	10-1	15-6	13-4	13-0	2	5	7	5	‘ 14	21	6-1	6-3
15	5- 8	6- 9	7- 6	28	36	42	52	61	1 71	1	2	3	28-2	24-3	22-4	8-0	7-0	6-8	11-1	10-2	10-0	14-3	13-2	12-4	2	6	8	6	16	24	5-0-	6-2
16	5-10	7- 1	7-10	31	39	46	57	67	| 77	1	2	8	28-1	24-1	22-2	7-4	6-4	6-2	10-4	10-0	i | 9-3	14-1	113-1	112-5	2	7	8	8	1 18	26	4—4	6—i

Achievement Standards for Philadelphia Elementary School Girls

8	3- 7	4- 4	6- 0	12	18	22	u I	16	18				32-3	29-1	28-0	10-0	| 9-0| 8-1							1	2		6-4	8-3
9	3- 9	4- 7	5- 2	15	20	24	17	20	23				32-2	28-4	27-3	9-4	8-4'  1	1 8-0						1	3		6-4	8-2
10	3-11	4-10	5- 6	17	22	26	21	25	28			1	32-1	28-2	27-1	9-3  i	I  8-3  1	7-4						1	3		6-3	8-1
11	4- 1	5- 1	5- 8	19	24	28	24	30	34		1	2	31-2	28-0	26-3	9-2	8-2	7-3	L3-3	12-1	11-4				1		6-2 t	8-0
12	4- 3	5- 3	6-11	20	26	30	26	32	36		1	2	31-0	27-3	26-1	9-1	8-1	7-2	13-2	12-0  l	11-3  i				1	3		6-1	7-4
13	4- 4	5- 4	6- 1	22	28	32	29	35	39	1	2	3	30-4	27-2	25-3	9-0	8-0	7-2	13-1	11-4	11-2			1	3		6-0 .	7-3
14	4- 5	5- 5	6- 2	23	30	34	32	38	43	1	2	3	30-3	27-1	25-2	8-4	7-4	7-1	13-0	11-3	11-1			1	3		5-4 '	7-2
15	4- 6	5- 6	6- 3	24	32	36	36	42	47	1	2	3	30-2	27-0	25-1	8-3	7-3	7-1	12-4	11-2	11-0			1	3		5-3	7-1
16	4- 7	5- 7	6— 4	25	34	38	40	46	51	1	2	3	30-2	26-4	25-C	8-2	7-2	7-1	12-3	11-1	10-4			1	3		5-2	7-0
304

ROUNDEL CONSISTING OF CLUB SWINGING, FREE EXERCISES,

AND DANCE STEPS

By Arthur Carl Faulstich

Model Exercises of the Turn Verein Lincoln of Chicago at the Buffalo

Turnfest

Music: Tales from the Vienna Woods by Johann Strauss, Op. 345.

Publisher—Carl Fisher Inc., Cooper Square, New York.

Introduction:	First four meas. of strain No. 1................. 4	Meas.

Exercise No.	1-Strain No. 1 with second ending ..............  44	Meas.

Interlude	-First three meas. of strain No. 2 ............... 3	Meas.

Exercise No.	2-First 16 meas. of strain No. 2 and repeat .......... 32	Meas.

Exercise No.	3-Second 16 meas. of strain No. 2 and repeat ........ 32	Meas.

Exercise No.	4-First 16 meas. of strain No. 3 and repeat ......... 32	Meas.

Exercise No. 5-Second 16 meas. of strain No. 3 played four times

using first ending only [omit second ending] ....... 64	Meas.

Exercise No. 6-First 16 meas. of strain No. 4 played four times using second ending the last time .................................   64	Meas.

Exercise No.	7-Second 32 meas. of strain No. 4..............  32	Meas.

Exercise No. 8-First 20 meas. of strain No. 5 and repeat using first

ending only ...................................      40	Meas.

Total ................................347	Meas.

Explanations

Club Exercises—abbreviates - D.H.C.-double hand circle

D.A.C. -double arm circle R.	-right

L.	-left

NOTE: The exercises are written to the left; files 1 and 2 execute them to the left, files 3 and 4 execute them to the right.

Exeicise No. 7-Ladies and men execute exercise together and as written.

Dance steps—Executed as written.

Free Exercises—Executed as written.

Formation At Start

A

*

T

•A

A

T

-5T

Men: Free Exercises	Club Exercises

Ladies: Dance Steps

[Front]

Ladies deisgnated by T Men designated by X

Men: Free Exercises Ladies: Dance Steps

Digitized by LaOOQle
305

DANCE COMBINATIONS [Ladies only]

PART I [44 Measures]

&

T V <

H	h



Formation-Flank circle, left shoulders toward center.

1.	Three step turn L sidew., arms 1st to 5th to 2nd pos............ 3	Meas.

2.	Point R obi. foreoutw., bend L knee ahd lower R arm over R

foot ......................................................... 1	Meas.

3. Pas De Basque R sidew., arms in 3rd pos., [L arm high 5th pos.] 1 Meas.

4. 1-4 Turn L, Bas De Basque L sidew., arms 3rd with R arm high	1	Meas.

5.	Glide closing step and glide bal. hop R forw., arms are 2nd to

1st to 5th to 2nd pos......................................... 2	Meas.

6.	Repeat [1] to [5] 2 times; execute a 1-4 turn L on the 1st count.... 16 Meas.

NOTE: This step is executed toward the center on the 1st 8 counts, away from center on the 2nd 8 counts, and toward the center on the 3rd 8 counts, grasping hands, on count 24 finishing in a circle facing inward.

7.	Swing hop L backw., bend forw. and swing arms downw. and

backw. ........................................................

8.	Glide bal. hop R forw., swing arms foreupw....................

9.	Repeat 7 and 8 .................................-.............

10.	1-4 turn L, releasing hands, and away from center of circle;

pirouette L; arms 1st to 5th ..................................

11.	Step courtesy L; arms L lateral ..............................

12.	Step courtesy R; arms R lateral ..............................

18. Pause .........................................................

14.	Pirouette L; arms 1st to 5th..................................

15.	Step courtesy L; arms L lateral ..............................

16.	1-4 turn R [inward] glide closing step and glide bal. hop R forw.

arms 2nd to 1st to 5th pos.....................................

17.	Glide closing step and glide bal. hbp left forw., arms 2nd to 1st

to 5th pos...................................................... 2	Meas.

44 Meas.

INTERLUDE [3 Measures]

1.	Step R backw. bending the knee and bend trunk slowly forw.

lowering arms foredownw............................... 1	Meas.

2.	Continue No. 7 .......................................

3.	1-4 turn R; straighten R leg and close L to R with arms sidew. 1 Meas.

in 2nd pos............................................ 1	Meas.

3 Meas.

1 Meas.

1	Meas.

2	Meas.

2 Meas. 2 Meas. 2 Meas. 2 Meas. 2 Meas. 2 Meas.

2 Meas.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
306

PART II [32 Measures]

Formation sLadies in a flank circle of six, left shoulders toward center [men in outer circle].

X

y

Y Y

v-

T T

*

y v

*

r

Start with the R foot, hands grasped, R arm forward and L arm backward.

1.	Slow step R and L forw......................................... 2	Meas.

2.	Hop on L ft. and bend R knee; bend trunk R looking over R

arm.......................................................... 1	Meas.

3.	Pause ......................................................... 1	Meas.

4.	Glide closing step and glide bal. hop R with bent knee.......... 2	Meas.

5.	Repeat [4] to the L, R,	L,	R.................................... 8	Meas.

6.	Slow step L forw............................................... 1	Meals.

7.	Glide bal. hop R forw.......................................... 1	Meas.

8.	Repeat [1] to [7] facing L about and starting in a circle to the R

with the L ft. Finish in a flank circle R shoulders to center . .. 16 Meas.

PART III [32 Measures]	32	Meas.

1.	1 3-4 turn R in place with feet in 5th pos., R ft. in reai; arms

are 2nd to 1st to 5th to 2nd pos. [Finish facing	outw.] ..... 4	Meas.

2.	Three quick running steps forw. L, R, L; arms in 2nd .......... 1	Meas.

3.	Glide bal. hop R forw; ^rms 1st to 5th......................... 1	Meas.

4.	Swing hop L backw; arms in 4th pos............................. 1	Meas.

5.	Glide bal. hop R forw; arms in 5th............................. 1	Meas.

6.	Bas De Basque L; R; L; R; arms in 3rd pos. L, R,	L, R, ........ 4	Meas.

7.	Step L forw; bend knees, bend trunk forw; arms 2nd, lower side-

downw. to 1st................................................ 2	Meas.

8.	Face R and step R sidew., closing L ft. to R ft; carry arms from

1st to 2nd pos............................................... 2	Meas.

9.	Repeat [1] to [8] to the L [toward center] ................... 16	Meas.

PART IV [32 Measures]	32	Meas.

Formation: Flank circle of couples, partners facing each other (Men in outer circle].

X

T

Digitized by ^ooQle
307

Mill wheel R, L, R, L, with the following steps.

1. Glide closing step and swing hop, R, L, R, L; arms are sideward,

hands grasped.............................................   8	Meas.

2.	Repeat [11 in the mill wheel L; L hands grasped ............ 8	Meas.

3.	Repeat [1] and [2]......................................... 16	Meas.

32 Meas

PART V [64 Measures]

Formation: Single circle facing outward. (Men in outer circle].

y



x

k

k y

1.	Glide closing step R forw., arms in 2nd ?..................... 1	Meas.

2.	Glide swing hop R forw., arms in 4th [R ahn high] ........... 1	Meas.

3.	Three qujfck steps forw. [L, R, L) arms in 2nd .............. 1	Meas.

4.	Glide balance hop R forw., arms 1st to 6th .................. 1	Meas.

5.	Bas De Basque L, R, L, R, facing L dbouit; arms in 3rd....... 4	Meas.

6.	Repeat [11 to [4] toward center, starting L foot, grasping hand:

on the glide bail. hop........................................ 4	Meas.

7.	Knee swing hop R backw., bend trunk forw. and swing arms

foredownw..................................................... 1	Meas.

8.	Balance hop L forw., arms swing foreupw...................... 1	Meas.

9.	Repeat [71 and [8]........................................... 2	Meas.

10.	Step courtesy R and L sidew., arms swing down ............... 4	Meas.

11.	Bourree step R sidew. in a circle, L foot 5th in front;	arms upw. 4	Meas.

12.	Repeat [101 and [111......................................... 8	Meas.

13.	Repeat [1] to [12] [32 meas. once, facing R about on count 1] .... 32	Meas.

PART VI [64 Measures]

64 Meas.

Formation: Flank circle of couples partners facing each other.

A

A



V

*

A

A	*

A T X

Digitized by LaOOQle
308

Grand R and L moving forward in a circle with the following steps. 1. Glide closing step and glide balance hop R forw., touching R

hand of partner............................................... 2	Meas.

2.	Repeat [1] beginning L and touch L hand of new partner ....... 2	Meas.

3.	Repeat [1] and [2] R, L, R, L, R, always meeting new partner ..10	Meas.

4.	Right hdnds grasped, 1-2 mill wheel R with glide closing step

and glide bal. hop L ........................................  2	Meas.

5.	In a circle to the opposite direction repeat [1] and [2] touching

R hand of new partner up to count 12......................... 12	Meas.

6.	Glide closing ^nd glide balance hop forw., arms 1st to 5th ... 2	Meas.

7.	Fa<ce L and step courtesy L sidew. arms L lateral ............ 2	Meas.

8.	Three step turn R, and close L ft. to R ft. and 1-4 turn R, glide balance hop R forward, arms 2nd, 1st to 5th [on count

2], 2nd [count 3], and 1st to	5th	[count 4] .................  4	Meas.

9.	1-4 turn L and repeat [8] to the L ..........................  4	Meas.

10.	Step courte.y R and L, arms lateral ........................  4	Meas.

11.	Bas De Basque R, L, R, L	................................  4	Meas.

12.	Repeat [8] to [10] ........................................  12	Meas.

13.	Bas De Basque R and L .....................................   2	Meas.

14.	Run forw. with small steps	and	glide	balance hop R .........  2	Meas.

PART VII [32 Measures] In Part VII the ladies do free exercises with the men. Formation: Single circle ajl facing outward.

1 Z 3	4-

X T> T X T* T T X

▼ t t x

X T T X

64 Meas.

Measure

Face L and step L forw. .............................................._.l

Close R ft. to L ft. ..................................................2

Bend the knees deep, placing hands on floor outside of knees .........3

[squat stand]

Pause ................................................................4

Roll forw. to a lying pos., arms down along side of body. Raise the L

leg forw..........................................................5-6-7

Lower the L leg ......................................................8

Rafise the R leg forw.................................................9

Lower the R leg.......................................................10

Raise both legs forw. to support on shoulders ajid hands..............11-12

Ladies are assisted to a hand stand...................................13-16

Ladies are assisted to a support lying pos. frontways ................17-18

Digitized by ^ooQle
309

Pause ...................................................................19-20

Squat stand R forw., L leg is extended backward.........................21

Pause ..................................................................22

Step L backw. and raise arms sidew......................................23

1-4 turn R and lower arms to starting pos...............................24

Dip the knees and swing	the	arms	forw............................   25

Dip the knees and swing	the	arms	down to sideward ..............    26

Dip the knees and swing	the	arms	down to forw................  .....27

Dip the knees and swing	the	arms	down to sideupw................... 28

Bend trunk forw., swing arms foredownw.............................. ...29

Bend both knees [squat stand] and swing ^ms forw................. ......30

Straighten	legs	and	swing	arms sidew.................................31

Lower arms to	starting pos........ .....................................32

PART VIII [40 Measures]

1.	Face L and three step turn L sidew., arms to 5th to	2nd ....... 3	Meas.

2.	Point R obi. foreoutw., bend L knee and lower R arm	over R ft. 1	Meas.

3.	Bas De Basque R sidew., arms in 3rd pos........................ 1	Meas.

4.	1-4 turn L, Bas De Basque L sidew., arms in 3rd ..............  1	Meas.

5.	Glide closing step and glide balance hop R forw., arms 2nd to

1st to 5th to 2nd ..........................................     2	Meas.

6.	Repeat [1] to [5] once [away from center] ..................... 8	Meas.

7.	1-2 turn L in place with ft. in 5th pos. L ft. in front, arms are

1st, to 5th to 2nd pos. —...........................             4	Meas.

8.	Repeat ......................................................   8	Meas.

9.	Knee swing hop L backw., balance hop R forw. and	repeat ..... 4	Meas.

10.	Step courtsey L and R, arms are down .......................... 4	Meas.

11.	Step L sidew................................................ 1	Meas.

12.	Kneel R bending trunk forw., arms back......................... 1	Meas.

13.	Slowly straighten trunk, bending backw. and swing arms fore-

upw............................................................. 2	Meas.

40 Meas.

FREE EXERCISES, [Men Only]

PART I [44 Measures]

Formation: Single circle, facing outward.

v	*

*	4-

Measure

Swing arms forw. ...............................................................     1..1

Bend trunk forw. and carry arms sidew. ............................................—2

Lunge forw. L and swing arms dow. to foreupw. ..... .... ........................~.:....S

Pause ......;...:....... :.....................................I...:......:.............A

Digitized by
310

Close L foot to R foot and 1-1 D.A.C. inward .........................5

Bend knees deep and bend arms to strike from shoulders ...............6

Straighten legs; raise heels and extend arms upw......................7

Lower heels and swing arms sidedownw. to starting pos................8

Repeat 1 to 8 to the R and L .........................................9-24

Dip the knees and swing arms	forw...................................26

Dip the knees and swing arms	down to	sidew. .......................26

Dip the knees and swing arms	to forw................................27

Dip the knees and swing arms	to sideupw.............................28

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms foredownw............................29

Straighten trunk; lunge forw. R and swing arms forw..................30

Place hands in	front	of	shoulders ...................................31

Straighten R leg, raising L leg backw., extend arms obi. sideupw. palms

inw..............................................................32

1-4 turn L on R foot; bend arms to strike from shoulders ............33

Lunge sidew. L, bend trunk L; extend arms upw. and lower R arm sid eways, 3-4 arm circle outw. with the L arm [arms are sidew. R] . .34

Pause ................................................................36-36

Straighten trunk, 1-4 turn R with reverse knee bending and 1-1 arm

circle inward with the L arm [arms are forw.] ....................37-38

Close R foot to the L foot; dip the knees and swing arms down to sidew 39

Dip the knees and swing arms	down to	forw..........................40

Dip the knees and swing arms	down to	sideupw.......................41

Bend trunk forw.	and swing	arms foredownw............................42

Straighten trunk; bend knees deep and swing arms forw................43

Straighten legs and lower arms to starting pos.......................44

INTERLUDE [3 Measures]

Raise heels and swing arms sidew..............

Raise or dip the knees and 1-1 D.A.C. outw......

Lower heels and arms to starting pos. ........

Measure

...1

...2

3

PART II [32 Measures]

Measure

Place hands in rear of head...........................................1

Raise heels and extend arms upw.......................................2

Lunge sidew. L; 3-4 D.A.C. inward bending L arm to strike over head,

turn head L ......................................................3

Pause ...............................................................4

Close L foot to R foot; turn head forw. and bend arms to strike from

shoulders .......................................................6

Turn trunk L and swing arms sidedownw. to obi. pos., R arm obi. fore-

upw. and L arm obi. down backw....................................6

Return swing of arms, turning trunk forw..............................7

Bend arms to strike from shoulders....................................8

Repeat 6-7-8 to the R with lunging sidew. L on count 11 .............9-l(Ml

1-4 turn L, reverse knee bending; bend trunk forw., straightening the trunk backw. [wave], the arms swing foredownw. in a 1-1 circle

forw............................................................~12

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms foredownw. ..........................18

Straighten trunk and reverse knee bending	swing arms foresaw.........14
311

’ -4 Turn E railing L leg sidew. and lower arms Bidew.................15

Close L to R and lower arms to starting pos...........................16

Repeat 1-16 to the R .................................................17-82

PART III [32 Measures]

Measure

Swing arms forw. and place hands in front of shoulders ................1

Bend upper trunk backw. and extend arms sidew., palms up..............2

Straighten trunk, bend R knee and place the L leg backw, 1-1 D.A.C.

inward with palms down............................................3

Pause ................................................................4

Close L foot to R foot ajid bend arms to strike from shoulders .......5

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms sidedpwnw. to forw. crossing arms in

front of chest....................................................6

Dip the trunk and straighten trunk with the return swing of the arms ....7

Bend arms to strike from shoulders....................................8

Repeat 6,7,8, lunging sidew. L on count 11 .........................6-10-11

Turn trunk L; swinging arms sidedownw. the R arm swinging to the obi.

pos. foreupw. and the L obi. backdownw............................12

Reverse knee and arm positions ........................................18

Swing R arm in a circle forw., both arms swinging downw. and bending

trunk forw........................................................14

Reverse knee bending and straighten trunk swinging arms foreupw......>.15

1-4 turn right close L foot to R foot rfhd lower arms to starting pos .16

Repeat to the R ......................................................17-82

PART IV [32 Measures]

Measure

Place hands on shoulders .............................................1

Bend knees deep anftl extez^d arms sidew..............................2

Straighten legs, lunge sidew. [L arm is upw. right arm sidew.] turn

head R.......................!....................................3

Pause ................................................................4

Close L foot to R foot and bend arms to strike from shoulders ........>.6

Stretch arms upw. with palms up ......................................6-7-S

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms sidedownw. to forw. crossing arms in

froi# of chest....................................................9

Dip the trunk, straighten trunk and return swing of arms .............>10

Lunge backw. L and bend arms to strike from shoulders.................11

Straighten R leg, raising L leg backw. and extend arms obi. sideupw.

[palms igward]................................-...................12

Lower forw. to a balance stand lowering arms sidjew...................13-14

Close L foot to R foot, straighten trunk and 1 1-4 D.A.C. outw. to

starting pos...................................................... 16-16

Repeat 1-16 to the R .................................................17-82

PART V [64 Measures)

Part V is performed on the limes of a cross to the left.

Measure

Lunge forw. L swing arms foreupw...............................-......1

Digitized by LaOOQle
312

Place the extended L leg backw., bending R knee; swing arms fore-

downw..............................................................3

Pause ..............'..................................................4

1-4 turn L raising L leg sidew., straighten R leg; arms swing sidew. R.5

Lunge sidew. L; 1-2 A.C. inward with the L arm, bending it to 4 shot

put pos. with head turned R ............................... .......6

Pause .................................................................7-8

Straighten L leg; arms extended upw., turn head forw...................9

Bend trunk forw., swing arms foredownw., grasping hold of ankles .>.10

Dip the trunk forw........................................... .........11-14

Straighten trunk, raise L leg sidew., raise arms sidew.................15

Close L ft. to R ft. and lower arms sidew. to starting pos. . .........16

Repeat three times to the L ................... ..... ....... .........17t-64

PART VI [64 Measures]

Part VI is performed on the lines of a cross to the right.

Measure

Lunge sidew. R; swing arms sideupw...—............................      1

Pause ...................................—...................           2

Place the extended R leg L sidew. in rear of L leg, bending L knee;

lower arms sidew. L and turn head L .............................   3

Pause ...........................................................      —4

1-4 turn R raising R leg sidew., straighten L leg; swing arms downw. to

foreupw., head turned forw........................................  5

Bend L knee placing the extended R leg backw. placing hands on floor

[Get Set position as for sprint] ...................................6

Pause ..................................................................7-8

Stride forw. R bend both knees deep, bend trunk forw. with head lowered forw., arms bent, elbows outside of knees straighten legs and arms slowly upw. with straightening of trunk and head, finishing with

weight on R ft......................................................9-12

Reverse weight from R ft. onto the L ft., bending L knee. R leg remains straight, hands clenched to a fist; bend arms and carry them

foredownw. to the hips ....................................... .....13-14

Straighten L leg and swing R leg backw., extend arms downw. to sidew.,

hands open with palms down.................................. ......15

Lower R ft. and arms to starting pos. .........................  ,.....16

Repeat THREE TIMES to the R ......................................   -	.17-64

PART VII [32 Measures]

Measure

Face L and two steps forw., left and right ...........................     1-2

Lunge forw. L; swing arm* foreupw. ................................   1.3

Pause ...................................................—...-----......4

Close L ft. to R ft., dip the knees and wing amis down to sidew. .......5

Dip the knees; swing arms down to forw.......... —................ .....6

Dip the knees; swing arms down to sidew.................................7

Repeat the arm swinging and knee dipping, forw., sidew., forw., and

sidew.............................................................    8-11

Lunge forw. L, swing arms down to forw., grasping hold of ladies ankles 12 Close R ft. to the L ft. and assist ladies to a hand stand ..............13-16

Digitized by v^ooQle
313

Step L backw........................................................17

Step R backw. kneeling on the R knee, assisting ladies to a support-

lying pos. frontways............................................18

Pause ...............................................................19-20

Release grip of ladies ankles; 1-4 turn R. and lunge R sidew. swinging

arms sidew.......................................................21

Close L ft. to the R ft. and raise arms upw_........................22

Step R sidew. and lower arms sidew..................................23

Close L ft. to the R ft. and lower arms to pos.......................24

Dip the knees and swing the aims fqjrw...............................25

Dip the knees ^nd swing the aSrms down	to	sidew...................26

Dip the knees and swing the arms down	to	forw....................27

Dip the knees and swing the arms down	to	sideupw..................28

Bend trunk forw., swing arms foredownw...............................29

Bend both knees deep [squat stand) swing arms forw.............,....30

Straighten legs and swing arms sidew................................31

Lower arms to starting pos...........................................32

PART VIII [40 Measures]

Measure

Dip the knees and swing	arms forw. ................................1

Dip the knees and swing	arms down to sidew.........................2

Dip the knees and swing	arms down to forw..........................3

Dip the knees and swirig	arms down to sideupw.......................4

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms	foredownw...........................5

Straighten trunk; lunge forw. L and swing arms forw.................6

Place hands in front of shoulders ....................................7

Straighten L leg raising R leg backw; extend the arms obi., sideupw.,

palms inward ......................................  1..........8

1-4 turn R on the L ft., bend arms to strike from shoulders ........9

Lunge sicfcw. R, bend trunk R, extend arms upw. and lower L arm

sidew. 3-4 arm circle outw. with the R arm .....................10

[arms are sidew. L]

Pause ..............................................................11-12

Straighten trunk 1-4 turn L with reverse knee bending and 1-1 arm circle

inward with the R ^rm [arms are forw.)..........................13-14

Close L ft. to the R ft., dip the knees, and swing the arms down to

sidew...........................................................15

Dip the knees and swing arms down to forw...........................16

Dip the knees and swing arms down to sidew..........................17

Bend tru8k forw. and swing a>rms foredownw. ........................18

Straighten trunk and bend knees deep and swing the arms forw........-.19

Straighten legs apd lower arms to starting pos......................20

Repeat 1 to 19 to the R............................................. 21-39

Place hands on floor between the bent knees [squat stand] and immediately extend both legs backw. to a support-lying pos. frontways ...40

CLUB SWINGING EXERCISES [Ladies and Men]

PART I [44 Measures]

Measure

D. H. C. forw.-outw.................................................1

Bend trunk forw., swing arms foredownw..............................2

Digitized by CjOOQle
314

Straighten trunk; lunge forw. L and swing arms forw....................8

D. horizontal H. C. outw. over forearms, carry arms sidew. ...........4

Close L ft. to the R ft. and 1-2 D. A. C. outw........................5

Bend knees deep and tip clubs on forearms, [afrms are crossed in front of

chest]............................................................6

Straighten legs and 3-4 D. A. C. inward ..............................7

Bend arms to starting pos.............................................8

Repeat 1 to 8 to the R and L .........................................9-24

1-1 D.*i. C. forw., passing on the R side.............................25

Repeat count 25 ......................................................26

Repeat count 25 and 26 passing on the L side .........................27-28

Bend trunk forw. and swing arms foredownw. ...........................29

Straighten trunk, lunge forw. R, swing arms forw. tipping clubs on forearms ............................................................30

Kneel L and 1-1 outer D.H.C. forw.....................................31

1-1 inner D.H.C. forw.................................................32

Straighten legs and 1 4 turn L with 5-8 D.A.C., R arms are obi. side-

upw. L............................................................33

Bend R knee; bend trunk R and tip clubs on forearms...................34

Pause ................................................................35-36

Straighten R knee and trunk; 5-8 D.A.C. L.............................37

1-4 turn R close R ft. to L ft. and tip clubs on forearms [arms are forw.] 38

1-1 outer D.H.C. forw.................................................39

1-1 inner D.H.C. forw.................................................40

1-1 D.A.C. forw. passing on	R	side ..................................41

1-1 D.A.C. forw. parsing on	L	side ..................................42

1-1 outer D.H.C. forw.................................................43

Bend arms to starting pos.............................................44

INTERLUDE [3 Measures]

Measure

1-1 H.C.L. outw. in rear of shoulders, 1-1 A.C. R outw................1

1-1 A.C. L outw., 1-1 H.C. R outw. in rear of shoulders ..............2

Bend arms to starting pos.............................................3

PART II [32 Me sures]

Measure

1-1 D.H.C. outw.	in rear of shoulders..............................1

1-1 D.A.C. outw.....................................................2

1-1 upper D.H.C.	outw. ............................................3

3-4 D.A.C. outw.....................................................4

1-2 D.A.C. inward...................................................5

1-1 D.H.C. inward ..................................................6

1-1 D.A.C. inward...................................................7

1-4 D.A.C. outw., 1-1 D.H.C. outw. [in front of the thighs] and 1-4

D.A.C. outw.....................................................3-9

3-8 A.C. outw. with R arm an,d 1 1-8 A.C. outw. with L arm [arms aje

obi. sideupw.	R] ...............................................10

Lunge sidew. L and 5-8 D.A.C. R.....................................11

Turn trunk L and tip clubs on forearms .............................12

Retip clubs and 1-1 outer D.H.C. forw...............................13

1-1 inner D.H.C. forw...............................................14

Digitized by LjOOQle
315

1-4 turn R and 3-4 D.A.C. L.........................................15

Close L ft. to R ft. and bend arms to starting pos..................16

Repeat 1-16 to the R ...............................................17-32

PART III [32 Measures]

Measure

1-1 D.H.C. inward in rear of shoulders .............................1

1-1 D.A.C. inward...................................................2

1-1 upper D.H.C. inward.............................................3

1-2 D.A.C. inward ..................................................4

1-1 D.H.C. inward in front of thighs and 1-4 D.A.C. inward..........5

1-4 D.A.C. outw., 1-1 D.H.C. outw. in front of thighs and 1-4 D.A.C.

outw. [arms are crossed in front of chest] .....................6-7

1-1 D. horizontal H.C. outw. above forearms, carrying arms sidew....„_8

3-4 DA.C. outw......................................................9

1-1 D.H.C. outw. in rear of shoulders...............................10

Lunge L sidew. and 1-1 D.A.C. outw..................................11

Turn trunk L bending forw. and swing arms foredownw.................12

Straighten trunk and swing arms forw. ..............................13

1-1 outer D.H.C. backw..............................................14

1-4 turn R and 1 1-4 D.A.C.	R..................................15

Close L ft. to R ft. and bend arms to starting pos..................16

Repeat 1-16 to the R................................................17-32

PART IV [32 Measures]

Measure

1-1 D.H.C. L in rear of shoulders...................................1

1-1 D.A.C. L [arms are upw.] .......................................2

1-1 upper D.H.C. L..................................................3

1-2 DA.C. L; D.H.C. L in front of thighs, 1-4 D.A.C. L. tipping clubs

on forearms [arms are R sidew.] ................................4-5-6

Retip clubs on L arm and 1-2 inner A.C. with L. arm ................7

Tip L club on forearm [arms are sidew.] ............................8

Retip clubs and 1-1 D.H.C. outw.....................................9

1-2 D.A.C. outw.....................................................10

Bend R knee; place the extended L leg backw. and 3-8 D.A.C. outw.

[arms are obi. sideupw.]........................................11

Cross clubs over head ..............................................12

Close L ft. to	R ft. and	1-1	D.A.C. L...............................13

1-1 D.H.C. L	in rear of	shoulders..................................14

1-1 D.A.C. L........................................................15

Bend arms to	starting pos..........................................16

Repeat L 1-16 to tl*e R ............................................17-32

PART V. [64 Measures]

NOTE: This exercise is done 4 times L on the lines of a cross.

Measure

Lunge L forw., 1-1 D.A.C. forw. passing on R side...................1

1-1 D.H.C. forw.-outw...............................................2

Place the extended L leg backw. bending R knee swinging arms foredownw...........................................................8

Digitized by LaOOQle
316

Pause ....................................................................4

With a 1-4 turn L swing arms forw. raising L leg sidew. finishing with

arms R. sidew...............-........................................5

Lunge sidew. L 1-1 D horizontal H.C.L. above forearms carrying arms

L. sidew............................................................6

3-4 D.A.C. L. .........................................................7

Close L ft. to R ft. and 1-1 D. H.C.L. in rear of shoulders.............8

7-8 DA.C. L arms are obi. sideupw. R....................................9

3-4 A.C. L inward and 3-4 H.C. R. outw. in rear of shoulders carrying

arms sideupw. L [arms are obi. sideupw. L] ........................10

Reverse count 10. [arms obi. sideupward R].......—.....................11

Reverse count 11 ......................................................12

Step L sidew; 6-8 D.A1C. L.............................................13

Place R ft. in rear of L bending both knees slightly [step courtesy] tip

clubs on forearms._................................................14

Step sidew. R retip clubs and 3-4 DA.C. R...........................—.15

Close L ft. to R ft. 1-1 D.H.C. R in rear of shoulders .............—16

Repeat to the L 3 times more; on count 64, finish with bending arms to

starting pos. [omit last D.H.C. in rear of shoulder]................17-64

PART VI [64 Measures]

NOTE: The exercise is done 4 times to the R on the lines of a cross.

Measure

Place R ft. backw. 1-1 DA.C. outw.......................................1

1-1 D.H.C. outw. in rear of shoulders...................................2

1-4 turn R raising R leg sidew., straighten L arm obi. sideupw. and 7-8

A.	C. outw. with R arm [arms are obi. sideupw. L] ................3

Pause ..................................................................4

Lunge R sidew. and 3-8 DA.C. L 1-1 D forearm C.L. and 3-8 D.A.C. L

[arms are obi. sideupw. R] .........................................5-6

Raise R leg sidew. 3-4 irtper AX). with L arm [arms are obi. sideupw.] ....7

Close R ft. to L ft.; 3-4 D.H.CL outw. in rear of shoulders ............8

3-8 D.A.C. inward 1-1 D. forearm C. inward and 3-8 D.A.C. inward

[arms are obi. sideupw.] ...........................................9-10

3-4 D.H.C. outw. in rear of shoulders...................................11

3-8 D.A.C. inward, 1-1 D. forearm C. inward with lunging R sidew. and

3-8 D.A.C. inward [pos. is in lunge pos. R with arms obi. sideupw.] ....12-13 Change knee bending, bend trunk R; lower R club in front of hips arid L

club over head clubs are horizontal] ...............................14

Change knee bending and straighten arms obi. sideupw....................15

Close R ft. to L ft. and bend arms to starting pos......................16

Repeat 1-16 twice to the R .............................................17-48

Repeat 1-13 to the R ...................................................49-61

Close R ft. to L ft. and bend knees deep [squat stand] placing crossed

clubs on floor......................................................62

Straighten legs; raise heels and swing arms foreupw.....................63

Lower heels and lower arms sidedownw....................................64

PART VII [32 Measures] Men Only

Measure

Face L and two steps forw. L and R..................................1-2

Lunge forw. L, swing arms foreupw....................................3

Digitized by v^ooQle
31^

Pause ................................................................4

Close R ft. forw. to L ft. Dip the knees and swing arms downw. to

sidew.............................................................5

Dip the knees and swing arms down to forw.............................6

Dip the knees and swing arms down to sidew............................7

Repeat the arm swinging and knee dipping..............................8-11

Lunge forw., swing arms down to forw. grasping hpld of ladies ankles .12

Close R ft. forw. to L ft. and assist ladies to a hand stand..........13-16

Step L backw..........................................................17

Step R backw. kneeling on the R knee assisting ladies to a support-

lying position frontways .........................................18

Pause ...............................................................19-20

Release grip of ladies ankles; 1-4 turn right and lunge R sidew. swinging arms sidew..................................................21

Close L ft. to the R ft. and raise arms upw...........................22

Step R sidew. and lower the arms sidew................................23

Close L ft. to the R ft. and lower arms to pos........................24

Dip the knees and swing the arms forw.................................25

Dip the knees and swing the arms down to	sidew........................26

Repeat 25 and 26 ....................................................27-28

Bend the knees deep; bend trunk forw. swinging arms sidedownw. grasping clubs ......................................................29

Straighten the legs and trunk swinging arms sidew.....................30

3-4 D.A.C. outw.......................................................31

Bend arms to starting pos.............................................32

PART VII [32 Measures] Ladies Only

Measure

Step R sidew..........................................................1

Pace L close L ft. to the R ft........................................2

Bend the knees deep placing hands on floor outside of knees ..........3

Pause ................................................................4

Roll forw. to a lying pos., arms are down along side of body .........5-6

Raise the L leg forw............................................*.....7

Lower the L leg ......................................................8

Raise the R leg forw..................................................9

Lower the R leg.......................................................10

Raise both legs forw. to support on shoulders and hands [the hands are

along side of head] .............................................11-12

Ladies are assisted to a handstand ..................................13-16

Ladies are assisted to a support-lying position frontways ...........17-18

Pause ...............................................................19-20

Squat stand R forw., L leg is extended backw..........................21

Pause ................................................................22

1-4 turn R step L sidew. and raise arms sidew.........................23

Close R ft. to the L ft. and lower arms to pos........................24

Dip the knees and swing the arms forw.................................25

Dip the knees and swing the arms down to sidew........................26

Repeat 25 apd 26 .....................................................27-28

Bend knees deep: bend trunk forw. swinging arms side downw. grasping hbld of clubs ..................................................29

Digitized by CjOOQle
318

Straighten the legs and trunk swinging arms sidew.......................30

3-4 D.A.C. outw.........................................................31

Bend arms to starting pos...............................................32

PART VIII [40 Measures]

Lunge L sideward, 1-1 H.C. L outw. in rear of shoulders, 1-1 A.C. R

outw...............................................................1

Change knee bending, 1-1 A.C. L outw. 1-1 H.C. R outw. in rear of

shoulders .........................................................2

Repeat 1-2 ............................................................3-4

Close L ft. to R ft., 1-1 H.C. R outw. in front of upw. arm, 1-1 A.C. R

outw....................................... .......................5

1-1 A.C. L outw., 1-1 H.C. R outw., in front of upw. arm...............6

Repeat 5-6 ........................................  ..................7-8

1-2 D.A.C. L, 1-1 H.C. inward	in	front	of	thighs	with	R ..............9-10

3-8 D.A.C. R, 1-1 H.C. inward	in	front	of	thighs	with	L ..............11-12

1-1 H.C. outw. in rear of thighs and forearms with R and 3-8 D.A.C.

L [arms are obi. sideupw. R]

3-4 A.C. inward with R arm, 3-4 H.C. outw. in rear of shoulders with L

hand [arms a«re obi. sideupw. R]................................. .13

3-4 A.C. inward with R arm 3-4 H.C. outw. in rear of shoulders with R

hand [arms are obi. sideupw. R]....................................14

Repeat 13.......[arms are obi. sideupw. R] ...	.......................15

Follow forearm C. forew. R, forearm passing over L forearm passing on

L side .............................. .............................16

Repeat 16 passing on R side ...........................................17

Repeat 17 passing on L side ... .......................................18

1-1 D.H.C. forw. outside of forearms ..................................19

Bend arms to starting pos..............................................20

Repeat 1-19 to the R ..................................................21-39

On measure 40 ladies lunge inward. Men lunge outward with arms in obi. pos. Ladies inner arm obi. sideupw., outer arm obi. sidedownw. Men outer arm obi. sideupw. and inner arm obi. sidedownw.

DEMONSTRATION NUMBER

Consisting of a Running Drill combined with Tactics, Free Exercises and

Groupings*

Richard Reichmann, Sheboygan Gymnastic Society

Music:—The four little Blackberries, by Lawrence B. O’Conner

INTRODUCTION

Participants stand at ease in front line formation. [Before appearing they have ‘counted off’ by fours, beginnging at the right.]

Clap hands twice ..................................................1

Close L foot to R and lower arms to position.......................2

Dress R ...........................................................3-4

Attention on count 5, and hold to count 8 .........................5-8

Digitized by Google
319

I.

A. All run forward to open order formation as follows:

No. Is take a step forward, bend knees, and place hands on floor [On Your Mark)

No. 2s same as No. Is but preceded by 4 running steps forward [On

Your Mark]

No. 3s same as No. 2s but take 8 running steps [On Your Mark]

No. 4s same as No. 3s but take 12 running steps [On Your Mark]

All hold this position to count 8 ............................... 1-8

B.	Straighten knees slightly [Get Set] ..............................  1

Straighten knees, raise trunk, raise R leg backward and raise arms

foreupward [breasting tape] .................................2

Close R leg to L leg, swing arms side-downward and forward with

knee dipping ................................................3

Arm swing backward and forward with knee dipping ................ 4-5

Arm circle backward [Wave] .......................................6-7

Pause ...........................................................8

C.	12 running steps forward to a closed front line ..................1-6

4 running steps in place with facing L about .................... 7-8

D.	1-1 wheel L by twos in 16 running steps ................... -.....1-8

E.	Repeat all, returning to starting place .......................  ...1-32

II.

A.	8 running steps forwaid by entire front line .....................1-4

Nos. 2s and 4s run 4 steps forward; No. Is and 3s run 4 steps backward ..............................................................5-6

All run 4 steps in place ....................................  7-8

B.	No. 3s and 4s stride L sideward, arms sideward [Counts 1-2] ..... ]

1-4 turn R on heel and toe, kneel on L, move arms forward and

grasp ankle of No. Is and 2s [Counts 3-4] ................... ]

No. Is and 2s take 4 running steps in place with 1-4 turn	L	step .. ]l-4

with R foot on the R knees of No. 3s and No. 4s with	hands ]

placed on their shoulders ..[Counts 1-4] .................... ]

No. Is and 2s rise to balance stand and hold .....................5-8

C.	No. Is and 2s return to place with 4 running steps ...............1-2

No. 3s and 4s straighten knees and run 4 steps in place

All run 4 steps in place .........................................3-4

No. Is and 3s run forward, No. 2s and 4s run backward, forming a

line ................_.......................................  5-6

All run 4 steps in place .........................................7-8

D.	4 running steps in place with facing L about .....................1-2

Line run 8 steps forward .........................................3-6

4 running steps in place with facing L about .....................7-8

III.

A.	Fours 1-4 wheel L in 8 running steps .............................1-4

Form eights to the R in 8 running steps...........................5-8

B.	1-2 wheel R by twos in 8 running steps ...........................1-4

No. Is and 3s form in front to open order formation by passing in

rear with 6 running steps, and all fact front ................5-8

C.	Step L sideward with knee dipping, arms L sideward ...............  1

Digitized by Google
320

Dip knees and swing arms to R side ................................2

Glide close step hop L, facing to L on the hop, and one 3-4 double

arm circle R .................................................3-4

1-4 turn R facing front and lunge R sideward, arms sideward ......5

Bend trunk slowly R sideward and raise arms upward ...............6-8

1-4 turn L, change knee bending, arms in upward position .......,.9

Slowly bend trunk forward, swinging arms foredownward and backward .............................................................10-l£v

1-4 turn R [facing the front] and swing arms foreupward ..........13

Raise L leg sideward and lower arms sideward......................14

Close L leg and lower arms to position ...........................15-16

Repeat Counts 1-16 to	R ........................................17-32

D.	1-4 turn L, No. Is and 3s run forward and form a line of eights while

No. 2s and 4s run in place with 1-4 turn L ...................1-4

1-2 wheel R by twos...............................................5-8

E.	1-4 wheel R by eights in 12 running steps........................1-6

4 running steps in place with R about face .......................7-8

IV.

A.	Open order formation like in exercise 1-A and hold discus thrower

position.....................................................-1-8

B.	Straighten trunk and knees, step R forward, and swing arms obi. fore-

upward .......................................................1

Swing L arm backward, R arm remaining in foreupward position .....2

Change arm positions and rise to balance stand R .................8-4

Step L backward, raise R leg forward, circle L arm backward, swing

R arm foreupward so that both arms are in upward position ....5

Close R, bend trunk forward and swing arms backward ..............6

Straighten trunk and swing arms	foreupward .......................7

Lower arms sidedownward ..........................................8

C.	Repeat Exercise 1-C .............................................1-8

D.	Repeat Exercise 1-D .............................................1-8

Repeat Exercise II but No. 3s and 4s swing up to hand stand instead of

doing a balance stand ............................................1-32

VI.

A.	Repeat Exercise III-A ...........................................1-8

B.	Repeat Exercise III-B ...........................................1-8

C.	Jump in place with arm swing foreupward and sideward ............1-2

Pendulum swing outward and inward ................................3-4

Stride L sideward, arms upward	.............................5-6

Bend trunk L forward, arms foredownward, near floor ..............7-8

Slow pulling movement with trunk raising, and changing knee bending ......................................................9-12

Straighten trunk and R knee, moving arms upward...................13-14

Return to position................................................15-16

Repeat C. to R sidei..............................................17-32

D.	Repeat Exercise III-D............................................1-8

E.	Repeat Exercise III-E ...........................................1-8

•Model Number done by Ladies Class of the Sheboygan Gymnastic Society at the Buffalo Turnfest.

Digitized by ^ooQle