y-4-i(

^<3 <5 5 2>

&i2c\

TWrUid

Wfl M9NTHLY J9VRNAL#

Fft

J-

tMCB.C0.-5

PHYSICAL

w

1wfis&p ••• I

• r*-*'{♦ ^

Vol. 6.

MARCH, 1899.

No. 61

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal school, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, 8EC’Y. OF THE TECHNICAL COMMITTEE OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION, COR. 3RD * CHESTNUT 8T’8, ST.LOUI8,MO.

F. PFISTER, M. D., managing editor, 760 third 8t., Milwaukee Wis.

PHYSICAL IMPAIRMENTS RESULTING FROM SCHOOL-LIFE.

Lecture prepared tor the Illinois State Teachers’ Convention at Springfield, Christmas 1898. By HENRY HARTUNG, M. D., Chicago.

THE question of how to avoid the overexertion of our school children threatening their physical and mental welfare is not a new one, it has probably been a standing one since the days when the first institutions were founded for collective education of children. For centuries past physicians and thoughtful pedagogues have raised their voices in warning and complaint, suggesting improvements which, now and then, in some measure were carried out, but no where and never yet to perfection. As yet we have not attained the ideal school nor the ideal system of education.

But a new light has dawned upon us, new ideas, tending to revolutionize the old methods of school training and more in conformity with our advanced stage of science and civilization, have taken hold of the leaders of humanitarian progress.

Only recently through manifold and minute experimental researches in physiology and psychology we have obtained sufficient material and facts to scientifically prove the close correlation between body and mind. We have come to recognize that there is a physical basis for brain work as well as for intellectual deficiencies and moral depravity. We have learned that there are no voluntary muscular movements, however small, without concomitant nerve and brain activity, being, as they

Digitized by Google
**are, *p*erfottned*urfdei* the ‘cbtifiPobof the live senses and exerting, directly or. indirectly,, .influences on the centres of the higher mental functions.

V* 5?e;7\a)*f 3>?gunjto study the child from its earliest infancy, physically and ^yehcflogiealfy ; and have been lead to adapt our methods and means of training to the individual character, wants and faculties of the child. We no more force the child into the straight jacket of our more or less antiquated ideas of education. Modern educational principles demand higher ideals since child-study and physio-psychology have widened our scope of vision, and pointed the way to a.more natural, scientific and adequate bringing-up of our children.

Still we are only in the dawn of this new day. Where do we find the school that is based entirely on this new science ? Which community *or system of education has carried out to perfection these new and all-important principles ?

For many of these new acquirements the teacher is mainly indebted to men of science, especially to physicians. No wonder that physicians at present take a greater interest in schools and their methods than in years past; naturally, they have had occasion to severely criticize the school as well as the teacher, and have demanded improvements in the interest of the children. As a result of such criticism the relation between the doctor and the pedagogue has not always been very amiable and cordial; however, the nearer we draw to the solution of this great problem of a better and more harmonious education of body and mind, the more the teacher will be forced to work shoulder to shoulder with the physician, the more the physician will be called upon to lend his assistance as an instructor to the teacher and as a guardian of the child’s mental and bodily welfare.

Looking at our present system of education from this broader point of view, permit me to bring to your consideration a few points of vital importance, valuable alike to parent, teacher and physician: the question of how best to preserve the health of our children during school-life.

This question, however cut and dried it may be, is one to which we can never devote too much time. It has become a well-recognized fact in all civilized countries that school-life is the source of physical deterioration in our children. To fully comprehend this topic let us ascertain, first : the nature of such pathological conditions which may be traced back to influences of school-life; secondly: what remedies could we suggest to prevent or ameliorate such bad influences.

The answer to the first question would necessarily require a thorough and systematic physical examination of all pupils in public and private schools from the very first day of their admission to the day they leave. Complete statistics relating to the condition of the organs of sense, bodily development, defects and deformities of the children, and general sanitary conditions of the schools, together with records of diseases and deaths occurring during school years, should be at hand from which to draw logical conclusions. Very little, however, has so far been done in this direction in the schools of our country, except in the higher institutions of learning, while in European states much valuable statistical material has been gathered under state and municipal control. But even in the absence of such extensive records every

Digitized by CjOOQle
-3-

thoughtful aad observant teacher will undoubtedly have discovered numerot^s cases of physical impairments or defects in children, that were directly or indirectly the results of school-life.

Although the school in itself cannot be held responsible for the general physical welfare of the children (this being generally considered the domain of the parents) still the parents can and ought to hold the school responsible for the good health of their children as long as they are entrusted to it for the greater part of the day. They have a right to insist on the best possible sanitary conditions of schools and such methods of instruction as do not impair or jeopardize the health of the pupils.

Farther, as long as the state demands and enforces by law, that each child up to a certain age, receive a certain amount of mental instruction, parents, in their turn, have a right to demand that the state be held responsible for the physical well-being of the pupils during school hours.

Acknowledging the praiseworthy fact that strenuous efforts are being made to furnish our school buildings with the most approved, appliances of modern sanitation in regard to building material, heating, seating, lighting, ventilation, etc., to insure the good health of the pupils, still there is plenty of room for improvement in this line.

Even the school-sites and surroundings deserve proper attention ; especially in our large cities, where the disease-breeding atmosphere emitted from slaughter houses, rendering works, factories, clay holes, refuse canals often seriously affects the state of health of entire schools.

It is also a deplorable fact, that in many of our larger cities, thousands of children are taught in rented rooms, stores, halls, with inadequate sanitary conditions, on account of insufficient building funds for school houses. However bad some of these public schools may be, they are much superior to the average parochial schools, some of which are hot-beds of disease and urgently demand examination and supervision by the boards of health.

Furthermore, observation has proven that the school is instrumental in the spreading of many infectious diseases, such as measles, mumps, scarlet fever and diphtheria, the last of which especially has been shown to be more prevalent during school time than during vacation. Contagious diseases are also easily communicated through the medium of the school, mainly diseases of the skin and such as are caused by parasites; these are conveyed from one to another by means of hand-rails, desks, books, closets, pencils etc. It is* not very long ago since a Boston school inspector reported that out of one school of 756 children only 200, or 26 per cent, were not affected with pediculi (lice) and their concomitant skin lesions.

Prof. Schmidt-Monnerd (Halle) has proven by examination of thousands of pupils that acute diseases are very prominent during the earlier years of school attendance, while chronic diseases are more pronounced in the advanced grades and directly so in proportion to the amount of mental exertion in school and at home, and to the deficiency of physical exercise.

Of much greater importance than these more or less accidental

Digitized by CaOOQle
or local tnalconditions, we find a number of typical complaints almost universally recognized as resulting from deficiencies in sanitation or methods of teaching, whence their specific title : school diseases.

Amongst these there are none more prominent than

I. DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF VISION,

which, in most cases, are undoubtedly direct results of school-life as careful observations in many countries have established. As causes of such acquired defects of the eyes we must consider improper access or deficiency in supply of light to the schoolroom, too much exertion in reading and writing, especially during continued enforced attention to a certain subject in a cramped and stooping position of the body. The evil results therefrom are hyperaemia of the eyes, interocular pressure, followed by pathological changes in the delicate membranes, and a gradual increase in length of the axis of the eyeball.

As the eyes are our most important sensual organs, great attention should be paid to any possible defect or weakness which the child may acquire during school years. Still more stress should be laid on proper prophylaxis which should deal with the sufficient supply of light, the proper height and arrangement of desks, shorter periods of exertion for the eyes, suitable alteration of such branches of study which in turn require employment of the eyes and other sense-organs. An absolute necessity, however, should be a thorough inspection of the eyes from term to term.

. n. HEADACHES.

They are no less common than the previous affection and manifest themselves as frontal, sagittal, occipital, or as painful congestion of the entire head. You often hear children with flushed faces, congested eyes and red ears complain about pain, heaviness, or dizziness of the head aft£r long periods of study. Generally, the most attentive and ambitious children are the ones suffering most. It is a well known fact that an unusually great amount of blood is needed to properly supply the brains, the quantity required increasing in proportion to the amount of our mental exertions.

The necessary result of enforced brain activity will be a temporary or, if habitually produced, a continual congestion of the brains, brought about by depriving other organs of their proper amount of the vital fluid with a simultaneous result of suffering in these organs. These headaches are accompanied by a lack of power of concentration, inattention, and inability to perform good mental work. Frequently nose-bleeding is another immediate symptom of cephalic congestion, especially in irritable and nervous children.

This active hyperaemia from an excessive blood-supply is usually followed by a passive one, by which we understand the retardation of the flow of venous blood from the brains to the heart and lungs. During periods of close attention and serious mental activity we quite often see pupils assume rather lax and faulty positions of the body, the chest becoming cramped, the head and shoulders stooping, the respiratory movements grow slow and superficial, thus preventing the blood from circulating freely and voluminously through the compressed pulmonary system.

V

Digitized by LjOOQLe
Bad as such effects of animated study may be on a single occasion, they may become very powerful and detrimental factors if continued for months and years, furnishing a basis for many pathological conditions that may never be repaired in a whole life-time.

These effects are more pronounced in girls where they give rise to an inclination to periodic congestive headaches, nervousness, flashes of heat and cold, diseased reflex irritability of the entire nervous apparatus, often even to psycho-pathological conditions.

For remedial agents I again can suggest nothing better than shortening the periods of study, increasing the intervals for recreation and relaxation, demanding less mental and more physical exercise, and the best possible hygienic condition of the school room.

III. INJURIOUS EFFECTS ON THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION.

There are very few children, indeed, in whom the sudden change in their mode of living at the time of initiation into school-life will not bring about some disturbance in their organs of digestion.

Sedentary habits, even in adults, bring about numerous functional diseases of the stomach, bowels and other abdominal organs, also in the system of the abdominal venus circulation. As a result of enforced physical inactivity for five hours or more, we observe children fail in appetite, their digestion becomes slow, the peristaltic movements of the digestive organs are less vigorous, assimilation is poor, metamorphosis in the secretory and excretory organs is inefficient. Soon a tendency to constipation will develop with all of its untoward aftereffects, such as biliousness, formation of haemorrhoids, auto-intoxication by reabsorption of fecal matter, headache, sallow-complexion, irritability, poor sleep, loss of energy, etc.

Such conditions are more easily brought about and more serious in their consequences, in children suffering from anaemia, scrofulosis, and general debility, also in those supplied with insufficient or inappropriate food.

As an instance to what extent digestive disturbances may effect schoolchildren, 1 cite a school in Paris where out of 586 pupils no less than 290 were suffering from digestive diseases mostly due to prolonged hours of study.

IV. INJURIOUS EFFECTS ON GIRLS.

While such conditions do occur in both sexes equally, I must call your special attention to the injurious effect that the sitting position assumed during school 'hours, has upon girls at time of puberty, often resulting in venous congestion and irregularities of circulation in the organs of generation. The foundation of many a case of dvsmeunorrhoea and other female diseases is laid during school-life, when the poor innocent girl’s health is utterly neglected by thoughtless teachers and ignorant parents. This question of proper development of the female generative organs means no more nor less than the future health and happiness of the wives and mothers of generations to come; hence you ought not blame the physician for demanding that the growing girl’s health should be a matter of more consideration than it has been hitherto.
-6-

Y. INJURIOUS EFFECTS ON THE THORAX AND ITS ORGANS.

Even the best ventilated schoolroom must be considered unhealthful if a great number of pupils is confined in it for any great length of time. After one hour only the room is laden with obnoxious gases and injurious products of respiration, eliminated by lungs, mouth, and skin. Scientists have formulated the law that air is to be considered impure if containing carbon-dioxide in a greater proportion than 2 parts to 1000; still actual examinations have proven that the air in some schools contained as much as 9 to 10 and even 12 parts of this poisonous gas pro mille. Besides this quantity of CO2 we have to consider the bad effect of foul odors given off by human beings, such as anthropotoxin, fatty and volatile acids from the skin, stomach and mouth. The bad influence of breathing such contaminated air is in direct proportion to the number of individuals confined in one room. The smaller the room and the greater the number of children the greater the danger to the respiratory and other vital organs.

Headache, drowsiness, lack of attention and concentration, restlessness, nervous irritability or a general tired feeling, are some of the symptoms following the inhalation of disease laden atmosphere.

Further, it is a well established and statistically confirmed law of hygiene, that as people become more crowded together in closed apartments, there is noticeable a like increase in the rate of pulmonary diseases and the rate of mortality from such affections. This law applies as well to the schools as to factories, workshops, ships and large cities. Hence a deficiency of fresh air must be considered as much a predisposing cause of pthisis and other *lung-diseases as poor development of the organs of respiration. The imperative demands for improvements in this direction are too obvious to deserve special enumeration.

But school-life affects the organs of respiration in another way. As yet most of our school-work is done in a sitting position. Sedentary occupations always have a tendency to repress the proper development of the chest by decreasing the number and depth of the respiratory movements, thus reducing the pulmonary capacity and producing a weak and atrophic condition of the muscles of respiration. It is mainly the upper segment of the chest which is suffering most, the thorax becoming flat, narrow and depressed. Clinical experience and post mortem dissections have taught us that it is just the upper segment of the lungs in which this dreadful disease, tuberculosis, takes its start; in many cases in consequence of the inactivity of this portion of the lungs which furnishes an ideal hot bed for the invasion of this malignant tubercle bacillus.

We cannot help blaming the school for creating predisposing conditions for the propagation of this disease, especially if such other factors, -as poor air and poor food, help along.

VI. DEFORMITIES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN.

These are mostly due to faulty position in sitting, reading and writing, as well as to improper arrangement of school desks and seats. The round back and habitual lateral spinal curvature (scoliosis) are the

V

Digitized by C.ooQle
forms most commonly met with in pupils during adolescence, especially between the 7th and 12th year. Girls seem to be more disposed to it than boys, the ratio being about 5 or 6 to 1.

The old fashioned methods of slant writing, with the paper at an acute angle to the body, brings about a most unhealthful position. It requires more or less rotation of the head and body upon the plane of the pelvis, producing in the course of time a spiral twist in the vertebral column, simultaneously with a total lateral flexion of the same to the right or left according to the side towards which the child is placing its writing material. The longer the child is forced to remain in such a position the more manifest its bad effect will become.

The natural remedy for abolishing such unnatural postures will suggest itself by doing away with slant writing and substituting the vertical script. Other remedial agents for the prevention of spinal deformities should be introduced in the form of prophylactic measures, as by reducing the number of school houi%, abolishing home study almost entirely; mainly, however, by giving our children more time for play and recreation, more systematic and all around gymnastics, especially to the girls whose physical education up to date has been much neglected. Regular physical examinations of all pupils should be instituted under medical supervision. Writing desks and seats should be provided with consideration for the well-being and comfort of each individual, as to the proper height and slant of desk and seat and to the distance between the desk and the back of the seat. It has been ascertained by several observers that desk-top, seat and back, should have an inclination of about 15 degrees to be comfortable and efficient for sitting and writing. Parents as well as teachers should correct faulty carriage of the head, body and shoulders of their children as often &s possible.

VII. EFFECTS ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

Disturbances of the nervous system in schoolchildren become more or less noticeable at the beginning and towards the end of each school year. The farther the child proceeds in his studies, the higher he advances in grade,—the greater will be the demand on his abilities and the more his ambition will be strained to out-do his class mates and to carry home all the honors to the delight of his parents, who, naturally, are very proud of their smart boy or girl. If a child is strong and robust physically, well fed and cared for at home, hardly ever harm will result from such ambitious zeal; but it is not so very seldom that we find a brilliant and very promising pupil succumb to his burden of overloaded brains and under-developed, fragile body: a victim to false pride and over-stimulated childish ambition.

Repeatedly physicians have given warning to parents and teachers impressing them with the fact, that in many instances of neurosis, insanity, and various other pathological nervous affections, mental overwork is the immediate cause of such diseases, which could be avoided by paying more attention to the child’s bodily training.

Every experienced teacher is undoubtedly acquainted with some of the manifold bad symptoms following continual mental overstimulation which impairs mind and body as well, and, if not counteracted in proper

Digitized by CjOOQle
time, will finally lead to general weakness, anaemia, nervous prostration, retardation of bodily growth, neurosis, insomnia, hysteria, chorea, etc.

Improvements in this direction have eminently to deal with a fundamental revision of our present method ol education; less cramming and percentage work, fewer examinations, more consideration for personal hygiene and the principles of growth and psychological development. Fewer school-hours and a proportional increase in the time devoted to games, plays and general physical training would produce the same, if not better results in intellectual education.

Practical experiments in schools in England, Germany, France, and Sweden have virtually proven, that pupils receiving 20 hours of school instruction pro week, have done as good, if not better work, than those receiving 30 and more hours. It is not the quantity of knowledge and facts which make up the perfectly educated man, but the quality and ability to properly make use of the knowledge acquired.

Having thus mentioned some of the most important untoward influences and inefficiencies which have come to our notice in studying the relation of the child to the school under the present system of education, permit me now, in conclusion, to briefly summarize the remedies^ which, according to my idea should be applied to bring about a change:

1.	Revision of our present educational system on a more rational and hygienic basis.

2.	More consideration for the physical development of the pupils by means of daily systematic exercise under supervision of special teachers.

3.	Physical education should be placed on an equal footing with the mental.

4.	Every school, especially in our large cities, should be provided wjth a perfectly equipped gymnasium and playgrounds in the immediate neighborhood.

5.	Regular sanitary inspection of the schools and medical examinations of the pupils from time to time.

6.	Shortening of the periods of study and their proper arrangement with reference to the teachings of physiology and psychology.

7.	Establishment of special summer schools and institutions of recreation for debilitated anaemic and backward children, during vacation, in healthy locations, outside of cities.

8.	Every teacher should be trained and qualified to teach at least such physical exercises as may be practiced in schoolrooms.

9.	More male teachers should be employed, especially for boys and the higher grades, also, in their selection, as much attention should be paid to their physical fitness as to their mental and moral qualifications.

10.	Home-work should be reduced to the lowest possible minimum, and children be advised to spend as much time as possible in the open air.

11.	Teachers should possess a thorough knowledge of the laws of health, hygiene of the schoolroom, and the physiology of physical training.

12.	Periods of study should alternate with recesses in the open air and periods of relaxation, or play, while the schoolroom is being ventilated.

While as yet it may be impossible to carry out some of these demands to perfection, still they deserve consideration of all thoughtful educators.

Digitized by CjOOQle
No effort should be spared to make our schools ideal institutions for instruction and the safe keeping of our children.

If it is true that the child is the father of the man, let us help see that we have a future generation of strong, ablebodied, healthy and harmoniously educated men and women, fit for the battle of life and ready for their duties as fathers, mothers, and useful members of our great community. To you as teachers is entrusted a great part of the health, happiness, and civilization of our coming race. See that you do not fail in this, great task of your life!

SYLLABUS FOR STUDENT DISCUSSION.

EXPRESSIVE USE OF THE BODY.

By MARTHA FLEMING.

1.	Oral reading involves the whole body and demands health, physical freedom and responsiveness. Special exercises for carriage and bearing, breathing, resting, for freedom and control are, therefore, a part of the preparation for oral expression.

a.	The body is an instrument, and physical health and freedom determine, in a large measure, the possibilities of expression.—Delsarte.

Gesture.

“The tell-tale body is all tongues'1

1.	Imitation is a potent factor in education, and action is one of the first things imitated. Action seen in the body of another is the kind of stimulus which most readily produces imitation. Gesture is truth to the child. He does not hear what you say; he sees what you do. The teacher’s habits of sitting, standing, walking, breathing, habits of speech, quality and use of voice are imitated by the child and become permanent. You may tell a child to sit up, to stand up or walk erect, but if you do not sit up, stand up or walk erect yourself, your precept falls upon deaf ears.

“How can I bear what you say when what you are is thundering in my ears.11—Emerson.

2.	Bearings, attitudes and inflections.

3.	Habitual bearings the expression of character—that is, of predominating thoughts and emotions, and of general physical conditions.

4.	Poise.

a.	Relation to health, to expression.

b.	Sitting, standing, walking.

c.	Good positions in seat work and recitations.

d.	Exercises, plays and games, for making good carriage of body habitual.

e.	Train the children to sit strong and erect in all seat work, and to stand erect when they stand. Constantly repeated action soon sinks into the automatic.

f.	Rhythmic movements to music.

5.	Energy.

a.	Relation to health; relation to expression.

b.	Exercises for control and direction of energy.

Digitized by

Google
—10—

jC. Personation of characters and expression of emotions that demand high carriage of chest, lifted head, and controlled energy, as strength, courage, fearlessness and determined purpose. d. Dramatization and acting of poems, stories and incidents for the purpose of"training the body into responsiveness.

Voice.

“Lend to the rhyme of the poet the beauty of thy voice.11

1.	Breathing.

2.	Breathing for voice production.

8. Exercises for control of breath.	•>

4.	Voice in song.

5.	Voice in speech.

6.	Force, pitch, quality.

7.	Projection of tone.

8.	Inflection, emphasis, pause, rhythm. •

9.	Exercises for making voice pure, flexible and responsive.

10. Personation of characters and expression of thoughts and emotions demanding different tone qualities.

ROUNDEL—“SPRINGTIME/*

By Dr. W. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O. (Translated from the German.)

Spring-time



3$^

i

J.

All fhe birds Are See how 9*i -ly All the birds Are

come a - 9am, one And All , come a — Sain,





Co me a-9 Ain to So And fro Are Come A 9*m to

mtet	!

spriny -in^f ! meet	1



m



£

m

And a joyous As their chant-in? And a joy-ous





sony	they	Aaise.

meets	my	ear.

son?	they	raise,

Chirp-in? iril-liny Voi - ces sweet I Chirp- in$ trili-liny



mer-rr I^ms! seem to hear ! nier-ry la^sl









Pleas -antsprinffime,

U/ishiny thee a

Pleas ant springtime

hap-PY days,

Hap- pr	/ear,

ha*-oy days.

Now. re-turn to Bless-in^s with if Now re -turn to

? reetTus. briny- in?, greet us.

THE song has three stanzas and each stanza contains sixteen (%) measures ; thus we have sixty-four (64) counts.

The class formation is a double rank with a distance of two steps between the files and one step between the front and rear rank, as :

Digitized by C.ooQle
Rear T Front T"

-11-

T Number2, T" Number |.

All pupils of the front rank are Number 1.

All pupils of the rear rank are Number 2.

The members of the front rank join hands and hold same at the height of shoulders, the arms flexed.

The members of the rear rank take same connection.

a) 1-4: 5—8 :

9—12:

13-16:

b) 1-4: 5-8 :

9-12:

13-16:

c)	1-4: 5-8 : 9-12:

13-16:

d)	1-8:

9—16:

FIRST STANZA.

All walk four steps on place (mark time).

No. 2 form in fron* of No. 1, passing on left side.

No. 1 walk four steps on place.

Note.—No. 1 will raise the arms, retaining hold, to form arches beneath which No. 2 must pass. No. 2 sever connection while passing beneath, but resume same as soon as possible.

All walk four steps on place.

No. 2 execute left about and return to their former places in rear of No. 1.

No. 1 walk four steps on place.

All walk four steps on place.

No. 1 executes left about and passing on the left side of No. 2 forms in rear of No. 2 (rear rank).

No. 2 walk four steps on place.

Note.—No. 2 form arches, No. 1 sever connection as in “a.”

All walk four steps on place.

No. 1 return to their former places, passing on left side of No. 2.

No. 2 walk four steps on place.

All walk three steps forward and lock-step on the fourth count. All two steps sideways left (after-step).

All walk three steps backward (begin with right foot) and lock-step on fourth count.

All two steps sideways right (after-step).

No. 2 encircle No. 1, beginning to the left. .

No. 1 walk backward four steps, then walk forw. four steps. No. 1 encircle No. 2, turning left about and passing first on No. 2’s left side.

No. 2 walk forward four steps, then backward four steps.

SECOND STANZA.

Begin and execute all movements to the opposite side, /. e., execute right where left is called for and vice-versa.

THIRD STANZA.

No. 2 will repeat as for first stanza. No. 1 will repeat as for second stanza.

Digitized by CjOOQle
yt W	Published	Monthly.

MispftND B0DY * FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Subscription Price,' $1.00 per Year.	'WUconeiii.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wi* Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wls.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THIS number begins the sixth year of the existence of “Mind and Body.” That we have not reached our ideal of a journal on physical training we freely confess, for our ideal is high; but we hope from year to year to more nearly attain it. Our object has been, in the past, and shall be in the future, to conduct a clean journal that is of practical value to the teacher of gymnastics, the teacher in the common and higher schools, while at the same time not uninteresting to all those who believe that a healthy body is indispensable to the development of a sound mind.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—A “Ling Swedish Athletic and Gymnastic Association” has been organized in Chicago.

—The Woman’s Athletic Club of Chicago will celebrate its opening on April 15. The club boasts of most elegant and luxurious quarters on Michigan Ave. and promises to be the place of rendezvous for the smarter set among the Chicago female population. Gymnastics, fencing, swimming, and fancy dancing will be the main attractions.

—The Boston Turnverein will celebrate its golden anniversary on April 16, 17, and 18. Extensive preparations have been made for the occasion.

—The Wisconsin District of the N. A. G. U. will hold its biennial festival in Mayville, Wis., in June.

—Gymnasium work is more popular than military drill at the University of Chicago. After a struggle of a year the university battalion went out of existence and the experiment was declared a failure. It was thought when the company was organized that the unpopularity of gymnasium work from which all those joining the corps were to be excused would prove a strong card in favor of drill, but events have proved that the students have no love for drill and would rather toss dumb-bells and Indian clubs.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. Louis Leyerzapf, Yale.—Your contributions are welcome, but too late for the March issue. We shall bring them in our next number.

Mr. Alex Sturrock, Dundee, Scotland.—We acknowledge receipt of your letter which has been referred to the business-manager/

0.	G. Chicago.—What are the surprises in store for the proposed “meeting”? Country people are naturally somewhat suspicious when promised such liberal treatment by Chicago citizens.

s

Digitized by Google
THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(All rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

SEVENTEENTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte	Engage:	1,	Double,	disengage,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, quarte, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, quarte, tierce, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage:	1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, quaitfe, counter quarte, and return.

5.	Quarte	Engage	:	1,	Double,	disengage,	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, chassey quarte, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, quarte, chassey tierce, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage : 1, Double, disengage, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter chassey tierce, and return.

.	8.	Tierce	Engage: 1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume guard,

parry counter tierce, quarte, counter chassey quarte, and return.

9.	Quarte	Engage:	1,	Double,	disengage,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, quinte, and return.

10.	Quarte	Engage:	1,	Double,	disengage,	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, prime (high), and return.

11.	Quarte	Engage:	1,	Double,	disengage,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, prime (low), cut, and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, and 11th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and by the 2d, 4th, 6th, and 8th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks by “Double and disengage.”

EIGHTEENTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, quarte, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, counter quarte, tierce, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, two counter tierces, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, two counter quartes, and return.

5.	Qupxte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, chassey quarte, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, counter quarte, chassey tierce, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, counter chassey tierce, and return.

Digitized by t^ooQte
—14—

8.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, counter quarte, counter chassey quarte, and return.

9.	Quarte Engage:	1,	Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ;

2,	Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, quinte, and return.

10.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, prime (high), and return.

11.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1^-2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, prime (low), cut, and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, and 11th attack the instructor will bring the blade ot the	pupil in	line of quarte and by the	2d,	4th, 6th,

and 8th attack in line of	tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the

instructor attacks according to the parries of the pupil.

NINETEENTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double, and lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, quarte, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, quarte, counter quarte, tierce, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double, and lunge ;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, two counter of tierce, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage : 1, Double, re-double, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, and parry counter tierce, quarte, two counter of quarte, and return.

5.	Quarte	Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, chassey quarte, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, quarte, counter quarte, chassey tierce, and return.

7.	Quarte	Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double,	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, counter chassey tierce, and return.

8.	Tierce Engage :	1,	Double, re-double, and lunge ; 2, Resume

guard, parry counter tierce, quarte, counter quarte, counter chassey quarte, and return.

9.	Quarte	Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, quinte, and return.

10.	Quarte	Engage :	1,	Double,	re-double,	and	lunge;	2,	Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, prime (high), and return.

11.	Quarte Engage: 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, prime (low), cut, and return.

Digitized by L.ooQle
IT should be the aim of physical training to develop the body harmoniously to such a degree that even the smallest part of it is at any time under perfect control of the will-power.	—Muenchenberg.



* * *

i*

* *

;*

*

*

COITTEITTS:

Physical Impairments Resulting from School-Life. By Henry Hartung, M. D., Chicago.—Syllabus for Student Discussion. By Martha Fleming.—Roundel: “Springtime.” By Dr. W. A. Ocker, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, 0.— Notes and Remarks.—Correspondence.—Theory of Fencing in Form of a Catechism. By Geo. Heintz, Sr.—Amateur Fencers’ League of America.— Physical Training in Chicago Y. M. C. A. By Georg W. Ehler, C. E.—Book Review.—Athletics.—Contents of Volume V.—World’s Best Records.



a,*.*. 4	: .*.*»*.:	4 .*.*«*,	m
AIDEflSON NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS,

NEW HAVEN - CONN.

WM. G. ANDERSON, M. D., President. BERTHA J. IVES-HENDRICK, Vice-President. E. H. ARNOLD, M. Director.

Offers a Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics.

facttltt =

WM. G. ANDERSON, M. D., Associate Director, Yale Gymnasium. Lectures on Psychology and Education, American Gymnastics.

MR. JACOB BOLIN,

General Kinesiology, Special Kinesiology, Swedish Gymnastics.

JAY W. SEAVER, M. D., Associate Director,

Yale Gymnasium. Physiology and Hygiene, Anthropometry and Physical Diagnosis, Physiology of Exercise. HARRY B. FERRIS, M. D., Professor of Anatomy,

Yale University.

Anatomy.

E. HERMANN ARNOLD, M. D.,

German Gymnastics, Theory and Practice, Orthopedics, First Aid, Pelvic Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene, Pedagogy.

MRS. GRACE L. ANDERSON,

Aesthetic Gymnastics.

MRS. ELEANOR GEORGEN,

Academy of Dramatic Arts, New York.

Delsarte.

MISS ANNIE R. HUGHES, Graduate A. N. S. G.

Instructor in Gymnastics and Fencing.

MISS ANNA L. RICHARDS, Graduate A. N. S. G. Dancing and Voice Culture.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. Arnold,

Director.

Anyone sending a sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive special notice, without charge, in the

Scientific American.

A Symposium upon ‘Militarism’

..AND..

Its Place in the Public School System,

With an introductory article by Hans Tallin,

Reprinted from “Mind and Body” by the Executive ot the North American Gymnastic Union. Single copies: 5 cts. Per dozen, post paid : 40 cts. Per hundred : $3.00.

A dress:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO, 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis.

Gymnastic Literature.

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Suder.

First and Second Grades...................$.35

Third and Fourth Grades.....................25

Fifth Grade..............................  .30

Sixth Grade..............................  .30

Gymnastics in the School-Room.—Hans Ballin.

158 Photo-Engravings..................... 1.00

A System of Physical Culture.—Carl Betz.

Firs* Book : Free Gymnastics.............M	.75

Second Book : Tactics.......................75

Thiro Book: Light Gymnastics..........  ..	^75

Fourtl Book: Physical Ex. of the Playground... .75

Free Gymnastics for District Schools........50

Manual 01 Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton Li.bold ... .......................  .65

Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System.—Nils Posse.......................  .55

Newcomb and Basauette. Games for the Gymnasium.—Clara G. Baer.........................25

Whittaker’s Anatomical Models. A Pictorial Representation of the Human Frame and its Organs... .75

Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics.... 3.00

I Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz..... .60 1 Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Seven

!	Parts, each .................................45

! Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part—..............................  .70

I	Second Part..................................50

; School Tactics.—W. A. Stecher..........  .'	1.00

I First Aid in Illness and Injury.-T. E. Pilcher, M.D. 2.00 Physical Culture in Public Schools.—Hans Rasmussen...................................... 1.25

Maclaren’s Theory and Practice................50

The Systematic Training of the Body.—Chas. H.

Schaible, M.D ................ ..........  1.50

A Handbook of Physical Diagnosis.—R. C. M.

Page, M.D...............................   2.00

Outline Lessons in Gymnastics for Public Schools.

—Wm. G. Anderson, M. D.....................	.25

Physical Education.—Fred. Treves, M. D....... 1.25

Jenkin’s Gymnastics and Club Swinging.....  1.00

Yeo’s Physiology........................... 3.00

Physiology of Exercise.—La Grange.........  1.50

Physical Drills of all Nations.—A. Alexander. 1.50

Twenty-five Pyramids at Ropes (Pyramides aux Cordes)—Francois Reitz. Ti e newest and most

J novel in this line........................  1.00

i Fans, with Illustrations from the Works of Puritz, i Schroeter, Lion, Jenny, Schu tzer, and Others. .10

1 Beale’s Calisthenics and Light C mnastics...	.75

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.

A handsomely illustrated weekly.

culation of any scientific Journal, year; four months, $L Sold by all newsdealers.

Largest cir-Terms, $3 a

& Co.361Broadway* New York

Branch Office, 625 F StM Washington, D. G

CAM PI P copies of 100 different Leading News-! OnlTIlLL papers and Magazines sent to any ! address 10 cents. G. A. MOHLER, 1253 Mass Ave.

1 Indianapolis Ind.

Digitized by C.ooole
—15— *

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, and 11th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte and by the 2d, 4th, 6th, and 8th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks according to the parries of the pupil.

TWENTIETH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage : *1, Double into lower line, deceive lower quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, lower quarte, lower tierce* and return.

2.	Tierce Engage : 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, lower tierce, lower quarte, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage :	1, Double into lower line, deceive lower quarte,

and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry, counter quarte, lower quarte, encircle lower tierce, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage : 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower tierce,*and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, lower tierce, encircle lower quarte, and return.

5.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Double	into lower line, deceive lower quarte,

and lunge ; 2, Resnme guard, parry counter quarte, lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage : 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage: 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, lower quarte, encircle counter lower quarte, and return.

8.	Tierce Engage : 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower tierce, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, lower tierce, encircle counter lower tierce, and return.

9. Tierce Engage : 1, Double into lower line, deceive lower tierce; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, seconde, prime (low), cut, and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, and 7th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte and by the 2d, 4th, 6th, 8th, and 9th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil .resumes guard the instructor attacks according to the parries of the pupil.

TWENTY-FIRST LESSON.

Engagement Quarte.

1.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, and return.

2.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, and return.

3^	1,	Disengage	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	tierce,	quarte,

and return.

4.	1,	Disengage	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	tierce,	quarte,

counter quarte, and return.

5.	1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, quarte, lower quarte, and return.

6.	1,	Disengage	and	lunge ;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	tierce,	quarte,

lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.
-16-

7.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, quarte, lower quarte, lower tierce, and return.

8.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, quarte, lower quarte, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, and return.

9.	1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry tierce, counter tierce, quarte, counter quarte, lower quarte, counter lower quarte, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, and return.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and while the pupil resumes guard he will attack according to the parries of the pupil.

TWENTY-SECOND LESSON.

Engagement Tierce.

1.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, and return.

2.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, counter quarte, and return.

3.	1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, and return.

4.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, counter tierce, and return.

5.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, lower tierce, and return.

6.	1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, and return.

7.	1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, lower tierce, lower quarte, and return.

8.	1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, tierce, lower tierce, lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.

9.	1, Disengage .and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry quarte, counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard he will attacks according to the parries of the pupil.

TWENTY-THIRD LESSON.

Engagement Quarte.

1.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, and return.

2.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.

3.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; * 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, lower tierce, and return.

4.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, and return.

5.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, lower tierce, tierce, and return.

6.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, lower tierce, tierce, counter tierce, and return.

7.	1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte, lower tierce, tierce, quarte, and return.
-17—

8.	1,	Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte,

lower tierce, tierce, quarte, counter quarte, and return.

9.	1,	Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry lower quarte,

counter lower quarte, lower tierce, counter lower tierce, tierce, counter tierce, counter quarte, and return.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and while the pupil resumes guard he will attack according to the parries of the pupil.

TWENTY-FOURTH LESSON.

Engagement Tierce.

1.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

and return.

2.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

counter lower tierce, and return.

3.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower quarte, and return.

4.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower quarte, counter lower quarte, and return.

5.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower lower quarte, quarte, and return.

6.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lurige;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower quarte, quarte, counter quarte, and return.

7.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower quarte, quarte, tierce, and return.

8.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

lower quarte, quarte, tierce, counter tierce, and return.

9.	1,	Mark	1—2	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry	lower	tierce,

counter lower tierce, lower quarte, counter lower quarte, quarte, counter quarte, tierce, counter tierce, and return.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard he will attack according to the parries of the pupil.

AMATEUR FENCERS’ LEAGUE OF AMERICA.

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS, 1899.

Friday and Saturday, February 17th and 18th, 8 o’clock P. M., at Fencers Club. A. F. L. A. Handicap—Foils—Duelling Swords. Members A. F. L. A. only. Fee one dollar each event. W. W. Patrick, Chairman, 25 Whitehall St. Gold Medals.

March 17th and 18th, at Fencers Club, 37 W. 22d Street. Preliminaries— National Championship—Foils—Swords—Sabres. Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals. Entrance Fee, two dollars each event, payable to Mr. Bothner. Open to all amateurs. Atherton Brownell, Boston Athletic Association, Boston, Mass. Chas. G. Bothner, 101 E. 131st St., New York City.

March 31st and April 1st, Fencers Club. Junior Team Competition—Foils. Morris Medals (Invitation). Van Zo Post, Chairman, 45 Wall St.

April 8th, New York Athletic Club. Team Competition. (Invitation). Chas. E. Goodhue, N. Y. A. C.

April 14th and 15th, National Championship. Final Bouts will be held at

Digitized by G.ooQle
-18-

Boston, in conjunction with A. A. U., under the management N. E. Div. A. F. L. A. Atherton Brownell, B. A. A., Chas. G. Bothner, N. Y. A. C., Langdon Erving,

F.	C., Committee.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN CHICAGO Y. M. C. A.

By GEORG W. EHLER, C. E.

THE Chicago association in arranging for its seventh annual inter-department meet is proceeding upon a plan which is a radical departure from its past practice. Heretofore the meets have consisted of indoor athletic events alone on the pentathlon form and limited to teams of four or five men from each department. The primary purpose of the new plan is to engage the largest possible number of participants from each department and at the same time to represent to the public the true work ot the association and in a way which will be thoroughly interesting. The plan is as follows : First, exercise with dumb-bells, followed by running exercise ; second, set of exercises on the horse and parallel bars ; third, rope climb ; fourth, running high jump ; fifth, relay race. The representation in each of these except two and five is based on the proportion of five men from the Central Department, two each from the. West Side and Ravenswood, and one from Hyde Park. The minimum number of representatives from each department is required in these events before it can score any points in the assemply exercises. Central minimum 125, West Side and Ravenswood 30, Hyde Park 25. The rope climb will be 20 feet from standing start without time limit. Each department must present the minimum number of men who shall climb this distance. The high jump will be the maximum height of four feet, over which each department must send its minimum number. The minimum in the rope climb will be Central 50, West Side and Ravenswood 20, Hyde Park 10. Each department will score in the first, third, and fourth events as follows : Central one point for each additional man above its minimum, West Side and Ravenswood two and one-half for each additional man, and Hyde Park five points. In the apparatus maximum is set of 50 for Central, 20 for Ravenswood and West Side, and 10 for Hyde Park. Three exercises on each piece of apparatus will be performed and judged in the usual way. The average of each department for its maximum number of men will determine its score in this event. In the relay race teams of eight men will be entered : Central being required to enter six teams, Ravenswood three teams, West Side two teams, and Hyde Park one. These will be run in four heats of three teams each. The time of each team will be taken, the average of all the departments’ teams determining its score, which will be on the basis of one point for each % of a second under 4.30. The total number of points in the several events will determine the inter-department championship. The program will also include individual championships in the usual indoor events, including horse, parallel and horizontal bars, and relay race for teams of four men. The juniors will present a wand exercise as the seniors are performing the assembly exercises. These exercises will be memorized and performed to the accompaniment of a brass-band. The only departure in this from the

Digitized by

Google
-19-

work as usually conducted is in the memorizing of the calisthenic exercises. The movements presented represent the point the progression of calisthenics as taught in the various departments at Chicago* which the classes will have reached in the regular work at the time of the meet, which will be April 29., Present indications are that 400 seniors and 200 juniors will participate.

REV. M. J. LAVELLE, President of the Catholic Summer School at Plattsburg, N. Y., and Mr. Arthur Ridgeway Ryan met President James E. Sullivan of the Knickerbocker Athletic Club at the Knickerbocker club house on Monday evening to discuss athletic plans. They propose to establish a physical training course at the Catholic Summer School for the season of 1899. However, nothing definite was done in relation to the erection of a gymnasium and the establishment of a course of physical education. Mr. Ryan and Mr. Sullivan were appointed a committee to get up an athletic schedule to be conducted for the members of the school and their patrons from July 9 to August 25. The sports will include competitions in golf, tennis, archery, lawn tennis, bowling, swimming, canoeing, boating, and bicycling. Father Lavelle has agreed to build an athletic track at once for the carrying on of athletic games, and also a bicycle track. A swimming instructor will be engaged to have charge of the swimming class and also instructors in other branches of outdoor sports. Handsome prizes will be given to the winners of all the events. The intention at the present time is to give first, second, and third prizes in all the tournaments and competitions. It was also agreed upon that in conjunction with the regular course at the summer school several prominent lecturers on physical education and athletics would attend this year. The Catholic Summer School last year held one set of games, also a water carnival, both of which were in every way a success, and so convinced were they that is was to their advantage to encourage outdoor recreation that the above well-defined plan for the coming season has been decided upon.

The main desire in arranging the athletic program is to give to the students at the summer school a chance for recreation. The lectures on all intellectual topics are usually held from 9 a. m. to 1 p. m., and in the evening from 7 to 10 p. m., and as a result the students at the school have all the afternoons for recreation. The main point in arranging this program is to offer to the members of the summer school a feasible and well-defined program for enjoyment and nothing else.

—A writer in the Harvard Graduates’ Magazine, criticising college gymnasium work, says:	“I	have	always	been	much	impressed	with	the

facility with which the graduate of West Point or of Annapolis, does a variety of things in physical exercises—exercises some of which are perhaps not always characterized by the name of athletics, although useful not only in physical development but as adjuncts through life. The man who can ride and who can swim and who can dance and who can fence, and who can do other things such as are taught at West Point ahd

Digitized by CjOOQle
-20-

Annapolis, has distinct accomplishments.” Harvard graduates will agree that the possession of one distinct accomplishment of this kind outweighs all the benefits derived from complex and complicated musclemaking machines.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Outing for March carries us through the sporting fields of many lands. North, South, East and West contribute to the entertaining matter of a seasonable and most attractive number. The illustrations are numerous and beautiful. The contents are : “A North Greenland Walrus Hunt,” by G. H. Clark ; “A Day on Currietuck Sound,” by the late T. M. Barnes, Jr. ; ‘‘The Boston Terrier,” by H. W. Huntington; “La Casa de Las Brujas,” by Mabel Boyd; “A Tapir Hunt,” bv G. E. Mitchell; “Sports of the Samoans,” by L. P. Churchill; “Crabbing in Great South Bay ;” “The Chase of the Coyote,” by D. W. Fenton. Jr. ; “Types of Yachts,” by A. J. Kenealy ; “Cycling in the Sandwich Islands,” by T. P. Terry; “Winter Sports in Switzerland,” bv Alice C. Hall; “Skiing to Desolation Lake,” by W. H. Elmer; “Fishing in Florida Waters,” by W. De Hart; “Water Bicycles,” by E. P. Bunyea; “Amateur Rod Making,” by H. C. Daniels, and the usual editorials, poems and records.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Mr. H. B. Thomas of Boston is the new president of the United States Golf Association.

—Notre Dame find.) and Georgetown (Md.) colleges had very successful indoor athletic meets last month.

—The Official Handbook of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States is out. This book contains the revised constitution, bv-laws, general rules and athletic rules of the A. A. U. as now in force, and is a book that no athlete can afford to be without. It also contains the articles of alliance with the League of American Wheelmen, the North American Gymnastic Union, Ihe Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association, the Western Intercollegiate Association, Young Men’s Christian Association, the Military Athletic League, the National Interscholastic Association and the Canadian Amateur Athletic Association.

—Yale is to hold a ’Varsity bowling tournament.

—Cornell and University of Michigan are planning foot ball games between teams of these colleges.

—R. D. Starbuck will captain Cornells foot ball team next season.

—The National Association of American Oarsmen is to send the fastest crew which can be gotten together in this country to represent America in the contests at the Paris exposition in 1900.

—University of Chicago will send an athletic team to compete in the eastern college athletic games this spring.

—Princetons Athletic dates are as follows: April 22, Open Handicap, at Princeton, N. J. ; May 6, Interscholastics, at Princeton, N. J. ; May 10, Caledonian Games, at Princeton, N. T. ; May 20, Columbia Dual, at Princeton, N. J. ; May 27, Intercollegiates, at New York ; May 30, Cornell Dual, at Elmira, N Y.	.	,

—The national fencing championships will be held at Boston, April 21—22.

—Discus hurling and boxing have been added to the list of Canadian amateur championship events.

—The Harvard Cricket Club has elected the following officers : President, A. Drinkwater, 1900 ; vice-president, G. H. Wilder, 1900 ; executive committee, J*T. Harrington, ’99; H. Edwards, 2Gr.; A. G. Scattergood, ’99.

Digitized by c.ooQle
-21-

—The Boston Athletic Association will give a Marathon run (25 miles) April 19.

—Hand ball is one of the oldest of games. It is probably what may be called an essentially Irish game, for the reason that 200 years or more ago it was played in the old country, even when they had only the turf to play upon.

—C. W. Mears of Cleveland will be the L. A. W. representative at the International Cyclist Union meeting at Montreal next summer.

Contents of Volume V.ss§=

March 1898 to February 1899.

Page

Advanced Exercises Shown at Hamburg.—From “Gymnast and Athletic

Review”..........................................................  234

Again the Bicycle.—From “Journal of American Medical Association”.... 204

Amateur Fencers* League of America. Fencing Rules..................... 44

Amateur Gymnastic Championships....................................... 48

American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, The.—

F. Pfister, M. D...............................................    179

Anthropometric Chart for Gymnasia and Higher Schools. — F. Pfister,

M. D......................................................... 51,	178

Aquatic Sports in Pittsburg........................................   238

Argues Against Athletic Team ......................................   271

Athletic Feats on the Moon........................................... 163

Athletic Meet in Public Places........................................ 46

Athletics..................... 19,	47, 71, 119, 144, 191, 216, 239, 263, 282

Athletics in the High School.—From the “Western Teacher”............. 227

Baseball for the Blind............................................... 214

Battledore and Shuttlecock in Japan.................................. 164

Battle with a Bear.—From “Outing**...............................*... 117

Betz, Carl, In Memoriam of............................................ 56

Bicycle Heart........................................................  208

Book Reviews...........18, 47, 71, 96, 119, 144, 168, 191, 215, 238, 263, 281

Boppe, Carl Hermann, In Memoriam.—F. W. Dodel, M. D.................. 253

Bounding Ball Drill.—E. H. Heers .................................... 232	•

Brain-Tire.—James Mills, M. D........................................ 193

Burnham Gymnasium, The............................................... 180

Captain Ball.—E. A. Poos, M. D....................................... 137

Card-Playing.—A. Schopenhauer ........................................ 87

Changes Must Be Made in Football Rules.—F. Pfister, M. D............. 163

Chicago Society of Physical Education ............................... 273

City Parks, Our.—F. Pfister, M. D.................................... 196

Class Leaders and Active Members of Societies ...................17,	69

Cold Sponge Bath.—From “Youth’s Companion”..........................  177

Competition Exercises for the 9th German Gymnastic Festival at Hamburg.

—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”......................161,	211

Constipation and the Corset ......................................... 117

Contents of Volumes I, III, and IY of “Mind and Body”...............22ff.

Correction to Dr. Poos* Captain Ball Game............................ 165

Correspondence............42, 62, 79, 116, 133, 153, 190, 215, 237, 261, 281

Corset Habit, The.—From “Medical News”...............................  85

Corsets Barred in Russian Schools.................................... 252

Dangerous Spitting Nuisance, The.—Ed...............................   183

Development of the Young Child with Reference to Exercise. — W. P.

Manton, M. D................................................ 223,	247

Doctor in the Schoolroom, The........................................ 220

Dumb-bell and Wand Exercises.—Robert Fisher, M. D...................... 9

Dumb-bell Drill for Senior Classes.—Robert Fisher, M. D.............. 184

Digitized by tjOOQle
—22—

Educational Ideals.—G. Stanley Hall...................................  54

Education in Japan................................................... 121)

Employment Office for Teachers of Physical Training.—F. Pfister, M. D. 108

Examination in Physical Training...................................... 280

Exercises for Flatfoot................................................ 119

Exercises with Calisthenic Rings.—W. A. Crippen....................... 257

Excursion to California...........................................      16

Extracts from European Journals on Physical Training.—W. A. Ocker,

M. D.................................................7,	36,	80,	229,	268

Fists or Feet.—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”................. 272

Football as an Advertising Medium.—F. Pfister, M. D................... 228

Football for 1898 at the Colleges..................................... 240

Football in Ceylon .............................    .................. 256

Games.—W. C. Schaefer..*..........................’.	139, 155, 186, 236, 276

Games for Ardent Cyclists............................................. 165

Games for Girls.—W. C. Schaefer........................................ 68

Gymnasium of the N. Y. State Reformatory, Elmyra...................... 143

Gymnastic Teachers’ Institute of London, England....................... 56

Hamburg Festival, The.—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”.......... 93

How to Abolish Worry.—From “Journal of Hygiene”....................... 180

Illinois State Teachers’ Association, The ............................ 255

Indian Mumbletv-Peg ; How It Is Played by the Hindoo Boys.—Gerald

Brenan.............................................................. 235

Indoor Lawn Tennis.—F. S. La Rue...................................... 112

Influence of the Mind upon the Body and its Relation to Education.—

R. Hunt, M. D...................................................243,	266

Interdependence of Healthy Bodies and Healthy Brains.—Elmer Lee, M. D. 169

Japanese Sword Play................................................... 213

ILadies’ Column : Dress Reform for Women............................... 46

Landsdowne (Eng.) Gymnastic Club, The.—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”....................................................   43

Laughter.—Chavasse...................................................  185

Lehr, the German Giant................................................  16

Life’s Pleasures ; a Song-Roundel.—H. B. Camann........................ 63

List of the Physical Directors of the Y. M. C. A...................... 283

Manly Sports in Schools.—From “American Journal of Education” ........ 207

Medical Gymnastics in China.—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”... 162

Meeting of the Bohemian “Sokols.”—Jos. Cermack........................ 164

Menstrual Disorders in School Girls.—W. 0. Krohn, M. D................. 58

Miami University.—J. W. Marquardt....................................  274

Militarism in Public Schools.—Rob. Retzer............................. 202

Military Training in the High School.—From “Western Teacher”.......... 153

More Contributors.—F. Pfister, M. D...............................     205

More Application and Less Talk.—F. Pfister, M. D....................   274

Motor and Sense Training.—Luella Heinroth.............................106,	149

New Boy, The.—H. E. Patten............................................ 262

Nomenclature for Exercises with the Short Wand.—W. A. Ocker, M. D..... 135

Notes and Remarks......17, 41, 70, 95, 116, 134, 154, 180, 212, 234, 255, 280

Novelty in Golf, A.—Harry Croninger.................................   252

Obituary.............................................................. 254

Olympic Games in Vienna .............................................. 118

Ohrmpic Games......................................................... 269

Opinion on Bicycling, A Somewhat Peculiar.—A.	C. Simonton, M. D....... 208

Origin of Games, The.................................................. 175

Outdoor Gymnasium for Milwaukee.—F.	Pfister,	M.	D................... 15

Outdoor Recreation League Games....................................... 189

Outdoor Recreation League Notes ...................................... 143

Digitized by LiOOQle
-23-

Physical Culture in a Factory.—W. W. Kinnard......................... 262

Physical Culture in the Chicago Schools.—Hy. Suder................... 213

Physical Development.—Ransom Pickard, M. D.......................130,	146

Physical Examinations.—John W. Shaw ................................. 265

Physical Training.—Hy. Suder......................................... 241

Physical Training at Amherst College.—Paul C. Phillips, M. D.......... 53

Physical Training at the Indiana State Normal School, Terre Haute.—

J. P. Kimmell....................................................   82

Physical Training in Addison Seminary, 111.—Prof. F. Rechlin......... 113

Physical Training in Public Schools.—From “Medical Record”........... 203

Physical Training of Children.—From “Pediatrics”.....................  36

Play as an Educational Factor.—From “Froebel’s Educational Laws”---- 126

Play in Education.—From “Intelligence”...............................172,	199

Public Play Grounds.—F. Pfister, M. D...............................  133

Pyramids.........................................................  21,	48

Redemption of Athletics, The.—From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”.. 167 Report of Committee of Observation for National Contest in St. Louis.— Ellen Le Garde, 32 ; Ed. M. Hartwell, 75 ; D. A. Sargent, M. D.,

102 ; Fred. E. Leonard, M. D., 122; W. S. Chaplin................. 145

Rhythmic Motion and Music as Factors in Education.—Anne E. Allen 1, 25

Round Shoulders.—Rob. W. Lovett...................................... 217

Scale Game.......................................................     143

School Hygiene.—G. St. Hall.........................................  115

School Playgrounds in Philadelphia................................... 167

Schoolroom Gymnasium Attachment...................................... 177

Seasonable Clothing.—From “Health Bulletin”.......................... 165

Signs of Fatigue and Defects of Development.—Colin A. Scott, M. D.73,	97

Sinkins ...........................................................   205

Skipping-Rope Roundel for Girls of 12—16 Years.—A. E. Kindervater .... 37

Something New Again.—F. Pfister, M. D..............................    84

Spinal Curvature and Gymnastics.—Theo. Toepel........................ 104

Sport on Shipboard................................................... 166

Summer School.—W. Stecher...........................................   15

Summer School of Physical Training, N. A. G. U............42,	69, 95, 142

Summer Schools of Physical Training Once More.—F. Pfister, M. D....... 35

Superfluous Eating.—From “British Medical Journal”................... 190

Swimming at the 28th Bnndes-Tumfest.—John T. Taylor................... 62

Symmetry.—W. A. Ocker, M. D.......................................... 125

Theory of Fencing in Form of a Catechism.—Geo. Heintz, Sr...........

................................... 66,	90,	109, 158, 181, 213, 259, 277

Too Much Club Swinging.—F. Pfister, M. D...........................    14

Tug of War in St. Louis............................................   230

Value of Athletic Exercise as a Counter Agent to the Sedentary Pursuits of Urban Population.—Sir Dyce Duckworth, M. D........................4,	29

Wand Exercises for the St. Louis District Tournament at Highland, 111.—

W. Mauthe ...............................................           88

Wand Exercises in Roundel Form, Illinois Institution for the Blind, Jackson-

sonville.—W. A. Crippen.............................................12

War and Military Training, The.—F. Pfister, M. D..................... 152

War Spirit, The.—F. Pfister, M. D..................................... 57

Water Polo.—F. S. La Rue.............................................. 18

Wooden Ring Exercises for Girls’ and Ladies’ Classes.—R. Meller...... 209

World’s Best Records.........................................21,	168,	192

Worry...................................................•............ 117

Year in the Gymnasium with the Blind, A.—W. A. Crippen................ 49

Yes, Boys Should Fight.—W. L. Morrison .............................. 270

Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors Conference.—Geo. P. Hepbron....... ...	114

Digitized by LaOOQle
—24—

WORLD’S BEST RECORDS.

(Compiled from the Clipper Annual.)

RUNNING.

ioo Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Hempton, H. Bethune. *9 4-5 sec.:

W. T. McPherson, B. j. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Maybury.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48% sec.: R. Buttery. *47% sec.: W. Baker.

880 Yds.—1:53% min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.—C. H. Kelatuck. One Mile—4:12% min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage,

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 B> Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carrol. *164 ft. 2 in.:W. L. Coudon. 16 B> Hammer Throw—159 ft. 3% in.: T. D. Carroll. *158 ft. 4 in.: J. Flanagan. 12 lb Shot Put—k55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray. 50 ft. 1% in.: J- McPherson.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Throwing—118 ft. 9 in.: C. Heneman.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8% in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3# in.: R. C. Ewery. Running High Jump—6 ft. 6% in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft.: R. C. Ewery. Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

• Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnet. *33 ft. 8j£ in.; J. Wall. Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2% in.: W. MacManus. Running Broad Jump—23 ft. 3% in.: C. H. Biggar. *24 ft. 6% in.: W. Newbum. Pole Vault—11 ft. xo% in.: R. G. Clepp.

NATATION.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

220 Yd. Swim—2:38 4:5 sec.: *J. H. Tyers. 2:41# min.: J. Nuttall.

440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: *J. H. Tyers. 5:49# min.; J, Nuttall.

880 Yd. Swim—12:7% min.: J. Nuttall. *12:45 3*5 min.: P. Cavill.

One Mile Swim—26:08 min.: J. Nuttall. *26:46% min.: J. H. Tyers.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *104 yds.: T. W. Reilley. .

*Plunging—80 ft. 8% in.: W. Allason.

ROWING.

*%-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

*%-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stansbury.

*Two Miles—9:19)6 mm.: Yale Freshman Crew Five Miles—39:44% min.: Four-oared Crew.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 sec : H. Davidson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson.

*440 Yds.—31% sec.: J. S. Johnson.

*880 Yds.—1:22 2-5 min.: A. Norseng, K. Pander. *One Mile—2:45 min.; J. S. Johnson.

* Amateur.

GERMAN LITERATURE.

PHYSIOLOGIE DER LEI ESBUEBUNGEN.—F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D...............60

METHODIK.—ZETTLER................................................1.00

GESCHICHTE DER METHODIK —PROF. DR. CARL EULER....................2.00

“	“	“	“	“	“	**	bound.................2.50

SCHWEDISCHE HEILGYMNASTIC.—F. J. HARTELIUS.......................1.70

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER MAEDCHEN UND FRAUEN.—DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER.......................................................1.00

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER GESUNDE UND KRANKE. — DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

.ECKLER......................................................1.00

DAS TURNEN IM HAUSE —BEERWALD UND BAUER..........................1.00

HANDBUCH FUER VORTURNER—BULEY UND VOGT. (Zwei Theile)............2.35

BUCH DER REIGEN.—W. JENNY........................................2.25

Address for any gymnastic or pedagogical literature:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 EAST WATER ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS.

TUIO liriuo Yffell I We win send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for 11110 mCAnO 1UU ■ one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.