—	^	 ”	’•'s.v.-ii—	'

PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ii.

JANUARY, 1905.

No. 131

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

T)R. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Gcneseo State Normal School, Gencseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STF.CHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind. DR. F. PF1STER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, W»».

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

WORRY AND ALLIED FAULTY MENTAL HABITS.

By G. L. WALTON, M. D, Instructor in Neurology, Harvard University: Physician to Department for Diseases of the Nervous System, Massachusetts General Hospital.

THE story is told of Phillips Brooks* that, when a child, he put a newly sharpened pencil into his mouth further and further until it slipped down his throat. He asked his mother what would happen if any one should swallow a pencil. She answered that she supposed it would kill him. Phillips kept silence, and his mother made no further inquiry.

This incident would indicate that Phillips Brooks had already, as a child, attained a mental equipoise which the average individual hardly achieves in a lifetime. The story appeals to me no less as evidence of self-control on the part of the mother; and I like to imagine that she suppressed the question a startled parent would naturally ask, realizing that no amount of worry .would recall the pencil if he had swallowed it and nothing was to be gained by overturning the household or by giving the boy an example of agitation sure to react to the detriment of the mind unfolding under her supervision.

Life and Letters of Phillips Brooks, by Alexander S. G. Allen, Ntw York, iyco, vol. I. p. 51.

Digitized by C.ooQle
Unless, therefore, the facts of this story have become obscured bv imagery, it shows exceptional heredity and unusual training.

Not every one can claim such heredity, and not every one can look back on such training; but it is not too much to say that every one can so direct his thoughts and so order his actions as to gradually attain a somewhat higher level of self-control than either his natural endowment or his early training would have promised. For mental training is no more limited to feats of memory, and to practice in the solution of difficult problems, than is physical training comprised in the lifting of heavy weights in harness. In fact, such exercises are always in danger of leaving the mental athlete intellectually muscle-bound, if 1 may use such an expression: whereas the kind of training I have in mind tends to establish mental poise, to improve the mental disposition, to fit the mind (and indirectly the body) to better meet the varied exigencies of daily life, and to help the individual to react in every way more comfortably to his surroundings.

To recur to the physical analogue, every one knows that, if certain muscles are overworked, they rebel by pain, and that, if the effort is persisted in, the very muscles exercised lose their efficiency and the movements become irregular, jerky, and uncontrolled. Indeed, if such continuous efforts are kept over excessive periods of time, lasting physical impairment may result, and the chosen occupation have to he abandoned. Writer’s cramp furnishes the commonest illustration; but too prolonged practice on any musical instrument or the use of any tool may produce the same result, the amount of practice necessary to incapacitate the individual depending partly upon his susceptibility' and partly upon the method in which the muscles are used. It is to avoid a minor degree of this trouble, such as may interfere with the best work, that the athlete is advised to lesson practice shortly before competition. Similar advice is in place as regards study immediately preceding examination, for too prolonged and concentrated mental effort tends to produce nervous breakdown and inability' to perform the simplest of the tasks so assiduously' practiced. Indeed, the faulty mental habits arc doubly injurious in that they indirectly affect also the bodily functions; for example, the digestion. And yet, it is surprising how much ill-usage the mind, as well the body, will stand, unless laboring under the handicap of worry. Worry kills,—at least, it is said to. 1 should modify the statement thus: “Worry imprisons for life.”

I do not include under worry the proper amount of anxiety attendant upon undertakings of magnitude,—an anxiety the absence of which would imply a degree of indifference incompatible, perhaps, with great achievement. The faulty habit to which I allude is that of letting the mind dwell upon one subject until the thoughts become incoherent, jerky, and uncontrolled, and mental pain appears as a warning signal.

Such an attitude not only gives discomfort to the individual, but impairs his usefulness to others, hinders the work of his associates by contagious example, and renders him an uncomfortable and unhelpful member of society in the proportion in which he gives way to the morbid tendency.

This habit cannot be overcome in a day or in a week,—in fact, it
-283-

may never be overcome; but, if the mental attitude is to be improved after all, it can be only by persistent and conscientious effort, by bringing reason to bear, and by learning to direct the thoughts in a healthy channel. By such means we may finally attain a higher level of self-controll; and, the heavier our natural handicap, the more vivid will be our realization of the fact that “he that ruleth his spirit is better than he that taketh a city.”

The motto “Don’t worry” has inspired many homilies. But the mere resolve to follow this guide to happiness will no more instantaneously free one from the meshes of worry than the resolve to perform a difficult gymnastic feat will insure its immediate accomplishment.

The evils of worry as well as of its frequent associate, anger, have been dwelt upon by writers philosophical, religious, and mental. It will suffice to quote from the “Menticulture” of Horace Fletcher with its accompanying citations. “Worry,” says the author, “is the root of all the cowardly passions,—jealousy, fear, the belittling of self, and all the introspective forms of depression are the children of worry.” The symptoms and the evil results seem to receive more elaborate and detailed attention than the treatment. “Eliminate it,” counsels Fletcher. “Don’t worry,” advises Kinney. “Such advice is superheial,” says their critic, “it can only be subdued by our ascending into a higher atmosphere, where we are able to look down and comprehend the just proportions of life.” “Cultivate a quiet and peaceful frame of mind,” urges another; and still another advises us to “occupy the mind with better things, and the best—is a habit of confidence and repose.”

From such counsel the average individual succeeds in extracting nothing tangible. The last writer of those I have quoted comes perhaps the nearest to something definite in directing us to occupy the mind with better things, and in the suggestions I have to offer the important feature is the effort to replace one thought by another, though not necessarily by a better one. If we succeed in doing this, we are making a step toward acquiring the habit of confidence and repose.

No higher flight will be taken than the suggestion of a few commonplace practical devices by which the edge of the worry state may be sometimes dulled, citing for this purpose some of the common types of worry. 1 propose also to mention a few well-recognized varieties of mental disease which represent the extreme results of worry and allied habits in those possessing the so-called psychopathic endowment.

The common subjects of worry are included under what we have done, what we are gv>ing to do, the opinion of others, our own condition, mental or physical. The forms of mental disease most nearly related to the worry state are compulsive insanity and hypochondria.

How shall we lesson our worry about what we have done? By reflecting that what is done is done, and, if it is badly done, bv devoting our energies to plans for the future, using the mistake as a lesson instead of as a subject for retrospective regrets. In this way the experience may serve as a stepping-stone to advancement instead of a stumbling-block in the wav of further progress. As an aid in this effort we can make use of the reflection that no one can do everything right, and that we ourselves might have done something worse. If our thoughts

Digitized by v^ooQle
• 28(>—

at first be discouraging, as may also the existing legislation in many states; but with the expenditpre of earnest effort, and with full faith in the importance of the cause, these obstacles will be removed; and, I may add, they will not be removed withont this effort and this faith.

Understanding, then, that the problem has more than one solution and that we should always bear in mind that the achievement of results in each school is the important thing while methods of achieving the results are only secondary, I desire to propose a third method, which I fully believe would go far toward a satisfactory solution of the problem.

This address began with pointing out the obvious relation of the work of physical education to instruction in personal hygiene, and the rather anomalous lack of correlation at present existing between these two parts of the curriculum. I now desire to urge the advisability of bringing them closer together,—indeed, of combining as far as possible the work of the two departments under the management of the same teachers. It is granted that not every good teacher of physical training will be a good teacher of physiology and personal hygiene, any more than will every person who is fitted for teaching the latter subjects make a success in formal gymnastics or in directing games and plays The solution in individual cases must be sought for in accordance with individual conditions. But the fact remains that a very' large number of people can succeed in both fields, provided, of course, they have received proper preparation.

It can hardly be doubted that, of the instructing staff of a school, the teacher of physical training stands in the most obvious relation to the cultivation of sound health; and this is understood and felt !>v every boy and girl. It is a pleasure to recognize that the unique opportunity thus offered to exert a personal influence toward better living is one which ;s not neglected by many of these teachers. Would not this influence be immensely augmented if instructors in physical training had formal charge of all instruction in personal hygiene? Their work in this direction would then amount to more than personal advice and direction individuals. The influence exerted would be less sporadic, more economically exerted, more rationally planned and executed. Pupils would value more highly these efforts of their instructors toward more hygienic living; for they would feel that the men and women who are making them are broadly trained in the principles underlying healthy living, and that they understand more than one part of the practical hygienic care of the body.

It is, indeed, the every day experience of teachers of physical training that their results in individual cases are not satisfactory; and it becomes necessary for them to inquire into other hygienic conditions than those immediately connected with their work in the gymnasium or on the playground. Habits of feeding, of outside activity, of clothing, of bathing, of the sanitary conditions of the home, of sleep and rest, must be inquired into and considered. Advice must be given. It seems to me that our teachers could do this part of their work more efficiently if they had the formal position of teachers of physiology and personal hygiene, and that they could accomplish much by properly directed instruction to the class as a whole which, as a matter of fact, they mus

Digitized by VjOOQle
—287—

I

accomplish at present by personal inquiries, which are at times distasteful, and frequently involve questions of a delicate nature. And, as I have urged before, their personal efforts would possess a greater weight of authority because of the new position which they would occupy in the work of the school.

You will not misunderstand me to suggest that these teachers shall give medical advice. The medical profession is properly alive to the danger of medical advice from those who have not had medical training; and we*may as well frankly admit that there is danger that teachers of physical training under the plan suggested may at times assume the role of the physician. There is the danger, but it is probably exaggerated. It is, moreover, a tendency which is subject to control; and it is doubtful whether the tendency would be greater than it is at present. Finally, would not the advantages of more efficient instruction in matters of personal hygiene far outweigh the harm done here and there ?

Thus far I have been urging the combination of these departments of instruction because it should lead to more effective work in physiology and hygiene. But I believe it will also strengthen the work of physical training. I have always felt that the work of physical training, in our high schools at least, suffers because the teaching of its theory is insufficiently emphasized. Pupils are put through a course of gymnasium work or they are taught to play certain games. The practical side of the work is thus secure; and, of course, something is also learned of its purpose. But does this go far enough? A certain exercise is taken for its corrective value. Does the pupil sufficiently realize why it is given, and how it accomplishes the desired end? Of course in the lower grades such theoretical instruction is practically out of question; and in high schools it would be both impossible and undesirable to go into details of the muscular and skeletal mechanism of movements and similar subjects. But the broad outlines of theory can be given. For example, it should be possible to explain the reasons for avoiding round shoulders, contracted chest, and improper curvature of the spine; the reason for the maintenance of the proper tone of the abdominal muscles; the training of nervous co-ordination in balancing movements and in jumping and vaulting; the part played bv general activities in the maintenance of health. Surely, this would add to the interest and effisiency of the practical work; and enough could be given without undue expenditure of time to insure practical understanding of the aims and methods of physical training. But such instruction is nothing more nor less than part of the work in physiology and personal hygiene.

It must be remembered that physical training has reference to subsequent life as well as to the maintenance of health during the time of attendance at school. The term ‘ physical training,” indeed, does not suggest the entire purpose nor the scope of the work in the school. That purpose or scope is wider than physical training; it is physical education. It has reference not only to the period of school life, but to subsequent life as well. It should not only aim to maintain health during the period of school attendance, but should lav the basis for the intelligent conduct of subsequent life in matters of-muscular activity. There is no such thing as laying up a store of health at school or

Digitized by v^ooQle
—2HH—

college to last through subsequent life. The student is learning something for subsequent use, just as much as when he is learning arithmetic ami spelling. And this means instruction in the principles of physical training: it involves the explanation of its purposes and its methods, as well as the mastery of the practical art. No one has less respect for theoretical instruction without the experience of practice than myself. It is indeed fortunate that the work of physical training was begun on its practical side. With limited opportunities, few teachers, and the demand for results, it was only proper that efforts shouW at first he confined to this side of the work; and let us hope that nothing may ever impair its efficiency. But practice without understanding of principles is only one step higher than the dead level of principles without practice. The only sound pedagogical method is the combination of the two. So it is in pure science, so it is in practical engineering, so it is in medical study. Why not in physical training?

It really' seems to me that to ask this question is to answer it, ami and that the question is not whether the suggestion is advisable, but whether it is feasible. To this a practical answer may' be given from experience. In some schools, mostly private schools, the plan has been tried, and with marked success. So well, indeed, has the experiment worked that at the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics we regard it as a wise policy to prepare our students thoroughly to become teachers of physiology' and personal hygiene as well as directors of gymnastic work and of outdoor plays and games. In the public schools the plan has been but little tried, so far as I am aware; but is it impracticable there? We have at present our classes in physiology and hygiene and our work in practical physical training. Both these clrs«es have teachers; so that the plan merely involves combining the two branches under the same teacher: it does not increase the teaching force. Nor does it necessarily mean more work to the already hard-worked teacher of physical training. It means in a large high school system an increase in the number of teachers of physical training, a greater variety' and breadth of their work.

And this leads me to consider the third aspect of the matter-namely, its effect on the instructor of physical training; for in educational matters the teacher should be as well considered as the pupil. Then-are unquestionably schools where teachers of physical training arc already overworked, and where that bugbear of every school, tbe schedule of studies, cannot be so arranged as to carry out our plan without added burden. In these schools some other arrangements must be made for the teaching of personal hygiene; but such cases should not deter us from the effort to obtain ideal conditions where they arc possible. Supposing, then, that the change is possible, would the teacher of physical training be benefited? I know that it is a frequent complaint of these teachers that their work is somewhat lacking in variety, that it involves at times very considerable physical exertion and fatigue; and it seems to me that the plan proposed would tend to relieve this. It would broaden their work within its own proper sphere, it would conduce to more effective influence in the school; and the prosecution of that work would immeasurably re-enforce those educational influences

Digitized by v^ooQle
—289—

which, acting upon us after our period of formal schooling, make us the men and women we become. It is,sor should *be, the common experience that, valuable as were the foundations laid in our colleges or universities or other schools, we have learned more after leaving them than we learned within their walls; and we perhaps cannot repress an inward smile when we think how green we were when we received our diplomas. Our schools simply prepare us to learn the lessons of after life, to profit by experience; and nothing on this earth is more pitiable than the man or woman who has learned nothing after graduation. Those are fortunate in whom the post-graduate training is received in a broad field, with no obstacles to obstrnct the view of the horizon. In some such wav as this, I take it, would the proposed plan favorably affect the teacher of physical training. There are few subjects broader than physiology, few of higher educational value. There are few subjects so practical, so well adapted to keep us down to the facts of daily life and experience, as personal hygiene. The proper teaching of these subjects, together with the practical work of physical training, appeals to me as an education in itself and entirely advantageous to the teacher.

Despite the disparaging remarks I have made with regard to the work of training schools as compared with the educational value of subsequent life, it is clear that the plan proposed necessitates the strengthening of the work of instruction in physiology and personal hygiene in our normal schools of physical training. If the graduates of such schools are to teach these subjects, they must be. trained to teach them as efficiently as to conduct the practical work of physical training; they must be quailfied for the work, not in virtue of statements made in the school catalogue, but by thorough study under the guidance of expert teachers.

Moreover, we may ask ourselves whether, in securing the needed training for teachers of personal hygiene in the secondary schools, the schools of physical training are not the very ones to which in the nature of the case we should look for the work of preparation. They, and they alone, have already an important branch of the subject: nowhere else can one thoroughly learn the principles of physical training in their practical as well as their theoretical aspects; and I may say. by the way of passing, that it is as important for the teacher of personal hygiene to be acquainted with the principles of physical training as for the teacher of physical training to know the fundamentals of personal hygiene. Nor can we hope for the desired training elsewhere. Many other professional schools indeed cultivate fields which more or less overlap the one we are considering, but none of them cover the entire territory. Our state and city normal schools already have too many subjects in their curricula, and do not, in general at least, prepare for the teaching of special subjects in high and normal grades. The medical school teaches many things which would be necessary or useful, but it does not give all,—notably, physical training itself; and its work must necessarily be arranged so as to lead to the practice of medicine,—after all, a different thing from the teaching of the principles which underlie the hygienic conduct of life. With but relatively slight expansion of its present work, without in the least leaving its proper field, but merely
—1”>0—

by expanding within that field, the present normal school of physical training can and should become a school of physical training in the widest sense.

It is only a question of time when a college degree will be assumed as a perequisite for high school teachers, and it may be assumed that this line of development will go on as the college gives the needed special training. The result should not come more rapidly; for it would l>e most irrational to assume that the mere possession of a college degree fits a man or woman to teach any subject, unless the degree stands for special training in the subjeot to be taught. It is too much to hope for that our normal schools of physical training—founded for a special purpose, and many of them strikingly efficient in accomplishing that purpose—may broaden into institutions of collegiate character, and perhaps becotne parts of colleges themselves? They are, after all, technical schools, just as the medical or the dental school or the schools of engineering; and they stand in the same relation to scientific studies as do these schools. It is their work to contribute to the mastery of the forces of nature by the advancement of science, and especially to' make these forces of nature subservient to the welfare of man. The danger with all of them is that they will be narrow as educational institutions. This is well recognized, and has led in the past to special measures to prevent so undesirable an end. Our medical schools are beginning to require the bachelor’s degree in science or arts as a prerequisite, on the ground that it is not wise to encourage men to pass immediately from the high schools to professional study. I myself have the honor to be connected with a school of applied science which has always recognized the necessity for wider culture than comes from special engineering studies, and I am sure no one connected with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology would give up this essential feature of its course The normal school of physical training to day occupies an intermediate position between the regular normal and technological school. It requires only a high school diploma for entrance, and it is training teachers for special work. But it has few so-called culture studies. The student concentrates his attention on one subject. Indeed, he studies little else; and, with only two years, nothing else is possible. But is this more rational than it would be to take men from the high school and confine their study between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one to some one branch of engineering, and then send them out to their work in life? These vears are the best of all periods for acquiring breadth of view and that indefinable something we call culture; and these things are acquired bv avoiding too great specialization, by learning to know something of the world which lies outside one’s own territory.—in other words, exactly the opposite process to that which the training of all normal schools of physical education represents.

If there is one branch of professional work which requires breadth and culture combined with the highest technical skill, that branch is physical training. No subject is more liable to quackery and charlatanism, with perhaps the single exception of medicine. The magazine advertisements of the special systems of innumerable modern discoverers of the secret of health through “new” forms of muscular exercise—

Digitized by LjOOQle
—2M-

advertisements which bid fair to rival those of special brands of soap in assurance as well as in ingenuity—at the same time bear witness to the success which intelligent effort has achieved in the past, and warn us that we must hold our own in the future by having the subject of physical education in the hands of leaders whom the public cannot, even if it will, confuse with adventurers. It is my earnest plea that you will urge that broad training of the student in our normal schools which, perhaps, many of you had to acquire in after life; and it is my belief that the combination of physical training with instruction in personal hvgicne will prove a powerful means to that end.

(From “The Steele Review.”)

THE SPIRIT OF TRUE SPORTSMANSHIP.

By GEORGE R. EASTMAN.

IN many quarters there has been manifested an unfavorable attitude toward school athletics, which in some instances amounts to grudging toleration of a necessary evil. Let us consider what these objections are, how far they are well founded, and what can be done to change this unfavorable attitude to one of sympathetic support and co-operation.

It has been asserted that athletics cause permanent physical injury; also that they have a demoralizing influence and make for a low standard of scholarship.

The influence of athletics on bodily well-being can be determined with reasonable certainty by an investigation of the physical condition of athletes during their life after graduation. Such investigation has been made in England and in America. In almost every instance the conclusion has been favorable to well regulated athletics. Perhaps the most thorough and scientifically satisfactory of these investigations is that set forth in a recent article by George L. Meylan, M. D., of Columbia University, which appeared simultaneously in the Harvard Graduates’ Magazine and the American Physical Education Review.

Dr. Meylan made an exhaustive investigation of the subsequent life history of those who have been members of the Harvard University crews from 1852 to 1892. Rowing is taken for the subject of investigation. as it is the most strenuous of all sports. This article has shown conclusively that these oarsmen have not fallen behind their fellows in length of life or success in life. They have not shown a tendency to contract disease of the heart or other vital organs.

We contend that no real immediate or subsequent physical danger threatens the well trained contestant of sound constitution, and affirm the wholesomeness of true, manly sport indulged in with due moderation and regard for other interests. Yet in all fairness, though with the feeling of shame and regret, we must admit that there are some features incidental to interscholastic sports as they have been conducted in the past that have met with the uncompromising condemnation not only of school authorities and patrons, but of all ardent devotees of true sportsmanship. The reason for this is that those who wish to have

Digitized by Google
our young people develop the best that is in them can not look with satisfaction upon practices that are debasing.

Among these deplorable practices are loss of temper, unseemly wrangling with opponents, haggling with officials, slugging or unnecessary roughness of any kind, and low trickery. Loss of temper handicaps one in the exercise of the clear, deliberate judgment essential to success. Self-control is one of the most valuable lessons sport or serious life can teach. No one admires the vulgar tactics of the tough or the mean spirit of the booby who must win or he won't play. Any conduct that is ungentlemanly is rankly unsportsmanlike. It is detrimental to the interests of athletics because it is offensive to those friends to whom a team must look for patronage and the moral support of their presence.

Why is the playing of “ringers” so strongly condemned? It is downright dishonesty' in a team that claims to represent a school. It reveals a serious moral weakness disgraceful to the management. It is a confession of self-distrust which is more humiliating than a fairly contested game resulting in defeat. Such conduct is so thoroughly demoralizing that it cannot be indulged in where the honor of a school is valued.

Success in athletics does not necessarily involve poor scholarship. In most of the colleges the records they have made show that college ath-lethes are the equals of their non-athletic fellow students in intellectual work. Investigation also tends to show that the athlete maintains equally good if not better relative standing in his after career. High school athletes ought to make as good a showing.

Bovs well know that “head work” is the most important factor in athletic success. It is of paramount importance in business and professional life. The fellow who has the mental ability to gain a good standing in athletics can do creditable work in the class room. Then why should the athlete, \yho has least excuse of any, be an intellectual loafer?

Those who do the important work of the world and successfully bear life’s responsibilities must be sound both in mind and body, with respective powers harmoniously developed.

A rugged body, trained to be the efficient servant of the will, is an invaluable possession. Athletics can help to give this. For to be sucessful in contest one must develop a clear, discriminating judgment, trained to take prompt advantage of every opportunity, and must call into use all his latent resources of pluck and energy. The true athlete subjugates desultory impulse to deliberately planned purpose. He manifests a self-denying, indomitable perseverance in overcoming difficulties and puts forth a steady effort to gain victory for his team, not distinction for himself. This teaches the efficiency and value of cooperation which is so essential to the accomplishment of great enterprises. The true sportsman loves fair play as a result of his training, lienee an opportunity for upbuilding character is afforded.

The criticisms we have referred to should awaken us to the fact that the management of athletic affairs in our schools is only imperfectly and therefore, in some respects, unsatisfactorily developed. Under the

Digitized by LjOOQle
—21K5—

circumstances it is not remarkable that there are still many opportunities afforded contestants to manifest the faults incidental to youth.

Most of the features to which objections are taken have crept in because those who take part have not been possessed with the quickening spirit of true sportsmanship. They have labored under the misapprehension of the true meaning and value of athletic contest and victory. The strength that such contest develops in body and mind may be acquired equally well whether the result is victory or defeat. The victors by no means have a monopoly of the pleasure. There is a grim and lasting satisfaction in the feeling that one has put up a good, stiff fight and has not been outpointed in courtesy or fairness, even if the other side made the bigger score.

What is to be gained by one school defeating another? The honor of the teams and schools is all that is properly at stake. Can we look with complacency upon an attempt to employ unworthy or dishonest means to enhance this honor? A stolen art treasure would hardly be considered a glory to a school. Fame gained by plagiarized orations is humiliation and disgrace. The employment of equally questionable means in athletics can bring nothing but dishonor. Victory gained through unfair tactics or failure in courtesy leaves all of the glory the other side.	#

One don’t have to be a “sissy” or “namby-pamby” to meet the reasonable demands of the critics of athletics as they are played. There is scant space in sport or in life for the irresolute, inglorious, unambitious fellow. The quitter is despicable. All the world hates a “hard loser.” One who enters the conflict should accept willingly and unflinchingly his full share of hardship and danger. The fellows worth while are the ones who are not broken in spirit or dampened in ardor bv defeat, but are resolutely and everlastingly up and at it again. Students should be satisfied with nothing less than a contest fought strenuously and honestly with best efforts to the very end. Defeat, if it must come, should be accepted gracefully and with the hand of good fellowship extended to congratulate the victors. Any jubilation over winning a contest should show a decent regard for the feelings of others. Good breeding forbids any attempt to humiliate them.

There is something in a well-fought contest on the athletic field that stirs up our good red fighting blood; our nerves tingle and our pulses throb with the tumultuous joy of earnest conflict. But let us never permit ourselves to be so overmastered by all this as to forget that real sportsmanship is utterly intolerant of anything that savors of ungentle-manly conduct.

The true athlete is honorably in conflict, undaunted by defeat, generous and modest in victory.

THE SPLENDID CONTEST.

sweetest moments of excultant joy in many a man’s life have been those when winning an athletic contest, the victory of splendid physical life. He who has enjoyed the tingle of earnest competition, from boyhood days, when he played his first game of tag or “three old cats’’ up to the grammar-school games, then on the athletic field with a football team, or the great American

Digitized by CjOOQle
game of baseball, or the noble Canadian games of lacrosse or hockey has found it worth while. Too many men stop their games at twenty-five. We know a man of sixty who still plays a good game of basket ball. Quentin Hogg played for forty-five seasons football, and played well, while grey-haired cricketers are commonly seen where cricket is played. The grand stand is a foe to athletics. The crowd should be in the field or on the floor. It is wrong to keep a boy from athletics. When he plays in rightly directed athletics he will gain the control of his temper, a consideration lor fair play and honorable competition which will make for manhood.

CLEAN SPORT.

R. C. MASSMAN, Springfield. Ohio.

“Now that the basket ball season is fairly on it is fitting that some thought be given to the manner in which these games are conducted, and especially to the conduct of the players during the game. We have happily come to the time when all teams of any consequence are plav-ing under the amateur rules. These rules require the registration of every player. His application to the league binds him to faithfully abide by the rules and manfully uphold the purpose of the league. Any violation of these rules either bv a team or an individual is reported by some member of the committee on basket ball in their section, and suspension follows.

Clean sporf in basket ball simply means this: Aim to accord to your opponents the same treatment you expect from them.

While the rules of the games are stringent they are never lived up to by the players unless officials strictly enforce them. It is possible for two men to differ honestly as to their opinion on a certain point, but all such matters should be left to the decision of the captains and the officials, who will settle them in a gentlemanly manner. There is nothing that so thoroughly disgusts an audience as to have a player lose his temper and dictate to his captain and even to the officials. People arc not drawn to a basket ball game to hear a discussion, but to see a fast, clean game minus “hot air.” It leaves a good taste. Unclean sport or dirty ball is almost entirely due to incompetent officials. When the rules are not enforced, roughness and sometimes rowdyism develops. A player who intentially shoulders, trips or strikes an opponent shotdd be suspended at once. Accidents in roughness are likely to happen, but the referee should make it his business to see that they do not happen a second time without suspension. Swearing should never be tolerated. A player should study to keep his temper under the most trying circumstances. It is doubtless provoking to have a foul called when the person is positive he did not commit the offense, but is it sufficiently worth while to delay the game and jangle about it, when it would at the most cost only one point? Every player knows that he is guilty of a dozen fouls in a game which the umpire never sees; why kick when he calls one that you feel was not made? It is a pleasure to sec how amiably some players take it when a foul is called on them. They ask, “What for?” and when the umpire tells them they replv, with a smile, “All right,” and run to the line up for a free throw. Lei us study to be pleasant and courteous in our games as well as at other times.

Digitized by CaOOQte


THE PLAY INSTINCT IN MAN.

IT seems a thousand pities that so tew grown-up people are willing to undergo the toil and tribulation incident to learning how to enjoy themselves at play—play being, in reality, the highest culmination of life; and, indeed, the only part of life worthy of the serious consideration of superior minds. Children, of course, instinctively catch on to how to play-—whether at marbles, tops, hop-scotch, leap frog, or what not. All first-hand impulse, they feel no call to go to Ruskin for the definition that “Play is an exertion of body and mind, made solely to please ourselves, and with no determined end.” Then no spontaneous child ever starts out to’play with a set purpose, training his muscles, getting up an appetite or ridding himself of a fit of blues. He plays for the pure fun of it. because it is “nice and he likes it.” He plavs to please himself, and with no determined end in view. Any definite end, any consideration outside the pleasure of enjoying the sport itself, would spoil everything.

Refore an older person, however, can learn to play—that is with gusto—at any of the maturer games of life—say, football or marriage or the piano or dancing or preaching—he has to work slavishly in some sort of treadmill or other at limbering out all his organs of body and mind. His fingers are stiff, his voice raucous, his motions ungraceful, his intellect sluggish, his imagination of no more power of flight than a barnyard fowl’s apology for wing. Call on him, in pure artistic glee, to write his name on a sheet of glare ice and with an exuberant flourish at the end—call on him to do this, and no pen and ink to do it with, but a pair of rocker skates-and on what feature of the face will the pure, unadulterated delight of spontaneous activity be visible? Indeed, this kind of glacial penmanship demands an apprenticeship in the practice of preliminary pothooks and hangers, quite as tedious and perspiratory as that implied in the old copv-book of schoolboy days.

None the less, it holds fast that until work has been turned into play, spontaneously enjoyed for the pleasure it yields, and with no other end in view than the delight it ministers to ourselves and the sympathetic delight it inspires in onlookers, none of the higher achievements of man in poetry, humorous literature, music, sculpture, painting or religion becomes possible. These arc the native outflow of alf the powers of body and soul acting in harmonious concert. Whether genial, sportive or tranquilizing and* soothing, or mounting and soaring, absolute freedom from strain must characterize them.

Indeed, were it not for the supreme masters, absolutely swept along by the resistless tide of the play’ instinct, and communicating it to the readers or spectators of their works, the earth would be a joyless desert. The delight experienced in watching the grace of the leaps and bounds of a kitten after its ball, and which inspires in every yearning spectator the strain, “I’d like to be a kitten and with the kittens dwell,” is only the lower threshold, the alphabet of the higher and infinitely more complex delight experienced by the appreciative mind in the intellectual, humorous and imaginative leaps and bounds of a great architect, musician, humorist, poet or sculptor playing with equal spontaneity with

Digitized by L^ooQle
—LM.Mi—

his highest themes of life and death, of grief and glee, of love and beauty.

It is worse than idle, however, it is ungrateful, for any so-called idealist to attempt to decry' or to satirize the strictly useful and practicallv necessary works of man; as much so as for the exulting schoolboy, off nutting in the goid and scarlet autumn woods, to pour contempt on the tugging work at grammar and arithmetic he has to elbow down to at the desk.

Holidays, like resplendent autumn woods, are not for every day, but only the glorified seasons of life, to give a blissful foretaste of what heaven must be when tedious works shall be over forever and pure grace shall reign supreme. The trees have got through their long preliminary toil of elaborating and perfecting their fruits and nuts, and now feci entitled to a glorious carnival time of waving banners of scarlet and purple and gold, of no practical use to anything on God’s earth but to the exulting spirit that delights in the splendor and music of color lifted to its zenith. Visibly, the trees are now as happy as human grandparents, reveling in all the felicities, and none of the responsibilities, of their grandchildren, and who at last recognize the divineness of the celestial plan that they should first have been subjected to the bondage of being mere workaday parents, to prepare them, through the moil and care of that lower estate, for the glorious holiday of full-fledged grandparents. Turned out to play, now first they are palpably reaping their reward!

Is it not unspeakingly tragic, then, that the world is so full of men and women who benightledly refuse to undergo the preliminary hard work of learning how to play; of men and women who have not the first inkling in their heads of the purport of the divine saying:	“Except

ve become as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven!” Here arc we, Americans, boasting ourselves as the elect public school people of the world, because about everybody, so we say, knows how to read. About everybody, forsooth! Why, there is not one in a hundred who knows how to read! To read what? Signboards and public placards on the walls? How about reading the works of the supreme holiday spirits of the world, the truer children of the kingdom, at home and at play with the depths and the heights of life, with its beauty, glee, pathos, mystery’ and sublimity? These are no souls to be read witn the aid of mere type and spelling and grammar. They are to be read with the intellect and heart of imagination and with responsive laughter, flowing tears, sparks of exultation, motions of awe. and until these capacities are quickened, deepened and enriched in us we can never hope to read—that is, commune with such minds. They can never play with us till we free their souls from the pathetic lament; “We have piped unto you, and ye would not dance; we have mourned unto you, and ye would not weep.”

In the “Posse Gymnasium Journal ’ we note the announcement of the wedding of H .iron ess Roe Posse (widow of the late baron Neils Posse) to William 'Phaddeus Strong, master at the Kn^lish High School, Poston. Mrs. Strong will continue the work of the Posse Gymnasium.

Digitized by e.ooQle
MInd ftND BODY. ^

Sabneiiptlon Prle«, 91*00 p«r Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Wlacon^n.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PURE AIR IN THE GYMNASIUM.

IN a paper on ‘Public Playgrounds ’ recently read before the Wisconsin State Teachers’ Association we laid particular stress upon the unfavorable hygienic conditions of the indoor kindergarten, as compared with such an institution conducted in the open air, where there is less opportunity to the spreading of contagious diseases j^o prevalent at the tender kindergarten-age, and an almost entire absence of the dangers of a too early schoolroom-confinement.

In an editorial comment hv one of the local pipers the writer was reminded of the similarity of conditions prevailing in the conducting of gymnastic exercises in the various gymnasia and the public schools.

It was claimed that ihe prolongation of the recess time would be preferable to the gymnastic exercises carried on in the schoolrooms, where the air was impure and unwholesome.

Although the compari on was not quite t > the point, inasmuch as the main objection to the school-confinement of the kindergarten pupils is that the latter are below the recognized school age, there is some truth in the statement of our critic.

We do find a great many places where gymnastics are taught under conditions that are absolutely unhygienic: the floor and apparatus covered with dust, the mattresses enormous receptables for dust and dirt, and the air foul and musty.

The same criticism holds good vv th regard to the rooms in the public school, where gvmn tstics are part of the regular s:ho >1 curriculum.

We, too, b-l.eve that it is better to engage in no physical exercises at all than to conduct them in a dusty room which is neither clean nor sufficiently ventilated Basem nt gymnasia must disappear; har 1 wood floors are all-essential. The instructors must insist upon abso ute cleanliness and an abundant supply of fresh air. Where these things cannot be had we are prone to do more harm than good to those entrusted to our ^*are if we still carry on our work.

More than that. We are inv ting such—not always unjust —criticisms on the part of those who do not look upon physical training as an essential factor in education to such an extent as we do.

A QUERY.

Editor Mind and Body.

vSir:	Will you please have your readers give their experiences as to what,

in their opinion, is the best covering material for a public school playground, brick, gravel, granitoid, or what?

Out-of-door games are being advocated so extensively that the finish of the playground needs intelligent consideration—w. a. s.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-298-

WHY THE BUSINESS MAN SHOULD EXERGISE DAILY-

Hy J. S FORD, Physical Direct'-r, Y. M C. A., Knoxville, I’enn.

WITHIN a radius of a mile of the Central Young Men’s Christian Association in Chicago are over 10,000 business men who would be vastly improved in health and capacity for business life by a steady course of training in its gymnasium. Yet the business men’s classes at 12:15 and 5 o’clock in the afternoon show a total of only 325 business men, with an average class attendance of forty-five.

The business man of today does not realize the conditions of his everyday life and how much thev have altered since lie first went into the whirl of business life at the Chicago tension. With his head he is doing the work perhaps of four men, but his body has not the exercise necessary to keep one man in condition. Likely enough he lives in apartments, or if he lives in a city house it offers scarcely more opportunity for outdoor life. He rides to his work. He rides from the ground floor of the office building to the floor level ol his office. At his desk the telephone does the walking of miles upon miles that once would have been necessary for some one. He does not even write, but dictates to a stenographer. He is wearing out his brains and nervous energy while his body is rusting.

REQUIRES SOUND BODY.

Yet the old Greek idea of a sound mind in a sound body holds as good today as it ever did. The sound mind cannot exist long in an unsound body, and the one first necessitv for a sound body is exercise. Dieting, rest, sleep, and the observance of sanitation will do much for many men, but exercise is essential to them all.

The opening paragraph in this article may be taken to indicate that a campaign of education among business men in Chicago is needed on this one subject of exercise. If 10,000 men are suffering from the lack of exercise, perhaps 250,000 are needing it in more or less degree. But how to take this exercise at a time not to interfere with business, and at the same time to get the maximum of benefit from it becomes an interesting proposition.

There are business men who suddenly awake to their need of exercise who have allowed themselves to go too far to avail themselves of the necessity. The first thing exacted of the applicant in this class is that he submit to a heart and lung test. If he has an organic defect of the heart he cannot enter*the class. If his lungs are doubtful he may come in, for they can be helped and put in good condition. The man with the bad heart, however, is too great a risk. In the course of a year over 2 per cent of the applicants are turned away because* of vital weakness, but when a man is accepted as fit for the course, dieting 1m? -eomes one of the first considerations. What does he eat, how often, where, and how, and why? Each man will be a law unto himself in these things. The things that one man may eat with impunity might kill another. FVom cjuestioning we try to get a man’s measure.

DRINK TOO LITTLE WATER.

One of our beliefs here is that most people eat too much food and

Digitized by LjOOQle
-saw-

drink too little water. Where a man comes to us seeking to reduce his weight we ask at once that he cut out the midday luncheon. This is a double hardship to the man who may have taken pleasure from it for years. Not only does he miss the pleasurable sensations of eating, but going back to his work in the afternoon he may suffer from headaches and even nausea for a short time before his stomach gets accustomed to the new regime and a drink of water or some fruit will give him relief. Yet we have many business men here who have left off the midday meal and who would not go back to the custom under any cicumstances.

As a rule, however, the man who would like to reduce his weight is a hard proposition for us. Ordinarily he is close to 40 years old before his flesh becomes troublesome. At that age he has grown more or less methodical in his habits and with his growth of fat, his muscles ordinarily weaken and are indisposed for exercise. His own will frequently is not enough to prompt him to keep to the dieting and the hard work of the class, and he drops out after a few weeks or a few months.

Yet some of the best men I ever knew at the work were fat men. I have in mind a lawyer several years ago who came in weighing just 218 pounds. He went into the work with enthusiasm and he worked at it conscientiously for a full year. One morning he stepped on the scales and called to me to see. He weighed just 218 pounds to an ounce. But what a different man from the flabby person who had come in a year before. Muscles had replaced the incubus of fat and as a man he was feeling in health such as he had not known in twenty years.

About the same time that the lawyer came in we had another applicant who tipped the scales at 250 pounds. He was not promising, but he staid with us and at the end of the year had reduced his weight to 198 pounds. And he is keeping it there, year after year, by systematically applying himself to the work of the gymnasium. Not only is he freed of an incubus of unbecoming fat, but he is in better health than he ever was, he is clearer headed, sleeps better, and in general “feels” good.

This is the philosophy of the Young Men’s Christian Association gymnasium. It has never advocated the piling up of big muscles as the thing to be sought. It has taught exercise as the thing necessary to health and when the man has taken the exercise that is needful to keep him in the best of condition, we consider that he has enough. Ordinarily the business man in the gymnasium spends half an hour there. He may go when he likes, however. When he has left the gymnasium he goes downstairs for his bath, dresses, and may be in the street within fifty minutes of his coming in.

Men in our business men’s classes are between the ages of 25 and 45, for the most part, though one of our most enthusiastic men is sixty-five years old. Coming to us for the benefits of exercise, we find that the business man is not the easiest of patrons to manage. Naturally he has ideas of his own. In most cases he has the entirely erroneous idea that we are to try to put him through a thorough course of physical medicine, over which he is to make a wry face. Just the reverse is true. One of our greatest difficulties is to have him understand that we want

Digitized by CjOOQle
—300—

him to find pleasure in his exerciees; that the element of play must be put into it. Some of our members never knew what play was when they were boys, and it is hard to teach them now. The course will do little good, however, to the man who makes work of it and nothing else. He must develop interest.

BEGINNER LIABLE TO OVERDO.

Again there are men who go in too strong on the play idea, who take up the game that gives them the sport but not the exercise. Ordinarily for a man with soft muscles who comes here 40 }Tears old or more, five or six minutes at the lightest calisthenics is his first work. He is disappointed frequently. If he is a hard headed business man he insists upon more and suffers for it. Sometimes such a man will continue for the full half hour and the next morning will feel so sore in every muscle as hardly to be able to get out of bed. Not infrequently these men never come back. Without regard to advice they have gone ahead and the result is that on that second morning they feel worse than Jthey ever felt before.

The hardest type of man to deal with is the fat man who is nervous. It is not only that he is a hard type of the nervous man. personally, but is hard to fit his exercises to his needs. With a lean man who is nervous we go slow in exercise and build him up; with the fleshy man who is nervous he must work enough to sweat and tear down, and yet not tear down too fast.

I recall a case of a lean nervous man who eight years ago was advised by his physician in Chicago to hurry out to Colorado because of his lungs. The man dit not want to leave the city, and he came here in lieu of the move. Today he is big and hearty, and he is one of our indefatigable workers in the gymnasium. He took his exercises slowly, according to his strength, and built up steadily.

BUSINESS MEN CURE “NERVES.”

Most business men who come for the benefits of training have suffered from their nerves. They have indigestion, have been wakeful at night, and their appetites have been bad. A lack of simple exercise is the trouble in most such cases. They respond readily to the course in the gymnasium. First the patient discovers that his appetite is better than it was; then his sleep is sounder, and he wakes up in the mornings refreshed. He has got some suggestions as to dieting and his stomach does not trouble as it did. The first thing he knows he is feeling unusually well in every way, and when he realizes that exercise has done it all he becomes the most ardent advocate of the gymnasium.

There are Chicago men of business who will say that they have not the time for gymnasium work, and who yet spend an hour over an elaborate luncheon at the club, and taking food into their stomachs which they not only do not need, but which is a detriment to their well-being. There are great possibilities for some of the worn, nervous types who will sacrifice the midday meal and take to the stall bar. and the basket ball, and the calisthenics of the gymnasium.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—101 -

FLAWS IN THE ANTI-BATH ARGUMENT.

By N. S. DAVIS, M. D., LI.. P., Dean Emeritus of Northwestern University Medical School; President of Ninth International Medical Congress.

IS	all bathing of the surface of the human body and extremities injurious and productive of disease? In the Record-Herald of March 4 a writer boldly answers the question in the affirmative and occupies two columns with multiplied assertions in its support. The whole article is based on the following positive and somewhat contradictory statements:

He says: “The skin has but two functions-first, protection; second, heat regulation ” He further states that the skin has no function of respiration or excretion to perform.”

“That part of the skin which is outside is called the false or scarf-skin, and whi’c it has no blood vessels or nerves, it is the true protection of the body.” Such protection he claims to be two-fold, i. e.. first, as a dense mechanical covering of the numerous nerves and blood vessels of the inner layer or true skin, and second, by its capacity to radiate heat more or less actively, as may be required to preserve the natural temperature of the body. “The essentials for heat radiation, he says, “are dryness and compactness” of the scarf-skin, more properly called the cuticle. And yet, in direct contradiction of his first and second assertions quoted above, he admits that “the human skin has another method of throwing off heat which it uses when radiation cannot be accomplished quickly enough, and that is by sweating. The sweat glands act as safety valves. * * * Sweating, therefore, indicates the inability of the surface skin to properly radiate the heat.” Surely then the skin confessedly has a third function, 1. e., sweating, ever ready to supplement that of radiation in regulating the the temperature of the body by evaporation of water constantly transuding through the pores of the skin either in visible drops, called sweat, or in slower minuter particles called “insensible perspiration,” oecause neither visible to the eye nor perceptible to the touch.

* # *

After thus admitting that the skin has sweat glands as “safety valves,” the writer further states that the skin secretes an oily substance that renders it soft and protects it from germ growths, while other fatty or gummy materials are found in its pores.

Still he insists that its outer layer must be kept dry and compact, or its radiating power is impaired and more sweating is induced. And he adds, “The more sweating the more filth there is in and on the surface of the skin, and vice versa,” and repeats, “He who bathes has a filthy skin because he has made out of it a sewer of the body.” But if sweating or simple bathing converts the skin into a sewer for the discharge of filth, it must possess a fourth function called excretory, for only excretions could render the surface filthy. And yet when from summer heat or other unavoidable cause we are obliged to sweat, instead of washing off the excreted filth and cooling the surface with clean water we should dry it with “dusting powder” and put on clean clothes. But a man obliged to work on an ordinary summer day would need the attendance of a servant with one box of dusting powder and another of clean clothes, and when evening came the dusted man would be in excellent condition for exhibition in a dime museum

The foregoing constitutes only a part of the ludicrous and contradictory assertions contained in the article under consideration, but they must suffice. The whole article is written on the assumption that the skin or cutaneous covering of the body serves no other natural or useful purposes than as a mechanical covering or protection for the blood vessels and nerves in and beneath it, and as a regulator of the temperature of the body by simple heat radiation through its external layer or cuticle, which radiating power depends wholly on the drvness and compactness of that layer, and that all applications of water for ordinary washing or bathing so scar and injure said layer that both its protective and heat radiating functions are seriously impaired and the health of the individual put in jeopardy. Consequently the writer strongly condemns all

Digitized by U.ooQle
bathing or applications of water to the cutaneous surface, and recommends instead the application of “dusting powder” and a daily supply of clean clothes.

There is nothing in the article indicating that its author has any knowledge of* such a function of the skin as insensible perspiration, or of any active or highly important reflex influence on the action of the kidneys and on all the metabolic and atomic changes in the tissues and secreting organs of the body. In truth, however, these constitute the most important functions of the skin, and exert far more influence in regulating temperature and preserving health than the mere heat radiating functions of the cuticle or so-called scarf-skin. The latter, in fact, has been shown by direct experiments to amount to very little, the ordinary regulation of the temperature of the body being far more under the influence of a constant insensible perspiration or excretion from the cutaneous surface.

* # *

That such an excretion or perspiration is constantly taking place from the skin of living persons in health was fully demonstrated by Sanctorius of Venice three centuries ago, and has been confirmed since by Liebermeister, Remboldt and a score of others. Its amount varies with the variations in the temperature of the individual’s surroundings. When quiet, with the surrounding air comfortable, i. e., between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, the perspiration is completely vaporized as fast as it reaches the surface, and therefore is neither visible to the eye nor perceptiible to the touch, and consequently is called insensible jitrspira-tion. By thus passing from the fluid to the vaporized condition it actively absorbs and conveys away the excess ol heat constantly being evolved in the living body. But if the body heat is increased either by muscular exercise or higher temperatuie of the atmosphere the perspiration also increases faster than it can vaporize and then gathers in drops of moisture on the surface, and is called sensible perspiration or sweat. When in the insensible form it leaves the skin apparently dry. Sanctorius found that the amount passing from the surface of an ordinary adult person in twenty-four hours was equal to from twenty-five to thirty fluid ounces. The correctness of this has been fully verified by several more recent investigators, and accurate chemical analyses ha ve shown that the perspired fluid or vapor was composed of 98 per cent water and 2 per cent solids, composed of chloride of sodium, fatty acids, neutral fats and cholesterin. One of the most recent authorities says: “The function of the skin is to protect the subjacent parts, to regulate the body temperature, and to throw off carbon dioxide, water and other excreta,” the “other excreta” meaning the solid constituents of the perspiration just named.

* • #

It is thus shown that water in the form of either sensible or insensible perspiration is always present in contact with living healthy human skin, and instead of scarring or injuring the cuticle or scarf-skin, as claimed in the article under consideration, it is the chief agent in the proper regulation of the temperature, and at the same time is the vehicle of exit for important excreta.

Neither does ordinary washing or bathing in simple water or even soap and water disintregate or injure the cuticle or outer layer of the skin, but it simply washes away the loose or exfoliating scales together with such other dirt as may have been present. And if after the washing or bathing the surface is wiped with ordinary towels or napkins it is left clean, smooth and unbroken. Ii the water used for bathing is not more than ten degrees below the natural temperature of the human body it does not materially alter the body temperature or anv of the internal functions, but simply cleanses the surface and leaves a soothing, comforting impression on the cutaneous nerves. If the water for bathing is reduced in temperature below 70 F., constituting a cold bath, it causes the blood vessels of the surface to shrink, thereby crowding more blood into the internal organs and increasing their activity; while the body temperature decreases, not only while the bath continues, but for an hour after the bath ceases, owing to increased evaporation from the surface during that time. On the other hand, i( the temperature of the bath is increased to 100 F. or more, constituting a hot bath, the blood vessels of the surface dilate, more exudation takes place, but the body temperature increases until the bath is discontinued. It is thus seen that through its vascular and nervous connections with all the

Digitized by y-ooQle
—303—

internal organs, the reflex function of the skin is not less important as a means of preserving health than that of heat regulation.

# * *

This is most easily appreciated by noting the influence of both cold and hot bathing on the activity of the kidneys, lungs and heart. A cool or moderately cold bath either bv immersion or sponging, while reducing the body heat, notably increases the action of the kidneys, the force of the contractions of the heart, and the depth of the respiratory movements. Thus when the action of the heart is feeble and the respirations inefficient, as in threatened syncope or nervous shock, nothing so quickly restores both respiration and circulation as the sudden application of a sponge or towel to the skin wet in cold water. So, too. if a temporary cool sponge bath is applied to the skin every morning and evening it not only increases the action of the kidneys and lungs, but also of all the other secretor}’ and excretory functions, and by habituating the nerves of the skin to cold impressions it renders the individual less liable to colds from sudden atmospheric changes and increases the vital resistance to attacks of all acute diseases. Hot water or vapor baths, however, dilate the blood vessels, relax the tissues generally and render the system more sensitive to atmospheric changes and more liable to attacks of disease. But not even the frequent use of hot water or vapor baths removes or scars the cuticle or scarf-skin, as claimed in the article under consideration, unless they are accompanied by unnessarily harsh friction with rough napkins and crash towels.

* * #

We live in an age of extremes, when all sanitary measures are liable to abuse, and baths constitute no exception, especially those forms known as Turkish, Russian and hot air baths. Neither in writing does there appear any limit to the use of positive assertions without proof, as the two specimens following from the article before us show. Thus in one place the writer says: “To be clean is to remain dry; to be dirty is to sweat. To be clean is Jiot to bathe, but to keep clean clothes. To be filthy is to bathe and make of the skin a sewer, for sewage is the real dirt.” In another place, the clothing paragraph of the article, the writer asks with emphasis: “But what are the dangers of bathing?” and gives the following singular answer: “In the recent Iroquois Theater disaster some 600 people lost their lives. It was a terrible calamity, but within the last two months in the same city as many people have lost their lives from pneumonia. In every instance, save those of alcoholic origin, the disease might be traced to water as the cause—water from within or without, causing the pores to be opened and much heat eliminated.”

• Here is a strong, unqualified statement that every fatal case of pneumonia occuring in this city during the two months not of alcoholic origin was caused by the use of water either within or without, by which the pores were kept open and much heat eliminated. But where is his proof? Had he visited all the pneumonic decedents or their families and thereby ascertained their habits regarding the use of water both internally and externally? Of course not; and there are no reliable statistics touching that question. Besides here in the last lines of the paper we have directly associated together a wet surface, open pores and much heat elimination; when at its beginning it was asserted that the skin had no function of excretion, but regulated the body temperature solely by heat radiation through the false or scarf-skin, and that “the essentials for heat radiation are dryness and compactness” of that outer layer. Verily, consistency is a jewel.

COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

William H. P. Faunee, President of Brown University, writing in The World Today for October, speaks strongly in regard to the lax morality associated with college athletics because of the efforts to prevent professionalism.” He says: “The rules offered the finest possible field for casuistry and hair-splitting. With student conscience behind them they would have remedied the evil, but that conscience did not insist on literal enforcement. What is “indirect compensation”? If the students secure for one of their number an opportunity to earn

Digitized by CjOOQle
-304-

money by working in a store in the evening, doing this out of friendship (and friendship may be based on athletic affinity)—is that “indirect compensation”' If a senior take an athletic freshman to room with him without exacting payment of room rent, is that “indirect compensation”? Can any authorities forbid such a deed of charity ? If an alumnus engages an athletic sophomore to work for him during the summer at market rates, who can object? But how if the interest of the alumnus is based wholly on the expectation of future athletic distinction? No theological casuistry of the 16th century was ever more subtle or specious than that which college sport has produced. If the senior can not pay tne freshman in any other way, he makes with him some preposterous wager and loses it. Thus the money has changed hands, but it cannot be shown to be compensation tor skill. The rules are regularly circumvented and faculties are outwitted with keen enjoyment. Sometimes the student, refusing the money himself, orders it sent to his father or brother. Why should we use soft words when facing such goods? We are living in a time when college athletics are honeycombed with falsehood, and when the professions of amateurism are usually hypocrisy. No college team ever meets another toda\' with actual faith in the other’s eligibility.

CONSTRUCTIVE WORK.

In manual training of all kinds, as with all other school work, the most important point for the teacher to consider is the motive. Constructive work at present, generally speaking, bears about the same relation to hand work of the highest educational value that the old-time object-lesson bore to true nature-study. Object-lessons were introduced for the purpose of awakening and training the senses that slumbered and slept through the book regime of the schools. It was supposed, at first, that almost any object would serve the purpose. Later it was discovered chat any attempt at sense-training which does not take into account the whole mind is vanity; it was further found out that the first demand of the mind is motive. Without a clearly defined and thoroughly understood motive, it always refuses to give its best. And this is as true for the little child as it is for the adult.

Manual training came into the schools as an attempt to resuscitate and train the motor activities of the pupils that were all but atrophied through lack of use. The pupils were set to cutting and carving on the theory that any kind of movement would serve. But teachers are learning that one muscular movement directed toward a worthv end that is thoroughly appreciated is worth a thousand of the same kind that have no soul behind them. That is, that physical training, the development of the motor activities, is as much a matter of mind as it is of body. It is a matter of both, one and inseparable. And. again, the first demand of the mind is for motive.

The purpose must be direct. In using a saw on a piece of timber the end is not to grow muscle, nor is it to develop character: it is to cut wood. If, when cut, it serves no purpose that is thoroughly appreciated, then the educative value of the work is of low grade. Nobody but a sick man or a child under compulsion ever goes through bodily motions, simply for the purpose of budding up his body; just as nobody but a moral degenerate would go about hunting for opportunities to be honest simply for the purpose of developing in himself a fine moral character. Agassiz did not study because he desired to develop himself mentally, but because he wanted to know more about fishes. Newton

Digitized by Google
lid not sit up nights simply to acquire mathematical skill, but to find >ut something about the heavenly bodies.- To fix the attention of the >u pil upon himself, by setting up the self-development or skill, is :o train in him the insufferable egotism as certainly as though we perpetually praised his neckties and his curls.

The true end, the end which alone can inspire to healthy action, is to be found only in the purpose which the object can serve when it is completed. The object should be worth something because it can do something that somebody would like to have done. Apply this test, and it will rule out much of the handwork that now exists merely because it is fantastic and novel. Train the pupil to apply this test to his work and then do not worry about the development of his motor activities or his moral character.—w. s. j.

SHOULD WOMEN RIDE ASTRIDE?

Loudon Health thus empirically answers this question in the affirmative:

'Where one woman shoots, fishes, or sails a thousand ride on horseback, and these are exposed under present conditions to dangers which should be avoided. A woman should bestride a horse precisely as a man rides.

We have often called attention to the danger of the ordinary sidesaddle—to the fact that the woman is wholly dependent upon her saddle-girths, and in case of accident is absolutely without control over her <>Wn motions. She can cling firmly to her saddle, but this is all she can do. If anything goes wrong with the saddle, if the girth bursts, a strap breaks, a buckle tongue pulls out, and so the saddle becomes loose, it is impossible for the woman either to remedy the mischief or to jump clear and free of the saddle, and take her chance of a fall. On the other hand, the man or the woman who rides astride is free. If the accident to the saddle is slight, the rider is still able to cling to the horse from thigh to ankle; or if the horse cannot be ridden, then the rider is free to roll off or jump off with an even chance of striking the ground feet first; while the woman who falls from, or with, the side-saddle, is almost certain to strike the ground on her head.

These arguments have been so frequently insisted on that they have become familiar, and it is well that they have become so, for they have appealed strongly to the hard common sense of many American women. In a certain Western state, an editorial in Forest and Stream <>n this subject converted all the young women of a county from riders of side-saddles to riders of men’s saddles. Two or three young women, standing high in the social life of the community, grasped the force of the reasoning, adopted the cross-saddle, and were followed in the fashion which they set by practically all the women riders in the county. Riding in this fashion, they used to chase coyotes with gray hounds, and had many fine races.

Within the last few years the practice of riding a man’s saddle has been extensively taken up in cities like Boston, New York and Chicago. Some women had the courage to adopt this fashion long ago, and more

Digitized by CjOOQle
and more of them are doing it. It is not making a rash prediction to say that their numbers will constantly increase. Practically all the little girls now seen riding in New York ride astride, as their brothers do, and as they grow up many of them will still cling to this sensible fashion. One of the best woman cross-country riders in the United States has adopted it wholly on the ground of its greater safety and greater comfort. The fashion is especially recommended to those who by necessity or by choice ride in rough countries or fast.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools, f Continued. V

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Rider Ball.” As a preliminary a short run, during which time raise lower legs backw. alt.; raise extended legs forw. alt.; raise knees forw. alt.; each a given number of counts, say sixteen to twenty-four counts or steps. The entire class turn 1. face and run forw. (if the class is very large form ranks of twos by turning 1. face from a flank line in successive order); then both lines turn 1. face after all have been formed, the second line to remain about four feet in the rear of the first; again turn 1. or now 1. about face and run forw. to opposite side of the gymnasium ; then turn r. face, etc , and r. about face as above. Also run backw. and turn 1. or r. about face.

Note.—This last change may confuse some members in the start, but they soon learn the same.

After all have taken dumbbells, form a front line, then count off by fours (or sixes) and form ranks of fours (or sixes) 1. oblique (in front of 1. flanker), then open order forw. to two steps distance and turn 1. (or r.) face, the class now in pos. for the drill.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

1.	Toe-touch 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Raise 1. knee forw. and move arms ovcrli.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—41 Same r.—o, 8!

2.	Bend knees and place dumbbells on shoulders—1 ! Extend 1. leg sidew.- to beudkneestep and arms outvv. (sidew.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—3, 8 !

3.	Jump to stride pos. sidew. (outw.) and raise arms forw. overh.—l! Bend trunk forw., lower arms forw. and between the legs—2! As 1—3! Pos -4!

4.	Bend knees and place dumbbells on shoulders—1 ! Extend 1. leg backw. to beudkneestep and arms upvv.—2! As I—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—3, 8 !

3.	Jump to stride pos. outw. (sidew ) and raise arms forw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—I!

<>. Lower to squat rest, dumbbells on floor (arms between knees)—1! Extend knees and hips backw. to front leaning rest—2! Turn trunk

1.	and move 1. arm sidew. (in upvv. direction)—3! As 2—4! Turn trunk r. and move r. arm sidew. (in upw. direction)—3! As 2—6! As 1-7! Pos.-8!

Digitized by LnOOQle
- 307-

Class inarch forw., the rows countermarch 1. to farther end of the gymnasium and again countermarch 1. to starting pos. Repeat r., and—halt! Turn 1. lace and ranks now countermarch I. and r. to starting pos., and— halt!

Front—face!

7.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. arid raise arms outw.—1! Vi turn 1. on heels, kneel on r. knee, move arms forw. and meet dumbbells—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alternately—1, 8!

8.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Bendkneestep backw. 1., bend trunk forw., lower arms and dumbbells touch the floor—2! Lunge sidew. 1., bend trunk sidew. r., bend 1. arm to semi-circle overh. and r. arm on back—3! Pos.—4f Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

9.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Stride pos. backw.

1.	and move arms to backw. downw. obi.—2! Leap forw., swing

1.	leg forw., V2 turn r., close heels in the flight to half bentknee pos. and move arms forw. overh.—3! Extend knees and lower arms forw. to starting pos.—4! Repeat three times. Same opposite four times.

In front leaning rest!

10.	Bend and extend the arms as often as possible. Pos.—stand!

11.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale and lower arms forw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 4 to Htimes.

Turn 1. face, close ranks forw., then fours (or sixes) 1. oblique to a front line, 1. (or r.) face and march forw., deposit dumbbells and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Side horse and climbing poles.

Second “ Climbing poles and side horse.

Third	“	Long horse and high horizontal bar.

Fourth	“	High horizontal bar and long horse.

First Division.—Side Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to front rest and feint with I. leg, then flank swing r. to side seat on croup; flank swing backw. to half bentknee pos. on board and immediately flank vault 1.

2.	As ex. 1, but feint with both legs over croup, then flank vault swing backw. to flank vault 1. (over neck) with Vi turn 1.

3.	Jump to front rest and 14 circle r. with 1. leg; then 14 circle r. with r. leg and feint 1. with both legs (over neck); rear vault swing backw. (horizontally) and rear vault 1. (over croup) with or without V2 turn r.

4.	Jump to front rest and 14 flank swing r. to front rest; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg and scissorrs sidew. r.; then scissors sidew. 1. to feint 1. (the 1. hand to be lifted and replaced immediately after the r. leg swings backw. over neck, the 1. leg on the outside of 1. arm); swing backw. with 1. leg and triple rear vault 1. (over neck).

Note.—Repeat all movements on opposite side.

3.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on climbing poles.

Digitized by Google
—.‘>08—

First Division.—Climbing Foies (two).

Noth.—Two members exercise simultaneously on four poles.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang; pull up (bend arms); extend arms, and down. Repeat once.

2.	As ex. 1, to bent arm hang.—Raise lower legs backw.; raise knees forw.; lower knees to former pos.; lower lower legs; extend arms, and down.

*». As ex. t, to bent arm hang.—Swing both legs forw. and backw. 4 to 6 times, and down at last backw. swing.

4.	Jump to bent arm hang and climb upw. by the hands only (1. and r. hand alternately) to upper end; then move both hands simultaneously in descending.

5.	As ex. 4, but move Doth hands simultaneously in climbing upw. and descend by moving 1. and r. hands alternately.

Step backw. as far as possible grasping lower end of poles.

<>. Run forw., jump to bent arm hang at the end of the front swing; swing backw. in this pos., and down at the end of the backw. swing. Repeat twice.

7.	As ex. 6, but continue the swinging with moving both hands upw. simultaneously at every front swing until 2/s of the height has been reached, then descend in reverse order.

8.	As ex. 7, but move both hands upw*. simultaneously at the egd of every backw. swing, etc.

0.	As ex. 6, but move the hands at every forw. and backw. swing, etc.

10.	Jump to straight arm hang, raise extended legs upw. and extend

hips to back hang; slowly lower backw. to rear lever, then farther to back hang; % turn over forw.. hold legs at r. angle, then lower legs, and down.

Second Division.—Climbing Poles (two).

Repeat the exercises of the first division.

Change place with the first division on the side horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements.

Second Division.—Side Horse (height of chest).

1.	Jump to horizontal free rest, spread legs	wide	sidew.	and lower	to

half bent knee pos. on board, then squat	vault	forw.

2.	As ex. 1, but lower to straddle pos. on the	horse;	lower	to	half

bent-knee pos. on board and squat vault	forw.	with V2 turn	1.

3.	Jump to horizontal free rest and straddle vault forw.

4.	Straddle vault forw. to rear rest; squat vault backw. to half l>ent

knee pos. on the board and rear vault r.	or 1.

0.	As ex. 4, but hold legs tbrw.	at r. angle;	squat backw.	to front	rest;

straddle vault forw.

G.	Straddle vault forw. with V*	and ¥2 turn	I. (r.).

7.	As ex. (>, but raise the horse	two or three inches	alter	every	jump

for height.

Third Division —Long Horse (height of chest.)

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to momentary front rest and straddle forw. with U turn I.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— :WH>-

(the moment the hands have been lifted) to cross rest in the saddle with 1. leg forvv.; serew dismount forw. 1. with Vi turn 1.

2.	As ex. 2, but r. leg forw., 1. baekw. (eross straddle mount sidew. r.);

0 screw mount forw. r. {% turn r. to riding seat on neck); swing

both legs baekw. to momentary free front rest and down with Vi turn r. to half bent-knee pos.

3.	As ex. I, to side leaning rest; lower to cross-rest (r. leg forw.) on neck; scissors sidew. 1., then sidew. r. and down with Vi turn 1. to front cross stand, hands on neck.

-4-. As ex. 2, to side leaning rest; lower to momentary front rest and flank vault 1. (over croup).

3.	Front scissors mount to front leaning rest (V2 turn 1.); rear vault 1. (over croup).

Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

0.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the fourth division on the high horizontal bar.

Third Division. High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang, hands in ordinary grasp, and —

1.	Raise knees, ankles to bar; squat baekw. and lower legs to back hang; turn forw. and squat forw., then extend legs upw.; lower forw. with extended legs to hang, and down.

2.	Raise knees, ankles to bar; extend legs upw. and front hip circle baekw. to front rest; lower baekw. with knees raised forw. to full extension of the arms; extend legs forw. to r. angle, then lower slowly to hang, and down.

3.	As ex. 1, to back hang; turn forw., squat forw. and extend legs upw.; circle 1. leg under bar to knee hang outside of 1. hand and Vi knee circle forw.; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg to front rest ; raise both legs baekw. to momentary free rest, then lower again and front hip circle baekw. (once around); underswing, and down.

4-. Short swing forw., baekw. and again forw.; with a jerk pull up to dip rest 1.; turn to the front and with the aid of the r. arm push up to straight arm front rest; V2 circle r. with 1 leg, then V2 circle 1. with the r. leg to rear rest; lower baekw. slowly to back hang (head down); lower baekw. slowly to back hang (feet down); release grasp of r. hand, Vi turn 1., regrasp bar with r. hand, and down.

f>. Raise knees, ankles to bar; squat baekw, with 1. leg and lower to knee hang between hands while the r. leg extends upw.; lower r. leg to get a start, then forw. and % knee circle baekw. to cross rest; Vi circle baekw. with extended legs, (crotch circle); V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest; lower forw.-slightly to rest on hips, then rear hi]) circle baekw., and down.

Note.—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

<». An exercise free for all.

Fourth Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang, hands in ordinary grasp.

1. Long swing forw. and baekw., three or four times, and down at the end of the last baekw. swing.

Digitized by (^.ooqLc
Oi

310

2.	As ex. 1, and raise the 1. or r. hand alternately, and immediately regrasp the bar; at the end of every backw. swing with the one hand, at the next with the other.

3.	At the 1. end of the bar, long swing and travel sidew. r. Move the r. hand first, then follow with the 1. at the end of the backw. swing. As ex. 3, but move both hands simultaneously.

As ex. 2, but when regrasping the bar place the 1. hand on the outside of the r. hand (forearms crossed); swing backw. and forw.. then replace 1. hand to first pos. Repeat.

6.	Without a swing.—-Raise knees, ankles to bar; squat backw. and lower to back hang (feet down); return in reverse order, and down.

7.	Raise knees, ankles to bar; spread and circle both legs under bar to double knee hang outside of the hands; release grasp and lower body to double knee hang, then, with the assistance of one of the members, swing forw. and backw. several times, and down at the last backw. (seemingly forw.) swing.

8.	Pull up as often as possible, (hands in reverse grasp.)

9.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the third division on the long horse.

Fourth Division.—Long Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault mount forw. to riding seat in the saddle (the hands are placed on the croup momentarily and placed in the rear of the hips simultaneous with the mount); rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

2.	As ex. 1, to riding seat; M turn 1. to cross-rest; screw dismount forw. 1. with ^,4 turn 1.

3.	As ex. 2, but V\ turn 1. to cross rest upon mounting (as in ex. 1. third division); screw dismount forw. with V2 turn 1. to half bent knee pos. (hands on horse); wolf vault mount 1. (r. squat rest, 1. leg extended and foot on neck); stand erect, extending r. leg to straddle pos.; dismount forw.

4.	As ex. 3, to side leaning rest; dismount backw. to half bent-knee pos. and immediately flank vault I. (over croupb

5.	As ex. 4, to side leaning rest; lower with *4 turn r. to riding seat on neck, place hands in front; swing both legs back to a front leaning rest; straddle vault dismount forw. with or without V\ turn 1.

<>. As ex. 5, but with V2 turn 1. to front leaning rest; lower to riding seat on neck, place hands in rear of hips; front scissors; place hands in front; swing both legs backw. and immediately straddle dismount forw. with or V2 turn 1

7.	Jump to squat rest on croup; extend body forw. to momentary front leaning rest and squat vault forw.

8.	Try.—Jump to momentary free rest on neck and straddle vault forw. (The leader to offer assistance by standing near the neck of the horse if needed).

Noth.—Repeat all movements I. and r. whenever possible.

9.	A11 exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Rider Ball.” After con* elusion of the game, clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)
-311-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—	Mr. H. Ballin, who was formerly the managing editor of <:Mjnd and Body’* and who for some time afterward q»iii the teaching of gymnastics, has now returned to his old love. He is now in charge of the classes of the S >uth-wark Turn erein in Philadelphia, Pa.

—	Our friend William Reuter recently celebrated his 25th anniversary as physical director of the Davenporr, la., Tumgemeinde and of the public schools of that city. Our heartiest congratulations.

We acknowledge receipt of a large number of programs and announcements of exhibitions held during the Christmas holidays.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the hook* mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co.f Milwaukee.)

—We take pleasure in announcing that beginning with this issue the Book Review Department is conducted by a contributor well known all over the country as an authority on the literature of physical training. He is not a member of the editorial committee.

On account of the lack of time required for familiarizing one’s self with all new publications that are sent us we were not always in position to do justice to the authors. We rejoice to be able now to promise better service in this department.

—La Gymnastique Utilitairb: Sauvetage, Defense, Locomotion. Par Pierre De Coubertin. Paris, F61ix Alcan, 1905. 774x4% in., 14+154 pages. Price 2 fr. 50.

Baron de Coubertin, who dedicates his book to President Roosevelt, would utilize the sporting instinct in order to induce men to take needful exercise, and to make them self-reliant and able to command the respect of others. He would have boys of the ages of 15 to 19, after they have been trained by general gymnastics in the schools, put through a systematic course of “useful gymnastics,’’ to give them an elementary knowledge of certain means of rescue, defense and locomotion. Under these three heads he includes such exercises as running, jumping, climbing and throwing; swimming and diving; wrestling, boxing, fencing with the foil, single-stick, and broadsword; shooting at a fixed and moving target; marching, and riding on horseback; the use of the bicycle, automobile, row- and sailboat, etc. Each of these is treated in some detail, with practical suggestions. Other chapters discuss the lesson-plan, teacher and gymnasium, public exercises, the maintenance in later life of benefits acquired, and other related subjects.

—Gegenwart und Zukunft der koerperlichen Erziehung. Ein universal-padagogishcr Formversuch von Director Franz Kem6ny in Budapest. Berlin, Gerdes & Hoedel, 1904. 994x6i/2 in., 91 pages. Price Mk. 1.20.

The author seeks to arrive at a real philosophy of physical education; to distinguish between its apparent and actual, its essential and incidental aims, and to determine its r61e and share in education as a whole. He points out the one-sidedness of modern athleticism, and the tendency to look upon physical training as an end in itself, instead of making a three-fold training of manhood. He contrasts sport with formal gymnastics, indicating the present evil effects of the former on body and morals, and certain errors and excesses noticed in its practice. He would secure all-round excellence rather than record-breaking performance in one narrow field, would make more “natural” forms of sport, and would choose varieties which help to develop power of physical, mental, and moral resistance and lead to a long, wholesome, and happy life.

—Lessons in Physical Training, prepared by Win. A. Stecher, Director of Physical Training in the Public Schools of Indianapolis, Indiana. Indianapolis, 1904. 894x57s in., 40 pages.

The bulk of this pamplilet is occupied with free exercises to be taught by the

Digitized by c.ooQle


class teacher in the g\'mnasiutn, assembly hall, or corridor, or out-of-doors. For grades I-V there are free exercises proper, arranged with seven exercises in a lesson and ten lessons for each grade. For grades VI, VII and VIII there are wand, dumbbell, and Indian club exercises respectively, similarly arranged. An introduction of four pages treats of the why and wherefore, disposition ol the class, commands, manner of execution, new lessons and abbreviations, and give> lists of apparatus for games, for track and field exercises, and for indoor am; outdoor gymnastics, and another of games suitable for each of the eight school grades. On the last page are four ‘ compensatory drills,” or sets o4 exercises to be used after long sitting or after straining mental work.

—Song-Roundel and Games. By Henry Suder, Supervisor of Physical Culture in the Chicago Schools. Chicago, published by the Board of Education, 1904 8%x6V2 »n., 9+63 pages, with illustrative figures.

The book is intended to popularize the systematic playing of games, and t>> serve as a guide for instructors who are called upon to supervise, direct, anil introduce them in the gymnasium or on the playground. It contains a varietv of selected and original song games, roundels (the German “Reigen”) accompanied with vocal music; competitive games, including some suitable for clasv room, others which requires wands, dumbbells, bean bags, and balls, and a lew-running games; antagonistic games, with and without apparatus; and class games. The material is systematically arranged, and to some extent the game^ have been graded. Music for the songs is supplied, and there are figures indicating the movements of individuals in the roundels and in certain of the games.

—The Medical Inspection of Schools, a Problem in Preventive Medicine. Bv Lewis S. Somers, M. D. Reprinted from The Medical News o: January 17, 1903, and published for gratuitous distribution to the medical pro fession by the Maltine Co., Brooklyn, N. Y. 7x4V£ in., 54 pages.

This paper was awarded the second prize in competition for the best essa\ on Preventive Medicine. After tracing the spread of daily medical inspection o schools in this country since the practice was inaugurated in Boston ten years ago, and pointing to what is now done in various cities, Dr. Somers dwells on the importance of such inspection, to the child, the school, and the community, indicates the nature of the results already secured, tells how to organize an efficient system, outlines the duties of inspectors, and describes the different diseased and other abnormal conditions which may be encountered.

—The Duties of the School Teacher in the Combat of Tuberculosis as a Disease of the Masses, by S. A. Knopf, M. D. 778x5Vi in., 22 pages.

A lecture delivered before the Teachers’ College of Columbia University, New Y'ork City, February 25, 1903; revised and enlarged for publication in American Medicine July 11, 1903 (Vol. VI, pp. 65—72), and reprinted from that periodical The position of the author as a recognized leader in the modern warfare against tuberculosis, and the nature of the audience for which this paper was originally prepared, suggest sufficiently the great practical value of its contents tor ever;, layman at all interested in the subject under discussion, and for the teacher o: physical training in particular.

-Seventy-fifth Annual Report of the Public Schools of Cincinnati for the School Year ending Aug. 31, 1904. Printed by order of the Board. 9ie inches, 125 pages.

In the reports of the President and the Superintendent of Schools (pages 8 and 31) there are brief references to the work of the Department of Physical Train ing, of which Dr. Carl Ziegler is Superintendent. Page 75 gives the program o* the department, and page 114 a list of the teachers.

—The Stout Training Schools for the Preparation of Manual Training Teachers, Domestic Science Teachers and Kindergarten Teachers. Under the Management of the Board of Education, Menominee, VVis. News Print, 1904 9x5% in., 48 pages, with 18 illustrations from photographs.

The courses described in this circular of information for the school year 1904 1905 represent a recent enlargement in the work of the Stout Manual Training School, for which a building was erected and equipped by the Hon. J. H. Stout in order, originally, to provide facilities for a complete system of manual training, which should be available to the public school children of Menominee.

Digitized by

Google


Anthropometric Chart.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.a DIRECTOR,

Oftcrs

A	Two Years' Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

jl Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical	.

H. Summer Course	German

Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

* New Haven, Conn.

(Arranged for the Use in Gymnasia and Higher Schools.)

BY

FRANZ PFISTER, M. D.

PRICE : Per Hundred $2.00; per Dozen 25 Cents Address:

FKEIDBNKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wls.

Anyone sending a sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an invention is probablv patentable. Communica-tions strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest apency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn A Co. receive tpecial notice, without charge, In the

Scientific American.,

A handsomely illustrated weekly. largest circulation of any scientific: Journal. Terms, $8 a year; four months, $L Sold by all newsdealers.

Suns sca”’?r--New m

Rraaoh Offloa. 825 F 8t* Washington, D. C.

if TTXST ©TXT 1

THEORY

FENCING WITH THE FOIL

IN FORM OF a catechism.

BY

GEO. HETNTZ, SR.

Assistant Master of the Sword at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. ——MPrioe, 25 Centi.^—

Freidenker Publishing Coc\o Herold Building, Milwaukee, IVis.

•i *

Digitized by L.ooQle
H

	Gymnasium.
WS9	Outfitters. * *



Apparatus. X-OcHszexs. 3Pla/57-g;x©TjLXxd.

-A.ppaxa,tUL3-33©T*rlixxgr A-lle37’3,

A-xxtlxxopoxxxetxic

-A.ppa,xa,tnjLS.

WK1TE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE. R. I.. U. S. A.

THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd.,

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years’ course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address ____________________VV.	L.	SAVAGE,	A.	M.,	M.	D.,	President.

Curtiss'Hand Book of Graded Gymnastics.

By F. HOMER CURTISS, University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

“I have looked it over with considerable care and I pronounce it excellent. From a practical standpoint I know nothing that compares with it. The illustrations illustrate and do not encroach up on the text; the verbal matter is clear and concise and its order is con-stTuctive; the gymnastic exercises are arranged with excellent judgment as to their relative values and the grouping for the days* orders will be helpful to many teachers. I congratulate you most heartily.**	Dr.	Jay	W.	Seavkrs,

President Chautauqua School of Physical Education. “I am much pleased with the book. It will be of great service to me.**

S. E Swan beck, Sec*y-Treas. Cleveland Physical Education Association.

Digitized by

Google