

U®B-&1



MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26

MAY, 1919

No. 279

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING Comdau^TT ===

_	'■uml'ANY,	New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE'	~~~—: . :

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools t i ^

EMIL RATH. Normal Colleee. Indiananolis	’	1	^ke Clty. Utah-

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark M t CAia L. SCBRADER =. . H.™* Uni™*,. clwl

WM

• *■ stecher.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER T5 W j h--

St., Gennantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be’maHpt a11801* Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post of ice at New Ulm Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O-

I

I

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

A SYNOPSIS OF THE COURSE IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE PUBLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS OF ST. LOUIS, MO.

By A. E. KINDERVATER, B. S. G.

Supervisor of Physical Education, St. Louis, Mo.

Introduction.

This course of study in Physical Training was carefully outlined by a special committee of supervisors, principals and teachers selected and appointed by the Superintendent. The collecting, arranging, and grading of the material for practical use is the collaboration of the Supervisor of Physical Training and his grade school assistants. Much time and care was given to the selecting and arranging of the material with special emphasis upon ntting the same into the various conditions and equipment of our scnoo s as well as to the seasons of the year. The correct and caret £ application of this material should without doubt accomplis purpose for which it is intended, namely, to develop healthy c and make them physically efficient.

Digitized by 000^1^
98

The Aim.

The aim of physical education in the elementary school is through a proper course in physical activities and instruction in hygiene,

First: To foster the development of such physical qualities as health, strength, quickness, skill, endurance, good posture, and grace;

Second: To contribute what it can toward the development of such mental and moral qualities as alertness, initiative, quick and accurate response, courage, co-operation, courtesy, self-subordination, loyalty, sense of fairness, perseverance, good sportsmanship, honesty, comradeship, leadership, and democratic spirit;

Third: To give stimulus to, interest and ability in, and to establish habits of indoor and outdoor physical recreation for leisure hours in later life.

These ends are to be realized chiefly by providing physical activities which give opportunity for the expression of the play instincts of childhood. These activities are to be supplemented, where advisable, by formal exercises designed to assist in giving an all-around physical development and effective co-ordination of mind and body.

By the selection of activities and arranging of programs we shall also endeavor to counteract the objectionable physical tendencies due to the confinement and posture acquired in academic training, and to afford relief from the mental strain of other work. Where possible, special exercises will be prescribed to correct the physical defects of individual children.

The Content.

The material selected for this course is grouped in three parts, graded to the age and sex of the pupils and adjusted to the conditions and equipment of the schools in which it is to be applied.

PART ONE contains the material for schools of Grades I-VIII with fully equipped gymnasiums, adequate playrooms and yards.

PART TWO contains the material for schools of Grades I-VIII with unequipped gymnasium rooms, but with adequate play-rooms and yards.

PART THREE contains the material for schools of Grades I-VIII with no gymnasium and no adequate playrooms or yards.

The material of PART ONE consists of: Fundamental rhythms, song plays, dramatic plays, posture exercises, tactics, rhythmic expression, aesthetic-folk and gymnastic dancing, athletics, apparatus and relief exercises, games and short talks on hygiene.

The material of PART TWO consists of the same activities as Part One, excepting the apparatus exercises, substituting therefor, setting up exercises, including the wand and indian club.

The material of PART THREE consists of all such activities of Part One that can be applied in class room or corridor conditions, adding thereto mimetics and desk exercises.

Each type of the material selected is graded in progressive order and arranged in eight groups, for one year's work. The subject matter of each group will be distributed over half quarter-

ly •

Digitized by LjOOQle
99

ly periods and the various types of activities combined into lesson form to fit the conditions mentioned above. Under favorable conditions, certain substitutions of activities deemed especially appropriate, may be made for the activities regularly prescribed, when approved by the Department of Physical Education and the principal of the school. The activities (where possible) are grouped to fit the season of the year and the groups will be taken up in the order as numbered. The Assistant Supervisors visiting each class teacher once in three weeks, will select the activities of the group to be taken up and assist the class teachers in their correct application. The last three weeks of the school year are reserved for review work, closing day features, or field day preparations.

Classification of the Material.

The material of this course is grouped under the following six headings, with statements regarding the purpose and value of each activity.

A.	Introductory activities: including gymnastic and military tactics.

B.	Posture, Stretching, Setting Up, Relief, and Mimetic Activities.

C.	Athletic and Apparatus activities.

D.	Rhythmic Activities.

E.	Recreative Activities.

F.	Short talks on Hygiene.

Statements Regarding Purpose and Value of Activities.

Under A we mean exercises requiring attention, quick response, and co-operation with others; starting with simple exercises of order for lesson formation in the primary grades to gymnastic and military tactics, up to the school of the company, in the grammar grades.

B.	Posture Activities: including stretching, setting up, relief, and mimetic exercises are intended to improve posture while sitting, standing, and walking; to establish a correct carriage of the body, beginning with simple stretching exercises in the lower and progressing to specially selected exercises and cues in the upper grades. Also setting up, relief, and mimetic drills for classroom practice where such is necessary.

C.	Athletics, such as sprinting, jumping, (jumping rope for girls), and throwing. Apparatus work on climbing poles, swinging rings, ladders, horizontal bars, circle swing, vaulting bucks and horses. Exercises developing alertness, accuracy, inhibition, co-ordination, courage, confidence, speed, strength, endurance and good form in execution.

D.	Rhythmic Activities consisting of:

Singing games, rhythmic steps, folk dancing, interpretative dancing, gymnastic dancing and rhythmic expression, developing musical appreciation and co-ordination of all parts of the body, stimulating respiration, circulation, and giving control of posture and furthermore preparing for wholesome enjoyment in later life.

Digitized by

Google

-
100

E.	Recreative Activities, progressing up to “Games and Sports/'

Selected and graded for in and outdoor practice, suitable to the season of the year. Activities that permit the participation of large numbers at the same time and develop such physical, mental, and moral qualities as strength, endurance, agility, quick reaction, fairness in judgment, self-control, good sportsmanship, perseverance, and enjoyment. These activities should furthermore stimulate a desire for a continuation of this valuable enjoyment in after school life.

F.	Short talks on Hygiene.

To educate pupils in correct personal habits and an appreciation of the value and beneficial effects of carefully selected and correctly applied physical activities upon the growth, development, and functioning of the various parts of the body: to give them an understanding of the elements contributing to health, and an appreciation of the value of health.

The types of activities selected for each grade:

Grade One.

1.	A continuation of the kindergarten physical activities.

2.	Marching, skipping, running, hopping, etc. at command and in rhythm.

3.	Simple stretching exercises in the form of play, for posture purposes.

5.	Games of a simple character causing much physical activity and enjoyment.

6.	Short -talks on Hygiene, suitable for children of this age.

Grade Two.

1.	Marching, skipping, running, and hopping as in Grade One in progressive arrangement.

2.	Simple stretching exercises and cues for posture purposes. In the second half of the school year, simple setting up exercises will be added, teaching quick response, good form in execution and the knowledge of directions.

3.	Story plays, singing games, rhythmic expression, and simple folk dances.

4.	Games, progressive from those of Grade One.

5.	Short talks on Hygiene, suitable to this grade.

Grades Three and Four.

1.	Marching, skipping, running, hopping, and tactics in simple form.

2.	Special posture and breathing exercises.

3.	Athletics in simple form, where conditions permit (such as jumping, throwing, short dashes, and jumping rope for girls).

4.	Setting up exercises for schools without equipped gymnasiums.

5.	Apparatus exercises for schools with equipped gymnasiums, as rings, ladders, poles, circle swings, and horizontal bars.

6.	Rhythmic steps, folk dances, and interpretative dancing where conditions permit.

Digitized by e.ooQie
101

7.	Games in social and competitive form (simple organization) for in and outdoor practice, wherever conditions permit.

8.	Relief drills and mimetic exercises for indoor practice.

9.	Short talks on Hygiene, suitable for children of this grade. Note: The reasons for combining two grades are because the age difference in two successive grades is not large enough to require a double grading of physical activities and because in our schools having a full equipment for this work for which we aim, the sexes are separated and two rooms, meaning in many cases two grades, have to take their physical training at the same tim .

Grades Five and Six.

1	Marching, skipping, running, hopping in ad/anced form, in all schools where such is possible. Tactics, such as dressing line, facing, about lacing, counting off, etc. in military form.

2	Special posture and breathing exercises.

3.	Athletics, such as jumping, throwing, dashes, jumping rope for girls, in all schools where conditions permit.

•	4. Setting up exercises, taking up such with the wand during

the second half of the school year in all schools having no equipped gymnasiums.

5.	Apparatus exercises in schools with equipped gymnasiums using the climbing poles, swinging rings, horizontal bars, ladders, circle swings (for girls) and vaulting bucks (for boys).

6.	Rhythmic activities such as, folk dances, interpretative dancing for girls and gymnastic dancing for boys. Rhythmic steps leading up to folk dancing, for classroom practice and mixed classes.

7.	Games and sports of a higher organization, teaching cooperation and team work like Kick Baseball, Pass Ball Relay, Dodge Ball, Battle Ball, Playground Baseball, simple relay races, etc., in all schools where conditions permit such.

8.	Two Minute Relief Drills and mimetic exercises for classroom practice as supplementary or in place of other activities, for which equipment is missing.

9	After school activities such as: organized games, athletics, folk, aesthetic and gymnastic dancing, hiking, skating and swimming.

10.	Short talks on Hygiene, suitable for children of this grade.

11.	The Annual Physical Efficiency Test, measuring the progress made from year to year in activities developing strength, speed and endurance like standing broad jump, chinning and fifty yard dash for boys, basket ball far throw, potato race and fifty yard dash for girls.

Note: In schools having equipped gymnasiums the sexes are separated and the activities are selected to suit the character of each sex.

Note 2. For the reasons for combining two grades see note under Grades Three and Four.

The program of activities and their application for grades seven and eight is similar to that of grades five and six except that

Digitized by ^ooQle
102

they advance to correspond with the pupils of these grades. Additions are inserted under the following heads:

1. Tactics:	In	all	cases	where boys are separated from the

girls, military tactics up to and including the “School of the Company” will be taken up.

4.	Under setting up exercises the Indian club will be added in schools where such can be used.

5.	Under apparatus, the combination horse is added for both sexes, for exercises supporting and manipulating the body-weight with hands and arms, teaching dexterity, control, confidence and courage.

7.	Under games, regular baseball for boys, playground baseball, and volley ball for both sexes are added, as team games and may be applied as inter-school competitive activities.

10.	Under Hygiene, short talks on: Community Health, First Aid, Safety First, and effects of alcohol and tobacco on social and economic fitness are taken up.

Note: For the reasons for combining two grades see note under Grades Three and Four.

Rules and regulations for conducting the efficiency test, minimum requirements and records for such competitive track and field events as are carried in this course of study.

Reference books to be used in connection with this course of study.

1.	C. Ward Crampton’s book on Folk Dances, furnished all schools by Board of Education.

2.	Wollaston and Crampton, Singing Games, furnished all schools by Board of Education.

3.	List of singing games and folk dances to be had in the Teachers’ Library.

4.	Bibliography for Physical Education to be had in the Teachers’ Library.

Next month we will give a synopsis of the general information and instructions necessary for the guidance of the class teacher.

A NATIONAL PROGRAM OF HEALTH EDUCATION.

By THOMAS D. WOOD, Professor of Physical Education, Columbia University,

New York, N. Y.

War throws a spotlight of convincing clearness upon national defects. We are beginning to suspect, if not fully to realize, that even more essential and fundamental to the integrity and permanence of a nation than scientific progress, political achievement, industrial development, and economic accomplishment are biological soundness and fitness, the health of the people. This national asset, health, while the most essential, is at the present time the most endangered, of all our natural resources. We are appalled at the number of our young men, both voluntary and draft enlistment, who are incapable of defending their country, who are rejected from military service because of physical and mental defects.

Digitized by 0.ooQLe
103

While types of disease and weakness are markedly different in their prevalence in and effects upon the sexes, still the welfare of the nation is, on the whole, as seriously threatened by the physical limitations of girls and women as by those of boys and men.

Some there are who, in view of recent revelations, apprehend this menace to the welfare of the nation. And yet it has been known for years before this great war engulft us that 75 per cent of the more than twenty million school children of this country were handicapt by physical defects.

In the mobilization of our nation’s resources for the stupendous task of this war, records even of men in our great training camps, who have been accepted as fit for military service, show that in multitudes of cases and within six months after the beginning of training the improvement in health, in vitality, and in physical and general efficiency has been almost incredible. Shall we not provide as thoro and effective health care and physical education for our children of our country as we furnish for the young men in the army and navy? Our schools are wasting enormous sums in educating, or trying to educate, the children who are handicapt by ill health, when the expenditure of much smaller amounts in a judicious health program would produce an extraordinary saving in economy and efficiency.

Of the school children of the United States 75 per cent—16,-000,000—have physical defects which are potentially or actually detrimental to health. Most of these defects are remediable. One of the appalling revelations of recent years is the conclusion, based on unrefuted evidence, that the rural school children in this country are handicapt by more physical defects than the pupils in the city schools. While several significant causes seem to be responsible for this astounding condition, the present physical inferiority of country children depends in part upon the fact that city children now receive more health care than do those in rural regions. The school in the United States is the universal, the officially credited, and the strategic agency to lead in the educational program of health, to standardize the principles involved, and to organize and supervise the social program for the care of the children’s health. A national program of health education, adequate in any way to the esential needs of the situation, must include the following items:

1. Health examination and supervision of the pupil’s health with provision for the following phases:	(a)daily inspection and

regulation of attendance at sch#ol for the prevention and control of acute and contagious diseases; (6)provision for the general health of the pupils should include the following (l)health examination and dental inspection at least once a year, followed by notification and advice to the homes; (2)follow-up health service by school and district nurses, with co-operation of home and all available organizations; (3)provision for correction of all harmful, remediable defects by medical and surgical care and by dental and health clinics;

(4)warm school lunches for all pupils who do not eat warm lunches at home.

Digitized by UjOOQle
104

2.	A healthful school environment. The schoolhouse should be as sanitary and healthful in all essential particulars as is the best home in the community. Further it should be pleasing and attractive in appearance, in furnishings and in surroundings, so that the community as a whole may be proud of it.

3.	A hygienic school management which insures conditions in the highest degree favorable and healthful in methods and material Of instruction, in arrangements of program, in length of school day, in forms of examinations and tests, in methods of grading and promotion, in arrangement and supervision of recesses, in requirements of home study, and in personality and influence of teachers.

4.	Effective health training and teaching of pupils which is

dependent upon:	(a) inculcation of health habits affecting the

pupil individually and in relation to the home, school, community, and the state; (b) instruction in facts, principles, and motives which will provide the best basis for intelligent and effective action; (c) greater emphasis upon health than upon disease in the program of health-teaching; (d) greater emphasis upon social than upon personal or individual aspects of hygiene; (e) education of children for responsible parenthood.

5.	Provision of an adequate and rational physical education with (a) well-equipt playgrounds, athletic fields, gymnasiums, and utilization of all available outdoor facilities; (b) employment of teachers and supervisors qualified to give sensible and satisfactory guidance to the physical-training activities; (c) the acceptance of useful and healthful social service and vocational activities in the physical-training program.

6.	Better preparation of teachers for health education: (a) the teachers should be more carefully selected, and they should be more adequately trained; (b) society should provide more favorable conditions for the preservation of the teacher’s health and for the improved efficiency of the teacher’s work.

To provide the essentials of administration for a “National Program of Health Education,” I submit the following propositions:

1.	That a comprehensive, thorogoing program of health education and physical education is absolutely needed for all boys and girls of elementary- and secondary-school age, both rural and urban, in every state in the Union.

2.	That legislation, similar in purpose and scope to the provisions and requirements in the laws recently enacted in California, New York State, and New Jersey, is desirable in every state, to provide authorization and support for state-wide programs in the health and physical-education field.

3.	That the United States Bureau of Education should be empowered by law and provided with sufficient appropriations to exert adequate influence and supervision in relation to a nationwide program of instruction in health and physical education.

4.	That it seems most desirable that Congress should give recognition to this vital and neglected phase of education, with a bill and appropriation similar in purpose and scope to the Smith-Hughes

Digitized by UjOOQle
105

Law, to give sanction, leadership and support to a national program of health and physical education; and to encourage, standardize, and in part finance the practical program of constructive work that should be undertaken in every slate.

5.	That federal recognition, supervision, and support are urgently needed, as the effective means under the Constitution, to secure that universal training of boys and girls in health and physical fitness which are equally essential to the efficiency of all citizens both in peace and in war.

A French war correspondent said recently, “I wish you knew our French lieutenant. He is one of the finest men I ever hope to know. He makes you feel that even more than the great cathedrals he should be guarded and protected—for France.” And so I say to you—I wish you appreciated the children and youth of this Republic. They make up, in possibilities, the.finest generation of - human beings that the world has ever seen. They make you feel that, even more than the great museums and monuments, more than great industrial plants and ships, more than great skyscrapers and cathedrals, they should be guarded and protected, cultivated and developt, for America—for the world.—Journal N. E. A.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN LEG AMPUTATION.

By GEORGE J. ALTMANN.

A large percentage of the patients at U. S. A. General Hospital No. 3, Rahway, N. J., have one or both legs amputated following wounds from high explosive shells, machine gdn bullets and similar causes.. Physical Education for these men is begun as soon as the stump is thoroughly healed or only a small unhealed area remains, and may be divided into two parts: that before the artificial limb is issued, and that after the limb has been applied. In this work, the writer is assisted by Mr. Thomas A. Barker, of the Philadelphia Public Schools.

For the men without the artificial leg, exercise is for two purposes; to restore mobility and strength to the stump, and for general strength and well being. The more formal work includes exercises on the floor, such as leg raising and trunk raising from the lying position rearways, also arm bending in support lying. Exercises while standing are given chiefly to increase the strength of the leg remaining as this leg will be called upon to do more work in the future than it had done before the injury. Among the exercises given ate deep knee bending, the patient steadying himself by grasping stall bars or other apparatus, and the hop for height and distance. Suspended apparatus, as swinging rings, horizontal bars, etc., are used for the usual simple exercises. The exercises of a character specially given to promote strength and mobility of the thigh stump, and also to aid in the circulation of the stump, thereby improving its tone and firmness and assisting in the shrinking of the stump, are given with the patient suspended on the stall bars. A firm, well shrunken stump is necessary to the successful

Digitized by

Google
106

applying of the artificial leg. In these suspension exercises, the movements are flexion, extension, abduction and adduction. They are taken in a free manner at first, then with resistance, one-haLf the patients acting as operators seated on benches and offering resistance to the other half. At the close of the movement against resistance, these operators also assist and apply a pull so as to loosen and give more motion to the joint, the stump joint as a rule having become weak and partially immobile from disuse. Similar resistive exercises are also given for the knee joint.

Among the recreational exercises are medicine ball passing and games; the patients being seated in a circle, also medicine ball relay races, the patients seated or standing supported against a wall or some piece of apparatus. Hopping and pull-up contests, the patients divided into teams are also popular. One of the most popular sports is that of kicking the soccer ball, the patient using his crutches as support and swinging forward between them to kick the ball. As a modified form of battle-ball, this is very successful.

After the artifical leg has been applied, it is most important that the patient develop enough self-confidence to make rapid • progress in discarding crutches or canes. Self-confidence is essential in the man training to use the artificial leg. He should discard his crutches for two canes, then use just one cane, and then discard that, all this within the first few days. At first the artificial leg will probably chafe the stump so that he will be able to wear it only a few hours each day.

The first thing taught is walking in various directions. When walking forward, attention is paid especially to steps of even length and rhythm, the patient having a tendency to take a long step with the artificial leg, also to make this step irregular. He must also be taught to swing the leg in close to the other, the tendency being to swing it out in order to have it clear the floor easily. He must rise high on the ball of the opposite foot so that the artificial leg will swing past without touching the floor. He must also be taught the knack of bending the knee of the artificial leg as it begins to swing forward and to control it so that it does not swing with a jerk or too far forward. Owing to his having used crutches for so long a time, the patient frequently walks with his arms hanging limp at his side and the natural arm swing must therefore be developed. In facing, the patient finds it easiest to pivot on the heel when using either the good or the artificial leg. Instructions in walking backward with small steps are also given. The ability to balance is a thing requiring considerable attention. The patient is taught to walk on balance beams beginning first with a board six or eight inches wide, gradually progressing until he can walk and even turn on the standard two inch balance beam. He is also taught to step over obstacles, at first over wooden strips two or three inches high, then to progress until able to step over objects six or eight inches high. He is also instructed in walking up and down stairs without the use of a cane.
STEPPING OVERIOBSTACLES.

One Double Leg Amputation, Others Single Thigh or Leg.

RESISTIVE EXERCISES IN LEG AMPUTATION.

U. S. A. G. H. No. 3, Rahway, N. J.

MAKING GOOD USE'OF THE LEG REMAINING Kicking The Soccer Ball.

LEARNING TO BALANCE.

Every Man Has One Artificial Leg, One Man Has Two.
108

Setting up exercises, especially those inclduing knee bending and trunk bending forward are given, these latter largely to develop ability to “balance. The simple exercises on the apparatus may also be used, though when the amputation is above the knee the leg is found to be almost a dead weight.

Among the first recreational activities given is medicine ball passing, this to train the patient to balance against the impact of an object, and for general exercise and recreation. Kicking the soccer ball and the game of soccer played slowly are very good for developing control of the leg in kicking and in slow running. The standing broad jump is also used early in the training. Practically all simple games played by the normal individual may be used with these men, though of course those including running must be taken very slowly at first. In fact, no great speed can be worked up at any time.

The men are enthusiastic in recovering the ability to dance. In this retraining, tho usual methods are employed, the progress is necessarily slower. It is especially difficult for the men to turn. They find it necessary to take a few extra measures. However, they finally become fair dancers though their partners are usually in danger of being stepped upon by the artificial leg, as the men cannot feel exactly where this is being placed. However, this is not very heavy as the rubber metatarsal joint allows bending of the toes.

In cases of one leg amputation, below the knee, the patient will finally develop the use of the leg so that it is almost impossible to distinguish him from the man with two good legs; the foot having a metatarsal joint of live rubber and sometimes an ankle joint. The man whose amputation is above the knee finds' it more difficult to get about as he must always consciously or unconsciously be guarding against the knee joint bending while the weight of his body is on it or it will give way beneath him. To prevent this bending a slight pressure backward by the thigh stump is necessary at most times.

Experience in physical training in double amputation at Co-lonia has been somewhat limited. From this experience, however, one may judge that in double amputation above the knee the man will in time learn to walk readily tho with short steps. However, owing to the danger of a knee joint giving way beneath him, he must be on his guard and it is advisable to use the cane all the time. The man with one amputation above and the other below the knee is not very different from the man who has only one amputation above, except that the spring and resiliency of the natural foot is absent. Where both legs are amputated below the knee the patient has very little difficulty so far as balance is concerned. He walks, however, with a step lacking the spring and lightness of the man with the natural foot.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
109

PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER BUILDINGS.

JAMES D. BURT, Field Agent, Division of Tuberculosis, State Department

of Health, New York.

The need of a common center which will draw to itself, and from which shall radiate all of the health activities of a community has been amply demonstrated. This necessity being recognized, the next step must be toward a realization of the requirement. Enlightened communities, led by men and women of vision, require only to be shown that a need exists before setting to work to satisfy it.

What properly constitutes a program for such health center, and how shall it be achieved? The State Department of Health answers this question.

The problem is to provide a suitable building—convenient as to location, attractive in outward appearance, and planned so as to meet all requirements of privacy-which will be a constant inspiration to confidence, cooperation and efficiency. This does hot necessarily mean a new building; it may be much easier and more economical to adapt or overhaul some existing building, though this plan may eventually prove the costlier and in most cases less satisfactory. This department offers its aid and advice in any specific case.

Being headquarters for health workers and an asylum for health seekers, the building must provide accommodation for both. The accompanying drawings are suggestive and typical and show the essential features which should be provided in any building to be used for this purpose.

For the sake of economy we have finished and occupied the entire basement. There is no objection to this if proper precautions are taken against dampness on walls and floors, and if sewer and other conditions will permit establishing the floor level at this point. It provides an admirable location for the Assembly Hall which will prove to be indispensable in the work of the center.

This hall should be as large as'possible, for it is designed to be used for public gatherings on all kinds of health matters, for the dissemination of information and propaganda by means of lectures, moving pictures and exhibitions, and will also serve as a meeting place for health officers, nurses, and others interested in these and cognate matters. The remaining portion of the basement is occupied by the mental clinic, boiler and coal room, toilets for both sexes, and the public hall and stairs. It is desirable to allot more space for boiler room and coal than this small scheme would permit.

The stairs from basement to second floor are wide and easy, for there will be much use of them by women and children as well as by men. They are also well lighted, which is a very necessary feature.

The first floor contains besides the hall and stairs, a registry room, separate waiting rooms for men and women, office, and the several clinic rooms, etc. This arrangement of service corridor

Digitized by kjOOQle
110

makes it possible for any person to be examined and treated for any ailment with entire privacy, and no other person need know for what particular complaint he is being treated. As a further aid to secrecy the doors to the several clinic rooms should be numbered and not labeled with the particular disease to be treated.

This matter of privacy is very desirable, for many are prevented from seeking medical aid because of personal pride, or shame in the knowledge of their malady.

The third floor contains a small, well equipped laboratory; child welfare room with diet kitchen accessible, necessary for the demonstration of children’s diets, etc.; two small rooms for the care of transient cases under observation, with bathrooms for same; and quarters for a resident nurse who also may be placed in charge of the building.

In some cases it will doubtless be desirable to house the janitor or caretaker in the building. There may also be a demand for a much larger laboratory; if so, a third story may be added, which will afford abundant room for this purpose as well as for a janitor or caretaker’s room. Access to a third floor would be easy by continuing the present stairs. A fire escape may be easily provided on the rear of the building. The design calls for a flat roof, but if a third story is added, a hip or other type of roof might be used which would be pleasing in appearance and would afford the desired story-height at a minimum cost.

What type of construction should be used? The best the appropriation will pay for. Without question a fireproof building would be best, but as the matter of cost is eternally with us, and we can not ignore it—we must often compromise and accept a cheaper type of construction. Of course local laws will largely determine what may be done, but in any event it would be wise economy to use such materials as to make the building at least slow-burning and to provide adequate means of exit in case of fire.	%

In the matter of interior finish we may be asked again to compromise. The best floor for such uses is of rubber tile, but good linoleum is quite satisfactory, and if well cared for will give long service. Glazed tile wainscot in all rooms would be ideal, but hard smooth cement plaster will do. Design the trim, etc., so as to use as little woodwork as possible and make this plain. A natural hardwood finish is best. The windows should be large and should reach as near to the ceiling as possible, so as to insure the best direct light and ventilation. Paint the walls and ceilings in light, quiet colors, using only the best paint; poor paint is too expensive. Two colors ought to be enough—one for the public halls and another for the rooms; it cheapens the effect if too many colors are used.

As to method of heating, steam is safest, being capable of standing most abuse or lack of attention, and is cheaper in first cost than hot water; of course, hot-air is out of the question except for small buildings.

Digitized by
Digitized by ^.ooQle
112

A liberal supply of hot water should be provided; the heater for this may be a combination incinerator and hot water heater, of which a good type is now manufactured.

What will be the cost? That depends. In ante-bellum days we could determine with reasonable accuracy, but the cost to-day would not be the cost to-morrow, and next week may and probably will show a material reduction. Each case must be taken up locally and on its merits.

The foregoing short description is for a health center building in a fairly large community. Such a building evidently could not be afforded by a small town or village. What can be and should be done in the latter case?

The relative death rate is larger in rural than in urban communities; this being true it is at least as essential to make provision for the country dweller as it is desirable to look out for the large town or city resident. But is it possible to provide any sort of place for such center where the funds available are very small? In most cases, yes, for usually where there is determination there follows a way of doing it; the first essential is to make a beginning.

If nothing better offers, an old and unused building may be secured which, with slight alterations, can be made to do duty until the need and usefulness of such a building is demonstrated, when better things can be asked for with good prospects of securing them.

Our country has freely expended many millions of dollars not only to prevent sickness and disease, but also to cure ailments when found among our soldiery; no one begrudged a periny so used, but every heart rejoiced in it—the boys were well worth the expenditure and they have proved it to our utmost satisfaction. But for every man who went across there remained in our own country fifty men, women and children, whose health and physical well-being must be carefully guarded and protected. The health of the soldier was an urgent and insistent matter, and so is that of Uncle Sam’s other children. A few dollars saved at the risk of the health or life of many persons is no saving, but prodigal wastefulness.

And so the present cost of building should not be taken so seriously into account; build when the need is shown; build attractively; rob th>* treatment of disease of some of its grimness; make the building a standing invitation to people to come in and find a welcome; dignify the work of those who are laboring in the interests of public health; reap the full results of the psychology of the case as applied to the building; spend wisely but well, remembering that “There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.”

—N. J. Health News.

Digitized by UjOOQle
113

THE MOST PREVALENT DISEASE.*

By GEORGE V. N. DEARBORN

The reader probably thinks at once of common colds (deserving study), of tuberculosis, of the venereal diseases, of heart-disease, or of pneumonia. But the answer is not therein!

One of the songs in the always delectable “Mikado” (memory of a golden age of song departed) relates that the faculty of a certain memorable gentleman “for telling lies amounts to a disease.” Yet, however prevalent lies of all the various familiar colors may be—from all sorts of persons beginning with fashionable madam plumed in white lies down to ingenuous Tommy in the nursery with his grey little lies, and back again by way of the “yellow-streak” lie, to the black and doubly-dyed-villain lie of the patent medicine— lying is not after all the most prevalent disease. The doubtful honor of that belongs to Chronic Physical Laziness. Men are only just beginning now in the War, to think adequately about preparing a serum, autogenous or otherwise, for its permanent cure, for its total eradication.

“Life spent in indolence, and therefore sad.”—(	.)

And a curious thing, when you think about it, seems this most fashionable of ailments. Like hysteria sometimes, or homely measles to grammar-school Johnnie, Physical Laziness apparently is something to be “enjoyed”—sometimes in pretense only, but sometimes, too, for a time really to be revelled in. The organism adapts itself, untrains itself, so to say, to some extent, so that bodily idleness retains for a considerable period its conscious charm. No child yet, they say, was ever born with a taste for pickles, tea, or alcohol, and certainly none, save those actually defective with a latent asthenia, begins with a taste for indolence. “Life is real” and always action!

Chronic bodily laziness is endemic in all parts of the world, but now is being gradually overcome. Its etiology is well recognized in the Bacillus pigritae, a non-filterable pest-parasite of the order of fixed ideas of the class which education has not yet eradicated. It enters the cortex cerebri by the usual routes.

The pathology is plainly a bad habit, firmly fixed, in all parts of the action-system of man. This develops in normal persons seldom before the age of twenty. Frequently the disease lasts forty years or even more, meanwhile quite disqualifying the body.

The course of the disease and the clinical and easy-chair history are too familiar to need more than mention for the system's sake. Remissions occur under the influence of a common sense hygienic environment, but seldom last over a few weeks or even an hour or two.

Treatment, even at this late day, seems to be no drug on the market. Physical educators and the better and more honest of the neurologists have long since developed a serum which is an absolute specific for the disease. Its high habit-breaking cost, how-

Reprint from Medicine and Surgery, December, 1917.

Digitized by tjOOQle
114

ever, together with the all too common lack of grey matter, makes its general use deplorably uncertain and slow. No “foundation” has the beneficent interest in the B. pigritiae that one “foundation” so actively exhibits in the hook-worm, though the former's ravage of life's longevity and actual comfort and happiness far exceed those of any worm whatever.

Prophylaxis is the most promising feature of chronic bodily laziness, for the multitude, the actually infected being for the most part is too far gone in bad-habit marasmus ever to be cured,—save when arteriosclerosis stares them in the “middle-aged” face, when it well may be too late. But the normal children may be inoculated with absolutely protective ideas by anyone who really knows the technique of injection deep into the sub-conscious back-bone of the mind. And then they may be trained. A thousand times a day all through life they are to refuse “to save their steps” or to have them “saved” for them. When not inconvenient, they are to go the longest way instead of the shortest, to scorn the escalators and climb the stairs, to saw their own cord-wood sticks, to do then-own housework, to make continually, in short, and consistently a little gratuitous effort at every hour of their lives almost, in all pursuits wherein physical action has a prominent part. Even good old “Gran'ma,” if old enough, is to be sacrificed to the cruelties of Retributive Pathology in order that her descendants may escape this wretched habit-indolence. Try it and see if ignorant old Gran'ma objects!

There is an acute form of bodily laziness. This kind is epidemic mostly in the summertime and over large areas. Attacks last from two to fourteen weeks for the most part, and by one of those rare paradoxes of organic nature, seem usefully to clear the system-more or less (perhaps oftener less) for the remainder of the toilsome year. Editors seem wholly immune to this acute familiar infection.

The mortality of chronic physical laziness is not definitely known, so complex and so insidious are its dire ravages. But the percentage must be very large. Life very regularly is shortened by chronic indolence, but inasmuch as most victims of the disease lead comparatively unhappy lives (though without fully realizing it oftentimes), this very frequent shortening of human life cannot be considered a source of any considerable harm.

The hell-war has taught millions of men and women ideas and habits of economy which many had forgotten or never had known. In like manner it is teaching other millions the ravages and the inherent and inevitable misery of this insidious and over-prevalent disease. Perhaps the war's most evident compensation then, thru-out the teeming world, will be a real and general recognition of the necessity of organic vigor through normal bodily exercise. Herein lives Life, our magnificent and marvellous adventure; but to the physically lazy all the days of one's few years remain but a “sleep and a forgetting,” and that poisoned into waste by the toxins of mistaken purpose.

Digitized by V.ooQle
116

The “milk of human kindness” to one’s country, one’s family, and one’s self is long-life-in-happiness; the cream of this milk is the vigorous activity of both body and mind, one and inseparable.

THE HEALTH CENTER PLAN IN PHILADELPHIA.

Intended primarily for the observation, inspection and treatment of sick babies, health centers in Philadelphia have assumed so many public health functions that they are now considered as local branches of the Health Department, entrusted with powers of inspection and education in their respective localities.

The Philadelphia plan is to establish health centers or subhealth departments in those sections of the city where infant mortality is greatest and the general infectious diseases are most prevalent. At these stations all activities peculiar to their respective localities for health betterment can be planned and carried out, and the work concentrated on the weakest links in that peculiar neighborhood.

Effort is made to improve conditions in the homes, to supervise the care of prenatal cases, to instruct the expectant mother and the mother in the essentials of care, nursing and general conduct of the infant. Insanitary plumbing conditions in the home are reported to the proper officials, while household cleanliness is urged by the visiting nurses.

The health center is a means by which the community is in actual touch with the health nurse and social worker. The visiting nurse, assuming a friendly attitude toward the women of the neighborhood, soon finds their needs. The nurse becomes the confidential friend of the family, learns the family history, the diseases prevalent among the neighbors, the names and location of expectant mothers and sick babies. Every expectant mother is under observation throughout the period of gestation and after the birth of the child until the baby is one year old. Other children in the household under the school age are kept under the watchful eye of the skillful visiting nurses. Tuberculosis, crippled, anaemic, or neglected children are referred to proper institutions for care and treatment.

A sick father or mother, or other member of the household, is given, attention, and medical aid is secured through the bureau of charities. Infectious diseases are reported at once to the division of medical inspection. Widowed mothers in need of funds, and unmarried mothers, are referred to the respective agencies and courts for the support of the children. The visiting nurse is also the sanitary inspector and makes her reports of conditions to the division of housing and sanitation. The home conditions are improved as much as possible and things made comfortable and healthful. Milk and ice are distributed free among the worthy poor.

Mothers are encouraged to bring their babies to the health centers at least once a week where they can be weighed and examined. Such babies are not treated, but are referred to the family physician, or to a dispensary. Health lectures are frequently planned and exhibits are always open to the public. Health literature,

Digitized by ^.ooQle
116

dealing not only with the care of the baby and child but also with the infectious diseases and health matters in general, is freely distributed.

The mothers are taught how to nurse their babies and how to detect signs of illness. Where the milk of the baby must be modified, this is explained and performed by the nurse.

The mother, learning that others are interested in her children soon becomes enthusiastic over their progress. They attend the clinic just like children attend school. The centers are thus educational institutions which tend to make better mothers, better babies and better citizens.

The department of public health and charities maintains eight health centers located at various sections of the city with its quota of nurses. In addition there are associated seventeen community centers or neighborhood houses which are private, semi-private or public organizations where mothers with their babies congregate for instruction and education:

It would be ideal, however, if funds were sufficient to centralize all the functions of the health department at each health center there being ope in each ward or combination of wards. While this is being done on a small scale at present, our facilities and personnel are not sufficient to carry out the plan in every detail.

It is the personal contact between the public and representatives of the health department as accomplished at the health centers which goes a long way toward securing the hearty co-operation of the people in all matters dealing with the protection of the public health.

WHAT DOES IT COST TO BE SICK?

The motto of the New York State Department of Health, written by Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, Commissioner of Health, is “Public health is purchasable. Within natural limitations, any community can determine its own death rate.” He might well have added “Its own sick rate.” However, when it comes to persuading the' average American community to expend money for sanitary improvements, it is necessary tv. have something stronger than the very excellent motto devised by Commissioner Biggs. We all know that it is costly to be sick, yet we all feel that we will be the ones to escape sickness and it is with difficulty that we can find any reliable statistics which will show just what sickness costs the country.

In the annual reports of the Surgeon General of the United States Army we find a great deal of very valuable data bearing upon the health of the soldiers in the Army. In interpreting this data, one should remember that in peace times our soldiers are carefully selected men living among hygienic surroundings. They are, therefore, somewhat less susceptible to diseases than are male citizens of the same age in civil life. It should also be remembered in considering these statistics that they do not include the sickness of women and children which forms so large a part of the illness in a community.

Digitized by UjOOQle
117

The following table is. constructed from the data published in the annual report of the Surgeon General for the year 1915. It shows the aggregate number of days lost and the average number of days sick for each case of each disease and the approximate loss to the Government for each separate disease. This last column is derived by considering that each man sick was a private soldier in his first enlistment. During the year under consideration, such a soldier received fifty cents per day pay. The table does not include the value of his rations, the cost of his housing, or the cost of the medical attention he received while off duty.

The total loss to the Government amounted to $262,974.50. First on the list appears venereal disease, causing aloss of $81,283.50, an enormous sum when we consider that venereal disease is easily preventable.

Second on the list is tuberculosis, which caused a loss of $30,-654.50, a sum of money that could have been much better expended on the prevention of tuberculosis.

Fractures occupy the third place on the list and such should be expected when we consider the large number of men in the Army who have to do with horses. Probably a large number of these fractures occurred among men learning to ride.

Fourth on the list come mental diseases occasioning a loss of $15,273.00 In many instances the soldier was mentally deficient at the time of his enlistment or suffered a recurrence of the disease that had manifested itself prior to his enlistment. When we consider that, as far as possible, the mental cases were excluded at the original examination, the seriousness of the problem of mental diseases is very apparent. We know that not less than 20 per cent of the mentally deficient cases in the United States can be directly traced to venereal diseases. This could be easily eliminated by proper preventive measures.

It has always seemed to the writer that the Nation could well afford to spend a large sum of money for the study of mental diseases with a special view to their prevention. The whole question of etiology and heredity should be reconsidered.

Diseases of the upper respiratory tract, represented by bronchitis, mumps, influenza, pneumonia, and cerebro-spinal meningitis caused a loss of $35,914.00 These diseases are all preventable, but to prevent them requires the co-operation of a large number of individuals, which is probably, at this time, impossible for us to secure. To put the matter plainer, these diseases would, to a large extent, be prevented if the American people would refrain from the disgusting habit of coughing in one another’s faces.

A surprise in the table is the low rate for alcoholism. Even if we make allowance for the number of diseases which could be traced to indulgence in alcohol, the number is still very small, nor is the rate for the year 1915 exceptional, for there was but little difference during the preceding five years, although there was a gradual fall.

Another gratifying fact as shown by the table is the small loss from typhoid fever. This disease has been practically eliminated
118

from the United States Army by the use of typhoid vaccine. Any community which desires to save the annual cost entailed by typhoid fever has but to apply the methods adopted in the Army.

This table does not tell the entire story of the health in the Army nor is it strictly applicable to the health of the civilian population of the country, but it will serve as an indication until such time as Congress shall authorize the publication of the physical findings of the first draft. These findings are in reality a cross section of the male population between the ages of 21 and 31 and, when published, will give most valuable data for a better basis of public health work throughout the country. It is hoped that Congress will authorize this publication at an early date.

Sickness in the United States Army During the Year 1915

	Diseases	Days	Aver.	Pay
		lost	days	lost
	( Gonorrhea		. 87,216	14.87	$43608.00
1	< Syphilis		. 45,708	22.95	22854.00
	( Chancroid		. 29,653	13.57	14,826.50
	Total venereal		162,577	51.39	81,288.50
	( Pulmonary tuberculosis 		58,942	197.18	29,471.00
2	s Tuberculosis of other organs		7,362	81.62	1,183.50
	( Total tuberculous 		61,309	278.80	306,54 50
3	Fractures		49,538	41.08	24,269 00
4	Mental diseases 		30,546	85.32	15,273 00
5	Appendicitis		21,405	26.26	10,702.50
6	Diseases of the skin		20,220	10.49	10,110.00
7	Bronchitis, acute		18,188	5.74	9,904.00
8	Diseases of the urinary system other			
	than venereal		18,092	19.52	9,046.00
9	Mumps 		16,284	17.00	8,142.00
10	Influenza		15,704	4.91	7,852.00
11	Measles		14,244	22.50	7,122.00
12	Rheumatism, articular		13,684	25.25	6,842.00
13	Hernia		12,776	36.19	6,388.00
14	Diseases of the eye 		11,686	12.43	5,843.00
15	Malaria		10,270	7.15	5,135.00
16	Diseases of the ear 		8,131	13.03	4,065.50
17	Pleurisy		6,884	26.58	3,442.00
18	Diseases of the spinal cord	6,236	52.40	3,118.00
19	Pneumonia		5,986	26.60	2,993.00
20	Dysentery		5,330	29.13	2,665.00
21	Alcoholism 			4,274	3.59	2,137.00
22	Scarlatina		1,743	34.86	871.50
23	Meningitis, epidemic cerebrospinal . .	1,422	5.47	711.00
24	Diphtheria 		958	15.71	489.00
25	Trachoma		531	33.40	265.00
26	Typhoid fever 	."		487	69.57	243.50
27	Erysipelas		308	13.39	154.00
28	Smallpox		118	29.50	59.00
29	Sunstroke		24	3.43	12.00
			Health News,	New York.

Digitized by UjOOQle
119

THE PRACTICAL VALUE OF PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTS— DO THEY FIND THE BRIGHT AND DULL PUPILS?

FRANK CODY, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Detroit, Mich.

A psychological clinic is a clearing-house whose function it is to help in the solution of all kinds of problem cases. It is to the teacher what the specialist is to the general physican. To it are brought the exceptional or atypical children, the misfits in the school system. It is the duty of the staff of the clinic—clinical psychologists, physicians, social workers—to discover the cause of the child's retardation and prescribe the proper remedial treatment, whether the treatment be educational, medical, or social. Its practical value to a school system may perhaps be best shown by describing the types of cases it investigates, thus giving an idea of the scope of its work.

1.	Feeble-minded or permanently retarded children.—Of these children the clinic will exclude from school the ones of so low a grade that they cannot be educated, and thus the system will be saved from the paradoxical situation of attempting to educate those incapable of training. Those children who can to a limited extent be taught will thru the clinic be assigned to special classes, where it is possible to adjust school activities to the child's own rate of progress. In addition to the service thus rendered thru the clinic to the feeble-minded child, there will be the inestimable benefit to the regular grade child of removing the feeble-minded from the regular grade room.

2.	Restorable cases.—Normal children who are pedagogically retarded thru late entrance, half-day sessions, poor teaching, peculiar mental make-up, etc., may be assigned to a restoration class, where, under the direction of an expert teacher especially trained to understand such cases, the work of the room may be adjusted to meet the child's developmental needs. By such treatment these children can be restored to the regular grade, and thus the system will be saved from the waste of repetition and failure.

3.	The normal child with certain specific mental defects which do not exclude the possibility of normal progress but require special treatment.—Thru the advice of the clinic these cases can be taken care of by the regular teacher, thus saving the child and the system from the cost of failure or from the expense of residence in a special class or a restoration class.

4.	Disciplinary cases.—Thru the clinic the teacher may be advised as to their treatment, or they may be assigned to ungraded classes.

5.	Speech cases.—Thru the clinic these cases may be assigned to special speech teachers for correction of speech defects interfering with normal progress.

6.	The child with physical defects which interfere with normal progress.—These cases may be directed to physicians or medical clinics for remedial treatment, or, in cases where the defect makes
120

special educational treatment necessary, as in the case of the blind, deaf, etc., the child may be assigned to the proper special class.

7.	The supernormal child.—By this we mean the child who is capable of progressing at a more rapid rate than the normal child, or who is capable of a richer, fuller course. These children, considering their possibilities, are often more retarded than subnormal children. As they are probably our future leaders, it is of the greatest importance that we give them an education fitted to their needs, one which will make them the right kind of leaders.

8.	Vocational guidance.— Allowing a child when he leaves school to find for himself his place in the industrial world is expensive for him and uneconomical for society. Psychological testing has advanced to a point where it can render valuable assistance in finding the vocation to which a boy or girl is best adapted, thus saving the child and society much valuable time and service.

Can this work be done without a psychological clinic? I do not believe it can be done efficiently or without much waste. The experience of any clinic will verify the statement that most teachers are not qualified properly to place these misfits in the school system. Deaf children are declared by the teacher to be “stupid,” disciplinary cases are called feeble-minded. The bright child is often not appreciated, because he is compared with children older than he chronologically. Or a child is declared bright because he makes a good appearance or expresses himself very well. Such a child was recently examined at the clinic. He had been placed in a class for bright children. When tested he was found only normal, with a special gift in language. He was even a little below par in mathematical subjects. By the report of the teacher of the class he was as much of a drag upon her children as the subnormal is upon the normal child. A psychological test before placing that child would have prevented his assignment to a room where he was obviously a misfit.

In order to be of the greatest value to a public-school system, the psychological clinic must be well organized, with adequate equipment. Provision must be made for a physical and sociological examination, as well as for a mental examination. The staff of the clinic must be both trained and experienced. A set of standardized tests do not constitute a psychological clinic, altho they are a valuable aid to diagnosis. Mentality is very complex and cannot be measured by a yardstick or weighed on a scale. The use of standardized tests in a slide-rule fashion is productive of much harm. To be of value, the test must be interpreted. The purpose of the examination is to make a mental analysis of the child similar to the analysis the chemist makes of a chemical compound. The mental analysis should discover what assets and defects the child has, and on the basis of this analysis the examiner can prescribe the treatment best adapted to the child’s needs and best directed to secure the maximum mental development for that

child

Digitized by
121

That principals and teachers do not know the various types of subnormal children is shown by the investigation undertaken by the psychological clinic this year. Four rooms for children pedagogically retarded but believed to be normal by teachers were examined, with the following results: Of the 202 children examined, €4, or 32 per cent, were normal; 62, or 31 per cent, were dull; 76, or 37 per cent, were feeble-minded or border-line.

The psychological clinic examined 1620 cases this year. These cases are reported to the clinic by the school principal or teacher as candidates for special classes of various types. Of these, 10 per cent were normal and 35 per cent dull. Only 55 per cent, or a little over half, were found to be border-line or feeble-minded children.

That the psychological clinic is of inestimable value to a public school system is thus easily demonstrated.

CONFERENCES ON SEX EDUCATION.

State high-school teachers' conferences on sex education have recently been held, under the joint auspices of the Public Health Service and the Bureau of Education, in Philadelphia, Pa.; New Haven, Conn.; Newark, N. J.; and Washington, D. C. The following resolutions were adopted at the Washington conference, January 9:

Whereas (1) the development of the ideals of physical fitness is essential to the better conservation of national vigor and must include knowledge of the principal facts of sex;

Whereas (2) extensive inquiries show that young people are not receiving sex information from wholesome sources, but for the most part from companions, and that the results of this information are generally harmful;

Whereas (3) a knowledge of the principal facts of sex and of right ideals is essential to an intelligent understanding of the fight against venereal diseases;

Whereas (4) a background of accurate knowledge and reverent attitude of mind is essential to a normal interpretation of sex problems:

Be it resolved—

I.	That sex education should be included in the high-school programs of the United States, and that in working out the place of sex education in the high school the following principles be recognized:

(1)	That sex education be given its normal place in relation to physical education, biology, physiology, hygiene, general science, and such other subjects in which it has a rational place.

(2)	That it is desirable that such essential matters as reproduction in a few typical forms of plants and animals, elementary facts concerning ductless glands, including sex glands, the true significance of physiological changes occurring during puberty And adolescence, the main facts concerning the cause, manner of

Digitized by

Google
122

spreading, and possible results of gonorrhea and syphilis, and the fundamental facts concerning heredity be taught during the first year of high school.

(3)	That the courses in physical training, biology, physiology, hygiene, or general science, throughout the four years of high school, and especially during the last three years, should make definite provision for continuing the program.

(4)	That as soon as properly prepared teachers are available a course in domestic science for girls in either the junior or senior year be provided, which will include a study of home nursing and sanitation, maternity, and care of the baby.

(5)	That as soon as properly prepared teachers are available a corresponding course for junior or senior boys be provided.

II.	That the universities, colleges, and normal schools be urged to prepare teachers who will be equipped to present the facts and ideals of sex in their relation to the subjects taught in secondary schools, as previously outlined.

III.	That the United States Public Health Service and the United States Bureau of Education be requested to appoint a committee which will (1) co-operate with other organizations for the purpose of making the work in sex education effective, and which will (2) prepare a manual to assist administrative officials and teachers in providing for courses as above suggested.

o-

FOLK DANCES AND GAMES

The Song Play Book. Wollaston and Crampton.........$1.80

The Second Folk Dance Book. Crampton............... 1.80

The Playground Book. Sperling...................... 2.00

Aesthetic Dancing. Rath............................ 1.60

More Song Games. Bremner........................... 1.60

Dramatic Games and Dances. Crawford................ 1.80

The Folk Dance Book. Crampton...................... 1.80

The Festival Book. Lincoln......................... 1.60

Rhythms of Childhood. Crawford....................  1.80

Swedish Folk Dances. Bergquist..................... 1.60

Folk Dances and Games. Crawford.................... 1.80

Plays and Games for Indoors and Ont. Parsons....... 1.60

Song Games and Ball Games. Bremner................. 1.40

NOTE. We are now publishing the HINMAN GYMNASTIC AND FOLK DANCING BOOKS Vol. I. SOLO DANCES $1.50 Vol. II. COUPLE DANCES $1.00 Vol. III. RING DANCES 1.50 Vol. IV. GROUP DANCES 1.50

We publish the largest line of Folk Dance Books in the U. S.

Circular with Tables of Contents on request

A. S. BARNES CO., 30 Irving Place, NEW YORK

t

■0

Digitized by UaOOQle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O'

By FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburgh, Pa.

A PROCEDURE OF TEACHING APPARATUS WORK IN

HIGH SCHOOL.

Successful teaching of apparatus work depends largely upon creating interest. The High School boy is anxious to see quick results. His desire is to do the “stunt” regardless of the form. Too much detail work, especially in developments of apparatus exercises is at first to be avoided. Following out the finer steps which develop perfect form produces fatigue, and the process takes up so much time that the attention of the boy is lost.

Instead of collecting the elements of an exercise one by one until the unit is complete it is often best to arrive at the final stage by a few sudden jumps. A procedure of this kind will stimulate the interest of the Hjgh School boy. True form in the execution of the exercise will be lacking but this may be acquired by repeating the development under different conditions or by retracing it several times including such elements which will bring exactness in execution. This means repetition which is highly desirable, and with each development differing from the other, monotony is avoided and the interest of the boy is held. After one or two developments have been given the exercise may be increased in difficulty by adding other elements. The straddle vault over the buck as given below is an example of such an arrangement.

Straddle Vault Forward.

Buck placed sideways.

* First Development.

From a side-stand frontways run and,

1.	Jump into a momentary free support frontways; jump to a side-stand frontways.

2.	As 1) with straddling legs sideward and closing them in the free support.

3.	Straddle vault forward to a side-stand rearways.

Second Development.

From a side-stand frontways run and,

1.	Jump into a momentary free support with bending and raising hips; jump to a side-stand frontways.

2.	As 1) with straddling legs sideward and closing them while in the free support with hips raised.

3.	Straddle vault forward to a side-stand rearways.

Buck placed lengthwise.

Third Development.

From a cross-stand frontways run and,

1. With support on far end jump into a cross-knee stand, straddle vault dismount forward into a cross-stand rearways.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
124

2.	With support on far end straddle vault forward into a -cross-stand rearways.

Fourth Development.

From a cross-stand frontways run and,

1.	With support on far end jump into a straddle seat rear of hands, raise hips shifting weight on arms, return to straddle seat, repeat several times and straddle vault dismount forward.

2.	Straddle vault forward.

Fifth Development.

From a cross-stand frontways run and,

1.	With support on far end jump into a support-lying position frontways, raise and lower hips (bending and straightening than) several times, then with hip raising straddle vault dismount forward.

2.	Straddle vault forward with hip raising and lowering.

Increasing the Difficulty of the Straddle Vault.

Buck placed sideways or lengthways.

1.	Straddle vault preceded or followed by hand-clapping once or twice.

2.	As 1) with hand-clapping before and after the straddle vault.

3.	Straddle vault forward followed by a quarter turn left or right just before landing.

4.	As 3) straddle vault with a quarter turn, then a further quarter turn facing and placing both hands on the buck, thus completing a half-turn.

5.	Straddle vault followed by a half-turn left or right.

6.	All of the above exercises may be increased in difficulty by raising the buck and by adding hand clapping to the vaults with turns.

WOODWARD HIGH SCHOOL TESTS.

Cinncinati, Ohio.

Report upon Efficiency Test, taken in the Boys’ Gymnasium during the week ending December 22, 1916.

No classification, other than grades, was attempted. D grade equals first year in high school.

Events:

100 yard dash, on track, 26 laps to a mile.

Climbing rope for height. A and B grades “hand over hand”. C. and D grades with use of legs. Rope suspended 22 ft. above floor. Those climbing more than that were obliged to climb down and just before touching floor start up again.

Throwing Medicine ball. Weight 6 lbs. Standing in side straddle position, swing arms between legs, then overhead and throw ball with both arms, same rules as for “Basket Ball Throw.”

Digitized by
Running Broad Jump from beat board onto mats.

These tests were taken in the regular class time, without previous warning. In throwing and jumping each boy was given three trials. In the others only one trial was permitted. All boys in school that week, except those regularly excused for physical defects, took part.

Points were scored according to the following tables:

100 yard dash A & B Grades	C	&	D	Grades

Climbing A & B Grades C & D Grades

‘Hand over hand” with use of legs

161 sec.	1 point.	181 sec.	1 point.		10	ft.	1	point.	16	ft. 1 points	
16 ”	2	16 ”	2	yy	11		2	yy	19	” 2	»»
144 ”	3 ”	154 ”	3	yy	12	»»	3	yy	22	” 3	if
14® ”	4	15® ”	4	yy	13	ft	4	yy	25	” 4	yy
14® ”	5 ”	15® ”	5	yy	14	if	5	yy	28	” 5	ft
14® ”	6	151 ”	6	yy	15	yy	6	yy	30	” 6	tr
14 ”	7 ”	15 ”	7	yy	16	yy	7	yy	32	” 7	tr
134 ”	8	144 ”	8	yy	17	yy	8	yy	34	” 8	tt
13® ”	9	14® ”	9	yy	18	yy	9	yy	36	” 9	tt
13® ”	10	14® ”	10	yy	19	yy	10	yy	38	” 10	tr
For each 1-5 sec. less		, one			For each foot more,						
additional point					1 additional point.						
Throwing Medicine Ball						Running Broad Jump					
A & B Grades		C & D Grades			A & B Grades				C & D Grades		
18 ft. 1	point.	12 ft. 1 point			ii ft.		1 point.		9	ft. 1	point.
For every 2 ft. more one additional point.					12	yy	2	yy	10	” 2	tt
					13	yy	3	yy	11	” 3	tt
					14	yy	4	yy	12	” 4	tt
					15	yy	5	yy	13	” 5	tt
					16	yy	6	yy	14	” 6	n

THROWING MEDICINE BALL

A	Grade	B Grade	
Boys	Points	No. Boys Points	
1	0	1	0
1	1	3	1
7	2	8	2
8	3	17	3
9	4	20	4
9	5	12	5
13	6	11	6
6	7	10	7
8	8	7	8
8	9	6	9
1	10	5	10
		2	11

For every six inches further one additional point.

C Grade	D	Grade

No. Boys Points No. Boys Points

1	0	1	0
2	1	4	1
5	2	27	2
12	3	33	3
25	4	48	4
35	5	42	5
23	6	29	6
20	7	23	7
22	8	18	8
11	9	12	9
6	10	4	10
1	11	1	12
1	12	3	11
1	13	1	IS
1	14		
3	16		

Digitized by Google
126

RUNNING BROAD JUMP

A Grade		B Grade		C Grade		D Grade	
No. Boys	Points	No. Boys Points		No. Boys Points		No. Boys	Points
2	0	2	0	2	0	2	0
1	1	5	1	7	1	6	1
8	2	12	2	8	2	16	2
13	3	19	3	14	3	40	3
11	4	29	4	38	4	71	4
14	5	16	5	23	5	51	5
3	6	10	6	20	6	16	6
4	7	9	7	23	7	18	7
5	8	7	8	12	8	11	8
0	9	0	9	12	9	7	9
3	10	2	10	5	10	3	10
		1	11	2	11	2	11
				1	14	1	12
						1	15
Average number of points for each grade in						each event.	
lOOYd. Dash		Climbing		Throwing		Jumping	
A—5.3		A—5.9		A—5.5		A—4.6	
B^—4.4		B—5.8		B—5.8		B—4.4	
€—7		C—5.3	•	C—5.3		C—6	
D—4.6		D—4.3		D—5		D—4.5	

RESULTS OF THE TEST

100 yard dash

A Grade	B	Grade	C	Grade	D	Grade

No. Boys	Points	No.	Boys Points		No.	Boys Points		No.	Boys Points	
1	0		1	0 •		3	0		7	0
7	1		10	1		7	1		34	1
9	2		13	2		11	2		40	2
7	3		15	3		8	3		27	3
4	4		11	4		11	4		30	4
5	5		13	5		16	5		22	5
8	6		8	6		13	6		17	6
8	7		12	7		35	7		36	7
5	8		9	8		11 .	8		10	8
2	10		6	9		13	9		7	9
1	11		2	10		6	10		7	10
2	12		3	11		12	11		9	11
			1	12		14	12		6	12
						. 1	13			
						3	14			
						2	15			
				CLIMBING						
A Grade			B Grade			C Grade			D Grade	
No. Boys	Points	No.	Boys Points		No.	Boys Points		No.	Boys Points	
8	0		11	0		20	0		34	0
15	1		12	1		15	1		49	1
1	2		5	2		14	2		31	2

Digitized by v^ooQle
A Grade	B	Grade	C	Grade	D	Grade

No. Boys Points No. Boys Points No. Boys Points No. Boys Points

2	3	8	3	9	3	26	3
5	4	4	4	12	4	20	4
2	5	8	5	14	5	14	5
3	6	6	6	5	6	7	6
7	7	8	7	7	7	6	7
10	8	18	8	25	8	29	8
5	9	7	9	14	9	23	9
8	10	10	10	7	10	6	10
1	11	2	11	5	11	1	12
1	15	2	14	5	12	1	13
1	16	3	16	3	13	4	16
1	27	1	18	1	14	1	17
				1	15	1	18
				3	16	2	26
				3	18		
The	great	difference	in the	figures for	the “D”	grade	is prob-

ably due to the fact that in this grade many of the boys enter high school before the period of adolescence and have not reached the state of development necessary for good performance, while others, who were possibly a year or more retarded, equal in stature those of more advanced grades. Another factor to be considered is that many boys enter our city high schools from the country, when they have had no athletics or physical training in the elementary school. A study alone of this line will be made at some future date and will no doubt disclose some interesting facts.

DUMB-BELL DRILL.

AILEEN STROUD, Muskogee, Okla.

Eight boys and eight girls. Costume—Boys: Overalls, black skull caps, brown imitation leather aprons. (Brown cambric may be used.) Girls—They may be dressed in any dainty colors, and form a contrast to boys.

Music:	“Anvil	Chorus”	from	II	Trovatore.

FORMATION: See diagram. Enter as indicated by arrow No. 1, each rank wheeling left in turn at a common point until the formation is complete.

Drill—eight parts and chorus. Two measures of music to each part.

Arms foreward raise - bells hit, turning each time................ 8

II.

Arms forward raise....... 1	Raise	  3

Lower ................... 2	Lower.................... 4

Repeat - 5, 6, 7, 8

Digitized by LaOOQie
128

III.

Right arm downward, left arm upward raise...................... 1

With raising right arm forward, left arm forward lower and bells

hit ...................................................... 2

With raising right arm upward, left arm downward lower......	3

With raising left arm forward, right arm forward lower and bells

hit ...................................................... 4

Repeat. - (5, 6, 7, both arms lowered on 8.).

IV.

Arms sideward raise ...... 1	Sideward carry........... $

Forward carry and hit ....	2	Recairy and hit.......... 4

Repeat - 5,	6, 7, lowering on 8

V.

Raise forward and hit ....	1	Lower forward and	hit	...	.	8

Raise upward and hit......	2	Lower................... 4

Repeat - 5, 6, 7, 8

VI.

Left arm sideward raise....	1	Forward carry and	hit	....	8

Right arm sideward raise ...	2	Downward lower........... 4

Repeat - 5, 6, 7, 8

VII.

With fallingout left forward, arms forward raise............... 1

With lowering arms downward, bells under left knee hit......... 2

Arms forward raise............................................. 8

With lowering arms, foot replace............................... 4

Same to right - 5, 6, 7, 8

VIII.

With falling out left forward, arms forward raise.............. 1

With lowering arms downward, bells to hit floor, trunks forward bend ............................................... 2

With raising arms, trunks straighten........................... 3

With lowering arms, foot replace............................... 4

Same to right - 5, 6, 7, 8



T T T T

'1 No :

-*<—n H	6

-1	z

J. X J. -v-



With placing bells on hips, march off, rank one leading in the direction of arrow No. 2, in diagram, ranks two, three and four following in turn after wheeling.

Digitized by
129

Chorus.

On first count assume position for blacksmith movement. (Left arm forward, right arm backward, raise). Hold for five measures. Wheel in circle to left, using follow-step forward, bringing right arm upward and forward, lowering downward and backward, holding left arm in forward raise position, hitting bells twice in each measure for ten and a half measures.

Hold position for rest of eleventh measure, twelfth, thirteenth, and first note of fourteenth measures.

Hit bells on last two notes of music.

This verse to be sung with chorus:

“Strike, boys, strike while the iron is red-hot!

“Strike, boys, strike while the iron is red-hot, strike! “Strike, pound, hit the anvil!

“For we must labor,

“And then our horse-shoes,

“Will surely bring us luck.”

ENDBALL.

I.

Equipment:—A rectangular space 40x50 ft. and a basketball.

3'	17 feet				3’
<	PQ	PQ	<	<	PQ
<	PQ	PQ	<	<	PQ
<	PQ	PQ	<	<	PQ
<	PQ	PQ	<	<	PQ

II.

Teams:—Twelve members to a team, eight guards and four basemen.

III.

Object:—The object of the game is to pass or throw the ball from a guard to a baseman of the same team, the opposing guards trying to prevent this and pass the ball to their basemen.

IV.

Length of Game:—(a) Two halves of 15 minutes or less.

(b)	In case of a tie score, one or more extra periods of 5 minutes or less must be played through, until the tie is broken, at the end of one of these periods.

(c)	At the end of the first half, and at the beginning of each extra period, teams change sides on the field.

(d)	Time shall be taken out only by the referee, for loss of ball, for change of player, accident, etc.

Digitized by LaOOQle
130

V.

Officials:—(a) The referee has entire charge of the game. He decides what points are scored and who shall possess the ball in case of disagreement, calls fouls, and awards penalties.

(b)	The timekeeper shall keep time and score.

VI.

Putting the Ball in Play:—At the beginning of each half and of extra periods the referee tosses up the ball in the center between two opposing guards. As the ball is about to descend he blows the whistle. The ball must not be touched before the whistle is blown.

VII.

Playing the Ball:—(a) When a guard and a baseman get possession of the ball at the same time, the referee shall give the ball to the guard.

(b)	When two opposing guards get possession of the ball at the same time, the referee shall toss the ball up in the center.

(c)	If the ball strikes some constructions at the sides of the playing space, the ball is given at that place to the guard who would otherwise have obtained it.

(d)	Baseman must always have both feet in the base (he may jump up and catch the ball).

VIII.

Scoring:—A point is scored when the ball is passed from a guard to a baseman of the same team. (NOTE) If the ball is touched or batted by an opposing guard it does not prevent a score, unless that guard has unmistakably had possession of the ball.

IX.

Fouls:—(a) To carry the ball more than one step, or roll or bounce it and take it again at an advanced point.

(b)	For baseman to touch the ground outside of the base.

(c)	For any player to cross the center line.

(d)	For a guard to step in a base.

(e)	Purposely to push, strike or trip an opponent.

(f)	Purposely to touch the ball while it is in the hands of an opponent.

(g)	Jumping at center, to catch the ball or touch the ball a second time until it has been played by another player or touched the ground or floor.

(h)	To touch the ball while it is going up at center toss.

X.

Penalty for Fouls:—In case of a foul the ball is given to a guard

on the opposing team.

XI.

Substitutes:—Substitutions may be made at any time, but no player removed from the game may return to play during the half in which the removal occurs.

XII.

Miscellaneous:—(a) Representatives shall not coach teams during play.

(b) A player may be removed from the game, after warning,

for discourteous remarks to the referee.

Digitized by VjOOQle
o-

o

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

O	"	"	■	■	■	i	■ i .■	, ■ in. ■■ r ,	— ,0

MUSCULAR CO-ORDINATION.

Its Practical Application, And Its Relation to Psychic

Processes.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., B. S. G., Newark, N. J.

(Continued)

Our profession as engineers of the human mechanism should principally concern itself with the improvement of co-ordination. Health and strength, important as they are, are conditions incidentally acquired through physical education while having in view the most important, the neural mechanism of man. It has been said that we resort to artificial means to attain the purpose and we should use the more natural. But the more natural is the crude, the primitive way. The best is just good enough. The artificial means makes our work a real art based upon science and experience. If we were to confine our exercises to the popular forms, walking, running, throwing, striking, jumping and climbing we may not look for nor expect to attain the highly desirable effect of improving efficiency, acquiring skill and elevating the human race to a higher than the present or past level of proficiency. In order to closely approach what may lead to a thorough understanding of the means that should be employed to attain a higher level of human development and ability let us for a moment recall into memory biologic phenomena, let us be reminded of the evolution of life, of a series of organisms, the study of which may aid us in our discussion and deliberation to enable us to judge and form conclusions.

The lowest form of life consists of one cell only. It is like a globular sack made up of a thin membrane containing a substance called protoplasm in which is embedded a nucleus. This nucleus grows until it passes out through the membrane of the mothercell to become an independent cell itself. Nutriment is taken into the cell and waste matter is excreted from it. It is irritable, advancing when the external stimulus is agreeable and retreating when it is disagreeable. We here see that movement is primarily forward and backward or advancing toward and retracting from stimuli. Organisms that consist of a number of cells show a differentiation in cell-function. Some cells are used for movements, others for digestion and a third variety for the reception and transmission of stimulation. Stimuli are transmitted directly by cell contact. There are no nervefibers but there are sensory cells and motor cells. In the higher developed species of multicellular organism we find that sensory cells are connected with motor and digestive cells by fibers. Further up in the scale of life we notice that sensory cells and fibers convey impulses to clusters of cells arranged in series along the median line of the body, which may be said to be the primitive form in lower animal life of what we know as the spinal cord in vertebrates. In a still higher form of animals we note a

Digitized by

Google
132

formation of special ganglia at the upper part of the central row of ganglia. These special ganglia are analogous to our basal ganglia at the base of the brain. Eliminating from our consideration many other forms and degrees of development of the nervous system of different species of life we find in one of the lowest vertebrates, the frog, that there are two cerebral hemispheres, constituting a most primitive brain, yet the frogs nervous system is a highly complex development in comparison to the one cell, the lowest form of life.

Man is a neuro-musculo-glandular organism that originated from a species of primitive being whose system was chiefly a musculo-glandular combination, unable to think, unable to speak, unable to perform any but tasks most primitive as compared with our composite, intricate mental skill of comparison, inflection, introspection, retrospection, deliberation, judging and also as compared with our ability of improving existing devices and methods by means of co-ordinated movements, by aptitude and dexterity. Setting aside the glandular as well as the nervous element, man was in the main makeup a muscular organism. His environment and his mode of life required nothing much beyond motility. His life was one of natural physical activity out of doors culminating in great strength and robust health. His ability to find new ways of doing things, improving on former devices and, later, his closer association with other men, the formation of tribes, later leading to the establishment of communities led to an improvement of his muscular co-ordination and enabled him to do things better and with less expenditure of energy. The first teaching was probably done by self-instruction, by experiment, to be followed later by showing each other how to do things and how to make things. To call each other’s attention they would touch each other, make signs with their fingers and hands, and later exclaim gutteral-, laryngeal-, lip- and mouth-sounds. This led to an improved coordination of the muscles of the larynx, pharynx, etc., making it possible to articulate sounds into words and connecting these to form sentences, developing into the ability to speak. The coordination of the larger muscles is primary while that of the smaller ones is secondary and it depends on the innervation which is possible only when the nerves have fully developed and can make proper connections to send stimuli to these muscles, when the nervous system is capable of choosing and sending impulses to the proper centers and muscles. In the young child and the untrained individual this choice is impossible, or, it may be, that the untrained person is incapable of transmitting impulses even if he wills, if he chooses to do so, because in both cases the nervefibers are immature, they are not fully developed. They are, moreover, like a bunch of uninsulated electric wires that come in contact with each other at some points or all along their extent and then deviate to a large number of different stations. The result is that the electric charge of one wire at one end will be transmitted to all the other wires and become diffused and transmitted to the many stations at the other end of the electrodes. To overcome or prevent this condition insulation of each wire is necessary so that
183

* messages sent over one wire will reach their proper, their intended destination. Nature has provided for insulation of nervefibers by surrounding them with a sheath, as it were, the medullary sheath. The development of this anatomic-histologic structure is considered to naturally continue throughout our life but its growth is greatly enhanced by frequent trials of sending impulses, by practice. Another fact in this connection is that a larger quantity of nerve-filaments, dendritic processes, develop at the end of the neurons, while at the same time the protoplasm of nerve cells improves in quality by exercise. This growth and improvement of nerve-tissue is a slow process and, therefore perseverance in effort is important. According to Prof. Wm. James “we learn to swim in winter and to skate in summer." This sentence as well as our experience teaches us that it is well to interrupt one activity by practicing something else for a while to again try the apparently difficult task at some other time when we may find to our surprise that we can now do what formerly seemed to us impossible to do. It simply means that, in the interim, pathways have been established between the cells and fibers, nerves and muscles. “Everytime a new trick has been learnt one or more pathways have been established between two or more centers.”

While we contribute to the improvement of the coarser coordinations by the practice of track and field activities and games we aid in the development of the finer forms of co-ordination of both large and small muscles by the practice of free-exercises and apparatus feats. Free-exercises, taught from the simple to their combined forms may be made so difficult in their complexity and require such intricate muscular co-ordination that their performance may become quite a task and an artistic achievement even for the most skilful gymnast. But, after having secured muscular coordination by trying the movements a number of times to get the proper choice of muscles, the velocity bf the movement, the direction, extent and exact position, the movement is practiced in rhythm to fix and maintain the required control. This rhythmic execution also has the advantage of economizing in time. The importance of this feature becomes apparent at once when we consider the trend of the times to economize in, to save time, and this is even more important in our primary and secondary schools where we are allowed so small a space of time in the curriculum. In our apparatus-exercises, with their twisting and swinging and circling and tilting, their rolling and turning and balancing, we have a system of exercises that requires a high degree of fine muscular co-ordination. The more skilfully one can handle his body the more easily new tricks are learned and, for our usefulness in life, much depends on our agility, aptitude and adaptability.

If we have become able to handle our body on apparatus by improving our neural pathways and by establishing new ones, if we have learnt how to manipulate hand apparatus, wands, Indian clubs, etc., in the gymnasium, have we then not brought about a state of fine co-ordination even of the smaller muscles? Is there much difference in handling tools and in handling physical train-

Digitized by VjOOQle
134

ing apparatus? Does the young man require a greater amount of practice in handling tools than he does in foil fencing for example? My contention, based upon experience is that the co-ordination needed in fencing by far exceeds that needed in the handling of instruments used to do, or to make something. Of course, every trade, business or art furnishes its own problems of muscular co-ordination. So does every different tool used in the same vocation or trade from the farmer to the artist, from the blacksmith to the toolmaker or machinist, from the penman or the draughtsman to the engraver. Looking at this from the right angle it at once appears as a fallacy to begin the training of the minute co-ordinations without first establishing and improving the coarser ones. Yet, it is not to be deplored that we have a lot of manual, vocational and industrial training in our schools everywhere, and it has been noticed that pupils take a greater interest in their school than heretofore when they got a lot of information only, not being permitted to assert their natural inclination to do, or to make something. It is the motor impulse that wants to asssert itself, that wants to express itself, that wants an outlet, that wants to be released. The boys and girls are delighted, take pleasure in, are proud of what they have made, what they have accomplished, in exactly the same way as the child, as we have seen above, takes pleasure in being able to seeure the stick or the toy it reached for. And so a person takes pleasure in his accomplishments, which pleasure incites to renewed effort, to new ways, new methods with a conservation of time and energy, even with an improvement on the finished article or the accomplishment of a more difficult feat by finding new ways of applying former experience and previous modes of procedure, by reasoning and by improving co-ordinated muscular movements.

In certain nervous disorders, in which the co-ordinating function is impaired, improvement of muscular action is secured by compensatory function through the practice of exercises. Coordinating pathways and centers, that have formerly been assisting, become strengthened and may even substitute the function of those destroyed. To secure this, intense attention is required. Concentration of attention to a movement produces a surcharge of nerve cells and results in improved co-ordination. Practice or exercise of the motor cell puts it into a state of greater excitability. This means that it has been strengthened. The irritability or sensibility of the sensory cells has been increased also. The elevation of the dynamic condition brought about by the constantly repeated attentional preparation gradually becomes persistent, leads to a permanently higher ability of reaction. Therefore a smaller previous attentional charging is required to get a prompt motor reaction. The ability of the motor center to react on sensory impulses has been improved, is finer, the motor ganglia cell reacts sooner and quicker, it answers, with the same strength as formerly, to smaller centripetal excitation and, to obtain the same external effect a much smaller degree of attentional charging is needed. The whole mechanism has gradually become refined.

Digitized by e.ooQie
135

We have seen that every time a new trick has been learnt new neural pathways are established so too new pathways are established between cerebral cells, by comparison of sensory images, concepts, ideas and experiences, in other words, by exercising the brain through the act of thinking, of reasoning. The known will thus lead us to the formerly unknown, established ideas lead to new ones, old methods direct us to new devices, even failure to succeed, the very activity of experiment of applying apparently feasable theories improve our mental activity and ability. The tension of the mind during the process of reasoning, during sustained, continued attention increases the blood supply to the area strained and nourishment is given the neurons promoting their growth, re-supplying the cells with new material for that which was utilized. Psychic activity is primarily cell activity and the cells themselves are strengthened by exercising them, but mental capacity and ability is dependent mainly upon the extent of the interconnection of the cerebral areas by association fibers. The cells of the brain are not different from other cells since all cells have for their constituency protoplasm, but cerebral cell protoplasm is a highly specialized protoplasm. It differs from other protoplasm mainly in that it has a high degree of sensibility to stimuli and it possesses various specialized functional activity.

To sum up, the pathways and structures entering into the

grocesses of muscular co-ordination and mental association must e studied and should be well understood. This knowledge must be carefully applied in teaching physical exercises in order to secure the improvement, the refinement of the neural mechanism. The movement-ideas and -concepts must be improved by repeated practice to establish clear movement-images in the brain. The exercises must be practiced in rhythm whenever possible in order to get the greatest amount of work done for its physiologic effect in a minimum of time, and to firmly fix and strengthen the newly acquired or established neural pathways, guaranteeing their permanency. Improvement of the various units of co-ordination strengthens them in their ability to assist each other and this united action results in improved agility, dexterity and skill with the least expenditure of time.

In much the same way as nerve-cells and -fibers entering into the function of muscular co-ordination are improved by practice and elevated to a higher physiological development in quantity and quality so the structures and function of the sensitivo-sen-sibilo-receptive and associative factors entering into psychic processes are improved by exercising them.

Man is yet in the making; he is still in the process of development, and motor education in its various forms is a means toward his refinement. It has been our endeavor for several decades to do our part for the attainment of this by trying to make physical training popular, to get the people into the habit of physical activity. We have slowly but continually and steadily gained ground; let us persevere until victory is won for the benefit of the people culminating in the refinement, the elevation of the human race.

Digitized by v^ooQle
136

PROGRESS IN HEATING AND VENTILATING WORK.

All physical training teachers who are interested in the heating and the ventilation of their gymnasiums, class rooms, etc. will be interested in the following announcement taken from the Heating and Ventilating Magazine:

In naming John R. Allen of Pittsburgh, Pa. as the director of the Bureau of Research of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers assurance is given to the heating industry that the bureau will fully meet all expectations regarding the manner in which its investigations will be conducted and, in all probability, in the results to be achieved. This assurance is most welcome because perhaps the principal objection raised to the project was the fear that in some way the bureau’s findings might be affected by bias or preconceived opinions. Those who are familiar with Professor Allen’s career know how incapable he would be of permitting any improper turn to the investigations. This backed up by the safeguards that have been thrown around every phase of the bureau's activities, is a guarantee that the next few years will see some momentous achievements in the art of heating and ventilation.

The financial side of the project, too, is taking even better shape than its promotors had hoped for. In addition to the fund raised by the heating trade, which, at last accounts, amounted to over $18,000 per year for the five-year period, it is now announced that the Bureau of Mines itself will have at its disposal at least an equal amount, to be devoted exclusively to the heating engineers’ research bureau. Thus, instead of the original $10,000 per year that was at first sought for, the bureau is able to arrange its program on the basis of an income of not less than $40,000 per year. Nor is this all. Other bodies, like the National District Heating Association and the National Warm Air Heating and Ventilating Association, have a direct interest in the work of the bureau. Arrangements have already been made to have the central station heating men hold one of the sessions of their forthcoming annual convention at the Bureau of Research in Pittsburgh and there is every likelihood that their organization, as a body, will desire to share in some phases of the work.

According to the latest plans the heating engineers’ society will hold its summer meeting in Pittsburgh, June 10-12, while the National District Heating Association will meet in the same city June 10-13. June 12 has been set aside for a joint meeting of the two organizations in the auditorium of the Bureau of Mines building, during which an inspection will be made of the facilities of the Research Bureau, accompanied no doubt by a discussion of the various investigations to be made.

Too much emphasis can not be laid on the fact that the Research Bureau belongs to the whole heating trade and its activities of the most practical nature. The industry has much to be proud of in the way it has supported the movement, while the functions of the society are as they should be in exercising exclusive supervision of the work.

Digitized by CjOOQle
137

The State University of Oregon has recently published a little pamphlet entitled ‘ The Organization of Health Work in the Small City.”

The plan is an attempt to provide, with the limited means available in the average small city, for health work of a more constructive type than that commonly being done. The expensive and highly specialized service used in the larger cities is usually out of the question for those towns ranging from five thousand to fifteen thousand people, but by this plan an effort is made to accomplish, through careful organization, close co-ordination of all health work and increased vigilance on the part of regular teachers, most of the results derived from the expensive plans of the larger cities.

The State University thought this would be of sufficient help to those administering health work in the smaller cities of the country to justify its publication. It may be had by writing to the Extension Department of the University, Eugene, Oregon.

Gymnastic Exercises in Treatment of Scoliosis.—Joland reaffirms the advantages of the proper gymnastic exercises in treatment of scoliosis as the only means to reestablish the normal balance of the spine, suppressing the causes of asymmetry and combating the cause of the deformity. They should be kept up at home for years. The shape of the bone is secondary to the function. Na-geotto has reported the case of a girl with one leg left 4 cm; shorter than the other after an accident. The scoliosis induced to keep from falling resulted in modifying the shape of certain vertebrae to corrrespond.—From Paris Medical, Jan. 4,1919, No. 1.

Open-Air School for Subnormal.—An open-air school, combining the features of a boarding school and day school for girls of subnormal physique and deficient mental development, has been established by the St. Louis Tuberculosis Society, and the public school authorities at St. Louis. It is said to be the first institution of its kind, and the experiment will be tested for six months. The school opens with fifteen children in attendance.

Keeping Fit is the title of a pamphlet issued by the U. S. Public Health Service which may be had from that department at Washington, D. C. by asking for V. D. Bulletin No. 1. The following is an abstract of it: What fitness demands: 1. Muscular Strength; 2. Endurance; 3. Energy; 4. Will Power; 5. Courage;

6.	Self Control.

Manpower is the thing most needed in the world to-day. Our supply is not limitless. We shall need it all at full capacity, not only for service at the front but for service in factory, mine, and farm and in constructive and healing scientific and professional pursuits. It is important that every man and boy in America keep his body in fighting and working trim. Whether you are

Digitized by CjOOQle
138

at school, at work, or go to war in the next few years, it is necessary that you should know the laws of physical and mental efficiency and live up to them. That means not only the avoidance of diseases and defects, but positive efforts on your part through self-discipline and healthy activities to put your mind and body in prime condition.

Defective Feet. In battle an army gets from where it is to where it is going on feet. A good general takes almost as much care for his men's feet and stomachs as he does for their powder and shot.

Men are not rejected for corns and bunions, unless they interfere with wearing a military shoe, or with weight-carrying power; but they are a nuisance, and they can be avoided by having properly fitted shoes, snug but not pressing or stubbing the joints or toes. The Army “last" is a safe and good-looking shoe.

Cleanliness is of the utmost importance in keeping the feet in condition. Unless this is attended to systematically, the skin becomes softened and irritated by cast-off particles of skin, dirt, and perspiration; hence blisters and abrasions are more likely to form.

The most frequent foot trouble serious enough to cause rejection and real handicap is the fallen arch, or “flat foot." This may be prevented by wearing shoes which do not put too heavy a strain on the “arch" of the foot, but give it mild support. Many things besides shoes may cause flat foot, and a doctor should always be consulted for any continuous foot discomfort. Foot strain is also a cause of some kinds of backache and other nervous trouble.

The straight position of the foot—that is, with the feet parallel —is the proper one for both standing and walking.

If a shoe threatens to injure your foot, it is poor economy to keep it. Don't buy a misfit just because it is cheap or fashionable, it doesn't pay. Remember the doctor's bills!

Training Rules. To be really fit for service, however, it is

not enough to be free from disabling defects. Many men are rejected simply because of “poor physique." You must be in good general condition all the time if you want to win out, whether in

war or in peace.

To achieve the maximum of physical and mental efficiency you must follow five common-sense rules:

(1) The first of these is sufficient exercise of the right kind. Reading the sporting page, yelling in the grandstand, and watching the baseball bulletin boards may be enjoyable, but will never make a man vigorous. He himself must take daily exercise. Hiking, baseball, rowing, and canoeing, skating in the open air, swimming, tennis, team games, general gymnasium work, boxing and wrestling, where the air is fresh, are among the most beneficial forms of exercise. Any useful work using the big muscles actively is as good as sports.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
139

Your daily exercise should be vigorous enough to cause you to perspire freely. This helps the body to throw off certain waste products which will act as poisons if they are allowed to accumulate. After exercise take a bath. A shower is better than a tub bath. A washbowl or any other contrivance is better than nothing. Warm water should be used first, then cold. The bath should be followed by a vigorous rub down with a coarse towel, the whole process taking no longer than 4 to 5 minutes. The bath and rub down should produce a healthy glow of the body and a general feeling of well-being.

(2)	Second, sleep in the fresh air, work and exercise in the fresh air as much as possible, and be sure to have the indoor air kept fresh during the day. Fresh air is almost a cure-all. It is usually more valuable than any quantity of medicine.

(3)	In the third place, you probably need at least eight hours' sleep every night. A man can get along on less, but he can not keep himself in the best possible physical and mental condition. Do not lie in bed after waking up, but jump out, bathe, and dress immediately. Avoid soft mattresses, feather beds, and too much covering.

(4)	Proper food is another requirement. The system needs not only the kind of food that is rich in nourishment, but vegetables and other coarser food to give bulk and stimulate the bowels. When this is not done, one becomes constipated and is likely to have headaches and general ill health. Regular movements of the bowels are aided by an abundance of exercise and by eating plenty of fruit and drinking plenty of pure water. The “Hoover” diet is a well-balanced and common-sense ration.

Be a “Class One A” Man.—Your body is your life-time, willing servant. Abuse it—it will be patient, but when it takes revenge it takes it a thousandfold. Give it a square deal, and it will give you a square deal and more—it will give you back pure blood and strong, skilled muscles and a clear brain for your future happiness, your country’s service and the world’s work.

Habits and Health.—Organized society may purchase the extinction of the malarial mosquito. It may buy the eradication of the yellow fever mosquito, the rat of bubonic plague, the tick of spotted fever, the fly of sleeping sickness, or the louse of typhus fever or of trench fever. Organized society may buy clean, pure water, and it may purchase a successful food inspection. But it cannot buy habits of personal hygiene that produce human health; that defend the individual from disease and postpone his death. It cannot purchase health habits that give the individual resistance to disease, making it harder for him to become sick and easier to recover. It cannot purchase the personal consciousness of individual obligation in the health affairs of the community that is essential to an effective defense of the community health.—T. A. Storey, M. D., Ph. D., on Physical Training, as quoted in “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.” Jan. 4, 1919.

Digitized by LaOOQle
140

O - ——	II...-1H	—I ■ I	  ■	.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

I)	him	■	■■

EVENING PLAY CENTERS IN LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.

A movement fraught with the utmost possibilities for the benefit of the rising generation has just taken shape in Liverpool in the establishment of evening play centers. Working through the elementary schools, management subcommittee, and the special director appointed by them, the board of education is pressing a wide extension of this movement, as an important element in the scheme of educational reconstruction. Indeed, so important is the movement regarded by the board that they offer a grant for expense of an amount not exceeding one half of the approved local expenditure and maintenance when the center is shown to be conducted efficiently and economically.

The purpose is nothing less than to offer all children the benefits of the well-ordered home.

The need of such provision has long been recognized in various cities by churches in connection with their day and Sunday schools, by the managers of local council schools, by charitable private - organizatioris, by musical associations, and by Government and local associations for the suppression of juvenile delinquency, but the need of to-day is to co-ordinate and extend such work as has hitherto been carried on in admittedly desultory fashion. It is at once plain how vast is the aim of the project, “hardly leas vast than the proposal of the new Education act to provide continued education for every young person in the country between 14 and * 18 years of age.”

The practical lines of organization and operation are well set forth in the report of the subcommittee:

The aim of play centers is to provide after-school hours, for the recreation and physical welfare under adequate supervision of children attending public elementary schools, and especially of those whose home conditions are unfavorable to healthy and happy development. As the centers are to be play centers and not evening schools, formal discipline and didactic methods should be kept in the background as far as possible. The play center program must be of a varied and attractive character designed to afford to individual children much liberty in the choice of recreation and occupation. The sort of activities to be found in successful play centers are romping games, sport (boxing, wrestling, single stick, tug-of-war, leap frog, jumping, relay races, etc.), dancing including folk dances, country dances, and rhythmic dancing, which, as a result of the classes established by the Liverpool Education Committee this session, might be made an outstanding feature. Then come handwork (woodwork, basket and raffia work, the making of models and toys), cobbling, etc., needlework, not in the form of lessons, but the making of dolls’ clothes, fancy work, and clothes mending, which experience in Liverpool shows has its at-

Digitized by CjOOQle
141

tractions for boys. Finally, comes painting or drawing with colored chalks, quiet reading, story telling, letter writing, and parlor games of all sorts. Entertainments, such as little plays, might be got up, and singing, particularly in the form known as ‘‘sing-song” will find its place. The arts studies association, which has enlisted the support of many of the leading professionals and amateurs in the city, as well as of teachers devoted to music, will be glad to provide short series of good conceits. In fine weather during the summer months, the activities of the play center will take on an open-air character, and the board's regulations provide for as much use as possible being made of play grounds, parks, recreation grounds and other available open-air places. Thus there should be great scope for organized games in the open air. Visits to swimming baths will also be encouraged.—School Life.

To assist officials and memorial organizations in planning effective community buildings, the U. S. Bureau of Education has formulated the following principles:

A memorial building should be erected only when there is genuine need for it.

The building should be something more than a clubhouse for soldiers if it is to be a living memorial.

The building which provides a soldiers' clubhouse ought also to house permanent community activities, in order to establish intimate contact for the benefit of both.

If the term “community" is to convey an honest meaning as applied to the building, the latter should house only those activities which are non-partisan, non-sectarian and non-exclusive.

If the building is endowed, the endowment should be only partial, in order to preserve the public interest aroused by the necessity of continuous effort.

To secure the advantages both of public ownership and voluntary self-support, the building should be maintained partly out of public and partly out of private funds.

To avoid professional red-tape and to stimulate private initiative, the use of the building should be under the joint control of public and volunteer agencies.

The essential needs of a community building, in the judgment of the bureau of education, are these: Assembly room, to be used also for social games, folk dances, dinner parties and gymnasium; classrooms, to be so arranged that they may be used also for departmental activities of the community center; a workshop, to be used also for vocational night classes and for mechanical experimental work as recreation; library and reading room, to be used also as a neighborhood club and clearing house for information; kitchen and storeroom, to be used also for household economics, community dinners and co-operative exchanges; an open fireplace.



Digitized by Google
,	142

PHYSICAL FITNESS FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS

How many teachers and students know when they are physically fit? Dr. Thomas D. Wood gives some of the signs in a leaflet which the New Jersey State Department of Education is distributing to New Jersey teachers. Here is his list, with part of his comment:

“1. A sense of physical well-being. This means that you should feel a zest and satisfaction in mental and muscular effort; an interest and joy in work and recreation, kept in sensible proportion and balance; and a freedom from pain—for this inevitably interferes with clear thinking, concentrated effort, and effective work.

“2. A feeling of being refreshed and recuperated on rising in the morning after a customary night’s rest and a feeling of healthy fatigue as bedtime approaches. The hang over of fatigue in the morning, experienced by so many students and teachers, should be escaped from as fast as possible. On the other hand, a feeling of intellectual keenness and brilliancy in the late evening should be viewed with suspicion. It is an auto-intoxication of the nerves.

“3. Enjoyment of wholesome food, including a moderately good appetite even for breakfast. To begin the day’s work without a fairly nourishing breakfast is just as sensible as for a steamer captain to stoke his furnace with the chopped up woodwork from his vessel.

“4. Body weight maintained at about the proper standard for height and age. A person who is 10 per cent or more under standard weight is probably undernourished and to some extent deficient in energy and endurance. The individual who is more than 10 per cent above standard weight is carrying burdensome ‘excess baggage’ which is apt, with advancing years, to prove a handicap to health or perhaps to life.

“5. Elimination from the intestinal tract. This should take place at least once daily.

“6. Freedom from persistent worry. This is one of the most destructive influences upon life, health, and physical as well as mental fitness.”

‘‘If you are honestly intent upon being physically fit, what should you do?” asked Dr. Wood, and answers as follows:

“1. Admit to yourself the limitations upon your health, if such have been imposed upon you by ancestral influence and your own past life; but do not because of these be discouraged.

‘‘2. Free yourself from physical defects that are wholly or partially remediable, which may lower your physical fitness. The eyes, ears, and teeth should be especially looked after.

“3. Eat regularly. Eat slowly.

“Eat some hard food for the sake of the teeth; eat fresh, raw, or green food for the chemical needs of the body; eat meat or eggs only once a day.

“Eat lightly of easily digested food when tired, excited, or anxious.

Digitized by LjOOQle
143

"Drink three to five glasses of water a day outside of mealtime.

"Finally, before putting food into the mouth, always wash your hands.

“4. Spend eight to nine hours in bed every night. Very few can maintain physical fitness with less than eight hours in bed daily.

"5. Spend at least an hour a day in recreation and exercise, outdoors, if possible; and it is possible, with few exceptions, even in stormy weather, if you plan intelligently enough.

"6. Acquire and maintain a good posture; weight over the balls of the feet; chest forward; abdomen back; the back not hollowed too much; the top of the head held as high as possible without fatiguing strain.

"7. Take a cool tub, shower, or sponge bath each morning before breakfast, Use a coarse towel and flesh brushes, as the vigorous friction of the entire body surface is of great value. Twice a week take a warm cleansing bath at bedtime.

"8. Attend to the evacuation of the intestine daily and with absolute regularity. Constipation is the most common of all physical ailments. It is the trench disease of sedentary workers.

“9. Get some form of mental as well as muscular recreation regularly. Cultivate some hobby for an avocation. Cultivate and preserve the play spirit.

“10. Avoid worry as you would avoid the plague.”

Bernard Mandl

MANUFACTURER OF

MEN'S, YOUTH'S, BOY'S AND LADIES'

GYMNASIUM CLOTHING

and Dealer in Gymnasium Apparatus, Theatrical Tights, and all kinds of

SPORTING GOODS.

CATALOGS FREE ON APPLICATION.

210-212 W Madison St. CHICAGO, ILL.
.... — 1 ■ —■

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

Potomac and DeKalb Streets	ST. LOUIS,	MO.

MANUFACTURERS OF

GYMNASIUM APPARATUS PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

STEEL LOCKERS

Catalogs descriptive of any of these productions will be sent on request. Merely mention in which line you are interested.

Our book 4‘The Planning of a Gymnasium’ * contains a mass of data on gymnasium construction and equipment. It also will be sent on request.

THE CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FRANCIS MUSSELMAN, Princinnl ESTABLISHED 1903 SUMMER SESSION—June 30 to August 9, 1919

Six weeks practical and theoretical training in physical education. Beginning and advanced courses. Summer work credited toward diploma. Special work in dancing and Military Tactics Our fine big dormitory remains open for summer term.

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—Registration Sspt. and Feb.

Theoretical and practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing women for teachere of physical education in public schools, colleges and normal schools, Young Women’s Christian Associations, and Playgrounds. Strong faculty of well known teachers. Exceptionally desirable dormitory facilities.

SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN-—June 15 to July 15, 1919.

For Catalogs Address the REGISTRAR, 430 Sooth Wabash Areoue, CHICAGO.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rocky Mountain Teachers Agency

PACIFIC OFFICE:

326 Empire Building	1312 Northwestern Bank Bldg.

Denver, Colo.	Portlandv Oregon

WM. RUFFER, A. M., Manager FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr.