MIND AND BODY

VoL 90	MAY, 1923	No.	318

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Enured as second-class matter October 14f, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

-------------------------------------♦

QrIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

♦ ------ ■ ---------------------— <>

STANDARDS FOR JUDGING PHYSICAL EDUCATION

PRACTICE*.

By Jesse F. Williams, M. D., New York.

Physical Education practice may be considered for the purposes 01 this paper to include all the motor activities, newly devised or accepted as traditional procedure for motor training, health, character, and recreation of boys and girls. Such inclusion considers eveiything that has belonged to or is now a part of or is only proposed for physical education programs. The utility of standards for judging physical education practice resides in the help to be given in the selection of activities, in the supervision of activities in progress, and in the reorganization of plans for more rational programs.

Historically, physical education has developed without stand-

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Springfield, Mass., April 1928.

Digitized by LjOOQle
50

ards except those of a political or militaristic necessity. (1) The experiences of European nations in this regard have never been clear sanctions for us in America, and yet too frequently the materials and methods of their physical education have been accepted at their face value without any calculation for exchange that is as surely variable in the realm of national needs, national traits, and national goals as it is in the realm of finance. It is of tremendous importance therefore that we set up standards for judging physical education practice, that in doing so we consider the nature of man, his biologic needs, and the national needs, traits, and purposes of the American people. Man’s nature and biologic needs may be very much alike m Europe and in America, but how this nature is trained and how these needs may be satisfied are dependent upon a political and moral philosophy that is as distinct among the several nations of Europe, in Japan, m China, as they are different one from the other and from the United States of America. Failure to recognize the nationalistic character of many past expressions of physical education, with the essential political and militaristic character of most of them (Greece excepted) is one of the conspicuous mistakes in physical education in this country.

Any attempt therefore to set up criteria by which physical education practice is to be judged must consider, the nature of man, man’s biologic needs in relation to national needs, national traits, and national goals or purposes. The discussion of the following standards is guided by such considerations. Their acceptance or rejection must be, so it seems to me, upon the above premises.

I. The first standard proposed is: The practice must provide physiological results, scientifically determined, indicative of wholesome, junctional activity of organic systems, and sufficient for the needs of the growing organism.

Because of the nature of man and his biologic needs (2) we are keenly interested in the organic systems. These systems—particularly the circulatory, respiratory, excretory, and nervous — are vitally related to the muscles of locomotion and the fundamental muscles of the trunk, which of course in the flat worm were the locomotor mechanism.

This standard is justified therefore by this dependency of the vital organs upon the fundamental muscles. This relationship and its significance have been variously appreciated in physical education. While accepting the fact, its interpretation has frequently been confused in the practical working out of methods and procedures. To illustrate my point I shall choose a practice that is unscientific as judged by present day physiological knowledge. I choose it merely to show the need for scientific truth in determining practice.

Breathing exercises, used in calisthenics, constitute a frank

1.	Leonard, F. E.: “A Guide in the History of Physical Education.” Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, 1923.

2.	Tyler, J. M.: Growth and Education. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1907, pp. 25-62.

Digitized by Google
51

violation and non-agreement with this standard of nature and biologic needs. The reasons given for breathing exercises have varied from time to time and have retreated from one position to another. Unfortunately there still remains misinformation concerning the physiology of the matter. Breathing exercises in physical education (except for special effects in corrective gymnastics) are unscientific and should not be used for the following reasons:

1.	Oxygen can not be stored up in the body. The passage of oxygen from the alveoli of the lungs to the blood and from blood to tissues is dependent upon the partial pressures of gases and the readiness of hemoglobin to take up oxygen. These factors are related directly to body needs. In this connection Burton-Opitz (1) says:

“The general arrangement of the intracellular material constitutes the principal factor in the determination of the manner in which the dysoxidizable foodstuffs combine with oxygen. On this account there is imparted to the oxidations definite specificity and a limit is set to them in conformity with the requirements of the different tissues. Consequently, the magnitude of the oxidation is regulated by the tissue itself and not by the amount of oxygen actually available.

There is abundant experimental evidence to show that the arterial blood is in a state of almost complete saturation and that this normal state is possible with an oxygen tension of little more than 30 m. m. Hg., although normally the tension is at least 100 m. m. Hg. Moreover as Burton-Opitz says: “But even if this gas (oxygen) is supplied in pure form so that its pressure is increased five times, namely from 152 m. m. Hg. to 760 m. m. Hg., no considerable variation in the consumption of oxygen and output of carbon dioxide results.”

2.	By respiratory exercises the proportion of oxygen to carbon dioxide in the lungs and blood can be temporarily increased but only at the expense of the physiologic equilibrium of the body. The nausea, headache, disturbance in vision and other sensory disturbances indicate the unhygienic effect of this artificial procedure. Henderson’s (2) experiments have been especially helpful in con-finning this position.

3.	The quantity of oxygen to be taken up by the cells of the body is conditioned by the needs of the cells. Pfluger’s (3) work on the combustion of living material showed that. Barcroft (4) has sustained his position. Nature has provided a mechanism by which

1.	Burton-Opitz, R.: Textbook of Physiology. W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1920. pp. 507, 511, 514, 516, 517.

2.	Henderson, Y., ana associates: Jour. Pharmacology and Exp. Ther. Apr. 1918; Jour. Am. Med. Assoc. July 25, 1914; Jour. Biol. Chem., Vol. XLIII, Vol. 1920.

3.	Pfluger: Ueber die Physiologische Verbrennung in den leben-digen Organismen. Pfluger’s Aich., X, p. 350,1895.

4.	Barcroft: The Respiratory Function of the Blood, Cambridge Univ. Press., London, 1914, p. 73.

Digitized by v^ooQie
52

cell needs can be determined. The respiratory center in the medulla responds to the H-ion concentration of the blood and provides a rate and depth of respiration based upon the blood condition supplying the center. No individual teacher has ever known what were the biologic needs of the child with reference to oxygen and carbon dioxide and yet we have the performance of breathing exercises in perhaps ninety per cent of our classes in school room gymnastics. In addition it is important to note that Burton-Opitz has shown (unpublished data) that the tidal air is greater in maximum respirations with the arms hanging easily at the sides than with arm movements usually employed.

4.	Breathing exercises can not replace or act as a substitute for big muscle activities which require increased respiration as the result of increased body need. Respiratory needs vary in different individuals, and according to activity. The only scientific and rational procedure is to allow the respiration to follow body activity in accordance with body needs.

5.	Breathing exercises are defended at times by claiming that children do not blow how to breathe and hence must be taught. Such a position is absolutely untenable. The human infant is bom into the world and about the first thing it does is to breathe. From that moment until it enters school at six years it breathes all right, but the moment it enters school for some unknown reason it has to be taught how. Such a position gives rise at times to absolutely indefensible practices in our programs, e. g. a high school teacher in the middle west told me that she spent the major part of the first two years for her girls in high school teaching them how to breathe correctly.

6.	The belief that breathing exercises and large lungs were inimical to the development of pulmonary tuberculosis is unfounded in fact. Tuberculosis is related directly to personal habits, sanitation and sources of contagion. There is no characteristic tuberculous chest except in the chronic stages of the disease. A lung that is related to the habits of life, exercise, and needs of the individual is a better mechanical instrument for physiologic needs than one much larger in size and power with a corresponding greater area of unused space.

I have discussed breathing exercises as an illustration of the need to test our practice by a standard that viewed the wholesome functional activity of organic systems in the light of physiological results. The scientific evidence is available for most of the determinations of procedure in this respect. The more deplorable is the position, therefore, of those leaders of physical education in state and city who continue traditional practice when the evidence is available to correct their procedure. It is not a matter at all of recommendations of different systems of gymnastics. There can be no such thing as German truth, or Swedish truth, or Danish truth, or American truth. There is truth! Scientifically determined fact!

Digitized by

Google
53

If our traditions, our beloved customs, our cherished beliefs disagree with ascertained truth there is only one defens ble position for the rational person.

We do not have all the data we require to apply this standard everywhere. All the needs of the growing organism are not known. Hetnerington (1) has indicated what is the time requirement of children in big muscle activities from 1 to 20 years. This kind of study needs to be continued and additional data collected. Moreover we need correlated studies on the relation of functional tests of physical vigor with the more static determinations of nutrition and growth. Some work has been done (2) and other studies are in process of preparation. Through the leadership of the Children’s Bureau of the Department of labor, there has been formed a committee to study intensively this problem of physical fitness and physical vigor in children. As chairman of the committee at work on functional tests I shall be glad to confer with any who have proposals to make or who are willing to do some work in connection with a study of this kind.

Finally it should be pointed out that any program that fails to provide for physiological activity of the organic systems sufficient for biologic needs is to be criticized. The speaker (3) has conducted one experiment on fourth grade children and this is being repeated in a western city. It showed that one type of program was not as useful for biologic growth and development as another. Such experimentation needs to be quite generally done. No matter how desirable the program may be in developing other values, it must never be forgotten that the accomplishment of physiologic work is not to be sacrificed to othe goals, except in unusual emergencies.

II.	The second standard proposed is:	practice must have

meaning and significance j or the individual and should provide a carryover interest.

It has been a traditional view that physical education dealt with muscles, bones, and ligaments. Our professional students have generally been more extensively trained in anatomy and kinesiology than in physiology and psychology. We have too freqently dissected the human individual and dealt with him in isolated systems in separate parts. We have taken a position in our field similar to one sometimes held in general educational theoiy, namely that the school trained the mind. It has been declared that physical education trained the body. Such posit'ons can not be defended. The mass of experimental and clinical evidence accumulating in recent

1.	Hetherington, C.: Am. Phy. Educ. Rev. May, 1917, p. 251

2.	Seham and Seham.: Am. Jour. Dis. Children. Jan. 1923. pp. 1-45.

3. Williams, J. F. and Associates: A Formal Gymnastic vs. a playgame Program. Teachers College Record, New York, Sept. 1922.

Digitized by Google
54

years on this point emphasizes the essential unity of man. Mind and body are one (1). It is entirely unjustifiable to speak or act with reference to any duality in the education of the human individual.

The practice therefore of providing exercises without reference to their meaning to the child, without recognition of the necessity for an intelligent human being to react toward movements made, is a serious mistake. Thus we shall view with some suspicion the application of terms to exercises if this fundamental view does not prevail. For example it has been quite popular to classify as '‘hygienic exercises” certain movements of the trunk that were designed to promote hepatic circulation and intestinal peristalsis. This view is focussed on that part of the individual below the diaphragm. Irrespective of the effects of such movements on the abdominal organs, it is a misuse of language and a handicap to correct thinking and planning to call them hygienic unless there are health-producing eifects upon the organism as a whole. It is indefensible to speak of hygienic effects upon the circulatory system and neglect the nervous system. If the child while doing such exercises experiences unwholesome (for our purposes) effects in mind, such as dissatisfaction, depression of spirit, dislike, the very opposites of wholesome neural activity e. g., joy, happiness, pleasure, then irrespective of salutary hepatic effects, the exercise can not be called hygienic.

The importance of recognizing that practice must have meaning and significance is attested to by our leading psychologists. Thus James (2) emphasizes the need to insure that every sensory stimulus shall result in a muscular or motor response suited to the emergency, and moreover that the response is not complete until the kinesthetic impulses from the movement return to the brain, informing as it were the antecedent sensory impulses of the completion of the act. The essential unity of mind and body (3) demands that movement be viewed in the light of its meaning and significance to the child. The importance of satisfaction in the learning of movements bears on this point and is stated by Thorndike in the Law of Effect (4). No where in physical education is there greater need for recognition of the demands of the individual that activities have meaning. It is being recognized in the teaching of school subjects where the psychological has supplanted the logical method in teaching spelling, reading, history, and other subjects. Its application to physical education is an immediate need.

1.	King, H. C.: Rational Living, The Macmillan Co., New York.

2.	James, W.: Psychology. Henry Holt and Co., New York, 1900. pp. 370-372.

3.	Ladd and Woodworth.: Physiological Psychology, Chas. Scribners Sons, New York, 1911. pp. 668-670.

4.	Thorndike, E. L.: Educational Psychology. Teachers College, New York, 1919, vol. I. p. 172.

Digitized by Google
55

Before our practice will have meaning and significance we shall havete get rid of a number of concepts of illegitimate origin.

For example, the development of general qualities, such as coordination, orderliness, subordination, grace, etc. The teacher who teaches children to perform left arm upward and right arm sideward stretching with the idea of developing co-ordination, or a waltz series or ballet technic with the aim of developing grace is simply making it difficult for scientific people to take physical education seriously. We need to recall Sherrington's (1) words: “Hence the training for a new skilled motor manoeuvre must be simply ad hoc and is of itself no training for another motor co-ordination, - apart from the well known mutual influence of training on symmetrical parts of the body.” If the activities are well chosen, if they have meaning and significance, their practice will result often in coordination, grace, and other values as by-products of the activity which in itself was satisfying to the individual.

Moreover, if meaning and significance reside in the activity, there will likely be a carry-over interest. The spectacle of men and women who have no love for and no skill in physical activity is made ridiculous by the claims of special exercises made palatable by phonograph attachment. This need for activity that shall function in the life of the individual has been forcibly stated by Fauver (2) and Sneddon (3). Most of us recognize the validity of their contentions.

III.	The third standard proposed is: The practice must provide opportunity for the individual to exercise the desirable instinct mechanisms by which socially useful traits may be developed.

Hetherington (4) has recently written so convincingly of this standard that it would hardly seem worth while to discuss it at length. In brief, it may be stated that the part played by original nature influenced by nurture (5) is so significant that physical education dealing as it does with activities with a large instinctive element, can not afford to neglect this great means of education.

It is important however to point out that the development of socially useful traits must be made in the light of our national needs,

1.	Sherrington, C. S.: The Integrative Action of the Nervous System, Yale Amer. Press. 1906, p. 392.

2.	Fauver, Edwin: Am. Phy. Educ., March, 1909, p. 200.

3.	Snedden, D.: School and Society. May 1920, May 8, pp. 541-550; May 15, pp. 575-582; May 22, pp. 601-606.

4.	Hetherington, C.: School Program m Physical Education. World Book Co., Yonkers, 1922.

5.	Thorndike, E. L.: Educational Psychology, Teachers College, New York, 1919, Vol. I, Chap. I, II, VI, VII, VIII, IX, XV, XVII.

McDougall, W.: Social Psychology, John W. Luce and Company, Boston, 1918, pp. 20-92.

Dewey, J.: Human Nature and Conduct. Henry Holt and Co., New York, 1922.

Digitized by t^ooQLe
56

traits, and purposes. This point will be enlarged under the fourth and last standard proposed and it will suffice now to deny that obedience to King, or consciousness of Divine Right have any part to play in these United States of America.

IV.	The fourth standard proposed is: The practice must offer opportunity to the individual under wise leadership to meet educative situations as one oj a social group.

Most of the difficulties that we meet as human individuals are related to persons and not to things. We adjust more readily to environmental changes that are foreign to our nature than we do to personal incompatibilities. Ability to live well as a member of organized society is one of the most valuable qualities. Hence the training in moral and social attitudes is the most important business of the home and school. All the values in civilization are dependent upon the process of nurture by which the original nature of man is modified. But such training must recognize fundamental points of view and while physical education must concern itself vitally with the problem of character development it can not proceed successfully without clear recognition of the problem.

It is helpful to remember that the more we work with children, the more we learn that we can not with absolute assurance teach them any thing. The best we can do is to offer a desirable situation and to help them to make a response that shall be satisfying or annoying to them in accordance with our plan for the formation of bonds (1).

Aside from the need for physiological activity for the whole child, for situations that are mentally stimulating and satisfying, (2) for the use of the valuable instinct mechanisms, the individual we are training fails unless he takes his place in the life of the nation as a national asset. Physical education has tlfis responsibility for the quality of our citizenship in precisely the same way that it exists for the school in general, but it has it in greater degree than any other department of the school because of the nature of the activities of the physical education program.

What will wise leadership offer? What are the criteria that will guide that leadership?

In that stimulating essay, American Individualism, Herbert Hoover writes, (3) “Our individualism embraces these ideals: that

while we build our society upon the attainment of the individual, we shall safeguard to every individual an equality of opportunity to take that position in the community to which his intelligence, character, ability, ambition entitle him; that we keep the social solution free

T Thorndike, E. L.: Educational Psychology, Teachers College, New York, 1920, pp. 170-194.

2.	Williams, J. F.: The Organization and Administration of Physical Education, The Macmillan Company, New York, 1922,

pp. 18-21.

3.	Hoover, H.: American Individualism. Doubleday, Page and Co., New York, 1922, p. 9.

Digitized by LjOOQie
57

from frozen strata of classes; that we shall stimulate effort of each individual to achievement; that through an enlarging sense of responsibility and understanding we shall assist him to this attainment; while he in turn must stand up to the energy wheel of completion.”

To meet educative situations as one of a social group may serve adequately as a standard because it asks us to view our program and practice in the light of social and national needs. It bias us recognize that physical education is worthy precisely to the degree it helps educate boys and girls who are national assets as citizens of these United States of America. Whatever may be our individual concepts of the elements of good citizen-ship we will doubtless agree that health, strength, vigor, power are never ends in themselves, but only useful means for the realization of service to the world. The notion that the immediate objectives of physical education are to be judged by their relation to general social ends and needs is not simply ad hominen, but the inescapable logic of a human world. But this point needs development.

Suppose that we were to judge physical education by the standards of its offering in educative situations and should interpret its practice in the light of the criteria as stated by Hoover. What would we think of the contribution of physical education to the idea of personal attainment? How much of our physical education is just plain exercise, without spirit without attitudes that inspire boys and girls to live finely? How often do we see physical education morally fervid enough to portray Hall’s (1) views when he said, "Physical Education is for the sake of mental and moral culture and not an end in itself. It is to make the intellect, feelings, and will more vigorous, sane, supple, and resourceful”; or spiritually minded enough to reflect Mac Cunn’s (2) words of "Body for the sake of Soul?” Are there instances where physical education is developing the “coarse, crude, vulgar, self-seeking individual?” How far is physical education offering an opportunity in the gymnasium and on athletic field for the development of the best in spirit, in personality, in character?

Following Hoover’s second point, we may ask, “If equality of opportunity reflects the essential spirit of this nation and portrays national traits and characters, what do we think of the athletic aristocracy of the schools?” Equality of opportunity if it means any thing at all means precisely for us that play, games, sports, and athletics shall not be the inheritance of a chosen few.

Shall our physical education be free from class privilege? I know and you know superintendents and principals of schools who select college graduates to coach football teams and who make only a pretense of providing an adequate opportunity for the 90 per cent

1.	Hall, G. S.: Proc. Nat. Educ. Assoc., 1908, p. 1015.

2.	Mac Cunn, J.: “The Making of Character,” The Macmillan Co., New York, 1900.

Digitized by v^ooQle
58

of boys and girls in the school - unless we consider a few calisthenic exercises in the classroom more than pretense.

In addition, we ought to be interested to observe to what extent physical education practice offers educative situation that shall stimulate each pupil to achieve and shall give opportunity to share responsibility. The personal qualities valued in human character can only be developed in connection with opportunities offered. Else there is no growth, no accomplishment.

But finally the individual is to be tested by his ability, his intelligence, his character, and his ambition. There must be no illusion in the word equality. That hallowed thought “all men are born free and equal’’ must not be misinterpreted to ever mean biologic equality. The assertion, “I’m just as good as you are," has to be recast to say, “I’m just as good as I become.’’ Equality can never be inherited, conferred by grant or made real by proclamation. It is always won. It is never a gift but always a conquest! The challenge coming down the centuries is a call to battle, to performance, to accomplishment. Fortunately the most acceptable activities of physical ecucation lend themselves peculiarly to the establishment of such fundamental id4as in the minds of our boys and girls.

Finally it must be admitted that the standards of physical education in tne final analysis are the standards of the men and women serving in the profession. The leadership that guides educative situations reflects the attitudes of the leaders. The attitudes that are taught in physical education are the attitudes that our teachers possess.

To provide opportunity for wholesome activity of organic systems, to offer a practice full of meaning and significance, to utilize the instinct mechanisms in developing socially useful traits, to present educative situations for the individual to respond to as one of a social group - these need never mean neglect of health and motor training values so frequently sought. If the supervision is adequate, if the opportunities are hygienic and sufficient, these nearer goals will be won, and if the above or similar standards prevail in actual programs, physical education will help in developing not only muscles, not only lungs, not only hearts, but in truth, individuals of a free and socially minded nation, ready to serve because of health, strength, and power, willing to serve because of the social consciousness that is theirs.

Discussion by W. A. Stecher. (See Note at end of article.)

All teachers of physical education should be thankful to Dr. Williams for his efforts in helping to outline so definitely the objectives and the judging standards in physical education. His present paper, his book on Administration, also Hetherington’s program of physical education, all should help to bring clearly in view not only our aim, but they also should give us valuable measuring sticks. It is interesting at this time to recall the ideals, hopes, expectations, and even the fears of those men who helped to acquaint the world with what now is known as physical education.

Digitized by Google
59

Jahn say8: By means of exercises, stunts and play, physical education although striving for physical development, also aims to develop mind and soul so as to produce a complete human being. He also says that every system of physical education that will endure must fit the needs of the country m which it develops; that climate, race, sex, and political institutions will help to give it shape and content.

Ling in a prophetic mood says: to prepare a field is difficult; to improve it is easier; to cultivate it and secure the fruits is easiest; yet, usually the last cultivator never thinks of his predecessors, because, generally, he thinks only of his own efforts.

Looking at the countries that have developed anything that might be called a national system of physical education, one is struck with the similarity of the types of bodily exercises employed. If there are any noticeable differences, these appear to have developed because of racial characteristics. After all, human beings are much alike all over the world, and if games, for example, can be employed to develop traits that are desirable for Americans, I have the feeling that these same games, or stunts, if used by intelligent teachers, would be likely to develop similar traits even among races for whom we may have no particular liking. And somehow I also have the feeling that most nations are striving to live upon just as high moral plane as we are. Perhaps a somewhat stronger endeavor to understand the ideals of other peoples might show that, according to our understanding, we all are striving for the same ideals. Our disagreements, as in the case of that often spoken of shield, whether it be of silver or of gold, may simply mean that we perhaps are all looking at the same shield only seeing different sides of it.

I cannot, therefore, agree with Dr. Williams when he says that pupils “hate” the work presented in typical gymnasiums. It is ratner astounding to me to have one who always is asking for the proof of an assertion to make such a strong assertion without offering overwhelming proof in support of it. In fact, I am not afraid to say that in the hands of a skillful teacher a lesson composed mostly of what is termed formal work can be made enjoyable. I also am willing to say that in the hands of a poor teacher a lesson composed mostly of informal work can be made most uninteresting.

The proofs of my statements can be found in every well conducted Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Turner Society, Recreation Center, in fact, in any place where people go because they like to go. Why should hundreds of thousands of presumably sane people go to places where they are forced to do things they dislike, ana even are made to pay for these things? Personally I know that for many years I have intensely enjoyed formal work provided it was presented by a skillful teacher. Some of our modern psychologists will perhaps say that all those I speak of belong to a degenerate type, perhaps are morons, because the deductions of said psychologists say that we have no right to enjoy ourselves but ought to hate such work. Well, this is a perverse world.

But, say some of our critics, what you say may be true of people who have such a perverted nature that they Vbluntarily subject

Digitized by Google
60

themselves to such atrocities as dumbbell drills, contortions on a horizontal bar, etc. etc. There is no sense in discussing tastes, as some people like cherry pie while others would rather eat caviar. How about school work where all pupils must take part in all forms of prescribed work?

And here again years of experience tell me that the statement that pupils “hate gymnastics” is not true. Many of those who have taken part in our national conventions will remember the enjoyment, evidenced by thousands of boys and girls, in the work we saw at exhibitions, or in regular school work. I am willing to make the statement that when asked what part of school work their pupils like most, the greater part of school principals will say “their gymnasium work.”

A school principal recently said to me “I wish our boys and girls would run to other studies like they run to the gymnasium.” And so I believe that here also we can offer the proof that the statement made should not be taken too seriously and should take its place with the other things that lack proof.

Now let us look upon the undue weight that in some quarters is placed upon interest. No sane teacher will deny that interest is a great stimulus. But in growing children “effort” as well as "interest” is needed - yes, I am not afraid to say that in education it sometimes is wise to demand effort even when interest appears to be lacking. Life after all isn’t all fragrance and moonbeams, and at times a fair dose of wise compulsion is beneficial. Let me illustrate how in some places this doctrine of “interest at all costs” is being interpreted.

I recently visited a school here in the east where utmost freedom was the key to all school activities. A girls’ class was scheduled for the pool. When I arrived there the girls were all at the deep end of the pool, at the diving board. One after another they flopped into the witter, it could not De called diving. The teacher, using a long pole, then hauled them out of the water. After watching this for sometime, I asked the teacher why she didn’t allow the girls to swim to the side. She said that not one of them could swim. They didn’t want to learn swimming either, because they thought diving was more fun.

Another example from the other end of the scale. A man teacher had read of the benefits of informal work and was convinced that he had had too much formal work. He decided that hereafter his boys were to have games so that their emotional nature would be satisfied. When I arrived they were playing indoor baseball. Things were unusually quiet in that gymnasium during a game like baseball. Just then, when two boys were on bases, the batter hit a home run. I jumped off my chair and set up a shout. This teacher allowed his boys to smile.

And so here also we see that it isn't the type of work, but the type of teacher, or principal, or even equipment that detennines the result. During the last few years I often have been thinking of the similarity between the present time and the early “nineties, when

Digitized by v^ooQle
61

the Swedes discovered America. All of us who have become old in the profession remember the glorious fights we had then, because of the assumption on the part of some of the newcomers that nothing of any consequence had been done before their advent. And yet the Swedes, under the inspiration of great leaders made us question many of our procedures, and so improved our teaching.

In this same manner I view the accession to our ranks of men like Dr. Williams. His ideals will make us question some of our procedures and so make us better teachers. We physical education teachers needn’t be ashamed of our caliber. Taken as a whole, the teachers of physical education in these United States stand as high as the teachers in any other branch of education. I have the feeling that most of us are striving to live up to the light that is shed by great leaders. If some of us have gone wrong it is because our leaders have given us only ideals and seldom have given us definite methods by means of which our ideals may be reached.

Note:	Because	the	chairman	of	this	section	said	that Dr. Williams

would be allowed time to reply to all criticisms made, the present discussion does not confine itself only to the statements made in Dr. Williams’ paper, but also to another statement made in his recent book on Organization and Administration. This statement bears an intimate relation to several of the proposed standards.—W. A. S.

ARISTOTLE ON RECREATION.

In a recent bulletin sent out by “Community Service” we find an article entitled “Aristotle on Recreation.” While this is addressed to "Community Service Workers” it also should be of great interest to all teachers. The article is as follows:

“Mr. Joseph Lee has recently called our attention to Chapter Three, Book Eight of Aristotle’s Politics, which deals with recreation. “We have never added anything to it,” says Mr. Lee, “because nobody has ever thought about the subject as he did. Like the other Greeks, he was a pioneer and so had the enormous advantage of not having to study what other people thought but having time to do a little thinking himself. Research, fortunately, had not been invented in his day, though he did some of it in tracing out his own ideas.”

The greater part of this chapter was quoted in Bulletin No. 646 issued in June, 1921. An additional quotation from Chapter Four of Book Eight follows:

“It is an admitted principle, that gymnastic exercises should be employed in education, and that for children they should be of a fighter kind, avoiding severe regimen or painful toil, lest the growth of the body be impaired. The evil of excessive training in early years is strikingly proved by the example of the Olympic victors; for not more than two or three of than have gained a prize both as boys and as men; their early training and severe gymnastic exercises exhausted their constitutions. When boyhood is over, three years

Digitized by L^ooQle
62

should be spent in other studies; the period of life which follows may then be devoted to hard exercise and strict regimen. Men ought not to labour at the same time with their minds and with their bodies; for the two kinds of labour are opposed to one another; the labour of the body impedes the mind, and the labour of the mind, the body.”

Mr. Lee also points out that Chapter Seventeen of Book Seven is “utterly our doctrine. One realistic touch is that one ought to permit the disputes and little troubles between boys, for they contribute to and increase their growth. In other words, though play leaders are good, they ought to know their place.”

A few extracts from this chapter follow:

“The next period lasts to the age of five; during this no demand should be made upon the child for study or labour, lest its growth be impeded; and there should be sufficient motion to prevent the limbs from being inactive. This can be secured, among other ways, by amusement, but the amusement should not be vulgar or tiring or riotous. The Directors of Education, as they are termed, should be careful what tales for stories the children near, for the sports of children are designed to prepare the way for the business ot later life, and should be for the most part imitations of the occupations which they will hereafter pursue in earnest. Those are wrong who (like Plato) in the Laws attempt to check the loud crying and screaming of children, for these contribute towards their growth, and, in a manner, exercise their bodies.

In his discussion of the nature of music, Aristotle says:

“Of the three things mentioned in our discussion, which is it?— Education or amusement or intellectual enjoyment, for it may be reckoned under all three, and seems to share in the nature of them all. Amusement is for the sake of relaxation, and relaxation is of necessity sweet, for it is the remedy of pain caused by toil, and intellectual enjoyment is universally acknowledged to contain an element not only of the noble but of the pleasant, for happiness is made up of both. All men agree that music is one of the pleasantest things, whether with or without song; as Musaeus says:

‘Song is to mortals of all things the sweetest.’

Hence and with good reason it is introduced into social gatherings and entertainments, because it makes the hearts of men glad: so that on this ground alone we may assume that the young ought to be trained in it. For innocent pleasures are not only in harmony with the perfect end of life, but they also provide relaxation. And whereas men rarely attain the end, but often rest by the way and amuse themselves, not only with a view to some good, but also for the pleasure’s sake, it may be well for them at times to find a refreshment in music. It sometimes happens that men make amusement the end, for the end probably contains some element of pleasure, though not any ordinary or lower pleasure; but they mistake the lower for the higher, and in seeking for the one find the other, since every pleasure has a likeness to the end of action. For the end is not eligible, nor do the pleasures which we have described exist for the sake of any future good but of the past, that is to say,

Digitized by

Google
63

they are the alleviation of past toils and pains. And we may infer this to be the reason why men seek happiness from common pleasures. But music is pursued, not only as an alleviation of past toil, but also as providing recreation. And who can say whether, having this use, it may not also have a nobler one? In addition to this common pleasure, felt and shared in by all (for the pleasure given by music is natural, and adapted to all ages and characters), may it not have also some influence over the character and the soul? It must have such an influence if characters are affected by it. And that they are so affected is proved by the power which the songs of Olympus and of many others exercise; for beyond question they inspire enthusiasm, and enthusiasm is an emotion of the ethical part of the soul. Besides, when men hear imitations, even unaccompanied by melody or rhythm, their feelingsmove in sympathy. Since then music is a pleasure, and virtue consists in rejoicing and loving and hating aright, there is clearly nothing which we are so much concerned to acquire and to cultivate, as the power of forming right judgments, and of taking delight in good dispositions and noble actions. Rhythm and melody supply imitations of anger and gentleness, and also of courage and temperance and of virtues and vices in general, which hardly fall short of the actual affections, as we know from our own experience, for in listening to such strains our souls undergo a change. Enough has been said to show that music has a power of forming the character and should, therefore, be introduced into the education of the young. The study is suited to the stage of youth, for young persons will not, if they can help, endure anything which is not sweetened by pleasure, and music has a natural sweetness. There seems to be m us a sort of affinity to harmonies and rhythms, which makes some philosophers say that the soul is a harmony, others, that she possesses harmony.'”

ARE OUR BOYS AND GIRLS PHYSICALLY FIT?

By Weaver Pangburn, New York City.

Are they physically fit—our boys and girls? Draft statistics during the war showed that an amazing number of young men were not fit. That was one reason why the United States government called the Man Power Conference last November. The conference passed the following resolution together with others:

RESOLVED that this conference approve of the promotion of the Athletic Badge Tests for boys and girls.

Why should a Man Power conference go on record approving Badge Tests? Because the Athletic Badge Tests are tests of physical efficiency and their wide use in schools, on playgrounds and in camps means physically fit boys and girls throughout the nation. Schools, American Legion posts, Rotary Clubs, Parent-Teacher Associations, Y. M. C. A.’s and other agencies sponsor the tests and make the awards of badges.

The Badge Test gets hold of the boy or girl who needs physical awakening most—the shy one, the bashful lad or lass who stands

Digitized by v^ooQle
64

on the edge of the crowd and lacks initiative to get into the game. Besides the test avoids some of the dangers of highly specialized athletic competition. You can put the Badge Test on a competitive basis if you wish. But you are not obliged to.

The tests are arranged in three series, each more difficult than its predecessor. After passing the first test, the boy and girl have before them the higher goal of succeeding in the second and third more difficult tests and are inspired so to train themselves that they may qualify.

Athletic Badge Tests have been given big circulation by the Playground and Recreation Association of America. Up to 1921, over 13,000 boys and girls had won badges. Many more nad taken the tests. In 1922 the tests were revised by a committee of expats and now include a wider choice of events than formerly. They have the merit of being so simple that they can be conducted anywhere, in an isolated country district as well as in a city. Sample copies may be secured by writing the national headquarters of the Playground and Recreation Association of America at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City. They are sold for five cents a copy and for two dollars and a half for one hundred copies. Artistic Dronze badges for those who pass the test are supplied for twenty cents each.

EMOTIONALITY IN ATHLETICS.*

By Percy Hughes, Lehigh University.

A respected colleague was describing to me a cricket match he had seen at Lords in London. He did ample justice to the eagerness and keen appreciation with which the game was followed. “But that will not do for us," he said: “there was no excitement” In England, sport spread from the great schools and colleges to become a popular pastime and recreation. In the contests of professionals there is to-day plenty of excitement among British spectators: but the academic sports have retained much of their original character. They are an essential part of the British boy’s moral education, and not primarily an entertainment or festival.

With us the great development of sport commenced in the cities and was fostered largely as recreation, an entertainment. It may indeed be maintained that the great excitement among the spectators of a baseball contest saves to break up attitudes of strain and despondency and irritation, such as are common enough in great centers of population. It is certain that excitement is what those want who furnish the gate receipts. A large and complex financial activity rests upon this desire for excitement througn sport, and systematically fosters it. Gradually, largely through the activity of alumni, colleges and universities learned to continue this supply of excitement by ihitiatihg football games when baseball surrenders to the chill of Autumn. Later in the season, basketball, lacrosse.

* Read at the Pennsylvania State Education Association, Bethlehem, Pa. December 1922.

Digitized by Google
65

and the college baseball cater to the same general passion for excitement, and reap some of the financial reward.

So our college games have developed from the beginning in an atmosphere of excitement and commercialism. Therefore, when leaders in physical education rather slowly came to recognize the moral and educational value of sport, they found the great sports already saturated not only with commercialism but, more subtly, with the demand for emotionality and excitement upon which commercial sport must base its appeal.

Probably it is hopeless to think of directly stemming this commercial tide. Perhaps for centuries to come these exhibitions of athletic prowess will be an essential part of our national life; and, unless our whole economic fabric is to be changed, these spectacles must pay for themselves by giving to the public what the public demands. It is not likely, and may not be desirable that our colleges and secondary schools should cease to furnish the players, or that the student body shall cease to play a large part in adding to the attractiveness and entertainment of the spectacle.

What we can and must do is to make clear exactly what the educational ends of sport are, and their supreme importance. The desire to justify and defend the existing system is commercial, and therefore does not hesitate to confuse the educational issue. Indeed the factors involved, being psychological, lend themselves easily to confusion. Avoiding an exaggerated and peevish opposition, therefore, let us seek to set forth the heart oi the matter as clearly and simply as the subject permits.

Hardly "yet is it understood that in the education of youthful will and character, the activities of the body as a whole are probably the most effective agencies of education. Physical education is not education of the body. We “train" the body; only the mind is capable of education. Far more effectively than the teacher of literature, who employs the activities only of voice and hand, the teacher of physical education employs the body as a whole, and especially through those social forms of physical exercises among which, for centimes, Sport has reigned the fang.

It is the peculiarity of our Western civilization that, among its dominant races, Sport has assumed a leading role. From the early days of Sport, through its history among the Arabians, through the medieval tournament to the flowerihg of Anglo-Saxon sport, we see an evolut'on of one insistent purpose and social function. Under circumstances that incite to emotional behavior and forgetfulness, the contestant must maintain self-control and loyalty to codes and principles of honor. In this ideal of self-control the youth are trained through the rules and conduct of the game itself and through all that social convention regards as ‘good form.' The great assemblage of spectators by their presence and applause intensify the demands of competitive sport and always increase the

Digitized by v^ooQle
66

danger of passionate excess. The educational power of such sport lies in the factors that accustom the athlete to maintain among these temptations his principles of propriety and honor.

Since the bodily training and skill acquired in modem sport have comparatively little value for individual or social purposes in later life, this education of will and character stands out as the one great educative function of sport to-day.

il •

Recently I sat among a thousand high school boys and girls watching the great scholastic contest of the season in this part of the country. The game itself was well and cleanly played. But, among the juvenile spectators as well as the far greater mass of men and women present, eager partisans of the two teams, I could see no tradition of decency and restraint. To gloat over the visiting team with a glee that passed all bounds, modified by not one incident of welcome or courtesy, to yell and howl and jeer at every point scored long after victory was certain, that seemed to be the prevalent idea of enjoying scholastic sport. For days thereafter the papers of the two cities featured recriminations. The commercial value of this emotionality is obvious enough. So the two cities spent thousands of dollars, and the educational work of the two schools was in some measure demoralised for days. Above all, the true educational work of the departments of physical education is restricted all the year for the sake of a few such spectacles. On the whole this behavior, is, I think, typical of at least many sections of the country, and the condition spreads rather than recedes.

Others have deplored chiefly such evils as professionalism and proselyting, with the deceitful devices used, or the comparatively small number of students actually engaged in the major and more educative forms of sport. But this excessive emotionality infects directly the whole student body, and in fact is the chief content of their ‘’sportsmanship.” A constructive and permanent reform, I believe, will follow upon a better understanding of what such emotionality means in the moral education of youth.

In our colleges this excess of excitement has itself become a deep-seated tradition, so that extraodinary incidents pass without notice. Recently two colleges played a game that is an American classic. Before the game the student papers of each institution urged that	this time all should be marked by courtesy and generosity.

It was a wonderful game. But thereafter in editorials and letters the student bodies seemed to express themselves only in self-acclamation, and in hailing their opponents as quitters and ‘muckers.' This seems to pass without notice; just as it seems a matter of course that the home-college should organize cheering for the express purpose of giving to their ‘representatives’ on the field an advantage not enjoyed by those who have the initial handicap of coming from a distance and playing in a strange environment. I believe that such conduct is on the whole typical, and that we have become desensitized to elementary principles of sportsmanship. We use the phrases, and sometimes imitate the gestures, but hardly know what the word means.

Digitized by t^ooQle
67

An excess of excitement is a commercial asset of considerable importance, we have seen, for these spectacles. Moreover, even from the educational standpoint, this very emotionality is defended on what are supposed to be psychological principles. This defense is of course eagerly adopted by those who seek rather to justify than to understand and reform. It is the main intention of this paper to state as simply and briefly as possible what I take to be the actual psychological teaching in the matter.

Psychoanalytic literature has given currency to the term, “repressed emotions.” Persons who are neither psychologists nor psychoanalysts, seem to interpret these after the analogy of some gas generated within the organism which gradually accumulates pressure. If it is not released or relieved in some harmless way, it will find outlet in some abnormality or in unsocial conduct; the individual and society will suffer. So it is claimed by many who suppose they have psychological backing, that this excitement and emotionality on the field of sport is such a release and safety valve.

The fact of course is that emotions are reactions that do not exist except when and as stimulated. By exciting emotions and giving way to them we do not lessen the pressure but diminish the power of resistance. By such exercise we do but strengthen and confirm habits and tendencies.

What then is an emotion, and what is its place in life? Our best information comes from those who have systematically studied children in whom motional behavior is frequent and little restrained, and from those who have intensively studied adults with strong emotional tendencies, psychopathic and insane individuals. From both sources of information we learn to think of three fundamental emotional patterns, viz., fear, rage and auto-erotism (delight in orgastic and related bodily excitation.) The nerve paths by which this motional condition is excited are represented upon the right side of the illustration accompanying. Everyone is more or less familiar with the physical states thus excited, - the palpitation of the heart, the arrest of digestive processes, the suspension of excretion, the dilation of the pupil, the disturbances of skin and hair and circulation and the orgastic conditions indicated.

The diagram shows that the centers that lead to this motional excitement lie in the thoraco-lumbar region of the cord, and I have styled this system, system No. II, or the emotive system. An important feature of this motional activity is the stimulation of the endocrine glands, of liver, thyroids, adrenals and gonads. A moderate increase of secretion in some or all of these may be supposed favorable to physical activity without motional disturbance. But it has been shown that emotionality is induced by greatly increased secretion which intensifies the muscular and excretory disturbances mentioned above. Exhaustion of glandular activity is probably the underlying cause of the immobility or collapse that may succeed upon intense and long sustained motion, and perhaps of excretory disturbances the opposite of those induced by less extreme conditions.

Digitized by Google
68

Digitized by
69

Now let us turn to the left side of the diagram which shows how the nervous system reacts when the organism is stimulated to non-emotional behavior. We see here that the visceral (smooth) muscles of circulation, digestion and sex activity are excited in exactly the opposite way from that represented on the right. In general we may describe this visceral activity as steadying and conserving. Typical is the action upon the iris and ciliary muscle, which by narrowing the pupil and rounding the lens makes it easier to discern and isolate the objects upon which we must act. The sex responses are propagative rather than auto-erotic. The centers for this type of visceral response lie in the cranial and sacral region, and the system I have styled System I, the ‘promotive.’

On the extreme left I have indicated those striated muscles which are under direct volitional control. It is clear that the “promotive” tendencies of the visceral response further such volitional control, while the ‘emotive,’ in so far as they get the right of way, tend to interfere with it. In lower animals such emotive behavior is frequent and characteristic; but for a million years, probably, man has lived under family and tribal conditions, and has employed instruments which usually favor volitional rather than emotive control. It seems improbable that emotionality characterized even our cave-man forbears. Rather it is a disorder that

Euts many classes of our “civilized” peoples somewhat below the ;vel of most savages, in self-control and decency. Except in the sexual orgasm, and in desperate circumstances which occur seldom if ever in a man’s life it appears that the supremacy of the emotive system works injvuy to both individual ana society. Even in war this emotionality :s injurious, and in increasing measure as warfare ‘advances’ in method.

IV.

The future of civilization, one is tempted to say, demands more than anything else that occasions that tend to awaken emotion shall be met with that thoughtful, sober, sustained action which is furthered by the supremacy of the system I. Emotionality means confused thought, - the inability to grasp things in their relations and a corresponding inability to isolate what is essential from the totality of circumstances. So the emotionalized individual is utterly suggestible, and emotionality is the essence of the mob spirit. Upon it must rest both imperialism and revolution.

I maintain, then, that under the influence of commercial needs and fostered by non-educational influences among the alumni of high school and college, emotionality infects the students whom sport is supposed to educate in self-control. The true sportsman meets the real crisis of physical attack and menace with calm; we train the mass of our students to manufacture crises out of trivialities and to make hysteria habitual.

Systematic gambling, - not the conflict of wits among gentlemen, weighted with a moderate stake, but a commercialized speculation, graceless, reckless, - to the fevers of athletic rivalry adds tne miasma of personal greed.

Digitized by
70

“Fight, fellows, fight,” howls some devotee to boys on their haunches, who yell and groan in concert. His gestures and tones occasionally lapse into frenzy. The ball goes up and down the field in response to the efforts of the coach’s mannikins. We are told that watching games in this fashion awakens virility in our students, the elect of the land, that it prepares them for our strenuous business life and therefore the catastrophe of war. In	it rather

makes them easy victims of mob frenzy, of 'mperialism and revolution. Tendencies to emotional excess that need repression it renders habitual; it jades the appetite for wholesome and constructive exercise of mind and body.

I am speaking here of sport as it appears in our educational institutions and as a recognized part of our educational curriculum. In the great schools and colleges of England men engage in sport with an eagerness not inferior and a skill that matches our own. It is not questioned, I believe, by any one informed, that there men do learn to ‘play the game’ with deep delight, whatever the outcome, to be candid and honorable, to be generous as well as fair, and to put into the contest the forces of a nature aroused without being in any degree emotionalized. We may differ in regard to detail, but is there any part of this ideal that we wish to set aside as undesirable or unattainable?

V.

As to the remedy, we are frankly told by some there is no remedy, that the low level of sportsmanship that marks our games is but an index of our national characteristic, viz., to seek to win at any cost, to put the commercial above the moral values. On the contrary, I maintain, the present condition results merely from the fact that, whereas in England sport spread from the great educational institutions to the commercial world, here the commercial activity occurred earlier, and has imposedits habit upon the educational world. This was due largely to the slowness with which American schools and colleges realized the tremendous educational significance of sport. The first part therefore, of the remedy is to make it abundantly clear that we are fully alive upon this point to-day.

While many seek to expel the commercial factors from sport we are generally told that that is impracticable. The gate receipts are necessary. But at least we can insist that all non-educational influences shall keep their hands off the scholastic program of physical education, whether in school or college. Upon this point educational societies throughout the country must unite, as they have not yet done. If our students are to enter the great stadia to provide entertainment, at least it must be left to purely educational authority, in harmony with the student body, to decide upon the way in which this shall be worked out.

The student participation in public entertainment, I believe, departs from principles of sportsmanship essentially in deliberately weighting the game in favor of one’s own team. This abominable task is imposed upon the students by those who urge than month after month that the one thing in life is to ‘beat’ Yale, Lafayette,

Digitized by booQ le
71

or Kalamazoo. If this excessive and organized partisanship is commercially profitable by adding to the entertainment of the spectators, then let us see whether it is not possible to frame an entertainment that shall neither violate principles of sportsmanship nor favor habits of emotionality in the student spectators. Abandoning altogether the ambition to outhowl the partisans of the opposing team, let the school devote itself to an engaging, esthetic, entertaining presentation of all that the school stands for, with the game in some sense as the center and the theme. In fact a beginning in this direction has been made, and more than a beginning.

With the details of this development of something already begun I have no skill to deal. Our remedy will be our own, and no mere copy of England's practise. But the principles of sportsmanship "no one of gods or men has made; they are eternal.”

THE SPRINGFIELD CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

The convention held at Springfield, Mass. April 11th to 14th was perhaps the largest and most satisfactory meeting held by our association. The nearness of Springfield to the cities in which there are so many normal schools of physical education brought with it a very large attendance of students from these schools. These visitors in addition to the large attendance of association members brought the aggregate attendance to over one thousand. In fact, because of this great influx of visitors and the difficulty of getting rooms it looked, on Wednesday night, as if several of us would have to sleep in the police station.

The large crowds also appeared to have brought with them that spirit of inquiry, of not taking everything for granted simply because some speaker said so, that reminded one of the spirited meetings of years ago. At the close of the meetings there was prevalent, therefore, a feeling that the convention had been distinctly worth while, and that not only the president and secretary of our association, but also the chairman of the different sections should be pleased that their efforts had bom good results.

A notable event at the banquet, held Thursday night, was the presentation of a watch to our secretary, Dr. McCurdy from the members of the national council. Dr. Reed, in a very cordial and cheerful presentation address called attention to the untiring efforts of Dr. McCurdy to advance the interest of physical education.

The hardest working sub-section was the Women’s Athletic committee. As one delegate said "these women appeared to take recesses only to sleep, and she wasn’t certain if some of the members were not, even at that time, engaged in thinking out new stunts for girls.” While in Detroit, last year, there were only a few men present at the meeting of this section, this year brought many men listeners (the only man on the program of speakers was President Schrader.) It is perfectly natural that the men at the head of the physical education work in state departments or school systems, or recreation

Digitized by

Google
72

systems, industrial plants, etc., should be intensely interested in the development of athletics for women and girls. After all, perhaps the biggest part of this problem lies with the hundreds of thousands of girls in the public high schools and with the millions of girls in the public elementary schools. Under the generalship of Miss Trilling this important committee has made notable advances during the year towards formulating a program and selecting events for the development and control of a sane and interesting athletic life for girls.

We hope to be able to present some of the more noteworthy papers that were read at the convention. While most of these should help to make us better teachers one by Mr. North entitled "A reasonable working day for a physical director” presented statistical material relative to “a working day” that one is almost compelled to believe that if some of our senators hear of these conditions there will be a congressional inquiry. It appears that in certain cities a walking delegate will be needed in order that some teacher shall have time enough to get the necessary amount of sleep. This study certainly should help to call attention and help to remedy bad practices that have developed in some cities. The salary problem also needs 'ntelligent consideration. We hope that the material presented by Mr. North will form the basis for the discussions of local associations during the next years until teachers of physical education will receive at least as much consideration as is given to bricklayers.	W.	A.	S.

WANTED: A PLAY SURFACING.

By Henry S. Curtis, Oberlin, O.

As every physiologist knows, every muscular action is the result of two forces, one of which is muscular, the other nervous. Our muscular effort varies at different times not according to variations in the muscle, but according to the strength of the nervous impulse. This, of course, is the reason for the concerted cheering at athletic meets. It gives a larger nervous stiipulus, and thus enables the athlete to make an effort which would not otherwise be possible. In moments of excitement or delirium persons sometimes perform feats of strength which seem almost miraculous when they consider them afterwards.

In physical exhaustion also, there are two elements, one of which is the fatigue of the muscles, and the other nervous exhaustion. Ofttimes a muscle will continue to contract normally to an electric stimulus when it is impossible to move it voluntarily.

Under conditions of modern civilization where we are living such sedentary lives indoors, with little muscular activity, and much nervous tension, our physical training should avoid nervous fatigue so far as possible.

There are also two elements in the fatigue of walking, running, or jumping, the one nervous, the other muscular. The muscular

Digitized by v^ooQle
73

fatigue comes from the physical activity, while the nervous fatigue comes in part from the corresponding nervous discharge, and in part from the jar resulting from the impact of the feet with the surface on which the walking, running, or jumping takes place. We do not ordinarily notice this jar or its effect. For a single step, or a single jump its effect is negligible, but when these activities are carried on for some time, the total effect may be considerable.

I first noticed this when I went as a boy from a farm in Michigan to attend the World’s Fair in Chicago. On the farm I could walk fifteen or twenty miles without much fatigue, but I soon discovered that five or six miles on the cement sidewalk left me exhausted. There is probably as much nervous fatigue from walking five miles on cement as there is from walking ten miles upon the ground.

In the light of this what of the concrete tennis court? There can be little doubt but one is more tired from playing on concrete than he is from playing on dirt, or that the resulting fatigue is largely nervous rather than muscular. This is due in part to the hard surface and in part to a surface which is rather slippery, where a fall is likely to bruise.

What about the gymnasium floor? Is it possible for a person to play basket ball, volley ball, or other games, or to have any kind of exercise which involves running or jumping on it, without being more tired than he would be after the same exercise on the playground? I question it. Last fall when I was speaking to the senior class in physical education at Dr. Sargent’s school, he asked the class for their opinion. During the year they play basket ball and other games in the gymnasium, while during the summer in the camp their games are outdoors. The almost unanimous testimony of the class was that they were more tired from playing in the gymnasium than they were from playing at the camp.

The testimony of a single group would not be convincing, if it did not agree so perfectly with common experience and all that we know about the nerve cell. Further investigation is needed. We have several fairly sensitive measures of fatigue such as the aes-thesiometer, arithmetic tests and others. It would be an excellent subject for the schools of physical training to investigate.

This past fall I have been at many teachers’ institutes in the Northwest. Often I found that the ones in charge seemed to feel that they could not have games unless the gymnasium was available. Both in Germany and in England, the law requires that physical exercise shall be outside whenever the weather permits. These rules were made mostly for the sake of the fresh air, but the difference in the surface and resulting nervous fatigue, is an additional reason to be considered.

It may be said that the surfacing of playgrounds is no better, that there is less nerve shock from playing on a gymnasium floor in rubber soled shoes than there is from playing on a playground, surfaced with cement, brick or broken stone. This of course is true. Such a surface is an outrage. The rubber sole and rubber heel absorb a part of the shock under any conditions. Every one feels less tired for wearing them. But the rubber sole is not thick enough to

Digitized by LjOOQle
74

absorb all of the shock, and its value decreases rapidly as the sole wears thin. It is however, the other half of the demonstration that it is the nervous shock from the impact of our foot with the surface that tires us.

The ideal surface is about what we have in a running track when it is in condition. Almost any sort of smooth fairly soft earth or cinders is fine, if it would only stay that way. Tne difficulty is that most soft surfaces will not stand intensive use. Some day we shall have to manufacture a surface like soft asphalt that does not get sticky, or a rubber composition. A yielding surface is more necessary on the playground than in the gymnasium, because there most of the children do not wear rubber soles.

By Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia, Pa.

From the Monthly for Gymnastics, Play and Sport, Berlin, Germany. ANTHROPOMETRICAL RESEARCHES.

Professor J. Kaup, Munich, recently published several anthro-pometrical researches which were made by a number of scientists. The discourse is of general interest:

The knowledge of the laws of growth of the human body is important. It is essential in the selection and assignments of bodily exercises for the young, and equally important in deciding the proper vocation of our youth according to their physical and mental fitness. The investigations were based upon the method of standardization used by Prof. A. Martin, Munich. The findings aroused widespread interest.

First of a 1 the stormy period of growth of boys and girls between the ages of 12—19, in regard to the development of the heart, chest and lungs. Secondly the rapid chest expansion and increase in weight and height, as well as strength, resistance and vitality of the entire human economy. This state of development is expressed by the word ‘constitution.’

In compiling these various records Prof. Kaup suggested to extend the scope of bodily care by means of proper physical exercises in the school, as well as in the workshop, for the ultimate purpose of increasing the bodily strength and vitality of our boys and girls. These noteworthy examinations, measurements and medical confirmations date back as far as 1911. The world war intervened and the investigations started again in 1918. More than 5000 apprentices of Munich, between the ages of 14—20, were examined. To ascertain to what degree their occupation influenced their

Digitized by v^ooQle
75

growth, the apprentices were classified according to their trades. The following summary is the result of the examinations:

Clerks:height above normal; transverse measure far below

normal.

Engine Builders: height nearly normal; transverse measure little below normal.

Locksmiths: height normal; transverse measure little below normal.

Blacksmiths and Butchers: transverse measure markedly above normal.

Bakers: height below normal; transverse measure above normal.

Tailors: height below normal; transverse measure markedly below normal.

Laborers: height normal; transverse measure partly below normal.

Based upon these findings Prof. Kaup classified the youth in three groups:

I.	Those whose height and transverse measure is below normal, due to faulty nutrition during school years, and continued malnutrition during the period of apprenticeship. Another contributing factor is the lack of proper gymnastic exercises, or absence of stimuli to influence growth.

In this group he put tailors, and a certain percentage of clerks.

II.	Those, whose height is above and their transverse measure below normal. The causes are attributed to insufficient susceptibility of the normal development of transverse growth, and to a certain extent to the influence of their occupations. Also their failure to indulge in physical training during apprenticeship, or academic pursuits.

In this group belong clerks and students.

III.	The normal or nearly normal type. This class comprises those of highest physical fitness. The factors to which we may attribute their normal development are proper nourishment and regular physical work during their school-years, and stimuli inducing normal growth during the period of apprenticeship.

It is suggested to safeguard the normal development and vitality of our youth by means of proper bodily exercises and supervised sports and games. To regulate the physical work, the proposition is made to create a “National Supervisory Council” for all our boys and girls of school age. After they leave school, their compulsory training should be in force till they reach maturity. To put these suggestions into practice the following tentative program is submitted:

I. Pupils of Elementary Schools:

a.	Regular daily bodily exercises for boys and girls.

b.	An afternoon weekly devoted to plays and games.

c.	Obligatory lessons in swimming.

d.	Special gymnastic exercises for weak children.

e.	Manual training in the two highest grades as incentives for choosing vocations.

Digitized by v^ooQle
76

II.	High School Pupils:

a.	Physical work as in the elementary grades on a more extended scale.

b.	Compulsory farm or outdoor work for children over 14 years during part of their summer vacation.

III.	Pupils in Continuation Schools:

a.	Three hours of gymnastic work weekly for apprentices.

b.	A week-end afternoon for supervised play, consisting of games, hikes, and track and field events.

c.	Required easy out-door work or farm work during a part of their vacation.

IV.	Physical Defectives:

a.	Corrective work or orthopedic gymnastics, according to individual needs.

b.	Supervised play in Rest and Recreation Centers suited to their wants.

c.	Health Resorts for debilitated and convalescent children and apprentices.

To carry out this stupendous task Prof. Kaup suggests to create besides the National Council, local Supervisory Councils for each city, village or hamlet. Their duty would be to supervise the health of the children from infancy to maturity, with the co-operation of parents, teachers etc. This would include the protection of children against excessive mental strain, warn the apprentices against the misuse of alcohol and tobacco, and the dangers of social diseases. Social hygiene would be imparted to apprentices partly in the form of lectures and partly by personal advice.

Prof. Kaup’s concluding remarks are:

“We can not work for a better and a more useful cause than to take care of our rising generation during its most important period in life. The money expended for the physical welfare of our boys and girls of to-day, who will become the men and women of tomorrow, will be a nigh asset to the Nation’s wealth, because of the untold interest it will bring during the period of their full productiveness. Money spent in such work is money wisely invested.”

PHYSICAL EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF POZNAN, POLAND.

From “Monthly Magazine,” Poznan, Poland.

Recently we received a copy of a Monthly Magazine from Poznan, Poland. It is printed in Polish and devoted to Physical Education and Hygiene. The front page, however, contains several articles printed in French. Although the articles contain only general information we will acquaint our readers with their contents:

The Physical Education Institute of the University of Poznan, Poland, has been transferred during the scholastic year from the faculty of Science and Letters to that of Medicine in order to provide a new course of study of which the program follows:

Digitized by LjOOQle
77

Studies of the first year:

Physics, Chemistry and Anatomy. Laboratory work in Histology, Chemistry and Physics. Anatomical Dissections. Method of Physical Education. Practical Gymnastics, Plays, Games and Sports. Scout work. Total hours 910.

Studies of the second year:

Anatomy, Physiology, Chemistry, Biology and Anthropology. History, Systems and Methods of Physical Education. Dissections. Laboratory work in Physiology and Chemistry. Practical Gymnastics. Instructions in Methods. Plays, Games and Sports. Total hours 900.

Studies of the third year:

General and special Hygiene. Bacteriology and Pathology. Pedagogics. Theory of Physical Education. Methods of Physical Education. First Emergency Aid. Massage, Orthopedic Gymnastics. Anthropometry. Practical exercises in Gymnastics, Rowing and Swimming. Total hours 900.

The studies of the future physical instructor are like those of the medical student. Most of the time in the first and second year is confined to the same laboratory course. Of course the new requirements aim at a restricted number of candidates. Those passing the requirements will be able to occupy the highest positions in Physical Education Work.

♦ - ■■ ■ — ■

Oxford University (England) won over Cambridge University (England) in the annual Crew Race March 24 on the Thames River. Oxford was stroked by W. P. Mellen of New York.

Distance: 4:1-4 miles. Time: 20: 54 sec.

Best record for course: 18: 29 sec. made by Oxford in 1911. This year’s race was the 75th in the long series between the two rivals which started in 1841. Thus far the results: Oxford won 40, Cambridge 34. Dead heat in 1897. No races held from 1915 to 1919 on account of the war.

Oxford defeated Cambridge in the 55th annual Track and Field Meet March 24th by winning 7 out of 11 events.

Athletic rivalry ran high last month between Joie Ray of the Illinois A. C. and Willie Ritola of the Finnish American A. C. of New York. Ritola is a new star on the athletic horizon having won prominence only a few weeks before by winning the cross country run. On Feb. 28, Ritola beat Ray in a special 3 mile run in 14:15 4-5 sec., lowering the previous record of 14: 18 1-5 sec., held by

T H L E T I C

EMANUEL HAUG. New York Qty

s

Digitized by

Google
78

Hannes Kohlemanien. This record also surpasses the outdoor record of 14:17 3-5 sec., held by Alfred Schrubb.

On March 7 Ray turned tables on Ritola by defeating him in the 5000 meter race, covering the distance in 14:54 3-5 sec. and thereby creating a new American Indoor Record. Former record was 15: 01 2-5 sec.

In the 3 mile race Ritola beat Ray by about 2 feet, while in the 5000 meter race Ray beat Ritola by 30 yards.

New Records made at the I. C. A. A. A. A. Meet held in New York March 3.

Event	Record	Made by	Previous	Record

70 yd. Indoor 7 1-10 sec. Harold B. Lever, U. of P.	7	2-10 sec

1	Mile Run 4:17 8-10 sec. Jimmy Connelly, Georgetown 4:20 8-10 sec

2	Mile Run 9:30 3-10 sec. Elmer McLane, U. of P.	9:45	6-10 sec

Pole Vault 12 ft. 6 in. B. Owen & N.B. Sherrill U. of P 12ft. Running B. J.	22 ft.	3 1-4	in.	A. E. Rose, U. of P.	21ft. 101-2in

16 lb. Shot	45 ft.	8 1-4	in.	R. G. Hills, Princteon	43 ft. 5 1-2 in.

35 lb Wgt. T.	52 ft.	9 1-4	in.	F. D. Tootell, Bowdoin	47 ft. 11 in.

A. A, U. NATIONAL JUNIOR CHAMPIONS 1923.

60-yard Dash—Victor Graeb, Columbia University, 7s. 300-yard Run—J. O. MacDonald, Lafayette College, 34 2-5s. 600-yard Run—William Reed, Newark Athletic Club, lm. 19 2-5s.

1,000-yard Run—William Sullivan, Paulist A. C., 2m. 20 2-5s. Two-mile Run—Walter E. Maunz, Buffalo C. Y. M. C. A., 9m. 41 3-5s.

One-mile Walk—Harry R. Hinkel, Glencoe A. C., 7m. 19s. 70-yard High Hurdles—Richard A. Oram, Union College, 9 4-5s.

Running High Jump—Charles Major, unattached, New York,

6 ft.

16-pound Shot—Homer Hazel, Newark A. C., 41 ft. 5 3-4 in. Standing Broad Jump—Herbert Winter, unattached, New "V ork, 9 ft. 111-2 in.

Standing High Jump—J. H. Vickers, West Side Y. M. C. A., 4 ft. 10 in.

1 7-8-mile Medley Relay—Meadowbrook Club, Phila., 7m. 58 3-5s.

Team Championship—Newark Athletic Club, 18 points. Metropolitan Senior Champions 1923.

60-yard Dash—Marion McCartie, Savage School, 7 4-5s. *60-yard Low Hurdles—Camelia Sabie, unattached, Newark, 9 l-5s. *

* Equals world's record.

Digitized by Google
79

P

iHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

E

4

The Atonic Abdominal Wall.—In our series of cases, great eare was taken to eliminate local disease, and also to secure the intelligent cooperation of the patient. We depended for a cure almost entirely on exercises tending to develop the abdominal muscles. The best exercise appeared to be to lie supine on the floor and rise to a sitting posture without the use of the hands. This was to be practiced assiduously morning and evening, to the limit of the patient’s endurance. It does not take much to tire these patients, at first. The results are surprising. There is no muscle in the body which appears to hypertrophy so quickly as the recti abdominales. Their segments become apparent in a few days and quickly harden. The bowels become more regular at once, though in long drawn out cases this is a variable factor.

The most difficult problem in nonmedical treatment in laboring classes is that they will not cooperate with their physician. They want some medicine to drink out of a bottle. They nave little confidence in the drugless methods. This calls, of course, for the development of personality on the part of the physician, without which he will derive little benefit from this or any other discussion excepting specific medication.

Our experience has been that these patients are most tractable and willing to cooperate. They have really been incapacitated. It is easy to point out to them the weakness of their abdominal muscles; the explanation is so logical that the most simple minded can understand.

The results in our hands have been most excellent.—From an article in “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc, June 17,1922. By Chesney Ramage, M. D., Fairmont, W. Va.

Health Education and Standards of Growth.—The American people is peculiarly susceptible to the driving influence of cleverly worded slogans. When we are told, day after day, to “swat the fly,” our surplus energies promptly find an outlet in the pursuit of the pesky insect. And similarly, when the nation is admonished that “fat is fuel for fighters” and that "food will win the war,” there is no delay in initiating a program to secure the desired ends. In recent years the more intelligent members of many communities have been reminded through a variety of semi-official or "expert” utterances that “public health is purchasable.” When the propaganda to secure greater national vitality and personal welfare is coupled with the dictum to “save the children,” the appeal is always certain to awaken widespread enthusiasm and willingness to serve a worthy cause. Thus the health education movement has arisen and the problems of the nutrition and growth of American school-children have been given unusual prominence. The organization of

Digitized by

Google
80

a powerful, representative National Child Welfare Council to act as a sort of clearing house for many of the newer organizations devoted to child betterment testifies to the interest in the project and the determination of its promoters.

At the outset of all the various undertakings to explore the possibilities of improving the physical development among children of school age, the difficulty of adopting a suitable norm or standard of adequate nutrition has inevitably arisen. Emerson* has recently pointed out that the tables in general use in the past have been taken as the basis on which to compute normal weight. But the attempt to apply this weight for age standard leads to practical difficulties at once because of the great variation among children of the same age. It also tends to discourage many who find the average weight for their age far beyond their reach. The basis of height for age is even more perplexing because of the large number of children who are above the average height for their years. Consequently, Emerson and many others have adopted the basis of weight for height as an accurate measure of the condition of undernourished children. This decision is supposed to rest on a physiologic principle that “a body of a certain height requires certain weight to sustain it, and the most significant test of a child’s physical condition is the relation between his weight and his height/’

Whether such somewhat arbitrary standards of judgment are of widespread application, and what their limitations may be under the varied exigencies of either national life or personal circumstances, remains to be seen. One of the most serious pioneer efforts to carry the “nutrition class” program to its logical conclusion in the public schools of New York in 1919-1920 has led to the discovery of new problems. These are franldy admitted in a report recently issued by the bureau of educational experiments**.' The investigators, Hunt, Johnson and Lincoln, admitting that the detailed study of growth in height and weight has been clarifying, assert that the need of a considerable amount of research in respect to standards of growth, and in respect to causal factors, has been made apparent.

The possible necessity of making allowances for unusual tendencies of certain racial stocks to promote seemingly large variations in stature has already come clearly into prominence. An illustration of other possibilities for misinterpretation is afforded by numerous recent studies of the condition of European children suffering from the growth-retarding influences of unfavorable food conditions in the Central Empires during and after the war. Here, unfortunately, experiments are being conducted by Nature on an enormous scale, and we should profit by the lessons of their untoward results. Recent measurements of large numbers of children of school age who

* Emerson, W. R. P.:	Nutrition	and	Growth	in	Children,	New	York,

D. Appleton & Co., 1922.

** Health Education and the Nutrition Class, A Report of the Bureau of Education Experiments, New York, E. P. Dutton & Co., 1921.

Digitized by Google
81

have been realimented under institutional conditions in Berlinf have shoym that satisfactory gains in weight after prolonged undernutrition are far more easily secured than are increments of stature represented by height measurements. The failure to attain expected increases in height at a period when restitution seemed to be proceeding rapidly in the body has not been a universal experience in the war stricken area, for Bloch’stt and Abderhalden’sf observations have brought more favorable reports. Nevertheless, the warning is clear that gain and symmetrical growth are by no means synonymous terms. The evaluation of proper development in adolescent groups of persons evidently calls for consideration of many factors and for much further research. Enthusiasm for betterment must not be allowed to dim our perception of the present limitations of our knowledge of growth.—Editorial Journal Med. Assoc., June 17th, 1922.

t Goldstein, F.:	Klinische Beobachtungen ttber Gewichts- und L&ngen-

wachstum unterernfihrter schulpflichtiger Kinder bei Wiederauffutterung, Ztschr. f. Kinderh. 32 178 (April 12) 1922.

ft Bloch, Hedwig:	Munchen,	med.	Wchnschr.,	1920, No. 37.

| Abderhalden, E.: Mttnchen, med. Wchnschr., 1920, No. 60.

PREVENTION OF HEART DISEASE.

Dept, of Public Health, Philadelphia.

The prevention of heart disease depends primarily upon the elimination and control of those factors which damage the heart muscle, endocardium, pericardium, or the system of blood vessels. Damage to the heart may take place either as the result of direct chemical or physiological action on the heart by bacteria and their products in the blood, or by increased tax on the part of the heart muscle occasioned by disease of the vascular system. Such toxic elements may be exogenous, arising from bacterial invasion, or, from the continuous use of stimulants; or, they may be endogenous, arising from products generated in the body as the result of faulty metabolism.

The principles of preventive medicine in general can directly be applied to heart disease, since the prevention of infectious and other dieseasies and the promotion of public health in general must undoubtedly make itself evident in the reduction of the prevalence of heart disease. Intensive efforts, however, in the prevention of cardiac diseases will, as in the case of tuberculosis and typhoid fever, result not only in the decline of mortality from heart disease, but in other associated disorders, and ultimately in a decrease of the general death rate from all causes.

Infectious diseases are the most important causes of preventable heart diseases. Chief among these are diphtheria, scarlet fever, pneumonia and syphilis. Acute rheumatic fever, although not in a strict sense an infectious disease, is, nevertheless, probably caused

Digitized by (^.ooQle
82

by an organism, the nature of which is not known, but when circulated in the blood as an organism, or the toxic products of such an organism, damages the heart. This disease alone is regarded as the most common cause of heart disease among children and early adult life and may have its genesis in infection from the tonsils, adenoids, teeth, or any part of the nasal pharynx and its accessory sinuses. In fact focal infection in any partof the body may be the origin of the distribution of toxic agents which damage the heart. Chorea, which is closely allied to rheumatic affections, is also an important associate of heart disease among children. Syphilis not only affects the heart directly but may do so indirectly by damaging the vascular system, changing the character of the blood vessels so as to impose an added burden on the heart in circulation. Prevention of infectious diseases by education of the laity and by immediate isolation of early cases, detection by careful school medical inspection and alertness on the part of parents is being constantly emphasized through health education. Parents of children with diseased tonsils and adenoids or with carious teeth are urged to have these corrected. Personal hygiene and community health are taught in the schools while the general public is enlightened on better health through the press to improve the physical resistance to disease.

The habitual use of alcohol, tobacco, tea and coffee, especially in excessive amounts, may have a direct effect on the heart muscle or its nervous innervation. Such stimulants may produce changes in other organs of the body which ultimately throw an added burden upon the heart. Over-eating, excessive drinking and over-indulgence of all kinds may make themselves manifest in a damaged heart. A sedentary life, together with a gluttonous desire for food, may give rise to obesity with possible fatty changes in this vital organ.

Outdoor exercise, systematically arranged, with attention to personal hygiene will in a large measure prevent auto-intoxication and stimulate assimilation so as to avoid the generation of endogenous poisons which lead to pre-senile changes in the blood vascular system.

The poisonous products of any febrile disease, especially those incapacitatingthepatient for several weeks, may so injure the heart as to defer speedy convalescence. Persons recovering from debilitating diseases are urged to observe a period of recuperation so that rejuvenation of the heart and the entire muscular system will take place. Return to work prematurely following a protracted illness may predipose to serious involvement of the heart, especially following such diseases as influenza, typhoid fever, pneumonia, acute rheumatic fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever and other febrile diseases. It is of great importance that rest, good diet, fresh air and sunshine be a part of the convalescent’s treatment before returning to assume his usual vocation.

It has been observed that during epidemics of respiratory diseases, deaths from heart disease increase. It would seem apparent therefore, that the prevention of respiratory diseases is indirectly related to the prevention of heart disease.

Digitized by ^ooQle
83

Diseases of the kidneys are usually associated with disturbances of the heart. This acts in a mechanical way or is due to the toxic products generated through faulty functioning of the kidneys and to concomitant changes in the blood vessels which ultimately place excessive work upon the heart.

Under-weignt, accompanied by malnutrition, may predispose to infection through poor bodily resistance and thus indirectly terminate in cardiac disease.

The entire subject of prevention may be summarized as:

1.	The control of the infectious diseases and the elimination of focal infections.

2.	The control and elimination of exogenous and endogenous poisons.

3.	Adoption of health habits with strict observance of personal hygiene.

Fatality From Cold Drinks.—Medical men have their folklore, as have the people at large. Mistaken ideas, sanctioned by time, die hard, even among socalled men of science. In the differentiation of diseases and the sorting of causes and effects it is little wonder that there should have arisen confusion of ideas that, to a degree, still persist.

There is a general belief that it is highly dangerous to drink cold water in warm weather when we are very warm, and in a much recommended book on dietetics of the present century the warning against this practice is down in black and white. If we trace this teaching to its origin, we find that the fatalities that occurred from this practice always happened when the temperature of the air was eighty-five degrees or upward. The symptoms described are those of sunstroke or heat exhaustion, and the clinicians of the day had confused, or rather, not yet differentiated, the effects of heat suppression and the very different experience of giving the interior of the stomach a cold bath.

So strong was the belief that the taking of a cold drink, and not the inability to get rid of heat, was the cause of those pathological catastrophes of hot weather, that in one of our largest cities, a century since, the Humane Society placed printed posters on the public pumps, warning the hot and thirsty to pause before imbibing and hold the cup in the hands until some of the dangerous cold was extracted from the water. Very different from what a humane society might be doing in this day.

While sudden deaths in hot weather were not so easily attributable to a plunge into cold water, this performance was, and is still considered highly dangerous, perhaps because of the supposed connection between death and the drinking of cold water.

That disabling cramps should follow a strong swim when one has been much fatigued before entering the water, has good ground. Cramps of the muscles are not at all uncommon in factory workers and stokers exposed to high temperatures, especially if humidity is combined with the heat. Experiments of Lee and Scott have shown

Digitized by L-ooq le
84

that the muscles of animals exposed to high temperatures are in a condition of fatigue, and have neither the strength nor endurance of muscle in animals at ordinary temperature. Just what takes place in the muscles of the super-heated or in muscles fatigued by work we do not know, though there is a chemical change somewhere in the organ. It is only a step from a condition of fatigue to one of tetanic contraction, so that the already heated muscles of a swimmer (it takes time to restore such a muscle to normal, even in cold water) may, if used with the vigor required for swimming, result in muscle spasms which render the swimmer helpless.—An Editorial Article in tne New York Medical Journal, Aug. 2, 1922.

Gymnasium and playgrounj^v

FRED FOBRTSCH, PitWrarg. P*. JL/

SIX-BEAT CRAWL STROKE.

By L. De B. Handley.

( From New York World.)

Broadly speaking, the six-beat double trudgeon crawl is an alternate over-aim stroke in which the legs execute six narrow scissoring motions to each full cycle of the two arms. The swimmer rests

Iirone on the water, head, body and legs forming virtually a straight ine, then works the arms alternately with a down and backward drive and above surface recovery, at the same time whipping the legs up and down continuously. A slight roll and a twist of the head permit breathing at every stroke.

Each arm starts its drive comfortably extended in front, hand and forearm aligned, palm down, fingers and thumb close together, elbow a trifle higher than hand. The entry is made by each hand on its own side of and close to an imaginary line drawn lengthwise through the middle of the body and power is applied at once with downward pressure. Then the arm sweeps backward, bending slightly at the elbow, so that the hand will De directly under the centre of the body until nearing the thigh. Here the arm swerves outward, so held that the forearm will retain pressure on the water, and comes to the surface. Just before it emerges the hand is turned palm inward, and as the hand draws clear it is flipped backward from the wrist, palm down. Then the forearm circles out and around until it points ahead, wrist straightening the while, whereupon the elbow glides forward a few inches above water, the forearm sloping gently downward for the entry after the hand passes the shoulder.

The action should be timed so that each arm starts its drive (catches) before the other leaves the water in recovery. The catch should be sufficiently vigorous to lift the shoulders to planing position, as that minimizes body resistance, but not too strenuous,

Digitized by LjOOQle
85

for pressure must be increased thereafter, so that the greatest force will be applied when the arm approaches the perpendicular, finding there its best point of leverage. Power should be released completely as the arm leaves the water and the following circular motion of the forearm must be quick. But after that the recovery should be very slow and the muscles completely relaxed until ready to drive again.

The legs thrash alternately, one moving up as the other whips down. They are held straight but not rigid, thus allowing for a little play at knees and ankles. The feet are turned a trifle inward or slightly pigeon-toed.

As mentioned, six scissoring motions are performed per double arm stroke, but they are not of even scope. The first and fourth, termed major kicks (or beats), are a little wider and more energetic than the others. This imparts to the thrash a distinct dual rhythm and explains the name of "double” trudgeon crawl, the "single” variety being featured by only one major beat.

The width of the kicks should be determined to a certain extent by length of leg of individual, for a tall person may seek a wider opening than a short without increasing resistance proportionately. The average swimmer, however, should not exceed fourteen inches in the major beats, nor eight in the minor. It is advisable to reduce the major beats for sprinting, so that they will barely outspan the minors, then to widen them gradually for lengthening courses. Obviously, too, more energy should be devoted to the thrash for short distances than for long.

Breathing is effected by rolling the body gently and twisting the head at the same time, so that the mouth comes above the surface. The swimmer should roll to the side which inclination dictates and inhale by mouth while the arm of that side moves forward in recovery, then exhale through the nostrils under water during the drive of the same arm. It is important to merely twist the head in the acts of breathing, keeping it on the same level always, as in standing erect, and to not turn the head to inhale, or back to normal, until the arm it turns from has started its drive and given the shoulder support. It should be held m normal position throughout the drive of the upper arm and turned to the side throughout the recovery of the same arm.

The roll to breathe should not be pronounced, for that increases resistance, and the legs should follow the rest of the body as it rolls, for otherwise the swimmer will twist at the waist and incur faulty balance.

A quite prevalent fault to avoid in using the stroke is throwing the shoulders after the arms in recovering. They should be held as square as possible, moving the arms independently of the body and guarding against overreaching at catch.

Above all, the action should be slow. Most beginners and a good percentage of advanced swimmers believe that the movements of the crawl must be swift. The fallacy of this belief is shown by the fact that even our greatest sprinting champions display notice-

Digitized by t^ooQle
86

ably slow strokes. The under water drive must be strong and quick, but the recovery should be snail like, for it is during this idle movement that the arms need to relax and recuperate from the effort of the preceding pull.

Novices who would adopt the stroke should take it up from the start. The direct route is quickest and best.

Lastly, no pains should be taken to intertime arm and leg movements. Rhythm will come naturally as the swimmer develops.

■ > ■

NOTES AND COMMENTS

♦ — ■' ............ - ■

STREET EDUCATION.

Is your child a city child?

If so, did you ever stop to think where he is being educated?

You probably send him off to school every day and heave a sigh of relief as you think to yourself, “Well, the school is taking care of him for the day.”

Is it? How much time is your child spending in school, and how much outside of school? And where is he spending his time outside of school?

Let us do some mental arithmetic.

You will probably admit that when a child has spent at home 10 hours in sleep, 3 hours for meals, and 3 hours for general activities, the city child has pretty well exhausted the possibilities for being kept wholesomely occupied by the ordinary city home. And he has pretty well exhausted all the adults in the home.

Now for the school. We are accustomed to think of the school as taking care of children for 5 hours a day. But when you count up the small part of the whole year that the school is in session you will find that, counting the 365 days in the year, the school takes care of your child only 2 1-2 hours a day. And it is the 365 days that you are interested in for you have your child to provide for, not for the school year, but for oil the days in the year.

But, you will say, there are the libraries, supervised play, churches, recreation parks, Boy Scouts, etc. Yes; Dut investigation has proved that all these activities do not provide on the aver-for all the children of the cities for more than 10 minutes a day for the 365 days in the year. Not more than one-fourth of the city children attend Sunday schools regularly. The Sunday school period is one hour. This averages only 15 minutes per week and 2 minutes per day for each child.

Now, to add up—16 hours in the home plus 2 1-2 in school plus 12 minutes in outside activities make 18 hours and 42 minutes a day.

Digitized by
87

That leaves 5 hours and 18 minutes of your child’s time to account for in a 24-hour day.

Where are city children spending these remaining 6 hours?

We all know the answer. The average city child is spending them on the city streets. It is the city street and alley which are educating city children for over 5 hours a day. In other words, the city has your child for twice as many hours a day to educate him in the wrong direction as the school has to educate him in the right direction.

It is this street education which is really molding the lives and characters of our city children, for the city street is a most efficient teacher. It is teaching children to loaf, not play; to destroy, not construct. It creates a love of quick, cheap, passing excitement, not habits of sustained wholesome enthusiasm and interest. It develops an attitude of “What’s the use?” instead of nourishing and developing the most precious thing in children—an eager intellectual curiosity. The city street distorts and deforms children. It destroys their powers of healthy, wholesome growth.

Are you willing to leave your child to the mercy of the city street?

Or will you help to make the school a successful competitor with the street?

Will you help the school authorities to provide within the school the activities that all children love—playgrounds, shorn, gymnasiums, science laboratories—places where children may De kept wholesomely occupied all day long, and where adults may come in the evening for recreation and pleasure?

VENTILATION.

E.	P. Dutton & Co., published a very complete and comprehensive report of the New York State Commission on Ventilation. This study of the problems of ventilation, made possible through the generosity of Mrs. Elizabeth Ellbank Anderson, of New York City, extended from the fall of 1913 to the spring of 1917, and is the most elaborate and thorough investigation of the subject ever undertaken.

Part one of the report, after giving a survey of historical developments in regard to the physiological aspects of ventilation, describes in detail many extensive and interesting experiments and investigations conducted by the Commission, largely at the specially equipped laboratory constructed for the purpose at the College of the City of New York. The purpose of tnis work was primarily to secure answers to the following questions:

1.	What is the effect of the overheating, such as obtains in ordinarily occupied rooms, on the bodily processes and on physical and mental efficiency?

2.	What is the actual effect on the body of carbon dioxide, and the chemical substances of expired air?

3.	What is the effect of exposure to drafts and to low tem-

Digitized by L^ooQle
88

peratures and, in particular, what is the relation between previous overheating and subsequent exposure to cold, on respiratory, bacterial infections and on catching cold?

4.	What is the actual effect of dry air at high and moderate temperatures? Does dry air harm the membranes of the nose, promote infections and conduce to nervousness?

Part two of the report, after giving the historical development of the art of ventilation, gives in detail the plan, methods, and results of the extensive field investigations made by the Commission, based upon an intensive study of the following types of school ventilating equipment.

Method 1. Rooms ventilated entirely through the use of windows.

Method 2. Rooms ventilated through the use of windows, supplemented by the use of a single air duct or vent in the room. This type of “exhaust” in which no fan is used for the withdrawal of room air, is known as a “gravity exhaust;” the air finds its own way out through it.

Method 3. Rooms ventilated by means of fans pumping air into the rooms, supplemented by a simple air duct in the room through which air might find its own way out. This is known as a “plenum supply, gravity exhaust” system.

Method 4. Rooms ventilated by means of fans pumping air into the rooms, with the air of the rooms being mechanically exhausted through special ducts, also by means of fans. This is known as “plenum and exhaust fan” system.

Method 5. The above Method 4, modified so that the said air was supplied to the room over and over again, after being re-conditioned before it was recirculated.

This study also included an extended investigation of the problem of artificial humidification of the schoolroom and an experimental study of the circulation of the air within the schoolroom with air inlets and exhaust outlets located in various positions and combinations. The conclusion reached upon these subjects will be of special interest to those interested in school work.

Recommendations are given in detail for the application of the different types of ventilation equipment found practical for schoolrooms.

The following quotation from the conclusion of the Commission’s report is well worthy of quoting:

“In final summary we may conclude that either window ventilation or plenum fan ventilation — if the plant be properly designed and operated — yields generally satisfactory results from the standpoint of the air conditions in the average schoolroom. We have iound it possible to maintain by either of these procedures air conditions in the schoolroom that would be considered satisfactory by all the ordinary physical tests and conditions which are reasonably comfortable and satisfactory to the occupants. The main difference lies in the fact that the air of the fan-ventilated room is likely to be about 2 deg. F. higher, and more uniform in temperature, and that the air movement in this method is considerably greater.”

Digitized by Google
89

"We find that on the whole, other things being equal, the window-ventilated room at 67 deg. F. is somewhat more comfortable than the fan-ventilated room at 69 deg. F.”

"It appears that 68 deg. F. is a critical temperature as regards both comfort and susceptibility to respiratory disease; and the great advantage of window ventilation lies in the fact that the reduced air flow in the zone of occupancy permits this low temperature to be maintained."

The merits and limitations of each method of ventilation are fully discussed in the report, with detailed data showing the justification for such conclusions.

No one who is interested in the erection, maintenance or operation of a school building can fail to find a great deal of interest in this report.

ATHLETICS ARE PROFITABLE.

A warning against the temptation to place undue emphasis on the financial feature of intercollegiate athletics was sounded by Professor Ralph W. Aigler, Chairman of the board in control of athletics at the University of Michigan, in his annual report.

The report estimates Michigan’s net receipts from football games last year at $191,039 and a net profit from all athletic activities of $100,000.

"Throughout the country the amounts of money handled in con- • nection with intercollegiate athletics are becoming more and more startling." Professor Aigler said in commenting on the report. "It must be recognized there is a certain incongruity in purely amateur sport and such very large sums and that there are elements of danger in the situation. The temptation becomes increasingly strong to put undue emphasis on the financial feature."

“So long as these funds are handled in a way consistent with the general in university policies,” he asserted, “the difficulties and dangers will be largely avoided."

Michigan, he added, is aiming to meet the danger and to transform the profits into “an instrument for achieving the real goal of university sports—namely, the physical development of all students."

A program of development that will require the use of all profits from athletics for years to come has been drafted by the Michigan athletic authorities, he stated.

Professor Aigler predicted profits from intercollegiate athletics this year would be greater than ever before at Michigan, adding that the condition at Michigan is duplicated at many other universities.

Eye conservation is being carried into the Public Schools of the country in a very practical way as a part of the national campaign by the Eye Sight Conservation Council of America, to better the health of America's millions of school children and industrial workers. There have been distributed to superintendents throughout the

Digitized by

Google
90

country, copies of Eye Sight Conservation Bulletin No. 2, which presents a program for Eye Sight Conservation Day in schools. The Council is enlisting the services of the teachers in making visual accuity tests, instructions for which are fuly outlined in the bulletin which states:

“First Health Then Wisdom” is an excellent motto and, fortunately, more and moreattention is being devoted to the physical well being of the child in school. A larger percentage of the defects of vision can be effectively detected and corrected with less expense and less difficulty than is true of any other class of physical defect; there is, therefore, less excuse for neglect with respect to the eyes. It is possible for the teacher to render most valuable and helpful assistance by personal interest and service, as outlined in this pamphlet”.

Superintendents and health officers are urged to institute Eye Sight Conservation Days if consistent with their present school welfare programs. It is not the desire of the Council to suggest or recommend anything that may not fit in with the regulations of the various Departments of Education. It is not offering a substitute where there are adequate provisions for visual accuity tests of the school children, but it is in comparatively few communities that school children receive even the most superficial eye tests, and in the majority of schools there is little' or absolutely no attention given to this important matter. The program as presented in Bulletin No. 2 outlines a procedure suitable for large schools; for the schools with a number of rooms; or for the little red school house of one room in the most remote district.

The object of an Eyesight Conservation Day in schools is merely to discover the fact that a child has a defect of vision or symptoms of a defect, rather than to determine the degree of deficiency.

Eyesight Conservation Day should be observed semi-annually, shortly after the beginning of each school semester, and should be an integral part of the general school program. On this day the educational program schould be omitted until the tests and observations have been completed.

This is not a “day” arbitrarily set for National observance, nor is any particular date suggested. The matter of the date is immaterial and is necessarily best decided" by the educational and health authorities in different communities. It is of moment though that the health and educational authorities appreciate the importance of having visual accuity tests made of every school child.

The Eye Sight Conservation Council, with national headquarters at the Times Building, New York City, furnishes a vision chart for schools and in addition to the program for Eye Sight Conservation Days in Schools has published other pamphlets and a series of folders. The folders present in story form the message of eye care, and an intent is to change the seeming indifference of some parents into a realization of the actual need of attention being given to the eyes of school children.

Digitized by Google
91

The Council will welcome inquiry from any educator interested in the cause of conservation of vision. Every teacher in the country should read Bulletin No. 2, and the other publications of the Councils.

EDUCATION IN ACCIDENT PREVENTION.

Each year 76,000 people are killed in the United States by accident, of whom twenty-five percent or nineteen thousand are children under fifteen years of age. For every death there are twenty-six serious injuries — nearly two million people hurt and maimed and crippled. It is not a pleasant picture and it is a shameful one when we realize that this waste of life and limb is wholly unnecessary. It can be changed, if we will. The reason for this appalling loss is largely psychological, for we as a nation have not learned to think in terms of conservation as applied to human life. The secret of preventing accidents lies in teaching the children of the country to form habits in accordance with the ordinary laws of safety and common sense. With this in view the Education Section of the National Safety Council has been working since 1919 toward the development of education in accident prevention in the schools of the country. The plan of making safety instruction an integral part of all regular curriculum subjects was worked out and its practicability demonstrated by Dr. E. George Payne of New York University, at that time Principal of the Harris Teachers’ College in St. Louis.

Briefly the plan is this. The various phases of safety in the home, in the school, at play and on the streets are used as themes for study and discussion in each of the conventional school subjects. For example, English class work offers an unlimited field for work in accident prevention through reading, composition, speeches, debates, etc. Drawing has an equally extensive scope for safety teaching through posters, construction, sandtable models, scrap books, bulletin-boards, etc., and an arithmetic class can use accident statistics for their city, state or country as a basis for graphs and problems, learning meanwhile the value of keeping accurate public record of accidents so that the extent of the accident situation may be known. Civics can include the study of municipal and governmental agencies for the protection of citizens such as the Police, Fire and Health Departments. Safety may be emphasized in geography through the study of U. S. Coast Service, the fighting of forest fires and protection from floods. Science may deal with poisons and their antidotes. This scheme involves no extra study periods and ihstead of being a drag on the teacher it makes her work easier because the accident theme stimulates the children’s interest by relating their school work to their every day experience.

The plans of the Education Section involve a clearing-house for the exchange of material and information as to methods of safety instruction between schools. This will be largely carried on by travelling exhibits, and safety films showing methods of safety teaching. We feel very strongly that the best way to develop education

Digitized by
92

in accident prevention it to make available for all schools which are interested, plans and methods found successful by other schools.

The Statistical Bulletin of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. for November 1922 makes a report which is most encouraging to those interested in the development of safety instruction. It says:

"In view of the great and growing seriousness of the automobile situation as a whole, it is particularly gratifying to be able to report on one phase of the hazard which is actually declining. It appears from an analysis of the automobile fatalities among those insured in the Industrial Department of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. thattheratehas actually declined since 1919amongschoolchildren and young men. From 1911 until 1919 there was a steadily increasing rise in every age group. The two years following 1919 have shown this change in the situation — a decline apparently concentrated in the ages between five and fifteen and to a lesser degree up to age twenty-five. On the other hand, the rate among children under five and at the ages over twenty-five is increasing. The rate of increase is most marked among those over 65.

“Does this mean that the propaganda carried on in the schools and, through the public press had actually borne fruit? It is among the boys of school age that a very large proportion of the automobile fatalities occurs. If, as the figures indicate, the influence of the police, safety and school authorities has taught caution in the play habits of these boys, then a real step forward has been taken.”

It is most significant that the period of reduction in automobile accidents to boys of school age should correspond to the campaign for education in accident prevention which began in 1919. A long step forward has indeed been taken and it is not too much to hope that the needless loss of life among American children will be cut down to a minimum in the course of the next ten years.

HOW TO KEEP THE INSIDE OF A TENT COOL.

Some time ago the Bureau of Standards was requested by a branch of the Air Service to devise a means for keeping the interior of balloon hangars at as low a temperature as possible. This was done successfully and the results are equally applicable to tents.

If the outside of the tent is covered with a highly reflecting substance, such as white paint, while the inside is covered with aluminum paint, the radiation into the interior of the tent may be reduced by at least 78 per cent to 81 per cent. The reason why this method of painting has this desirable effect is that the white paint reflects the sun’s rays while the aluminum paint is a poor radiator of the long wave-length heat rays. Of course, it must be remembered that this scheme for painting tents would have just the reverse effect at night and would prevent the heat on the inside of the tent from escaping into the cooler air outside.

This same work proves that aluminum paint is the poorest possible kind of a coating for heat readiators in houses, at least from the point of view of obtaining the greatest amount of heat.

Digitized by Google
93

BOOK BJSVIBW8.

“The Practise of Organized Play” by Wilbur P. Bowen and Elmer D. Mitchell. 218 pages, 6 1-2 by 9 1-2 inches. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

' In the preface the authors state that the book is a text book, designed to serve the students in normal schools and colleges. In leading up te our highly specialized team games there is a gradual progression from the games that have little specialization to those team games that underlie our leagues.

Beginning with plays of simple imitation the book in sixteen chapters takes up all forms of playful activity. No attempt is made to include under each heading all the games that might come under such head. This is a distinct advantage to a new teacher who often is confronted by dozens of games of a similar type when a few well selected games would be of greater help.

Again, the grouping of our highly organized games under the headings of team games of the baseball type, of the tennis type, of the football type, of the hockey type ana of the basketball type will be a welcome help not only to new teachers, but also to many older teachers who, because of the many trees often can not see the woods. The book is heartily recommended.

W. A. Stecher.

“Psychoanalysis”, its Theories and Practical Application, by A. A. Brill, Ph. B., M. D. 468 pages, 6 by 9 1-2 inches. Published by W. B. Saunders Company. Philadelphia and London. Price $5.00.

Diagnosis always must precede the treatment of any ill, be this physical or mental. In the present volume Dr. Brill has clearly outlined procedures showing how it is possible to analyze the causes that underlie many forms of mental disease.

Teachers of physical education, through the development of the modern health movement, are being forced to acquaint themselves with subjects that formerly were not within their province. Many of our readers may think that literature dealing with the workings of the mind, of a mind that perhaps is not entirely normal, is beyond the reading limits of the educator. This may be true so far as many technical medical subjects are concerned, but we believe that Dr. Brill's book will help all educators who are more than mere school masters, in their endeavors to understand the behavior of some of their pupils.

It is not our province to try to cure mental disorders. If, however, we can understand what may be causing certain apparent manifestations we are better able to advise our pupils where to seek relief than if we had no knowledge of what may underlie symptoms that are obvious. It is in this sense that we recommend the book to all teachers who are striving to obtain a broader knowledge in order that they may better be able to serve their pupils.

W. A. Stecher.

Digitized by LjOOQle
94

“School Program in Physical Education” by Clark W. Hetherington. 132 pages, 5 1-4 by 8 inches. Published by World Book Company, Yonkers on Hudson, N. Y. Price $1.00.

This book is part of a larger book, or a series of books, and is issued at the present time as a subcommittee report of the National Education Association.

In the preface the author states that physical education has come under the sway of social and educational movements that are creating a new conception of it and are determining its place in the organization of the school curriculum. These movements, says the author, must be understood if a program of physical education is to be formulated which will meet the needs of children and the social demands of the times.

The book is a brief statement of the social status, the objectives, and the principles of organization of the school curriculum in physical education. As sucn, naturally, it does not apply only to elementary education but also to secondary education. To teachers looking for a guide to help them find their way in the latest developments of physical education and in the newer trend of the work the book is warmly recommended.

W.	A. Stecher.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1923.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders ownig or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

Digitized by v^ooQle
95

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which .stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 3rd day of April 1923.

A. L. GAG,

(My commission expires November 1, 1925.)

INTERNATIONAL Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE SUMMER SESSION—July 2—31, 1923.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETIC COACHING

School of Coaching

Football by Rockne of Notre Dame.

Baseball by Berry of Springfield.

Track by Rockne of Norte Dame and Otto of Springfield.

Basketball by Otto of Springfield.

Swimming, Soccer, Boxing, Wrestling.

School of Gymnastics. Tactics, Calisthenics, Dancing, Apparatus Games and Practice Teaching.

Y. M. C. A. Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1923 leading to a certificate.

Public School Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1923 leading to a Certificate.

Theoretical Courses in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Physical Diagnosis, Anthropometry etc. of an intensive, double period character giving full credit toward the Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Physical Education.

Information and Bulletin.

Address ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School.

Springfield, Massachusetts.

Digitized by Google
96

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices — New York, Chicago, Kansas City, San Francisco

Harvard University-Physical Education Courses

Master’s Degree. Qualified students (college graduates) may become candidates for the degree of Master of Education in the Graduate School of Education on a program of study and training in physical education. Minimum period of residence and study one academic year, or four summer school sessions.

Harvard certificate. Students who satisfactorily complete the full program of Theory and Practice courses offered in the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education will be granted a certificate by the University.

For information and catalogue, address

WILLIAM H. GEER, Director of Physical Education, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

A New Book on Basket Ball

By one of the greatest coaches of the game in America.

DR. W. E. MEANWELL, UNIVERSITY OF WIS.

In ten years, Dr. Meanwell’s teams have played 173 games and have won 154 of them.

The *'Wisconsin System” of basket ball is widely known for its effectiveness. This system was evolved by the author of this new book in which the author gives to the public, his methods and their application.

Cloth Bound—200 pages—packed full of real information, invaluable to the coach of any team. 70 diagrams and illustrations. Intensely practical.

Price: $2.50 plus 20 cents for postage and insurance.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY New Ulm, Minn. I

Digitized by Google