PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. II.

AUGUST, 1904.

No. 126

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., lioston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Muegge Institute, St.Louis, Mo. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to he sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760—3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis;

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Hcrold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL TRAINING EXHIBITS

IN THE PHYSICAL TRAINING DEPARTMENT OF THE EXPOSITION

< Paper delivered before the Physical Culture Section of the N. E. A. at its Conventional St. Louis, June 2S. 1904.) By ELSA POHL, Director Girls' Gymnasium, Wm. McKinley HighScool, St. Louis, Mo.

IN viewing this grand exposition of arls, crafts and manufactures we are happy to note the giant strides education has made during the nineteenth century, and especially is this true of physical training which has received wide-spread recognition from educators all over the world.

Here we are shown the application of gymnastics to the normal child, the feeble-minded, insane and incorrigible, and are familiarized with the new inventions and devices which stand for progress.

These exhibits are found in three departments of the exposition, viz., Phvsieal Culture flail, Education Building and the Model Playground, the former of which this paper will deal with.

Physical Culture Hall is situated at the extreme west of the exposition grounds, fronting east. This beautiful granite building is the gift of the Louisina Purchase Exposition Company to Washington University

Digitized by C.ooQle
—130—

as a compensation for the use of their buildings during the World’s Fair period. The first floor of this building contains the office, gymnasium, locker-rooms and showers. The two upper floors are at present devoted to exhibits, the trophy room being situated above the main hall.

The exhibits here found relate to physical training as taught in the schools, colleges, universities, normal schools, athletic clubs, Y. M. C. A.’s, and turner societies of this country.

We will now endeavor to locate these exhibits separately. On the second floor in the hall will be found Chicago’s high and normal schools. In this exhibit interesting and instructive charts are found, showing the course of power during the day according to which the lessons should be gauged, in order to tax the child from hour to hour in proportion to his or her power only; other charts showing extremes of strength, of endurance, growth in height, etc.

We find all the high schools equipped with gymnasia, varying from G4 to 100 feet in length, 32 to 72 feet in breadth and 21 to 35 feet in height.

Students of the normal school receive part of their practical train-ing by teaching in the grade schools. Here we have a valuable suggestion in the introduction of portable apparatus in the school-room and corridor; for example, one room had the free space next to the teacher’s desk fitted out with a vaulting bench, two oblique and one horizontal ladder, while a corridor showed two perpendicular ladders fastened to opposite walls and supporting a weighted horizontal ladder, showing the growing appreciation for apparatus work in the grade schools.

On the right of this hall is a room devoted to the Michigan State Normal School, Y. M. C. A. Institute and Training School at Lake Geneva and Chicago, Philadelphia Normal School of Physical Training, New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, Oberlin Teacher’s College for Physical Training and the Posse Normal School of Gymnastics.

The Michigan State Normal School makes a very interesting exhibit of the pantograph, an instrument used for tracing the outline of the body and at the same time recording it upon a chart. The measurements are taken of the pupils at the beginning of the year and again after nine months of physical training—the results are remarkable, showing great improvement in protruding shoulder blades and depth of chest.

Next to this is located the Y. M. C. A. Training Schools at Lake Geneva and Chicago, which show many photographs and prospecti of the work done.

Following this exhibit is that of the Philadelphia Normal School of Physical Training, having its home in Temple College. A portrait of President Conwell, synopses of instruction and the fac-simile of diplomas awarded for successfully completing the course in physical training.

Next is located the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, which has a very comprehensive exhibit. There are two portfolios illustrating by photographs and manuscript the work of the students. Among the out-door work may be mentioned field hockey, golf, tennis and crosscountry walks.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-131-

Therc will also be found books on gymnastic subjects, the work of members of the faculty, theses and reports on school visiting by the pupils.

Since we are in the midst of a campaign against the present-day shoe and its evil tendencies, Oberlin’s exhibit will be of special interest. Here are compared by photograph the shoe wearing and non-shoe wearing races; a group of Gilbert Islanders shows the straight inner line and wide space between the great and second toes, while the others show an outward angle of the great toe and a tendency to flat food.

The next wall is devoted to the Posse Normal School of Gymnastics. A portrait of the late Baron Nils Posse occupies the center space, while around are arranged photographs of office, library, lecture and massage rooms. Classes in club swinging and athletic dancing are also among the number, as well as beautiful drawings of the brain and circulation, the work of the students.

On the immediate right, as we leave this room, will be found the exhibit of the Cincinnati public schools. Types of calisthenics characteristic in each grade are shown in the school-room and out of doors when the weather permits, thus illustrating the greater freedom attained with plenty of space.

From this hall we enter the gallery of the University Gymnasium. The first exhibit on right is that of Amherst College, Mass. Their first gymnasium, called Barrett Gymnasium, was built in 1859 and has since been replaced by a very much larger and more elaborate one, the gift of a Mr. Pratt, in 1884. An interesting table tells us that as far back as 1860 gymnastics were made compulsory; eighteen years later Blake field was purchased for athletics; in 1900 pupils were given credit on their diplomas for work in this branch and in 1903 the Hitchcock postgraduate fellowship was established.

Interesting charts relative to the health of the students are shown, quoting these; the average time lost per student through sickness, as shown by statistics of 25 years is 84.4%, gain in health during college course, seniors, 94.4%; juniors, 93%; sophomores, 89.2%; freshmen, 87.2%. This health record furnishes one of the strongest pleas for physical training in our schools and colleges.

Next comes the University of Wisconsin, showing women’s gymnasium, basket ball team, swimming class and crew, also men in like work. The most instructive part of this exhibit will be found in two charts illustrating curvatures.

In the extreme corner we find a depressing though interesting exhibit of the anthropometric screen and the deformities it brings to light. The work is that of Mrs. Anna Barr Clapp of the University of Nebraska and is completed by a table showing the relative measurements of the eastern and the western college girl.

Passing on the exhibit of Bowdoin College is reached. Photographs of the present and proposed gymnasia, locker-rooms, classes in fencing, boxing and club swinging are shown.

In the windows are hung transparencies of Rutger’s College and the University of Pennsylvania.

Just beyond the window New Mexico exhibits out-door basket ball for women and football for men.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-132-

The entrance to McGill University of Canada is marked by two bronze figures, one representing an athlete, the other a sprinter. On the left side of the screen devoted to this exhibit will be found Dr. R. Tait McKenzie’s interesting and novel plaster masks, illustrating the facial expresssion during effort, breathlessness, fatigue and exhaustion.

From this exhibit we approach the University of Minnesota. A ground plan of the gymnasium shows three rooms devoted to this pur-purse,—a women’s apparatus room, a similar room for men and a general drill room.

Smith College comes next with an extensive and beautiful exhibit. The gymnasium is large, well lighted and devoted entirely to Swedish gymnastics. Fencing and athletic work are given prominent places in the course of study which also embraces out-door sports, such as basket ball and hockey, for which the environs are admirably suited.

Immediately next Wellesley has her exhibit, which is also Swedish in character. Here crew work is included in the course.

The last exhibit in this room is devoted to the men’s department of Oberlin.

Crossing the hall, we enter the room devoted to the North American Turners’ Association. The object that first meets the eye is a model gymnasium in miniature, exhibited by the North American Gymnastic Union. On the walls of this room are arranged artistic groupings representative of the. work done by these societies.

To the Turners and a few equally well-trained and enthusiastic Swedes is due the introduction and spread of gymnastics in this country and we must look upon them as the pioneers in this work.

In a small room opening off this one is found the Brazilian exhibit. The favorite form of physical exercise with them is bicycling and we find the walls covered with pictures of champions in this art and parties about to start on tours. There is also a model bicycle track shown, built much like a race track. Even in this far-away country the Turners have made their way and have established many rowing clubs.

Recrossing the former room and entering the hall on the left are ound successively:	Missouri	University, Indian Industrial School.

Carlisle, Pa., Phillips Exeter and Culver Military Academy.

In Phillips Exeter we see a gymnasium appropriately decorated with statues typifying athletic victories.

Culver Military Academy has an artistic exhibit illustrating field gymnastics, setting-up drills, wall scaling and hurdling on horse-back.

On the third floor we enter the realm of the Y. M. C. A.’s. The first exhibit on the left is that of the Buffalo Central Y. M. C. A., which gives over one-third of its entire building to the gymnasium and pool.

Cincinnati follows this, then comes Dayton. 0., showing plan of Athletic Park, having an area of six acres. Besides the usual groups are found out-door fencing and tub-races in the pool.

The last exhibit in this room is that of Seattle, Wash.

Descending to the floor below and ascending the stairs direct in front of us, we find ourselves in the trophy room. Here are found two bronzes worthy of mention, one, entitled “The Wrestler,” donated by

Digitized by CjOOQle
-133-

Mr. Pratt to the elementary school of New York City holding the basket ball championship, the other, representing three runners, is the Dodge trophy, awardee! to the high school of New York holding a similar championship.

On one wall are hung two very old banners won by an Amherst crew in 1872.

Cases containing urns and cups complete the contents of this room.

In conclusion we hope this paper has been of sufficient interest to invite a closer inspection of the exhibits and a greater appreciation of their value.

THE EDUCATIONAL BUILDING

OF THE

LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.

(Paper delivered before the Physical Culture Section of the N. E. A., St. Louis, June 28, 1904.)

By IDA MANN, Physical Instructor of the Women's Gymnasium, University of Missouri.

THE EDUCATION BUILDING of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition may be considered as a hollow square, the court filled with exhibits from foreign countries and American universities, and surrounded by three banks of exhibits arranged in the following groups:	Elementary

and Secondary Schools, Agricultural and Mechanical Colleges, Art and Technical Schools, Hygiene, Social Economy, Charities and Corrections. Five main aisles numbered alphabetically run from east to west and the same number numerically indicated from north to south. The northwest quadrant of the court has two extra aisles C and D and the southeast quadrant the same number F and G.

Having arrived at the Lindell Boulevard entrance of the grounds go directly through the Manufacturies and emerging, across the bridge, find yourself face to face with Pestalozzi who guards the main north entrance. Inside about you are the exhibits of elementary and secondary schools.

To the right down aisle A the first exhibit is that of the Evangelical Lutherans. Photographs show German gymnastics in the class room of the parochial schools and the gymnasia of the training schools and colleges. A compulsorv system ending only at the theological school.

Louisiana has outlines of tho- New Orleans public school work (ten) minutes a day from the first to the ninth grades) and photographs from Sophie Newcomb College.

Tennessee shows photographs from the gymnasium at the University at Knoxville, of baseball and football teams and a great array of tennis pictures indicating much enthusiasm in this line among both the men and women of the university.

Colorado shows photographs from the Industrial School for boys at Golden, from Colorado College and of the gymnasium at the university as well as athletic field, bleachers, football, cross-country and track teams, and a girls basket ball team.

Rhode Island, in wall cabinets “Cransten” and “Highland Park”, shows public school work in gymnasium and school room. The cabinet

Digitized by U-ooQle
—134—

•‘Rhode Island Normals” shows excellent photographs of individual positions (Swedish) as well as the children in class room work and in the Normal gymnasium in street clothes.

Minnesota’s exhibit with its decorative effect utilizing scenes and buildings from the university campus is most attractive. Photographs indicate that each St. Paul High School has a gymnasium and instructor for both boys and girls and that the work is done in regulation suit. Minneapolis shows work in wide halls as all buildings are now being built with corridors large enough for the accomodation of classes. At Morehead and Winona Normals photographs show gymnastics for the normal pupils, at the latter place work being done in skirts. At the university the girls evidently use the armory'.

Turn to the left down aisle B, past Iowa and Nebraska, and find yourself surrounded by the Missouri exhibit. At your left complete exhibits gathered from the State, at your right from St. Louis schools. Able attendants will direct you, but quite unnecessarily, as the exhibit is systematically arranged and plainly indicated either by flags or by name of college or number of grade in transparent character above the alcove. The supporting pillars are also transparent, and in the St. Louis exhibit entirely' filled with pictures, showing the work in the grade and in each grade including classes of physical exercise. Look first at one and then at another of the seven biogens or mutoscopes which show different phases typical of the work in elementary schools in the state, a high school gymnasium with girls playing basket ball, a fencing bout, children in one of the normal model schools and a class in dancing at the Kirksville Normal. You must watch your chance at each mutoscope for the laymen also flock to see these evidences of life and activity. A wall cabinet from the Manual Training School in Kansas City shows a variety of astonishing pyramids posed for by the boys of the gymnasium. The Missouri Valley cabinet shows fine tennis courts, as well as outdoor basket ball courts for both girls and men. That from Howard Pavne also shows basket ball teams as do also the cabinets from the Kirksville and Warrensburg Normals and from Central Weslyan. The cabinet from Douglas school for the Colored in Kansas City show's the children at calisthenics in the school rooms. Across the St. Louis exhibit actual classes in manual training, cookery, gymnastics, etc., will be carried on during the summer. A posted schedule will show the periods given to gymnastic classes.

Continue down B, cross aisle 3, and the Massachusetts exhibit, valuable especially to those interested in Swedish apparatus and exercise, is at your left. Cabinet 7 show's photographs from Boston of fine high school gymnasia with boys and girls in regulation costume, and of chapels, corridors and school rooms utilized where a gymnasium is not provided. The plentifully equipped gymnasia show schemes for the arrangement of Swedish apparatus, w’hile the school rooms show how* desks and seats may be utilized in its absence. Charts 10 and 101 show' model school children from the State Normals in the open and in the gymnasia; the Normal students at tennis, skating, walking and outdoor basket ball; pool and needle baths and outlines of the work which include a physical examination, practical work in first aid

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—135— ,

(bandaging, artificial respiration, etc ,) and talks on personal and school hygiene.

New York shows a small exhibit in a cabinet from Syracuse and a most complete exhibit from New York city. Cabinets 27, 58, 59 and a large book of photographs below cabinet 59 show, in addition to photographs of well equiped high school gymnasia and classes, races and class wrestling, swimming tanks and showers, an outline of the course of study, the organization of the Athletic League, and the care of atypical children. The outline includes time of day, kind of exercise, scheme for use of games, character of the work (by command, the lessons containing all over body work ascending to the curve effect) and principles of progression and selection. Selection is with reference to effect upon correction of posture and stimulation of main physical

EAST

0)

0 C H

1

DIAGRAM SHOWING ROUTE THROUGH PHYSICAL TRAINING EXHIBITS OF

EDUCATION BUILDING.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
-136-

functions. A two minute setting up drill is used twice in the morning and once in the afternoon in addition to the regular physical training. The heavy equipment of the gymnasium is used only after school hours. The Athletic League, while officially independent of the Board of Education, is designed to regulate athletics. Its activities are confined to out of school hours and its hv-laws and photographs of cups and medals show that it has proved all that was hoped for it. The plan of caring for the atypical child includes two physical examinations a j’ear, much exercise in the sun, daily bath, a plain lunch at school, and frequent rest. Blanks showing the method of examination are included. The course of study in pamphlet form may be had from the attendant.

Pennsylvania’s exhibit shows high school cabinet from Warren, Lansdowne and Pottstown; the first shows photographs of outdoor hand apparatus work, croquet, and basket ball and football teams, the second a gymnasium, and the latter classes conducted in school room and corridor. Among the Normals Westchester shows its two gymnasia, Shippensburg its athletic field, Bloomsburg teams and contestants at the annual exhibition, and the girls gymnasium. Mansfield shows some photographs, but most interesting of all is an exhibit from the Corn-planter Indians of the Indian School at Warren. It consists of the printed rules and long polished metal models of the apparatus for a game called “Snow Snake.” This game has been played for an indefinite number of years exclusively among the Senecas.

New Mexico from the Silver City Normal School shows gymnasium, athletic teams and outdoor basket ball; from the College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts a football team; from the Military Institute boxing, baseball, and outdoor military drill; and from the University, basket ball teams.

Chicago, in its cabinet labeled “Physical Training,” has full outlines and photographs. The outlines are supplemented by charts showing results of public school investigation in growth, extremes of strength, motor defects, etc. The photographs show fencing, preliminary lessons in hockey, various gymnasia (with each one its dimensions), and much schoolroom work which is especially interesting as it is the only exhibit showing the use of apparatus in the school room A single piece of apparatus, on rollers, so that it can be used in room or corridor, by various attachments becomes a sort of multiple horse (called handle horse), parallels, bar, and ladders both horizontal and slanting. Peoria, cabinet 13, sends a most interesting exhibit. A complete outline of the work gives very explicitly, after each grade’s outline, its aim. Plenty of photographs show hand apparatus in use in corridors or its method of disposition after class and outdoor work, including an eight grade schoolyard where a large supported log answers for the purpose of balancing and vaulting. The entire exhibit shows what can be done toward utilizing corridor and attic where no gvmasium is available, and ends with a photograph showing a mass drill of all public school children in a field exhibition. Cases from State Normal (a), the Western Illinois (44), and Southern Illinois Normal (55) and (56) show outlines and photographs of dressing rooms, of classroom calisthenics and basket ball, and of gymnasia with girl’s classes on the floor, as well as out doors in gymnasium suits at basket ball.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-137-

Califoniia shows from the San Francisco School of Music an outline and photographs of the physical work, and Stockton sends bound mymiographed lessons, arranged from the Preece system, of the work used in the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth grades. The University exhibit across aisle A in the corner back of Indiana sends some transparencies of the two gymnasia, trophies, and anthropomctic work.

The Cleveland City School, cabinet 6, sends an exhibit which outlines the system (Swedish) and shows by photographs the work in halls, corridors and school rooms, the latter showing desks and seats used as apparatus and support. Case 4L shows the students of the City Normal out for a gymnastic walk, and of high schools with gymnasia, trophies and anthropometric work.

On the leit of the entrance into Oregon photographs show a high school gymnasium and teams at Union, while a cabinet on the opposite wall shows the basket ball teams from the State Normal.

In Indiana, Earlham College shows a girl’s basket ball team, Wabash a gymnasium and various athletic teams, Butler its gymnasium, the State Normal its two gymnasia, boy’s teams and its athletic field. Perdue shows simply its athletic field. The public schools are well represented. To the right, section 9, number 72, from Richmond are teams and not only a high school but also a grammar gymnasium. Fort Wayne shows German-American work with hand apparatus in school room and corridors, Indianapolis an outdoor class, schoolroom work with hand apparatus and a typical gymnasium in the grade building. The various buildings of the city are fitted as fast as possible with completely equipped gymnasia. Hammond and South Bend (cabinets 46 and 38) show athletic teams, and Crawfordsville girls’ and boys’ basket ball teams, the latter being the champions, outside of Chicago, of Indiana, Ohio and Illinois. Crawfordsville has no gymnasium or instructor, but so slight an obstacle is overcome by the girls, chaperoned by the lady principal, going to a hall fitted up for the purpose where they are instructed by the Y. M. C. A. instructor while the boys are sent to the Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. Terre Haute has a supervisor and the high school scholars work in regulation suits. Work in the grades is also shown.

On the the right of the entrance into Arkansaw are photographs of the young ladies working in the University gvmnasium. on the left photographs of the University bleachers and field and of some hand apparatus work in the public schools.

Wisconsin shows a wide spread interest. In the Milwaukee public school cabinet on “Interiors” is a photograph of a High School gymnasium, girls in regulation suits. In the cabinet on “Buildings” are photographs of various school halls used for gymnastic training, and in cabinet 22 girls are at work. Cabinet 8, under Menomonee, shows outdoor work, the girls in the gymnasium, and natatorium and shower baths of the Stout Manual Training Sehool. Cabinet 23 shows Oshkosh children in the gymnasium, and 24 Platteville and River Falls girls. The suit in the latter instance shows a pointed belt, the only exhibit with any variation from the round belt. For all schools the attendant in charge has outlines of the work for distribution. Stevens Point Normal (cab. 26) shows athletic teams, tennis courts, and the gymnasium during the different class periods including children from the model school. Superior (7), Whitewater (18), Hillside Home (12) and Milwaukee Downer (11) show their gymnasia. The State School for the Deaf shows classrhom work, skating, coasting and athletic teams; the State School for the Blind various girls and boys classes in the gymnasium and one in which a class is just starting on an outdoor run, the line being connected and held together by a long rope. On the wall Milton shows a basket ball team, and a Milwaukee parochial school its gymnasium.

Following aisle three to aisle C. entering the court of the Education Building you come upon exhibits from American universities and from foreign countries. The University of Missouri shows a neatly bound volume of photographs indicative of the amount of outdoor work done. There are various views of the University golf links, including the tool house, and tennis courts with sections at work, class basketball teams, the girls’gvmnasium, a fine photograph showing the girls’ regulation suit, classes in the girls’ gymnasium, and from the men’s

Digitized by v^ooQle
gymnasium a cross country section just starting out, the athletic field with bleachers during a track meet, athletic field showing track and baseball practice, a baseball game, and some pyramids and apparatus work of the gymnastic team. A drawing on the wall above shows the plant for the new men’sgymnasium.

On the rear wall of the University of Illinois exhibit is a large photograph of the gymnasium, and in the wall cabinet of the Christian Association various athletic teams and girls in regulation costume playing basket ball in an outdoor court. A cabinet ol “Statistics” shows several photographs from the gymnasium.

Wisconsin University shows large wall photographs of the exterior and interior of the men’s gymnasium, and a field. On the opposite wall is a chart of average gain in physical measurements with comparisons of Yale. Cornell and Wisconsin, and below a shelf piled high with photographs of athletic and basket ball teams for men and women, including a woman’s crew. A model of the university in the center of the exhibit shows the beautiful location of the men’s gymnasinm and boat house on the shore of the lake, thus accounting for our Western crew, and of the woman’s as the rear wing of the girls’ dormitory. In a bookcase filled with a complete file of the college publication, the Badger, may be found data concerning Wisconsin meets and records. A card catalogue will furnish a complete index to this excellent exhibit.

Washington University in St. Louis shows a model of the campus including a model of the gymnasium now being used for physical training exhibits ol the exposition and for dressing rooms for the Olympian games.

Chicago, from the University proper, shows only large wall photographs of her men’s gymnasium, but from the School of Education several of outdoor athletics including a long line of children in position ready for a sprint. There are also interior views of the girls’ gymnasium with and without classes. Outlines of the School of Education work are ready for distribution.

St. Louis University shows the gymnasium and athletic teams.

Michigan’s exhibit is largely confined to the memory of her glorious football reputation. Of several bound volumes, one on athletics, shows the more famous football men. some of the famous games, and various class games which in Michigan arouse such enthusiasm ; track events, including some of the dual meets and famous men (as Rose putting the shot); baseball showing the indoor cage; indoor tennis; fencing; golf; basket ball classes, including the girls’, and lastlv interiors of the women’s gymnasium. University bulletins on application.

Yale shows an interior of the gymnasium, Cornell several interiors, and Harvard, in a case of leaves concerning RadclifFe, an interior of the Radcliffe gymnasium, with statistics concerning its use, swimming, the instructors, etc.

Columbia shows a wall cabinet with views of the exterior and interior of her gymnasium, of freshman classes, pool and trophies. In the cabinet ‘ Columbia University” is a leaf with a chart of the gymnasium regulations and statistics. One thousand five hundred and eighty-two hold lockers while four hundred and thirteen do not. Bulletins and catalogues explaining the work in physical training will be sent to those leaving their names with the attendant. The work at the Teachers’ College had not been installed but will doubtless prove interesting.

Leaving the Harvard exhibition, cross aisle E to that of the French. All explanations are in French and even to one who reads the French it is quite impossible to find exhibits without the aid of the attendant. In group 1 there are a few photographs from the primary schools, of children working in a gymnasium, and in the yard of a country school. In the group on secondary schools (colleges) are photographs of footbal teams, hockey, fencing, ready for a race, some gymnastic movements with wands, and in the center, surrounded by these pictures, an explanation and outline of the work.

The German exhibit is the most interesting and because of its system and the English outline posted at the entrance of each section is easily understood. Section B shows buildings; I. K and L lower, middle and Normal training schools, and G. F and E the higher schools. In section B is a combination of a gymnasium and library in use at Charlottenburg. It is open to the public, certain nights being set aside for night schools and the Turnvereine. A picture of the exterior hangs above. A fine model (in two sections so that the interior is plainly seen) shows a completely equipped gymnasium of a common public school. It accomodates about five hundred children who come for work in

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-139-

sections of between twenty and fifty. Among the devices not commonly seen in America was a combination of swinging ropes with a chair on an upright ladder, leather mats, a truck for carrying mats about the gymnasium and cases in the side walls for disposing of the hand apparatus, wraps and the details of the heating and ventilating systems. At the left is found a model of the statue of Gutsmuths, unveiled in May in Quedlinburg at the school which bears his name. The surrounding walls show by photographs that the work at Quedlinburg is entirely out of doors and, in combination with the military, partakes of climbing in the Hartz Mountains. Other views show the work of watersports and that in all schools much attention is given to swimming and rowing. For learning the movements on land, before being attached to the lines, a device shows the boys lying face down on an arrangement similar to a camp stool. Other photographs show the bath in Frankfort (typical of all school baths) with model apparatus, including a boat. Charts on the table (with wall duplicates) give outlines by F. A. Scmidt, of Bonn, of the influence and results of physical exercise in youth. On wall 98 hangs a map showing, by means of red spots, the distribution of playgrounds in the main industry district of Germany. Across the aisle a painting shows the well shaded playground at Koenigsberg, while on either side hang measurement charts used in determining whether children are ready for higher grade work. These also show minimum and maximum heights for each age. Across from Gutsmuts is a bust of Jahn, and nearby are wall photographs showing girls from a Normal Training School where the work is compulsory. In section F books and wall photographs show outdoor gymnasia, baths, military work, camping and outlines of physical examinations from Elber-feld and other higher schools. This exhibit is in charge of Dr. Bohlsen who is so thoroughly conversant with his exhibit that your stay is a combination of instruction and pleasure.

Along with Germany in completeness, system of arrangement and familiarity of the attendant with his exhibit is the English. The primary school exhibit is especially complete, showing work from London, Leeds, etc. Cabinets 17. 18 and 19 show that in London each school has its instructor, the younger children working in room or in playground while the older children have a gymnasium. Each district has its pool and swimming is a part of the curriculum. The work includes life-saving drills, and certificates are given to the children who can swim twenty yards. Photographs of holders of some of the championships and some recent cup holders with an introduction by the two superintendents of the city schools explaining the system makes this exhibit most complete. A large bound volume of photographs, “Girls’ Physical Exercises,” below case 19 shows most completely the work of girls. The photographs are preceeded by an outline showing the work to be based on the Swedish system. An equally complete volume below cabinet 18. by outline and photograph, shows the work for boys. It includes illustrations of how to sit, stand, write, read and swim (preliminary exercises for swimming are taught standing and lying on the floor), life-saving drill, restoring the apparently drowned, and games. Cabinet 26 and the bound volume below shows the same work for Leeds and Liverpool. Leeds has ten baths with eleven instructors and the lessons are given from April 20 to September 21. Here also are plenty of statistics and outline of work. Liverpool adds photographs indicating Saturday afternoon rambles. Cabinets 27 and 28 show the work in other schools. There is through England no uniform course of study, each city outlining its own, but a committee recently appointed for the purpose of suggesting such a uniform course has just completed its report. This report may be obtained from Eyre and Spottiswood, E-Harding St., Fleet St.. London E. C., price twelve cents and postage. Among secondary schools for boys, cabinet 34. Eaton shows military work, tests in swimming, a meet, various games and the great amount of attention shown by many of the large schools situated on a river to rowing. Rugby shows baths, cadet corps and a photograph of each athletic costume of the school. Cabinet 29 shows secondary schools for girls: lacrosse, cricket in gloves and skin guards, hockey in gymnasium costume, rowing and gymnasium work, the suit including a skirt. At the Universities gymnastic and athletic work is not compulsory, each man being so “keen” for this training that restraint instead is necessary. Section G shows framed photographs of a Durham four, and football costume quite different from

Digitized by
-140-

the padded American armor. There are thjck boots, but only short knickerbockers, golf hose and bi-colored shirts with the sleeves rolled up. Other photographs show from the women’s affiliated colleges at Oxford hockey, tennis and rowing. Cabinet 38 shows some work from Oxford.

Leaving Great Britain and Ireland, passing down aisle E by Italy which shows no exhibit, you find the Swedish display on your right. Here the attendants will give you plenty of literature on the public schools of Sweden and their system of gymnastics. A standard cabinet in the middle of the exhibit, from the Royal Institute of Stockholm, shows in class photographs the pure Swedish positions and apparatus. In one corner are a number of models of “playing tools” designed, as to size, for the use of children from eight to fifteen. They consist of a skee. bowling and other wooden balls, apparatus for a game similar to our basket ball the ball being smaller, and to our base ball, the hat being wider, and poles and standards for pole vaulting. Leaving the exhibit to aisle 4, at the left of the exit, you find photographs of Swedish girls and children in school room work and out door games.

Pass up aisle G and on the right find the little exhibit from West Virginia. In the cabinet of small town and preparatory schools you find country boys doing gymnastics in country schools and other boys working in the Montgomery gymnasium. The Normal School case shows the gymnasium at Marshall College and the girls at tennis. Loose photographs under the High School cabinet show the University gymnasium and armory.

Brazil shows, scattered through the exhibit, in photographs on wall, easel, and table classes with light apparatus (short bar bells and wands), and military work in cool white costumes and tropical yards.

Japan’s system of exhibit is plainly indicated in black letters on white and consists of photographs on the exterior and interior walls. Under “Elementary Schools” a most fascinating spot is shown with Japanese children at gymnastic games. Under “Girls’ High Schools,” in a large clear room, in addition to a lesion in etiquette, are shown some exercises surely related to Delsarte and in the Japanese costume, with the sleeves tied together across the back. The Normal Schools show girls working in native costume in a wisteria hung arbor and other* in bloomers in a Swedish equipped gymnasium, and men working both on the field and. in the gymnasium, in the latter in white turbans, because, as the attendant said, “it is better.”

Cuba is interesting, as many exhibits show the result of the instruction received by the sixty Cuban girls sent to the New Paltz, N. Y., Normal. The album from the public schools shows that the work is com pulaary from the little thatched country school in a tropical wood to the highest school supported by the government, and is in general use in all private schools. A wall cabinet shows the boys of Santiago at work: and albums from Havana, Pinar Del Rio and Matanzs-children marching, at games, with light apparatus, at croquet, and at basket ball in the school courts, but in many cases in gymnasia. Several private schools in Havana show the same line of work.

Argentina shows some models of clubs, much longer and narrower than our manufacturers offer, bar bells with short bars and heavy bells; and photographs of hoys with dumb bells, and little girls with small rings, grace hoops and at tactics.

Entering the sections “Charities and Corrections,” in classes sent from Missouri deaf and dumb institutions, it is noticeable that the teachers use a system of exercises with the individual pupils as a means of engaging their attention. Concentration, a result of the exercise, becomes an assistant in the auditory work.

Pennsylvania prisons, reformatories, and institutions for deaf and dumb, and Massachusetts prisons show compulsory showers and physical training, lx>th by indoor work and out door games, as a means of uplifting and reclaiming. New York institutions for the insane and state hospitals show field sports, basket ball. May pole, a woman’s field day and gymnastic classes.

The Chicago Hospital School shows boys at fencing, and the Battle Creek Sanitarium large out door and indoor natatoriunis, classes in the gymnasium, and medical gymnastics, including Swedish mechanical movements.

The exhibit of the National Cash Register Manufacturing Co. of Dayton, Ohio, in a wall cabinet, shows a club house built and maintained for its employees. A

Digitized by Google
—141-

regular instructor is employed during the winter months, and there are classes for boys, children, and in dancing and tennis. Members of the clerical force are obliged to stop their work ten minutes for calisthenics each morning.

The W. C. T. U. exhibit, cabinet 1, in a leaf on the “Department of Physical Education” gives its aims along this line, and among other statistics mentions the states which have compulsory laws in respect to physical training.

The “Home Economics” exhibit under the auspices of the Association of Intercollegiate Alumni, in a map on the rear wall, in indicating its main lines of work, gives as one of them “The Study of a Physical Education for Girls.”

John Hopkins’ Hospital exhibit shows a pair of orthopedic shoes used for the correction of flat feet.

The Chinese exhibit shows wall photographs of the Chinese children with Indian clubs and shuttlecock in Queen’s College at Hong Kong, at calisthenics in the Presbyterian High School and the Methodist Episcopal girls’ schools at Foochow, and at gymnastics in the Shanghay Presbyterian Girls’ School and a Girls’ Boarding School at Hanyang. All were in native costume. A standard cabinet in the middle of the exhibit shows men of a military school working with climbing ropes in an equipped out door gymnasium.

The exhibit from Great Britain and Ireland’s reformatory schools in the outline, page 21, state that children entering schools are for the most part poorly developed, that money, time and pains are lavished, and that it is but right that they should be, and cricket, football, swimming and camping are mentioned as means to the end; and out door gymnasia, drills and tactics are shown.

An exhibit from the St. Paul Board of Health shows a large wall photograph of an out door gymnasium established by the board. There are also public baths for men and women. Reports of the board are for distribution.

Texas shows, on the left wall, photographs of the new' tennis courts at the Girls’ Industrial School, and indications of a gymnasium at the Sam Houston Normal.

Utah shows, from Salt Lake, athletic teams; and from Ogden public schools, a fine athletic field, and track, football, and basket ball teams. Again from Weber State Academy, football and basket ball teams; from the Agricultural College, various athletic teams with individuals of star members; and in the University cabinet, a page given over to field day, a view' and diagram of the athletic grounds, and the gymnasium.

In the booth treating of “Infectious Diseases” a camp is show n in the Muskoka Lake region of Canada with men taking exercise in a pulmonary gymnasium.

Turning to the right, down aisle 2, Pratt shows wall photographs of children’s classes and the Normal students at games in the gymnasium. Across the aisle are cabinets from Wells with gymnasium, boating, bath, and basket ball; from the Woman’s College of Frederick, Maryland, a gymnasium, and plenty of hockey and tennis; and from Hampton the gymnasium and boys athletic teams. The Woman’s College of Baltimore show’s fine pictures of its gymnasium. Turn to the left and Vassar shows wall photographs of the gymnasium, exterior and interior, and the natatorium.

A booth occupied by wall cabinets from Massachusetts colleges gives fine view’s of the gymnasium and golf links at Williams; from Wellesley the gymnasium, golf links, crew’, out door basket ball, and physical examination chart; from Holy Cross basket ball and relay teams, class on the floor in the gymnasium, the start on the track, the athletic field and some leading athletes. Smith shows exterior and interior views of her gymnasium, basket ball teams and positions taken by team at various points of the game (evidently the originals of those used to illustrate the Woman’s Rule), the great interclass basket ball game with a second view showing the throng awaiting admission, fencing, boating, skating, snowshoeing, hockey, diagrams of working capacity and resistance, some physical measurements, and a statement of the courses and their objects. Twelve courses are indicated, six elective and six required. Holyoke shows basket ball teams on the front of her cabinet, an outline of the work in physical training, a page of basket ball teams, tennis, the 1005 track team, and the fifty yard dash in bloomers.

Bryn Mawr has a large framed photograph of the gymnasium and pool.

Forest Park University in St. Louis shows a few \yall photographs of basket ball teams, and girls at work in the gymnasium.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—142—

Among the exhibits from Publishing Houses Silver Burdette offers Enebuskie Day’s Orders; the American Book Co. Blaikie, Anna Morris etc.; and Milton Bradley Co. some books on dancing, games, and action songs.

From this display of physical training several conclusions may be drawn. Physical training is in general use in the United States, from the universities and colleges to, and inclusive of, the primary schools. Where sufficient equipment is lacking the athletic spirit finds expression in basket ball, and if data concerning the recent evolution of systematic training could be obtained I doubt not but that in many cases it would be found that basket ball had furnished the opening wedge. Football is evidently here to stay and, despite the wide spread agitation, has neither suffered nor felt the gale blowing about its head. Not many years ago bloomers, ugly and bungling, for women’s and girls’ gymnastics were adopted only by the strong minded, while now appropiate suits (skirts are seen in very few exhibits) are in general use, and worn without comment even in out door games and contests. Physical training has become to be considered an essential part of training, not only for the normal but for the abnormal, not only for muscular development, but for physical, mental and moral correction.

Of the public schools no one could afford to miss the exhibits from Massachu setts and Cleveland, Missouri, New York City, Chicago and Illinois, and perhaps Indiana and Wisconsin. Of Universities Wisconsin and Michigan. Of foreign countries Germany, England, Sweden and Japan.

SOME PROBLEMS IN SCHOOL HYGIENE.

From “The Elementary Schooi Teacher.”

NOT the least time-consuming and nerve-wearing question which confronts the elementary-school teacher is just what supervision she is to assume over the health of the pupils, and how far she is to insist upon right habits of action both at home and in school.

It has been an axiom in all public school work that manners and morajs are a part of the curriculum. The details of food and clothing, being as personal as religion, were left to home influence. But with the increasing belief in social responsibility and in the moral effect of unsanitary habits, the teaching of hygiene has assumed a new importance. Baths have been added to the schoolhouse equipment, and cooking and daily care of rooms have been considered not out of place because of the added health the knowledge and the good habits will bring. In view of the danger of infection and contagion, the teacher must He voluntary inspector and watch for indications of disease, must be able to distinguish an ordinary cold from the approach of fever. She must see that fingers with a burden of bacteria do not go into the eyes, noses or mouths; that books, pencils and desks are free from gerru-laden dust.

These little details require a very different attitude of mind and a wider range of knowledge than mere text-book instruction; but this side of the teacher’s duties seems, from the social-science point ol view, quite the most important when dealing with children under twelve, during the time when habits are forming and before the muscles stiffen. Where there is a gymnasium and department of physical culture the care of the body and head and feet comes naturally into the cun iculura.

If it is difficult for the teacher to control home surroundings, and to obtain her pupils in the right condition on their arrival at the school, it is usually more difficult for her to secure the right surroundings to receive and keep them in. Dusty air usually greets the warm, moist

Digitized by t^ooQle
-143-

throats and noses on entering the building, because the care-takers find it convenient to flourish the feather dusters just before school time. Dust in the air does not show. Dust on the desks and tables betrays itself. Finger marks are not “dusted” oft, and unless desks are wiped, germs may be conveyed from one to another of the little ones who have not outgrown tactile or prehensile tendencies. The great prevalence of catarrhal affections among school children points to the effect of the dusty air which they are forced to breathe. Even it it is otherwise harmless, chalk, gritty street dust, as well as that rising from ill-kept floors, contributes an irritation which may become serious.

Erismann gives three requirements which school floors should meet: (lj they should be poor conductors of heat; (2) they should allow of little dust; (3) they should not absorb liquids. He recommends, as the ideal schoolroom floor, parquetry of well-dried oak, dressed with wax disolved in turpentine well rubbed in. Besides the daily brushing, the floor is to be rubbed down twice a week with dry wax. American school construction and conservation have hardly reached this stage.

The substitution of antisepsis—sterilization of infective material— for disinfection or deodorization must be insisted upon. Primitive man masked repulsive odors by burning of incense: prevention of odors by cleanliness is the modern rule.

The arrangements of clothes-hangers and dryers, the direction of air currents, the temperature and general cleanliness of the building, are often all beyond the teacher’s control. The energy wasted in trying to accomplish results under circumstances needlessly averse is pitiable.

The child is taken from under the blue sky, from the freedom of the green fields, from the bright flowers and sweet breezes, and confined, against his will, within four walls in close air, with light in his eyes, and kept in a cramped position over his tasks. It is a cruelty to animals, even if it is justified by the development of the best human individuals.

The power which does this, be it the parent or the state, should see to it that the confinement should be under the best conditions possible to science. The schoolhouse should be the most up-to-date building in town, and its care-takers the best instructed in modern sanitary requirements. Becker’s investigations in German Schools showed a direct relation between foul air and headeache. In a school with two cubic meters’ air space per pupil he found that 4:4.6 per cent, of the pupils had headache, while in a school with 6.8 cubic meters’ air space only 4.7 per cent, suffered.

Given a suitable building, the teacher need concern herself only with the personal habits and surroundings of the children. Cleanliness of hands and faces should be made, not only possible, but easy by accessibility of water and towels (hot water in winter). Door-knobs and hand-rails would not then be the great menace they are r.ow. Wooden wedges should be on hand for the cleaning of finger nails. It is unwise to frighten children, but an impression must be made upon them as to the risks of certain kinds of dirt. The childish habit of mouthing everything must be overcome early.

I hear the teachers sigh over this nursery-maid line of work, and

Digitized by CjOOQle
-146-

At the Paris Exposition in 1900, Mr. Sullivan was appointed by Commissioner-General Peck Assistant American Director, in fulfilling the duties of which position he was in active charge of the American contingent that competed in the Olympic games of that year. He has also held the position of Director ot Athletics at the Pan-American Exposition in 1901. He is the acknowledged authority on athletics, the preferred referee at nearly all the important athletic meets ot this country and for years has been referee of the Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America. He is at present president of the Metropolitan Association of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, secretary of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, chairman of the American Committee of the Public Schools Athletic League, chairman of the Championship Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, chairman of the Record Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, one of the Board of Governors of the Outdoor Recreation League. Director of Athletics at the Catholic Summer Schools at Lake Champlain, New York, and a member of many clubs throughout the United States.

Mr. Sullivan has been connected with the publishing and newspaper business all his life as a writer and publisher of books. He began his business career under the late Frank Leslie, in the year 1877, and continued in a responsible position with that house after Frank Leslie’s death up until the time the illustrated newspaper was sold to VY. J. Akrell Co. He then became business manager of the Sporting Times, a publication that he afterwards owned and published for several years, it being devoted to baseball and athletics. Ten years ago he discontinued the publication of the paper and organized the present American Sports Publishing Co., of which he is president and conducts the general advertising business and publishing. This coinpanv is the largest of its kind in the world, and makes a specialty of official athletic books on athletics and physical training only. The advertising agency is also considered one of the largest of its kind, and Mr. Sullivan has many important contracts at his disposal, he handling the entire advertising of the American Bicycle Trust the first three years of existence at an expense to that Compaq* of nearly $1,000,000 He is well known in newspaper circles, having been a frequent contributor of articles on athletics to all prominent dailies and weeklies in the country, and the author of several books on athletic training. —The Editor.

At the Universal Exposition of 1904, for the first time in the history of international expositions, a separate department has been created for the presentation and exploitation of man’s progress towards his more perfect physical development and training.

That the creation of this Department of Physical Culture, as it is termed, was a wise move is amply evidenced by the interest that is taken throughout the world in its plans and announcements. The fact that this is the first recognition that has been given lu this important subject seems fully appreciated, more especially as it will enable those who are interested in physical training to exploit it in a manner that has never been attempted before.

There has been assigned the department of physical culture a large area within the exposition grounds, on which will be presented all kinds of athletic sports, on an exhibit basis, as well as in open competition, and it is also planned to have the largest athletic track and stadium ever built in America with a field large enough for equestrian polo, foot ball, base ball and other outdoor sports. There will be installed a model playground, wherein children can play during the day, and an ideal camp for boys. There has already been erected for this department a large and elaborate modern gymnasium, and in this building will be shown an up-to-date perfect gymnasium, displaying every piece of gymnastic apparatus as now used in any college or school gymnasium

Digitized by v^ooQle
-147-

in this country. There will he several methods in exploiting physical training—from the scientific end, known as physical training proper, and from the competitive end, presented in an arena where the world’s greatest athletes will compete. The program as already arranged is the largest and most pretentious of its kind that has ever been attempted by any country or even by any athletic governing body in the world. St. Louis has been selected by the International Olympic Committee as the location for the Olympic games of 11)04, this being the third Olympic Meeting since its revival, and as these games will be held within the exposition grounds, extraordinary inttrest may well be expected in the unusual series of athletic events.

By a decision of the International Olympic Committee, all sports and competitions during the World’s Fair will be designated as Olympic events, with the exception, of course, of competitions for the championships of the local associations. While it is true that all trials will be considered international Olympic events, the history of the two preceding Olympiads has shown that the athletic portion of the games is the most interesting. Therefore, the committee has set aside one week for the Olympic games proper, as they have been termed. The program for this particular week is large, larger than was ever attempted in Paris in 1900, or Athens in 1896. They are standard events, and great activity is being manifested in them by foreign athletic governing bodies. Already assurances have been received that teams will come to compete from England, Germany, France, Ireland, Scotland and Australia, the latter expecting to be represented by four of its fastest track men. America has demonstrated her athletic supremacy on more than one occasion. The majority ot the prizes at the last Olympic games went to Americans, and naturally as the games of 1904 will be held in America, the American athlete will be an important factor, and the governing bodies that control athletic competition in this country and the sectional associations of the same, are now preparing their best men for this particular meeting.

The games have received the official endorsement of all governing bodies in this country and their earnest support is assured. The A. A. U. in its last annual convention adopted a strong resolution commendatory of the games of 1904. The Intercollegiate Athletic Association did likewise, as did the Intercollegiate Gymnastic Association, while the North American Gymnastic Union, through its representatives, approves and endorses the games, and separate days have been set aside for competition among its members. The National Association of Oarsmen, the strongest organization of its kind in the world and the governing body of that sport in America, has decided that its regatta shall be one of the features in 1904. The American Fencers’ League, the controlling body of that sport in this country, has selected St. Louis in which to ho’d its fencing competitions. The Intercollegiate Fencing League has likewise requested of the officers that they include a collegiate fencing championship in the program. The National Gaelic Association of America will control the Irish sports, when the ancient games of Ireland will receive recognition. The Y. M. C. A., the largest organization of its kind in the world, with 500 gyrrjnasiums and 100,000 members

Digitized by CjOOQle
-148-

in the country, will have an association week in conjunction with the Olympic games. The National Roque Association will have Roque championships under its own auspices, and the National Archery Association will control the Olympic championships in their games. It is particularly worthy of note that the governing bodies of nearly all sports have come forward and endorsed and approved of the games, and it is thus only fair to assume that the season of 1904 will be the greatest in the history of sport throughout the world, for as may be seen, as far as the spectacular or competitive end ol the sports is concerned, the prospects are more than bright.

The erection of a gymnasium in the grounds and under the management of the Department of Physical Culture gives to the physical training end of this great enterprise a position it never occupied before. As a result, there has been drawn together a physical training committee, the best authorities in America on the subject, men who have devoted their entire lives to the cause, thus assuring the success of the exhibit in that particular line. There will be a series of displays in this connection that will prove interesting the world over, it being the intention to have displayed data bearing on all the phases of physical training. Foreign countries, where physical training is conducted in the schools, have been asked to exhibit, and many of them have accepted. The cities of the United States, where physical training is under the control of the Boards of Education, have also been asked to exhibit, and each and every association that is allied with it will make its own exhibit showing the improvements in the work. The Normal Schools which are responsible for our instructors of the young, will make an exhibit of their own, which promises to be of extraordinary interest. It is intended to have in the gymnasium during the season every known game and pastime used either in the gymnasium or play grounds.

The features of the physical training exhibit will be the World’s Olympic Lecture Course, which will be held during the month of August, and the Physical Training Conventions. Arrangements have been made whereby those who are interested in the movement will hold conventions in the gymnasium, and among those who have been asked to organize these meetings are the following:

The American Physical Educational Association.

Physical Directors’ Society of the Y. M. C. A.

College Physical Directors' Society.

Society of Secondary Schools Physical Directors.

North American Gymnastic Union Physical Directors.

Public School Physical Directors and the American School Hygiene Association.

The subject of the Lecture Course will comprise:

History of Physical Training.

Psychologic and Sociologic Aspects of Physical Training.

Physical Training of Truants, Defectives and Delinquents.

The Physiology of Exercise.

Gymnastic Therapeutics.

The Management of Athletic Contests.

Dancing for Schools.

Theory and Practice of School Gymnastics.

Theory and Practice of School Games.

Anthropometry Methods.

School Hygiene, Pedagogy of Physical Training.

Digitized by ooQle
—149—

The Adaptatation of Physical Exercise to the Conditions of Modem Life.

Organization and Administration of Physical Training.

Divergent Effects of Uniform Physical Training upon Different Individuals.

It also proposed to have a course of popular addresses on the following topics:

The Influence of Manly Sports on Peoples.

The Moral Phase of Athletics.

The Place of Physical Training in Athletics.

The Development of the City as Related to the Health of Children.

The Play of City Children, and New Conditions to Civilization which Make Physical Training Necessary.

In this great Olympic course during the month of August it has been so arranged that these lectures will give the entire history of the subject in all phases of the work. The most famous lecturers have been secured by the department, and arrangements have been made whereby the lectures will be furnished in manuscript and form a record of this movement. Thus there will be held in one building conventions and lectures that heretofore have been scattered, that will attract scientific men, practical men, teachers of physical training and students, and make St. Louis, in that line alone, a center of great interest.

Therefore, it can be seen at a glance that the Department of Physical Culture is not merely going to relv on the exhibition of a particular article. Everything will be live, everything will be portrayed in the gymnasium. In other words, a mere exhibit of basket ball in a case shows nothihg. but the Department of Physical Culture will show them in play by matches between two teams. So it will be with all other sports. An apparatus is not to be known as an object of pretty work. The apparatus there will be used and each particular part of it will be in use during the entire season. In other words, the whole machinery of the physical training department will be in constant operation. No inactivity, no dead objects that cannot be exploited and put in use.

The greatest men in this line in the world today are at work arranging and developing the physical training of this exposition, which will go down on record as the most extraordinary and complete ever held in the world, and it is doubtful if it will ever again be equalled or even approached.

PHYSICAL CULTURE IN INDIANAPOLIS.

g^ttat it is the object of the public schools of Indianapolis to give physical training equal prominence with the mental and moral development was evidenced by the report of Superintendent Kendall to the board of school commissioners.

It is the opinion of Mr. Kendall that the physical training of the pupils of the city schools has been neclected to an extent, and, that the best results may be accomplished both mentally and morally, the recreation of the children should be systematized.

The school board authorized Superintendent Kendall to appoint a physical director for the elementary schools, and to provide some scheme, which is to be submitted to the board, providing for a physical director in each of the high schools. Mr. Kendall, in his report, said:

“1 wish to call the attention of the board to the need of more attention to physical training in the schools. I have felt that the schools required the services of a man who could devote his entire time to this work; such a competent man is hard to find.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-150-

“The director of physical training should not only look after the gymnastics calisthenics, the general physical training and recreation of pupils, but he should also look after the conditions under which the work is done from day to day.

“The salary of such a man would be capital well invested. The returns would be found in healthier, better developed children and in lessened worry on the part of many parents who send their children to school with a dread of injury, real or fancied—often fancied, it is true, but none the less real—to the health of their children. A strong bodily constitution is so much capital, and the school must increase and not impair it. The child in school can do his most effective work in arithmetic or geograjphy when his blood is in circulation and his muscles exercised.

“Have we really taken sufficient account in elementary and in high schools of the increased worth of the individual whose nerves are steady, whose head is clear, whose blood is red, whose sleep is sound, whose temper is sweet, whose constitution is iron?

“In the practice of our schools we are not without recognition of these facts. There is a recess of fifteen minutes each half day. This recess is of more value than of old, because many principals and teachers take an active personal interest in making it a time of real relaxation and recreation for girls as well as boys. In some schools several kinds of games go on with apparatus provided often at the expense of the teachers. The teachers are on the playground to suggest but not to repress. The evils of the school playground, sometimes complained of, are thus minimized. Children, of course, co-operate with one another in the games, and the whole is an educative affair, not only on the side of health, but in teaching self-control, unselfishness, admiration for others, preseverance and other virtues.

“In the school rooms physical exercises are less neglected, rest periods more frequent; in the primary school games are not unknown, and children no longer walk on tip-toe. The quietest school is not necessarily considered the best school. More attention is paid to the value of fresh air, to good conditions of light and to seats that fit.

“I am glad that the board has provided a gymnasium in each of the high schools and in the buildings it is now erecting at Irvington and North Indianapolis. The expense for the gymnasium in the district schools is small for they are a part of the regular assembly hall and therefore separate rooms for gymnasium purposes are not needed. The value of gymnasiums in promoting the health of children cannot be over-estimated.

“The proper use of a gymnasium lequires the services of a teacher who is equipped bv training and experience to teach children to use it wisely and intelligently, to use it so that the maximum good may result.”

In connection with the above, condemnation proceedings were ordered for the property adjoining school No. 4- at the corner of Michigan and Bradford streets, to enlarge the area of the play ground at this school.

GAMES AND EXERCISE-THEIR EFFECT UPON MIND

AND BODY.

THE ancient games were all born of the instinct of self-defense. The chariot was used in war. Man should know the use of his hands, to the end that he may repel assault. He should know the use of the sword, to the end that he may strike down his enemy. He should be skillful with the arrow to the same end. If overpowered he seeks safety in flight—he should therefore know how to run. So, too, he could preserve himself by the skillful throwing of the javelin, and in the close encounter a knowledge of wrestling might save his life.

The Greeks knew that the body bears a certain relation to the soul. They also knew that the body could be developed, and that such development would give or add to the health, the courage, the endur-

Digitized by o.ooQle
-151-

ance, the self-confidence, the independence and the morality of the human race. They knew, too, that health was the foundation, the cornerstone of happiness. They knew that human beings should know something' about themselves, something about the capacities of body and mind to the end that they might ascertain the relation between conduct and happiness, between temperance and health.

It is needless to say that the Greeks were the most intellectual of all races, and that they were in love with beauty, with proportion, with the splendor of the body and mind, and so great was their admiration for the harmoniously developed that Sophocles had the honor of walking naked at the head of a great procession.

The Greeks, through their love for physical and mental development, gave us the statues—the most precious of all inanimate things—of far more worth than all the diamonds and rubies and pearls that ever glittered in crowns and tiaras, on altars or thrones, or, flashing, rose and fell on woman’s billowed breast. In these marbles we find the highest types of life, of superb endeavor and supreme repose. In looking at them we feel that blood flows, that hearts throp and souls aspire. These miracles of art are the richest legacies the ancient world has left our age.

The nations in love of life have games. To them existence is excul-tation. They are fond of nature. They seek the woods and streams. They love the winds and the waves of the sea. They enjoy the poems of the day, the drama of the year.

Our Puritan forefathers were oppressed with a sense of infinite reponsibility. They were disconsolate and sad, and no more thought of sport, except the flogging of Quakers, than shipwrecked wretches huddled on a raft would turn their attention to amateur theatricals. For many centuries the body was regarded as a decaying casket, in which had been placed the gem called the soul, and the nearer rotten the casket the more brilliant the jewel. In those blessed days the diseased were sainted, and insanity born of fasting and self-denial, and abuse of the body was looked upon as an evidence of inspiration. Cleanliness was not next to godliness—it was the opposite; and in those days what was known as the “odor of sanctity” had a substantial foundation. Diseased bodies produced all kinds of mental maladies. There is a direct relation between sickness and superstition. Spooks and phantoms hover about the diseased and undeveloped as vultures sail about the dead.

All exercise should be for the sake of development—that is to say, for the sake of health and for the sake of the mind—all to the end that the person may become better, greater, more useful. The gymnast or the athlete should seek for health, and the student should seek for truth, but when athletics degenerates into mere personal contests they become dangerous, because the contestants lose sight of health as in the exite-ment of debate the students may prefer personal victory to the ascertainment of truth.

There is another thing to be avoided, and this is anything that tends to brutalize, destroy or dull the finer feelings. Nothing is more disgusting, more disgraceful, than pugilism; nothing more demoralizing than an exhibition of strength united with ferocity, and where the very

Digitized by CjOOQle
bod}" developed by exercise is mutilated and disfigured. Sports that can by no possibility give pleasure, except to the unfeeling, the hardened and the really brainless, should be avoided. No gentleman should countenance rabbit coursing, fighting of dogs, the shooting of pigeons simply as an exhibition of skill. All these things are calculated to demoralize and brutalize not only the actors, but the lookers on. Such sports are savage, fit only to be participated in and enjoyed by the cannibals of Central Africa, or the anthropoid apes.

Find what a man enjoys, what he laughs at, which he calls diversion, and you know what he is. Think of a man calling himself civilized who is in rapture at a bull fight, who smiles when he sees the hound pursue and catch and tear to pieces the timid hare, and who roars with laughter when he watches the pugilists pound each other’s faces, closing each other’s eyes, breaking jaws and smashing noses. No gentleman finds pleasure in inflicting pain.

In every public school there should be a gymnasium. It is useless to cram minds and deform bodies. Hands should be educated as well as heads. All should be taught the sports and games that require mind, muscle, nerve and judgement. Even those who labor should exercise to the end that the whole body may be developed. Those who work at one employment become deformed. Proportion is lost. But where harmony is preserved by the proper exercise, even old age is beautiful. To the well developed, to the strong, life seems rich, obstacles small and success easy. They laugh at cold and storm. Whatever the season may be, their hearts are filled with summer.

Millions go from the cradle to the coffin without knowing what it is to live. They simply succeed in postponing death. Without appetite, without passions, without struggle, they slowly rot in a waveless pool. They never know the glory of success, the rapture of the fight.

To become effeminate is to invite misery. In the most delicate bodies may be found the most degraded souls. It was the Duchess Josiane whose pampered flesh became so sensative that she thought of hell as a place where people were compelled to sleep between coarse sheets.

We need the open air; we need the experience of heat and cold. We need not only the rewards and caresses, but the discipline of our mother Nature. Life is not all sunshine, neither is it all storm; but men should be enabled to enjoy the one and to withstand the other.

As has been so well said, I believe in the religion of the body, of physical development, in devotional exercise, in the beatitude of cheerfulness, good health, good food, good clothes, comradeship, generosity, and above all, happiness. I believe in a salvation here and now, sal vation from depravity and disease, from weakness and pain, from ennui and insanity. I believe in a heaven here and now, the heaven of health, of good digestion, of strength and long life of usefulness and honor. I believe in the builders and defenders of home.—A. G. Stidek, M. D., in “Medical Councilor”.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to yon frr one year on reeeiot of $4-.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by Google
-153-

PHYSICAL TRAINING OF JAPANESE.

By HORACE BUTTER WORTH. (Former Director of Athletics Northwestern University and Director of Physical Training University of Chicago.)

PHYSICAL training is a most important part of the general plan which the government of Japan some time ago adopted with the hope of bringing about such a development along modern lines as would make the nation equal if not superior to any power with which she might compete or fight.

At so recent a date as the close of our civil war, and later, there could be found reproduced in Japan all the characteristics which we are accustomed to associate with the age of chivalry in Europe. Battle-mented castles, defended by moats and drawbridges, sheltered the feudal barons who, as hereditary lords and masters of wide stretches of country, protected their many dependents and maintained their suzerainty by the prowess of armored knights.

The business of the country was in the hands of guilds. The education and the training of those not bound by stern necessity to a lifetime of unceasing toil for the essentials of a bare existence were of the refinements, the aesthetics of living on the one hand, and of war upon the other. The most vigorous fencing with swords and bamboo sticks, hurling the spear, shooting with the bow, wrestling and such common athletic exercises as marching, running and jumping in ordinary costume, as well as when clad in heavy armor, formed the essential features of a training designed to strengthen the muscles and inure the constitution to a hardy endurance of the shocks, the hardships and the fatigues incidental to warfare at close quarters.

* * *

With the bursting of the chrysalis from which has emerged a Japan seeking to be acknowledged the peer of any supercivilized nation of the west came an appropriation and adaptation of innumerable new things deemed essential to a material prosperity and power commensurate with the pride and ambition of a nobility tracing its unbroken descent through more than twenty centuries Diet, dress, manners, education and communication, the influence of Christianity, innumerable industries —almost everything appertaining to civilization as it is found in the great nations of the world—were made the subject of exhaustive study by commissions representing the government of Japan. That they adopted so much of what they saw in foreign countries led many to believe that as a nation the Japanese were mere imitators, without initiative of their own, and that all the habits and traditions which they had inherited would be discarded in favor of the newer civilization; that their islands would be thrown open to foreign settlement, their resources to development by foreign capital and an edict of the Mikado announce the conversion of the nation to Christianity.

Time has shown that this estimate was an altogether erroneous one. The empire was merely making use of that principle of attack and defense described by the phrase “to conquer by yielding”, which the early Samurai brought to a high degree of proficiency. Japan bowed to the strength which commanded her to come forth from her house

Digitized by U.ooQle
-154-

and mingle with the citizens of the wide, wide world, but she did not become divorced from her past; she acquiesced when superior power bade her relinquish the spoils of victory, but the yielding was only apparent, not real. She took with a liberal hand of what was proffered, and at the same time preserved control of her own industries, maintained unimpaired her independence and her individuality and got such a grip on the future as is likely to surprise more than one unsuspecting competitor and antagonist.

* • •

In the early days of this acquisition and adaptation grave fears beset the wisest Japanese legistors lest the wave of western civilization would literally engulf the empire, and these forebodings called up a specter which sat through the night by their pillows, looked over their shoulders and would not be laid—Japan under the heel of an alien lord, her independence and individuality forever lost. These anxieties, coupled with the military traditions of the past, led to the incorporation of physical training into the system of public education which had been adapted to Japanese requirements from the methods pursued in Germany, France and America. From the lowest grades of the grammar school to the senior courses of the universities this training is as essentially and as avowedly military in principle and practice as that taught in the army and navy. The thoroughness with which the whole nation has been imbued with a belief in the necessity and the wisdom of this plan was well illustrated more than ten years ago by the reply of a child to a question regarding duty: “The duty of every Japanese to our emperor is to help him make our country strong and wealthy and to help to defend and preserve our national independence.”

All children in the schools are taught the calisthenic exercises which have been so generally introduced into our own system of public instruction within the last ten or fifteen years. In addition to this, the older pupils are required to appear in uniform and drill with wooden or real guns at frequent intervals. The high schools and the universities have gymnasiums which are equipped with apparatus of the latest pattern to be found in Germany or the United States—horizontal and parallel bars, rings, ladders, climbing ropes and poles, dumbbells, Indian clubs, wands, etc. Attendance upon classes in physical exercise is as compulsory as the practice of military drill, and every town has its own battalion of school soldiers.

# # #

With the necessity of warlike training for the preservation of national independence as an incentive to physical development, the practice of many foreign athletic games and sports has been taken up with much interest and favor by the younger generations of men. The first of these to make a place for itself was rowing, the mysteries of which were imparted to the pupils of the university preparatory school, now the Tokio High School, by a young English instructor in 1887. Since 1888 an annual regatta has been held, in which crews representing most of the institutions of higher learning have competed.

Cycling clubs are found in all of the large towns, and the foreigners have great difficulty in keeping even a few of the records in their possession.

Digitized by

Google
-155-

The unexpected victory which the Tokio High School team secured in a game of baseball played with the foreign residents of Yokohama, in 1896, gave such a stimulus to interest in this sport that within two years no large school in the country was without a team. In 1898, a paper devoted entirely to sport, which had been established in the previous year, the “Undo Kwni,” reported that the fame of the athletes of Tokio High School had made such a deep impression on the students of Yale University that they had forwarded a challenge through Mr. Chochi Machida, a student at New Haven, for a contest in baseball, track athletics and debate which, if accepted, would result in a team going to Tokio for the competition. I do not remember any great excitement in the Yale camp during that year over the results of this contest and presume the contingent which forwarded the challenge did not make the trip.

Most of the other sports practiced in England and the United States—tennis, cricket, football, bowling and the like—have been given a trial and have their devotees, but by far the most popular games are cycling, baseball and track athletics. Almost as much interest is manifested in these contests between school and town teams as is shown in this country, and it is nothing uncommon for representatives of educational institutions to travel 200 or 300 miles to meet their rivals.

* « *

There were no popular sports, as we understand the term, in “old” Japan. The people of those days were of a quiet temperament, more fond of indoor pastimes than of exciting games in the open air. Such athletic exercises as were practiced were not engaged in for the sake of the sport which they afforded, but were undertaken for some serious purpose, as for war or as a business.

The grafting of these games of the new world upon the national character has, therefore, not resulted in the abandonment of these spectacles and exercises which afforded excitement and pleasure to the people under the old regime; none of these has been displaced. The tumblers, the tight rope and slack wire performers have larger audiences in these days than when they displayed their skill under the proctection and in the courts of the great feudal lords. Fan or umbrella in hand they walk backward and forward upon a steeply inclined wire, or slide down it with a speed never equaled by a boy riding the banisters to breakfast. Whether performing upon the wire, climbing a pole supported only by a companion’s shoulder, or spinning barrels, umbrellas, tubs ot screens with his feet, as he lies upon his back, the artist does everything so quietly, so precisely, without an uncertain movement, even so much as a change of expression on the face, that he appears to be saying to himself, “This is nothing,” and yet it is the superlative of acrobatic work. The influence of these performers has made a profound impression upon the work of men of other nationalities engaged in similar lines. A man named Rislev, while on a visit to the Orient, after seeing the Japanese juggle all sorts of articles with their feet, returned and introduced the trick of tossing children in the air from the feet of one performer to another, which is familiar to everyone who has visited the circus or vaudeville shows in recent vears.

Digitized by
—15G—

Climbing ladders and poles which, without support from the hands or artificial means, are balanced upon the shoulders or feet of men, not only forms the stock in trade of many professional caterers to public amusement, but it is also a regular part of the training of the fire brigades, and the skill of the men is displayed to the public in frequent parades and exhibitions in th? streets and public squares.

Fencing with bamboo sticks, foils, sabres and the old two-handed sword is enthusiastically practiced bv many clubs, in the schools and towns, but in the old days, when the wearing of swords was the mark of a gentleman, familiarity with this art was universal. In addition to the soldiers and sailors, the police are given a very thorough course of insruction in the use of the sword by officials of the government, as it is the weapon which they carry, more as a svmbol of authority, however, than for attack and defense, as respect for law is so deeply imbedded in the Japanese character that resistance is seldom made to arrrest.

Under the direction of Jigora Kano, president of the higher normal college in Tokio, who is the head of the Ju Jitsuists, many schools have been established for teaching the ancient method of attack and defense. This is a refinement of wrestling, originally discovered by the Chinese and introduced into the Japanese practice some time during the seventeenth century, by which an opponent’s strength is made to bring his own downfall, A peculiar knowledge of anatomy, such as is unknown to the ablest professors in our schools, is used to temporarily paralyze the nerves in order to overcome an adversary, or by apparently slight twists and turns to permanently disable him.

A very keen interest is being taken in it by everyone interested in the science of physical training in the United States.

* * *

The organization of the army and navy has been based upon the methods pursued in Germany, England and France. Many young men have been trained in the military and naval academics of this country, as well as those of Europe, and the course of insruction in physical training which the Japanese have arranged for their cadets varies little from that prescribed at Annapolis and West Point, except that in addition to the setting up exercises, gymnasium work and drill they get a course of instruction in fu Jitsu.

Wrestling is one sport which can truthfully be described as commanding national interest. From the days of Kehava, the quick kicker, who attracted the attention of the emperor in the year 23 B. C., by boasting that he could defeat any man in the country, and who perished in the first recorded contest, there has been the most intense enthusiasm manifested by’ the Japanese over matches in the wrestling ring. Not that there has been a practice of the sport by the general public—for this has not been true since wrestling ceased to be necessary in actual warfare—but that the exitement, the intensity of interest and extravagance of applause which we are accustomed to see displayed by spectators of football games are also manifested in Japan at the contests between professional wrestlers. The name of the champion is as well known throughout the length and breadth of the nation as is the name of Jeffries in

Digitized by L.ooQle
-157-

this country. Every individual has a favorite, and if he happens to win an important match his admirers vie with one another in denuding themselves of money, trinkets and even the wearing appeal in order to bestow them on him. A great deal of wrestling is done by amateurs for the fun of the thing, but the main interest centers about the matches of the professionals, who are organized in a sort of close corporation very similar to our unions.

That physical training among the Japanese as now conducted is not an academic attempt at the betterment of the human race, but a definite plan carefully considered and approved by the government for solving a most serious national problem, is made doubly clear by the recent appointment of a commission to investigate and report on the marked disparity in size between the Japanese and the soldiers of the West.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

(Continued. ^

RN INDIAN CLUB DRILL, without and with combined leg and trunk movements. Division work on the apparatus. Preliminary as in previous lessons. Closing with the game “Rider Ball ”

After clubs have been received, form a front line and count off by fours, then the first rank to execute 14 wheel 1. and pass in front of the line, all other ranks following in successive order after four counts. The first rank to file to the r. at the farther end of the gymnasium and again file r. up the center to location for the drill. Open order sidew. and raise clubs outw. gradually as the distance increases to full distance, then halt and lower clubs.

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.

Clubs to starting pos.—raise! The forearms are raised upw. naturally, the clubs held in line with the same in front and width of the shoulders apart, knuckles turned forw.

The arm-circle begins by extending the arm sidew. instead of upw. (as usual) for the exercises 1, 2 and 3. The horizonnal hand circles to be executed above the foreams on the level with the shoulders. Each exercise to be executed 6 or 8 times.

Continuous circling.

1.	a) V2 arm and % horizontal hand circle outw. 1. (from r. to 1. side)—1, 2!

b) V2 arm and 14 horizontal hand circle outw. r. (from 1. to r. side)—1, 2!

c) V2 double arm and 14 double horizontal hand circle outw.—1, 2!

2.	a) V2 arm and % horizontal hand circle in w. 1.(from 1. to r. side)—1, 2! b) V2 arm and 14 horizontal hand circle in w. r.( from r. to 1. side)—1, 2! c) V2 double arm and 14 double horizontal hand circle inw.—1, 2!

3.	a) V2 double arm and 14 double horizontal hand circle to the 1. (from r. to 1. side)—1, 2!

Digitized by Google
b) V2 double arm and % double horizontal hand circle to the r. (from

1.	to r. side)—1, 2 !

The arm circles begin bv extending arms upw., and return through the same.

4.	a) Toe-touch sidew. I. and 14 double arm circle outw.—1,2! Same

r.—3, 4!

h) Cross-toetouch backw. 1. and 14 double arm circle inw.—1, 2! Same r.—3, 4!

5.	Lunge sidew. 1. and 14 double arm circle to the 1.—1, 2! Same

r.—3, 4!

6.	% double arm circle outw. and dip clubs on respective arms in front of shoulders—1! Bend trunk forw.—2! Extend trunk—3! Move clubs inw. and % double arm circle inw. to starting pos.—4!

7.	% double arm circle inw. and dip clubs on arms in outw. pos.—1! Bend knees—2! Extend knees—3! Move clubs outw. and % double arm circle outw. to starting pos.—4!

8.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and % double arm circle inw.—1! Bend trunk-back w. and cross clubs overh.—-2! As 1—3! Closing step 1. and double arm circle inw. to starting pos.—4! Same backw. r.—5, K!

9.	aj Lunge forw. 1. and 14 double arm circle forw. (passing on the r.

side) and return to starting pos.—1—2’ Same r.—3, 4! b) Lunge forw. 1. and % double arm circle forw. as exercise 1, but to arms forw.—1! Kneel on r. knee and % double hand circle forw. on outside of arms—2! Extend r. knee and % double arm circle forw., passing on r. side—3! Closing step 1. and lower arms to starting pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

10.	Lunge sidew. 1., % double arm circle to the 1. (the 1. arm bent in front of shoulders)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1.—2! Return in reverse order—3, 4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

11.	Breathing exercise: Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. (sidew.) overh. in four counts, exhale and lower arms inw. in one count. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Close ranks sidew. toward the center; fours *4 wheel I. to a front line; r. face, march forw and deposit the clubs. March to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Flying rings and window-jump.

Second “ Window-jump and Flying rings.

Third	“	Long horse and vertical ladder.

Fourth “	Vertical ladder and long horse.

First Division—Flying Rings (high).

Jump to hang and the following exercises:

1.	Short swing and % circle backw. (shoulder twist) to bent arm hang and repeat twice.

2.	As exercise 1, but % circle forw., etc.

3.	Short swing and flex thighs over body, then lower 1. leg on 1. wrist and knee circle forw. to straight arm rest; return in reverse order, and repeat. Same r.

4.	As ex. 2, then add knee-hang 1. as in exercise 3, and finish as in exercise 3. Same r.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
—159—

5.	As ex. 3, but knee circle backw. (turn 1. forearm, knuckles forw., so that the leg can rest on the back of the wrist; return in reverse order. Same r.

Swing.

6.	At the front swing flex thighs over body and rest 1. leg on 1. wrist to kneehang 1. and at the backw. swing knee circle forw. as in exercise 3; swing forw. in this pos. and at end of the next backw. swing lower backw. to flexing thighs over body, swing forw. and extend hips at the end of the forw. swing; swing backw., and down. Same r,

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division for window-jump.

First Division— Window-jump.

The jumping standards to be placed as for high-jump. Two small ropea (or cross bars) may be used, one placed above the other, or one long rope may rest on the upper pegs, then passed down on the one side under the lower peg and over the one at the same height on the other standard.

Start the lower bar, or rope, at about two feet six inches and the other one at six feet. After every jump of all the members move the standards nearer, raise the under bar (or rope) and lower the upper each one inch. This order to continue until the spice is too small to clear. Attempt to clear a space of 25 inches square as a final.

1.	Spring off of 1. (or r.) foot, swing both legs (well flexed) and arms forw. with the head lowered in the flight, landing in the half bent knee pos.

2.	Jump off* of both feet and dive through the space, landing on the hands and somersault forw. on the mat.

Second Di vision— Windo w-jump.

Same as first division.

Change place with the first division on the flying rings.

Second Division—Flying Rings (high).

Jump to hang and the following exercises:

1.	Bent-arm hang with lower legs raised backw.; raise knees forw.; extend both legs forw.; spread legs wide sidew.; close legs to forw-pos.; bend knees; lower knees and hold lower legs backw., then down.

2.	Bent-arm hang; extend 1. arm sidew.; bend 1. arm, and down. Repeat with the r. arm.

3.	Bent-arm hang and raise both legs forw. to right angle; extend 1. arm sidew.; bend 1. arm, and down. Repeat with r. arm.

4.	Bent-arm hang and knees raised forw.; extend 1. arm upw.; bend 1. arm, and down. Repeat with the r. arm.

5.	As ex. 4, but with both legs raised forw. to right angle, etc.

6.	Bent-arm hang and lower legs raised backw.; release grasp of 1. hand and grasp the r. wrist; 1. hand regrasp 1. ring, and down. Repeat with the r. hand on the 1. wrist.

7.	As ex. ti, but with both legs raised forw. and place 1. hand on hip;

1.	hand regrasp 1. ring, and down. Repeat with the r. hand on hip,

8.	An exercise freee for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements, the third to begin on the long horse, the fourth on the vertical ladder.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-160-

Long Horse (height of chest).

A run of sufficient length precedes all movements.

1.	Jump with % turn r. to front rest on croup on 1. side of the horse; dismount hackw. and immediately jump to knee-stand on croup; dismount forw.

2.	Jump with V2 turn r. and circle 1. leg r. over saddle to riding seat on croup; front vault dismount sidew. 1.

3.	Jump with % turn r. and circle 1. leg r. over saddle to cross-rest (mainly on r. thigh); V2 circle r. with 1. leg and % turn r. to front rest; dismount backw. and immediately jump to squat rest on the saddle; extend knees and dismount forw.

4.	Jump to squat rest on croup; leap to momentary front rest on neck and straddle vault forw.

5.	As ex. 4, but squat vault forw.

b. Jump to squat rest on croup; extend knees, hips and place hands on neck to a front leaning rest; straddle dismount backw. (V6 turn 1.) to front cross-stand.

7.	Jump to front leaning rest, hands on neck; straddle dismount backw. (V2 turn r.) to front cross-stand.

8.	Jump to momentary free front rest on the neck and straddle vault forw.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Vertical Ladder.

In front cross-stand, hands on beams in outside grasp about height of the shoulders.

1.	Travel upw. to upper end and return, the 1. foot and 1. hand to move simultaneously, and vice versa.

2. As cx. 1, but hands in inside grasp on beams.

3. As ex. 1, upw., but hands on the rounds; at upper end lower to hand hang and travel downvv. by the hands, the feet resting against the Iront of the beams.

4.	As ex. 3, but move hand and foot on every other (second) round; descend in same manner.

In rear cross-stand, hands on the round above the shoulder.

5.	Travel upw. to upper end and return, the 1. foot and 1. hand to move simultaneously, and vice versa.

0. As ex. 4, but hands in outside grasp on the beams.

In rear cross-hang, hands on a round above the head.

7.	Raise knees forw.; extend legs forw.; bend knees; lower legs. Repeat

8.	As cx. 7, but raise both legs forw.; bend the knees; extend legs forw.; lower legs. Repeat.

9.	As ex. 7, but spread legs wide sidw. instead of bending knees, etc.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Rider Bail.’* Alter conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.'

Moderately used by girls or women, who are indoors too much. I believe the bicycle to be a valuable “instrument” towards health-keeping as well as health getting.—C. Henry Leonard, A. M., M. D.

Digitized by LjOOQle
imaffliffliwimnm NEW HAVEN

NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. Director.

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTICUNION

Normal School of Gymnastics

068*660 BROADWAY'

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

geo. wimcH, Director

■ END ron CATALOG

Offers

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

Anyone pending a sketc h and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an Invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patent* sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patent* taken through Mann A Co. receive iptrial notice, without charge. In the

Scientific American.,

A handsomely Illustrated weekly. I.arge«t circulation of any scientific journal. Terms, $8 a year: four months, fL Sold by all newsdealers.

ilUNN&Co.36,B"^ New York

ttranoh Office. 825 F St. Washington, D. C.

ATHLETIC GROUPINGS

T^EN^raoM^^ra.

Arranged and Grouped by ROBERT NOHR, M. D.

o:o:o:o:oo:o:o:o:o:o;o

They comprise the following positions: (sXsXs)®®®®®®®®®

1.	Greeting.

2.	Putting the shot.

3.	The Dash-start.

4.	The Dash-finish.

5.	Wrestling.

6.	Sparring—The Attack.

Price, postpaid, 25 cents.

Address

7.	Sparring—The Knockout.

8.	The Victor.

9.	Rugbv Foot Ball (Start or lining up).

10.	“	“	“	Rush and tackle.

11.	“	“	“	The Touch-down.

12.	13 and 14 positions in wrestling taken from Catch-as-catch-can style.

FREIDENKER PUBL. CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by 0,009 Le
G-^sxcxrxsistic

Apparatus.

X_i©clrexs.

^=la-3rg'rouLrLd.

iippaiatVLS. BoTxrlirLg: -AJ.le'ye--^rLtlxropoxxxetric m	u^-ppa-xa-tuLs.

J \	WRITE	FOR CATALOG’S.

1	NARRAGANSETT	MACHINE	CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R. E, U. S. A.

THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd.,

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years’ course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address

W. L. SAVAGE, A. M., M. D., President.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a gTievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by

Google