MIND AND BODY

Tol. 21.	DECEMBER,	1914.	No.	234

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

WHO IS AN AMATEUR?

It appears that last month’s presentation of a part of the amateur problem has set the ball rolling. We have several letters which show that many teachers are going to do some thinking of their own in order to help decide the question. As one university man says “if it is allowable to be paid for playing baseball during the summer and retain one’s amateur standing I can’t see why I can’t be paid for teaching games on a playground and keep my amateur standing.” Another university man says that a procedure which he is forced to take every month to keep up the pretense of “simon-pure-amateur-ism” fills him with disgust. It appears that he is forced to take the money earned by some of the men students in his class who are teaching in boys’ clubs. The deception is that “the men are not paid for teaching.” Although the men do the teaching, he, their teacher, receives the money. They can, therefore, state that they never have been paid, that they are amateurs. The fact that the money paid to j their teacher later is handed over to them aopears to have no efifect upon their amateur standing. We will hope that it will not warp their moral judgment. But is this right?

It was to practices of a similar nature that we referred when last month we said that everyone who has any inside information knows that colleges and schools must, and do, allow some of their students to play who under our present laws should be considered professionals, because they feel that these laws are unjust. And laws that are felt to be unjust never will be obeyed. They tend to breed contempt for law. We, therefore, again propose “that in determining one’s amateur standing the taking of money for teaching shall not be a factor.”

1

Digitized by LjOoq le
— 370 —

One of the most hopeful signs of the times is the intelligent study some physicians, who are not engaged in teaching, are giving to the effect of athletics on growing boys. A comment in the last issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association, and reprinted in our Department of Physiology and Hygiene, should be of great help in opening the eyes of some high school principals to the dangers of “ill-advised athletics.” We need athletics, and the schools that haye none should be criticised severely. On the other hand we have schools acting entirely upon the supposition that what is good for a college man is good for a high school pupil. They entirely overlook the fact that as a rule it is the older college man who is a member of the varsity team, or of the crew, etc., a man who has reached maturity. Some high school men do not appear to realize that in many cases it is almost a crime to ask some high school boys to expend upon foot-ball, or basket-ball preparation, and upon contests, the vitality they need for physical and mental growth. We hope that the time is soon near when properfy trained teachers, teachers who know the dangers as well as the advantages of athletics, will have the courage of their convictions and will stand for a minimum of competition with outside schools, and for a maximum of competition among the different classes of their own school. In the meantime we commend the above named article, and hope that our readers will see that it is read by the men who need enlightenment.

LA CROSSE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

The past month has been one in which there were many worthy entertainments and features. The convention of the Western Wisconsin Teachers’ Association on October 30 and 31 was one of the big things of the school year. During the convention school work was suspended so as to afford to all an opportunity to attend the many interesting and helpful lectures.

School spirit and foot-ball enthusiasm- has been prevalent of late. The new athletic stadium was “dedicated” when Stevens Point and Superior Normal Schools were decisively put out of the championship race by the local eleven. The team bids fair to finish its hard schedule in a creditable manner.

On Monday, November 9, the school and town at large was offered a rare treat when Dr. Schailer Mathews of the University of Chicago appeared as the first speaker on the Normal School Lecture Course.

The Physical Education Club met November 12th, at which time a new constitution was considered. Club emblems or pins are to be adopted in the near future. The class has Had several latecomers join its ranks so its numbers are not far below the halJ century mark.

Digitized by LiOOQle
— 371 —

Dr. Sputh and Miss Scott have organized classes in social dancing. The dances taught are those approved and adopted by the A. D. M. A.

Special attention is called to an article, reprinted this month by permission, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, entitled: A Physiologic Treatment of Congestive Dysmenorrhea. Dr. Mosher’s researches into the causes of painful or difficult menstruation will be of more than ordinary interest to all teachers of physical training.

An inspection of the school room at the Chicago Normal School, where ventilation experiments have been conducted for some time by the Chicago Ventilation Commission, was made by the Illinois Chapter of the American Association of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

On arrival, at the Chicago Normal School, the chapter and guests were met by Prof. John W. Shepherd, head of the science department, who showed the arrangement of the experimental room and explained the experiments already conducted by the commission, together with its further plans. The principal feature of the room, as now arranged, is the false ceiling and floor, the two spaces acting as air chambers above and below the room. In this connection, a number of 3-in. pipes are carried up from the floor to about the level of the pupils’ faces when seated and open under each desk, giving individual ventilation. He spoke of the theory on which the commission is now at work, based on the idea that there may be a loss in attempting to heat and ventilate a room with the same air. He also referred to the experiments with toy balloons filled with hydrogen gas to determine the course and velocity of air currents.

In the discussion which followed it was brought out that the matter of architectural and constructive science is destined to play an important part in the ventilating arrangements of the future.

George Beaumont, a Chicago architect, recounted his observations while on a trip to Pompeii, where he found buildings built of hollow tile, often with floors of the same construction. It was evident, he said, that these hollow walls and floors had been used in connection with heating systems, the spaces acting as chimney flues while at the same time serving to heat the buildings.

There is no doubt that the tendency of the present age is to mental overwork and exhaustion of the brain force, and this more particularly applies to our own country. The circumstances surrounding active professional life to-day are such that the nervous system must be of the most perfect character to resist the immense strain upon it. When one notes the influence brought to bear upon

Digitized by
one in active city life, it is really a source of surprise that there are not more cases of insanity from brain exhaustion. The demand of the age is, or should be, for a far greater amount of brain rest, for longer periods from business confusion, excitement, and the care, anxiety and responsibility of every-day business. In addition to the hours devoted to our daily employment, there are other encroachments on our sleep which reduce this latter very considerably. The fact is proved beyond a doubt that one-third of our time should be spent in bed—quiet, restful, natural, refreshing sleep should be secured. But many men, especially literary men, habitually starve the brain incessantly in the matter until they induce an incurable insomnia. An irritable man, cross, pettish, disagreeable, can nearly always be put down as one who takes little sleep. A self-composed man, quiet, thoughtful* of pleasant disposition and genial nature, may be known as one who is not ashamed to acknowledge that he insists upon having his full quota of sleep. Sleep is the best and most natural tonic to the nervous system known. Freedom from care and responsibility, a pleasant surrounding atmosphere, a good digestion, and full term of sleep, if demanded by every man, would lengthen the life of the present generation from five to twenty years. It is a good plan for brain workers to take a nap after dinner. Many of our ancient, and some of our modern, authors have written in favor of indulgence in the after-dinner nap, and we are decidedly of opinion that, to a limited extent, it is a useful practice.—“Health ” London.

The continually growing disposition to visit the mountains, even in winter, for the treatment of nervous diseases particularly, has been enhanced by an investigation by the renowned Berlin physiologist, Professor Zuntz. Zuntz took occasion, in the course of the ascent of the highest mountain in the Harz range, the Brocken, by a large party in winter, to carrv out some investigations on the effects of mountain-climbing. The thirty-two participants varied in age from thirty-two to sixty-five years. A heavy snow storm considerably increased the exertions connected with the ascent. Three days afterward Zuntz sent to all of these men (who were themselves physicians, and hence accustomed to accurate observations) question-blanks in which to record their own observations during and after the expedition. For the interpretation of the reports, three age classes were distinguished, namely, those in the fourth, fifth, and sixth decades of life.

The youngest group was represented by eight men, who, for the most part, had had insufficient sleep during the previous days, and had indulged more freely in alcohol than usual. In spite of this, six of them regarded the ascent as easy, and even the two others who found the exertion severe, observed no bad after-effects, although in one, shortly before reaching the top, a fainting-spell occurred. The

Digitized by LjOOQie
— 373 —

I sixteen men in the fifties made still more favorable reports, probably because they had taken better care of themselves in the previous days. Only two considered the ascent difficult,, while the majority noted expressly an increase of vigor after the march.

Five of the participants were in the sixties, and those accomplished the ascent best who had been trained for it by gymnastics and Alpine exercise. Zuntz himself was the oldest of the. mountain^ climbers, being sixty-five, and he suffered a lieht attack of fever after the under taking,* because he had to take a rapid journey to Berlin in his wet clothing. He concludes that these experiences afford striking evidence in favor of the value of the mountain climate in winter. The greatest demands were made on the heat-regulating apparatus of the body, and yet the result in the majority of the participants, even though they were not accustomed to such exertion, was entirely advantageous, and showed itself in sound sleep and a feeling of refreshment.

Two definitions of Body Temperature.—In writing to the editor ' of the Heating and Ventilating Magazine, referring to a paper on “The Physiological Purpose of Ventilation,” (published in The | Heating and Ventilating Magazine for September, 1913,) Prof. Theodore Hough says: There is one point on which, I fear, I have not made my meaning perfectly clear, as I see I state in some places that those who think with me believe that there is a rise of the body temperature in a badly-ventilated room or in a close atmosphere generally. In physiology we distinguished between the body temperature of internal organs not subject to cooling influences, and the temperature of the skin. The former is usually constant, or nearly so; the latter is quite variable. The temperature of internal organs is constant because special means are constantly taken to keep it so, and among these means one of the most important is the variation of the amount of warm blood allowed to flow through the skin. On warm days, of course, this amount of blood is increased and the temperature of the skin goes up, thereby keeping radiation, conduction and convection of heat from the body approximately equal to heat production. On cold days, when these physical channels would cause the loss of more heat than is being produced, the blood supply to the skin is lessened to conserve the heat within the body, thereby lowering the temperature of the skin.

In the badly-ventilated room, owing to the lack of air movement, higher temperature and excessive humidity, warm blood is rushed to the skin whose temperature has already begun to rise owing to atmospheric interference with heat loss. This succeeds in getting rid of more heat and in maintaining the body (or internal temperature, but it is done at the expense of the discomfort which comes from an overheated skin and probably of the deprivation of other

Digitized by
— 374 —

organs of their normal blood supply in order to furnish the requisite amount to the skin.

I am only afraid that some people not making the distinction between body temperature and skin temperature may try, in a badly-ventilated room, the experiment of taking their temperature in the mouth with a clinical thermometer, and on finding, as they probably would, that it had not changed at all, conclude that the explanation is without basis in fact.

I shall follow with interest the work on the recirculation of air, for it would seem that it cannot fail to contribute important information of the solution of the problems of ventilation.

Physical Directors Will Meet at Emporia, Kans.—Kansas people interested in physical education will form a permanent organization* in connection with the State Teachers’ Association. The call for the meeting, as we are informed by W. H. Kerr, has been authorized by President L. A. Lowther, of the Association, and is being sent out by Miss Mabel Smith, director of physical education for women, and Clair Turner, director of physical education for men, both at the Emporia State Normal School. The meeting will be held on Saturday morning, November 14, at the Topeka Manual Training High School.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HANG, De Witt Clinton High School, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York.

The University of Pennsylvania “Relays” to be held in April next year will be a two-day affair. More than 2,000 athletes are expected to be on hand. This new scheme will relieve the pressure of time that seriously handicapped the Penn men in getting through with their immense program on scheduled time.

According to the old schedule there was an interim of 4 minutes between the races. The new schedule will allow of a 6 minutes interim and if necessary a few minutes here and there in case of an upset in the schedule.

The American 10 mile championship run was won by Hannes Kolemainen Oct. 31 at South Field, Columbia University, New York City. His time was 52 min. 47 3-5 sec. The world’s record for this distance is held by Alfred Schrubb, 50 min. 40 3-5 sec.

RUGBY FOOT-BALL POPULAR ON COAST.

Rugby foot-ball is the game now played by the two big* universities in lower California—Stanford and the Aniversity of California at Berkeley. It displaced the American game half a dozen

Digitized by CjOOQle
-375 —

years ago. Following this lead it has been taken up by the high schools quite generally in the state, with the result that some pretty good players are coming up from the lower schools. This was shown very clearly at Berkeley this year. When the freshman Rugby team was organized it was found to contain better players than some of the regular university fifteen. A rule was in effect that no freshman could be on that team, but so apparent was the superiority of the new players that the rule was rescinded. The result has been a great improvement in the regular line-up.

At the annual meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union Nov. r6 Alfred J. Lill, Jr., of Boston was unanimously re-elected President for the ensuing year. Fred Rubien, President of the Metropolitan District of the A. A. U., was unanimously elected as Secretary-Treasurer to succeed the late James E. Sullivan.

The delegates voted to appropriate $2,500.00 toward providing a Sullivan memorial and appointed a committee consisting of Alfred J. Lille, Jr., Barton S. Weaks, Gustavus T. Kirby, Everett C. Brown, George W. Pawling, John Elliott, Seward H. Simons, Charles H. Carter and George J. Turner, who will determine the nature of the proposed memorial and who will also receive contributions from clubs and individuals. Some of the amendments passed are:

1.	That women may hereafter register for swimming contests confined exclusively to women.

2.	That professional and amateur contests be barred as stated in the new rule. “No professional contests or exhibitions shall be allowed at games, meetings or entertainments held under the auspices of the A. A. U. A regularly employed instructor, however, may take part with his pupils in group exhibitions only. No competition shall be held between an amateur and a profession, and where both amateur and professional contests are held at the same place and same day, all amateur events must either precede the professional events, or vice versa.”

The proposal to allow the cawets of West Point and Annapolis to compete in sanctioned meetings without registration was turned down. The proposal to let down the bars for collegians so that they could compete for both college and club in open competition also was lost.

NEW RECORDS APPROVED BY THE A. A. U.

60 yds. 5 hurdles, 3 ft. 6 in. high, indoor—8 secs. F. W. Helly, University of Southern California.

120 yds. high hurdles, outdoor, 3 ft. 6 in. high—15 secs. F. W. Kelly, University of Southern California.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 370 —

Running’ high jump, 6 ft. 7 5-16 in., outdoor — E. Beeson, Olympic Club.

Throwing the javelin, 180 ft. 9^2 in.—H. B. Liversedge, Stanford, Cal.

18 lb. shot (7 ft. circle) outdoor, 46 ft. 2^ in.—P. J. McDonald, Irish- American A. C.

28 lb. weight with follow, outdoor, 36 ft. 8^2 in.—P. Ryan, Irish-American A. C.

56 lb. weight for height, outdoor, 16 ft. 11% in.—P. Donovan, Pastime A. C.

Rope climbing, 21 ft., 5 3-5 secs.—E. Lindenbaum, Y. M. C A., New York.

Rope climbing, 35 ft., 11 4-5 secs.—E. Lindenbaum, Y. M. C. A., New York.

Relaly Record, 1200 yds., outdoor, team of 4, each to run 300 yds., 2 min. 6 4-5 sec. New York A. C. (F. P. McNally, D. A. Kuhn, V. Wilkie, T. Lennon.)

Cornell University is building the largest armory in the country. The drill floor will be 228 ft. wide and 412 ft. long. It will be high enough to permit discus and hammer throwing. The track will be a quarter of a mile and inside of the track there will be room enough for a foot-ball gridiron.

OLYMPIC GAMES HERE------WILL NOT BE POSTPONED UNTIL 1920, SAYS

PRESIDENT OF COMMITTEE.

Paris, Nov. 16.—The Olympic games in 1916 may take place in the United States. Baron Pierre de Coubertin, President of the International Committee, says if any circumstances, material or sentimental, prevent their being held in Europe in 1916 they cannot be postponed until 1920, as suggested, but that they might be held in America.

The war, Baron de Coubertin thinks, will not have anything more than a brief, temporary effect upon sport in France. Individual records will suffer, because such stars as Jean Bouin, the great runner, have fallen victims to the great holocaust; others no doubt will follow, and the younger element will not reach their highest form for three years or more, but eventually, the Baron thinks, the war will prove to have been an additional incentive to physical training.

The European War is creating havoc in the sporting world and already the list of dead is unduly large. Among some of the best known athletes who will never again participate in their favorite pastime are:	Jean	Bouin,	one of the greatest and most popular run-

Digitized by C^ooQLe
— 377 —

ners of the world; Rau, the greatest of German sprinters; Geo. W. Hutson, one of England’s champion distance men; Leon Didler, the world’s champion motorcyclist. Among the cyclists, some of whom have been seen in America, are the Buysse brothers of Belgium, Gus. Scheuerman of Germany, and the Frenchmen Perchicot, Lapize, Poulain, Faber, Trouseller, Garigan and Lafort. Rutt, the world’s champion, will probably never ride again as he is at present confined in a hospital suffering from pneumonia. Carpentier, the idol of the French pugilistic world, is also reported as being seriously wounded.

INDOOR TRACK MEET FOR COLLEGE TEAMS.

This winter will see an innovation in the track world and an event which is looked forward to with a great deal of interest; namely, an indoor intercollegiate athletic meet.

It was decided last year by the Intercollegiate Athletic Association to try an indoor meet, and if it should be looked upon favorably to make it an annual event. Rules were drawn up and a program of events arranged. It will have its first trial on March 6 at Madison Square Garden, New York.

Not only is the idea of the meet a new one, but the events are also an innovation. There are to be nine events and in each event each college will be represented by a team of four or five men—for instance, a relay race between teams of five men, each man to run 150 yards. The second event is another relay race between teams of five men, each man to run 300 yards. Then as the length of the distance to run increases, the number of men on each team is lowered to four —as in the 4000-yard relay each man to run 1000 yards, and each man running 2000 yards in the 8000-yard race.

The sixth event will be a medley relay, with teams of four men competing, the men in the first relay to run 200 yards, the men in the second 300 yards, in the fourth 500 yards and in the last relay to run 1000 yards.

There are to be three field events—high jump, pole vault and 16-pound shotput. These events will also be contested by teams of five men, while the points are to be scored as in the intercollegiate cross-country run—that is, first place to count one point, second two points, etc., the team scoring the smallest number of points being the winner.

As this idea is new and primarily to bring the colleges in closer relation to each other and thereby create more interest in the association, it is hoped that the meeting will be a success. From a standpoint of athletics it should be a most interesting affair, and somewhat similar to the annual relay games held at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, each spring, only indoors. It gives each college a chance, in that it requires nearly an unlimited number of men on the whole

Digitized by
— 378 —

team. For the 750-yard relay and 1500-yard relay 10 sprinters are required. Of course, if there is enough time between these two events, the same men may go in both races; but even then there are few colleges who have five good sprinters all at once, so the tendency is to even things up.

The same is true of the field events, five men on each team in each event. For some colleges it will be hard to get men enough to enter a team in one of these events, so every man entered has a chance. The distance runs are not so difficult, as one is used to seeing four men on a team running two-mile and four-mile races.

The meeting should prove well worth while, and from the present outlook there is much interest taken in the outcome, and every one seems to believe that it will be a success.

An examination of candidates for the position of athletic director in the public schools of Newark, N. J., will be held at the Central Commercial and Manual Training high school building on Monday, December 28, 1914, beginning at 9 a. m. Candidates who wish to take the examination must file an application blank with the city superintendent of schools, city hall, not later than December 22, 1914. Blanks on which to make formal application can be had upon request.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

RECREATION WORK.

The following,—a report of the activities along recreative lines in the city of Philadelphia,—should be,of interest to our readers. The report “A” shows the cost of maintenance, and the fruits of labor of Philadelphia’s school playgrounds. “B” and “C” show the results in school swimming centers and in gardening. The swimming, as can be seen by the number of lessons, is a great success, and not only is it conducive to habits of cleanliness, but the boys and girls taught, are helped materially in a physical sense. The gardens show how many empty spaces may be made beautiful and at the same time fruitful.

A.	PLAYGROUNDS.

116 playgrounds were conducted by the Board of Education during the summer of 1914. The playgrounds were in session fifty-three days, including July 4th. At the end of the month of Julv the Reynolds and Wister were closed on account of building repairs. The Meade also was closed on account of small numbers of children in attendance. The Martha Washington and Kearney

Digitized by OooQle
— 379

school yards were opened to replace the two that were closed, leaving 115 playgrounds for the month of August. The Martha Washington attendance was composed largely of small colored children.

The Kearney met the needs of the young children of the densely populated district at 6th and Fairmount Avenue.

The daily attendance for the season was................ 21,763

The daily attendance for the season per yard was. . .	188.7

The total expense, including salaries and equipment,

was .......................................... $49,896.09

The total cost per yard............................$	402.76

The cost per child for the season..................$	2.07

The cost per child for the day.....................$	.039

The Durham, Reynolds, Hill and Martha Washington yards were opened especially to meet the needs of the colored children of the respective neighborhoods, and were in charge of colored teachers. They were quite well attended.

The effect of closing the stores all day Saturdays during July and August was shown in a number of localities by a larger attendance of older girls. In Manayunk the closing of the mills due to the European War brought a large number of older boys to the Manayunk and Wissahicken play grounds.

On July 4th the attendance in 40 per cent of the school playgrounds justified the demand for keeping them open all day. The poor attendance in 60 per cent of the yards is due largely to the various neighborhood celebrations and picnics which draw the children from the yard.

B.	SWIMMING CENTERS.

16 swimming centers were conducted by the Board during the last summer. There were 5098 children enrolled, each child receiving instruction twice a week for five weeks. 2119 children learned to swim, while several hundred additional children received a fair start for next season.

The standard for passing the endurance test remained the same as in the past two seasons; i. e., both sexes were required to swim the breast stroke continuously for twenty minutes. 236 boys and 283 girls or 519 in all passed this test, and received the Efficiency Badge. 342 additional children succeeded in swimming ten minutes, while 1058 learned to swim a short distance. Total, 2119 new swimmers.

The cost of salaries for the ten weeks was $3059.00. The cost for supplies and incidentals was $216.15, making a total expenditure of $3275.15. As 2119 children learned to swim, the cost per pupil was $1.54.	32372	lessons were given by 32 teachers with an aver-

age daily attendance of 50 pupils per teacher. The cost per lesson per pupil was 9 9-10 cents.

1

Digitized by ^ooQie
— 380 —

Evidence of the growing interest of parents was shown by their attendance at the closing exhibitions of the various swimming centers.

C.	SCHOOL GARDENS.

The past season was the eleventh under the Board. Thirty-two principals, teachers and gardeners, also one supervisor, were engaged in the work from April ist to November ist.

With one exception, the ten large gardens were open six days a week. Ten smaller gardens in schoolyards were visited by teachers once a week, while twenty more schools had small flower gardens which were cared for by the children of the school, and supervised occasionally by a garden principal. Thirty-five kindergarten rooms had window boxes, which were supervised through the season.

The gross attendance in the ten large and ten small gardens was 211,000.

The home gardens of 10,000 children were visited on an average of three times during the season. Home gardening was formally encouraged in 112 elementary and in 5 high schools. All these schools were active in a “Flowers for Philadelphia” movement. Penny packets were made available, government seeds distributed, and pamphlets of instruction sent to 2,000 teachers in these schools. This work culminated in September in flower exhibits in 50 elementary and in 5 high schools, at which time 3,500 children exhibited products. Donations to the value of $150 were received from various clubs and individuals for prizes at these exhibits. There were no cash prizes. Those given to the schools consisted of plants, pennants and ribbons.

The work on trees was continued under the direction of a gardener, assisted at times by two laborers. Since October 1913 one hundred and twenty trees have been planted, five hundred trimmed, and thirty-five dead or dangerous ones removed.

Six hundred and fifty classes were supplied with material for nature study. Fifty-six baskets of materials were sent to the high and normal schools, and eighty-five to kindergartens, while during the summer one hundred and twenty-five baskets of flowers were sent to hospitals and to home garden children in the poorest districts. Over twelve thousand young plants raised in the school gardens were distributed to the children for their home gardens.

The reported retail value of vegetables and flowers grown on an individual plot was from $3.00 to $5.50, making a total of $339°.0°. This was an increase of $842 over last year, in spite of the long periods of drought. This increase is due probably to the lengthening of the garden season, which gave three weeks longer in the fall.

The total cost of the gardens for 1914, exclusive of the tree work, for salaries, supplies and equipment was $12,850.86, a cost

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 381 —

of 5 6-ioc per child per visit, as against 6 4-ioc per visit in 1913-In estimating the cost it was impossible to take into consideration the hundreds of children reached through the box gardens and the small schoolyard flower gardens, for which there is no basis of attendance. The actual cost per child consequently, is less than

5 3-!Oc-

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U.

(•Continued.)

PROEICIENCY AIMS ON APPARATUS. (MEN.) PARALLEL BAR.

SEMESTER II.

Strength:

Double arm pull-stem.

Swinging:

Swing-stem forward and backward (3-4.)

Inverted Hang-kipp.

Upper arm fall-kipp.

Dip-swings forward and backward (4-6.)

Dip-swings, seat changing.

Swing to shoulder- and upper arm-stand.

Bent roll forward and backward, seat to seat.

Rear vault forward and backward (end.)

Leg-swings in center (glide.)

Scissors forward.

All vaults with turn from support.

Strenth :

Slow hand-stand.

Roll forward and backward from balance to balance support. Swinging:

Fall inward hang-kipp (3-4*) Straight roll forward from shoulder-stand; from upper arm hang; to swing-stem; continuous. Double rear vault.

SIDE PARALLEL BAR. SEMESTER IL

Rear, front vault from run to support.

Squat, straddle, flank and front (rear) vaults with support on far bar from run.

Vaults to support and upper arm-hang on high bar.

Review vaults over bar with turns. Squat and straddle and others with support on near bar.

Digitized by Google
— 382 —

SIDE HORSE. SEMESTER I.

Leg-swings (4-6) under same hand and return.

Leg-swings (4-6) under opposite hand and return.

Same from support rearways.

Turn-mount forward and backward.

Leg-circle (4-6) under opposite to same hand (frontways.)

The fore-swing of the leg.

Scissors from seats.

Squat, stradde, front, flank, rear vault.

Leg-circles inward and outward (3-4) and flank vault to support rearways from the fore-swing and leg-swing.

Leg circles under opposite and same hand from rearways (4-6.) Double rear vault.

Flank circle (2-3.)

Scissors sideward to forward

•eg (3-4-)

Turn-mount forward with whole turn.

Continuous (4) simple scissors. Squat, flank, wolf vaults backward.

LONG HORSE. SEMESTER I.

Rear, front, flank vault. Straddle vault, support in saddle.

Long vault to support lying. Squat and straddle from support lying.

Long squat vault.

Long scissors vault.

Giant straddle vault.

Leg-swing vault (Spreize riick-warts) backward.

SIDE HORSE. SEMESTER II.

Scissors sideward to backward,

leg (3-4-)

Leg-circle (4-6) under same and opposite hand (frontways.)

Flank-vault to support rearways, returning with intermediate swing.

Rear, flank, and front vault from the fore-swing.

Wolf, thief-vault.

Flank, rear, front squat straddle-vault with half turn.

Flank-circle from fore-swing and leg-swing (4-6.)

Leg-circles (4-6) under same and opposite hand from rearways.

Turn-mount	backward with

whole turn.

Double rear vault from foreswing and leg-swing.

Triple rear vault.

Continuous	( 4 ) scissors

(flank.)

Straddle vault backward.

Hand-spring.

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 383 —

LONG HORSE.

SEMESTER II.

Long straddle and squat vault. Straddle vault backward from support lying.

Leg-swing vault (Spreize) forward.

Long stoop vault.

Long straddle vault backward, Giant squat vault.

Giant straddle vault backward.

CLEANING A SWIMMING POOL.

It may be of interest to note the following way of removing sediment from the bottom of a pool, without emptying the water. This method has been used with great success at the Baker University at Baldwin City, Kansas, and to those who are interested, L. T. Reser of Baker University, will give further details upon request.

A constant inflow is maintained into the pool during the day at 90° to ioo° F., the steam being introduced by means of an ejector pump which also pumps the water from an outside reservoir into the pool. This gives a constant temperature of 78° to 8o° in the pool and makes it available for use at all times. The pool at Baker University is 20 x 50 feet with an average depth of five feet. The water is treated chemically and is passed through a gravity filter on the way back to the reservoir. The amount of fresh water to be added varies with the conditions and use of the pool. The pool has not been empty for ten months, the sediment collecting having been removed entirely by mechanical means without disturbing the water level or adding to the turbidity of the water. The water is always clear enough to make a warning line on the bottom two inches wide and three and one-half feet from the walls, plainly visible through seven feet of water. Frequent tests have been made for bacteria and have shown very favorable results except during one month of the summer vacation when the pool was not in use and the treatment of the water discontinued. The use of this constant flow system enables one to heat the pool in the coldest weather with a ten horse high pressure boiler running ten hours per day notwithstanding the fact that the boiler can do considerable other work during these ten hours. This plan gives economy of water, economy of heat and makes a pool ready for use at any hour of any day.

The plan of cleaning utilizes the principle of suction for cleaning under water. The time required for cleaning a pool of the above size, is about two hours, requiring the time of one man and the use of a motor-driven pump or the steam ejector pump mentioned above. With 60 to 90 pounds of steam the ejector is preferable as it gives

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 384 —

more even suction. The amount of water drawn out with the sediment is about 2,000 gallons.

The device for removing coarser materials as hair and body scales, sand, etc., is a cross pipe with a scraper and a slot on the under side and arranged as a cross arm on a hollow handle attached to a suction hose. For fine sediment and for scrubbing and scouring the bottom and sides under water a combined suction and brush is used. This is interchangeable on the suction handle.

REED EXERCISES FOR WOMENS CLASSES.

By HENRY MEYER, Ft. Wayne, Indiana.

Length of reed about 7^ feet.

The reed should be carried under the right arm, both ends in right hand when marching to the position for exercising.

In arriving at the position for exercising the ends should be grasped with both hands, arms bent, hands infront of shoulders for starting position.

Where not otherwise stated, the reed should be vertical in relation to the body.

The movements of the free exercises should be executed on the first of the two counts.

The exercises are given to the left only but must be executed twice left and twice right, in alternation.

The return movements will pass through the positions of the starting movements.

The exercises of the four groups will be executed without intermission.

Music—Any Polka.

GROUP ONE.

Introduction: Four measures, or eight counts (may be omitted).

EXERCISE I.

MEASURES

Place left foot forward and straighten arms forward (1 -2) ....	1

Bend right knee, place left foot backward and move arms sideward (3-4) .......................................... 1

Return movements (5-8) ........................................ 2

Stride left sideward and straighten arms sideward (1-2) .....	1

Turn trunk left (Y turn) and bend right arm, right hand in

front of left shoulder (3-4).............................. I

Return movements (5-8) ........................................ 2

4

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 385 —

EXERCISE 3.

Place left foot forward and straighten arms upward (1-2) ....	1

Bend right knee, place left foot far backward, lower trunk forward and lower arms obliquely fore-downward, reed to a loop, the upper part of the loop touching the ground (3-4) ...	1

Return movements (5-8) ...................................... 2

4

EXERCISE 4.

Place left foot sideward, and straighten arms sideward (1-2) . .	1

Stride left backward, bend trunk backward and raise arms upward, reed to a loop (3-4). . . ....................... 1

Return movements (5-8) ......................................... 2

4

GROUP TWO.

a.	Four steps forward (1-4)................................. 2

Circle reed forward twice and hop over the same, left foot leading (two hops for each circlg) (5-8)..................... 2

b.	Step left sideward (to foot placing right sideward) and

straighten arms sideward	(9-10).......................... 1

Place right foot backward inward, bend trunk slightly backward, turn it slightly right and raise arms upward reed to

loop, (look at loop) (11-12)............................. 1

Step rifrht sideward (to foot placing left sideward) and lower

arms sideward (13-14).................................... 1

Starting position (15-16).................................... 1

8

Repeat a. and b. three times with yi turn left on the first step of each repetition and an additional 1/a turn left at the end

of the last repetition (63) (17-64)............................ 24

After the last repetition the individuals have described the square left

The same in the square right forward. All exercises begin

with the right foot (1-64)..................................... 32

The second group has 128 counts in all.

GROUP THREE.

EXERCISE I.

Lunge left forward and straighten arms obliquely fore-upward, reed in the direction of the arms (1-2)............. 1

Close right foot forward, rise on toes and raise arms upward,

reed to a loop (3-4)....................................... 1

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 386 —

Return movements (5-8) .................................... 2

4

EXERCISE 2.

Bend right knee, place left foot sideward and straighten arms

sideward (1-2) ......................................... 1

Ya turn right, change- knee bending and lower arms obliquely fore-downward, reed to a loop in the direction of the arms

(3-4) .................................................. 1

Return movements (5-8) ..................................... 2

4

EXERCISE 3.

Raise left leg forward and straighten arms upward (1-2)....... 1

Bend right knee, place left foot backward inward, turn trunk left (Ya turn) and lower arms left sideward, right hand

in front of left shoulder, reed to a loop (3-4)........... 1

Return movements (5-8) ................:...................... 2

4

EXERCISE 4.

Lunge left sideward, straighten left arm obliquely side-upward,

right hand in front of left shoulder, reed to a loop (1-2) . ..	1

Y\ turn right, bend trunk backward and move arms obliquely fore-upward, reed (without loop) in the direction of the

arms (arms and reed vertical over the body) (3-4).............. 1

Return movements (5-8) ............................................ 2

---------:----	4

GROUP FOUR.

a. Step left sideward and straighten arms sideward (1). Bend left knee, place right foot backward inward (about 6 inches in rear of left heel) (2)...................................... 1

Step left sideward (3). Gose right foot towards left and arms

to starting position (4)...................................... 1

Circle reed forward twice and hop over the same, left foot lea3-

ing (2 hops to each circle) (5-8)............................. 2

4

b. As b. of group two (9-16-).......................................... 4

Repeat a. and b. three times with T4 turn left on the first step of each repetition and an additional Ya turn at the end of the

last repetition (63) (17-64)..................................... 24

After the last repetition the individuals have described the square left sideward. The same in the square right side-

Digitized by
— 387 —

ward. All exercises begin with right foot..................... 32

The fourth group has 128 counts in all.

The reed will be taken under the right arm again after completing the fourth group.

THE RECREATIONAL VALUE OF GYMNASTICS AND

ATHLETICS.

By FRANK B. McGOVERN, Pittsfield, Mass.

Nowadays, we hear everywhere talk on recreation and its great value. Big cities are establishing Recreation Commissions of clever men whose sole business is to furnish the people pleasure and recreation free of charge. That recreation is needed is patent to everv-body. If anyone doesn't believe it, just let him continue to work continuously without any kind of recreation and watch the result, which is inevitably a broken down, inefficient worker, of little use to himself or to anyone else.

Efficiency! the keynote of modern times. How shall we obtain it? Chiefly by application and by wholesome recreation during our hours of leisure.

Just what is this recreation that we hear so much of? The word itself is derived from the Latin and means to make over. Applying this to the human body, it means a making over of the body, tired and fatigue ridden from work, to a being—, keen, forceful, and vibrant with life and energy. How is this brought about?

First of all \ye must consider what the recreation of the human body is. It means that a person takes up something, be it athletics, reading, cards, theatres, hobbies of various kinds, etc., etc., this recreation being of such a nature as to divert his thoughts from the channels of ordinary thought or action, or to completely turn the attention away from that which engrosses us most. By so doing, our much used faculties are given a chance to rest up merely by using our unused ones, with pleasure and fun ensuing. The result of all this is that our overworked faculties become rested and stimulated, and are able to do more and better work on account of this rest.

To get to the chief topic, I will now show how gymnastics and athletics have their great recreational value. First of all, they are absolutely different from the work of the ordinary man, considered from both mental and physical standpoints, and are of such a nature as to require a peculiar attention so close that business and professional cares as well as fatigue from hard physical work vanish immediately, and in their places ensues a care free, happv air of complete enjoyment. The mere fact that the attention has been diverted to enjoyable channels is a very great factor, but the good results do not end here.

Digitized by U-ooQle
— 388 —

The exercise obtained causes increased circulation and respiration with the result that more oxygen is forced into the system and carbon dioxide and other waste products are removed through the lungs, skin and kidneys. The various movements gone tHrough liven up the tissues, rest and stimulate the nervous system, cause a livelier peristalsis and better absorption of nutritive material in the intestine, while the intestinal waste products are expelled the more 'easily. Such processes as these previously mentioned when properly carried out, cannot but help increase bodily health, and add to our reserve force, which is so necessary in the struggle for existence today.

To summarize, it easily can be seen that as a means to furnishing recreation of the highest type, gymnastics and athletics are of the greatest value, ist, on account of their ability to completely divert the attention from the beaten channels of thought and action,, and 2nd, because of their beneficial effects on the circulation, respiration, digestion, nutrition, and expulsion of waste matter from the body, the result being good health and efficiency.

A PHYSIOLOGIC TREATMENT OF CONGESTIVE DYSMENORRHEA AND KINDRED DISORDERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MENSTRUAL FUNCTION *

THIRD NOTE.

By CLELIA DUEL MOSHER, A. M., M. D., Medical Adviser to Women, LelancJ Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.

In 1911 I called attention1 to certain factors which produce physical degeneration and increase the number of women suffering from dysmenorrhea, and suggested a method of treatment. The conclusions stated here and those of former papers as well are based on personal observation of several hundred average women during several thousand menstrual periods; they have been supplemented by experimental work in the physiologic laboratories of Johns Hopkins and Stanford University and in Dr. Kelly's laboratory at Baltimore. These observations and experiments have been almost continuous through a period of twenty-two years.

In order to approach the subject of menstruation with a judicial mind it is necessary to discard preconceived ideas, sex traditions and

* Reprinted by permission of The Journal of the American Medical Association, April 25th, 1914.

1.	Mosher, Clelia Duel: Functional Periodicity in Women and Some of tho Modifying Factors (Second Note), California State Jour. Med., January and February, 1911; reprinted in full in Woman’s Medical Journal, Cincinnati, April, 1911; abstr., The Journal A. M. A., April 29, 1911, p. 1295; Sargent Normal School Association Proceedings, 1911, p. 14; American Physical Education Review, November, 1911, p. 493.

Digitized by U.ooQle
— 389 —

individual experience—in short, to begin afresh, observing this function precisely in the same attitude of mind that one would observe other periodic functions, such as digestion, defecation, urination and sleep. With this dispassionate view we may be able to accept the definition here given.

Menstruation is, in fact, a periodic flow from the uterus of woman which occurs at fairly definite intervals in the same person. This interval is counted from the first day of the onset of the flow to the first day of the next onset. The duration of the flow, which varies in different persons, should be not more than two or three days. When normal, this function is not attended with pain or disability of any kind.

The functional dysmenorrhea so commonly observed is, in the larger number of cases, congestive in type, and is produced by: (I) the upright position (Moscati), (2) alteration of the normal type of respiration by disuse of the diaphragm and of the abdominal muscles; (3) the lack of general muscular development; (4) inactivity during the menstrual period; (5) psychic influences. In order to follow the relation between these causes of congestive dysmenorrhea and the physiologic treatment about to be suggested, it is necessary to have clearly in mind certain anatomic and physiologic facts concerning circulation.

The circulatory apparatus in human beings is not materially different from that in the higher mammals which go on all fours and thus carry the body in the horizontal instead of the upright position. The vena cava is without valves; and therefore, in the upright posture, a great column of blood must be sent back to the heart against the force of gravity. The chief factor in the return of the blood to the heart is the negative pressure in the thorax. “At each inspiration blood is 'sucked' from the extrathoracic into the intrathoracic veins."2 The thoracic portion of the vena cava inferior which is under less pressure than the abdominal portion has this difference increased by the descent of the diaphragm and the contraction of the abdominal muscles.

Whatever part of the body is functioning at any particular time has a larger supply of blood. Thus the uterus, during the menstrual period, has its blood-supply augmented and at the same time the general blood-pressure is lowered3 and the local blood-pressure raised. By the menstrual hemorrhage the excessive local blood-pressure is relieved. This blood, lost in the menstrual flow, is the same kind of blood as that used for mental or physical activity and represents, therefore, potential energy. In the intermenstrual period more en-

2.	Howell, W. H.: Text-Book of Physiology, p. 588.

3.	Mosher, C. D.: Normal Menstruation and Some of the Factors Modifying It (preliminary note), Bull. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 1901, xii. 178. i

i

Digitized by

Google
— 390 —

ergy of the person must be used to replace this loss. Normally, according to Cullen,4 Williams,5 Moericke and others, the epithelial lining of the uterus is not shed.

This periodic physiologic congestion of the uterus in woman, which occurs about the time of menstruation,3 is frequently so excessive that it produces congestive dysmenorrhea. The upright position, lax abdominal muscles, costal instead of diaphragmatic breathing and constriction of the body by clothing which interferes with the use of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm—all combine to develop and promote this excessive pelvic congestion. As a result, there is pain at the menstrual period, prolonged hemorrhage and undue loss of blood.

In a large number of cases I have corrected these conditions by the following physiologic method: All tight clothing having been removed, the woman is placed on her back, on a level surface, in the horizontal position. The knees are flexed and the arms are placed at the sides to secure relaxation of the abdominal muscles. One hand is allowed to rest on the abdominal wall without exerting any pressure, to serve as an indicator of the amount of movement. The woman is then directed to see how high she can raise the hand by lifting the abdominal wall; then to see how far the hand will be lowered by the voluntary contraction of the abdominal muscles, the importance of this contraction being especially emphasized. Tffis exercise is repeated ten times, night and morning, in a well-ventilated room, preferably while shie is still in bed in her night-clothing. She is cautioned to avoid jerky movements and to strive for a smooth, rhythmical raising and lowering of the abdominal wall.

In many cases and particularly in those who most need the exercise, the voluntary contraction of the muscles will at first be very slight. Occasionally, the woman will complain of dizziness, and the exercise should be discontinued for that time; but she will be able at subsequent trials to increase the number of repetitions until she reaches the specified number. In a few cases some discomfort or slight pain has been experienced with the contraction of the abdominal muscles; nevertheless, if the exercise is gently continued,

' these symptoms are relieved and usually disappear entirely.

The result of the treatment has been that the pain has been lessened in many cases, and wholly removed in a large number. In women who are habitually free from pain at the menstrual period, but who, on account of some unfavorable condition, have suffered an attack, the pain has been stopped at its onset by these exercises. The exercises have been taught by the women under my care to others

4.	Cullen, T. S.: Changes of tne Endometrium at the Menstrual Period in “Cancer of the Uterus,” pp. 25-26.

5.	Williams, J. W.: Observations on the Cucosa during Menstruation (also quotes views of Moericke and others) Obstetrics, p. 75.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 3!) I —

with the same satisfactory results as, for instance, in the following cases:

Patient A was a sister of woman under my observation. Symptoms were too abundant flow of too long duration (nine to fifteen days), headache, backache, cramps during the entire period; obliged to go to bed to control the flow. This woman has practiced these exercises daily for six months with the result that the headaches have almost disappeared, the backache and cramps are much less severe and she is able to be about on her feet instead of going to bed.

Patient B was the mother of woman under my observation. Menstruation was normal and without pain, but the patient Has always suffered from severe constipation, which medical and osteopathic treatment has failed to relieve. Since she has been taught these exercises by her daughter the constipation has disappeared-.

Constipation, which is so frequently a factor in producing mechanical dysmenorrhea, may be corrected in a certain number of cases by the massage of the intestines, which is brought about by the contraction of the abdominal muscles and the descent of the diaphragm in these exercises. The correction of constipation in cases in which it exists is also a factor in the improvement as well as the correction of the excessive uterine congestion. A general improved condition of the organism is, of course, induced by proper elimination.

The effect of such exercises in limiting the duration and amount of the flow is shown in such an instance as Case 180 T, in which the patient menstruated regularly every twenty-eight days, the entire period lasting eight days and the main flow four days. Usually much abdominal pain was felt on the first day, though sometimes— as three months ago—she had no pain. Though she did not go to bed she had to rest the whole first day. She is of a temperament that worries about everything. She discovered for herself that walking at the menstrual period relieved the pain; after taking regular gymnastics and these exercises for several months she had gained in weight, there was no pain at the menstrual period and its duration was reduced to five days. She reported that she went to two dancing parties on successive nights during a menstrual period without suffering any undesirable results.

Patient V S3 had no pain, but the period lasted eight to nine days, the main flow only three days. After she has practiced these exercises daily the duration is reduced to five and the main flow to two days, and she is in much better general condition than formerly. Many women who have taken these exercises regularly, report periods shortened and some that the amount of the flow is less. In some cases it has been necessary to continue the exercises for some time before any marked change in length and amount of flow has been accomplished.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 392 —

Two patients have corrected the symptoms of nausea and vomiting during menstruation by these special exercises and the morning sickness, which often accompanies pregnancy, has been completely corrected by Patient 51 M. She was pregnant about three and a half months and was in the habit of waking about 4 o'clock in the morning with severe nausea and retching. By practicing these exercises she obtained immediate relief and repeating them several times a day she has stopped not only these attacks, but also relieved the sense of weight and of pressure in the legs. These exercises have been continued through the later months of pregnancy for this latter symptom, and she has found them helpful in producing sleep.

In simple and uncomplicated cases it should be possible to control . hemorrhage at the menopause as in Patient C (mother of woman under my observation), whose symptoms were severe headache, excessive flow and constipation. She takes the exercises twice daily during the month with the result that her headaches have almost disappeared, the flow is already reduced to reasonable amount and the constipation is definitely less.

It is well known that many women have pimples at or near the time of menstruation. Careful observation has shown that they sometimes come before, sometimes during and sometimes after the period. This variation corresponds to the drop in the sexual blood-pressure, a rhythm which bears the same variable relation to the menstrual flow. May not the appearance of these pimples be due to the drafting off of too much blood from the general circulation to the pelvis, thus leaving the digestion a little less perfect? ^he skin may suffer as well from depleted circulation—a woman is often noticeably paler at the menstrual period- The unfavorable condition may be further increased by the omission to bathe, a habit which is traditional among women, ft is not strange that the organism should work less perfectly when all its activities are so sharply altered as has become habitual among a large number of women at the menstrual period.

The desirability of more activity during menstruation is illustrated by Case D (not under my observation). A robust young woman suffered with too abundant flow which came every three weeks and then every two weeks. She was in the habit of always resting at the menstrual period. All medical care failed to relieve this too abundant and too frequent hemorrhage. She took an office position which required her to be indoors all the week except Saturday afternoon. In order to get some outdoor life she made it a practice to take a long walk of from 6 to 10 miles on her half holiday. She did this every week even if menstruation came at the time. Her periods promptly improved. She is now perfectly well

Digitized by Google
-393-

with a period coming every twenty-eight days and with a reasonable flow.

While ordinary activity during the menstrual period is desirable, a word of warning is needed in this relation. Although some women may be able to carry on all their usual physical work, it would be a dangerous experiment to permit pupils in the secondary schools especially or even women in college to continue all their regular gymnastics and athletics. Many of the more mature women may be able to go on with safety, but it is impossible to draw the line between those who are and those who are not able to do violent exercise at this time. The individual judgment must be sufficiently developed after proper training in physiology and hygiene to assume the responsibility for the degree of activity desirable during the menstrual period.

Psychic Influences:	The	first	step in the physical regeneration

of women is to alter their habits of mind in regard to bodily functions. They now accept periodic disability as inevitable. The terms “sick time,” “unwell,? etc., for the function of menstruation and thp mental acceptance of disability is so firmly fixed in traditional thinking that it is difficult to get a woman even to try to be perfectly well, however simple the method of relief offered to her. In answer to any suggestion I am met with such statements as: “I have so much less trouble than my friends that it does not seem worth bothering aboutor, “Everyone has more or less trouble,” or “I can’t remember to do the exercises;” the implication always being that such trouble is inevitable to woman. One young woman under observation gave this account of her experience:

I had never had a period without terrible pain since I was 13 years old. I always went to bed, at least for the first day. My mother has taken me to every kind of a doctor, even osteopath and chiropath, and none of them did me any good. I didn’t believe in your exercises, but after talking with you I did them for two weeks twice a day, and two or three days before my period, for three times a day. When I felt that it was coming on I did two hours of my class-work and telephoned my mother to have hot-water bottles and my bed ready when I should come home. I was so sure that I would have the customary pain that I lay down and waited for it to begin. But it did not begin. Then I got up and went out to gather some greens for decorations for a dance which was to be given that night. I fell over a fence and then I was sure I would have a terrible time. But as the pain still did not come on I stayed around till dinner-time and afterward dressed and went to the party. On the second day I was on my feet all day and did much heavy lifting so that I was very tired and felt a sense of weight (in the pelvis) but I had no pain, cramps or any bad effects.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 394 —

The lassitude, headache and nervous irritability which it has been customary to associate with the menstrual function, may readily be explained by (i) the lowered general blood-pressure and the excessive congestion of the uterus which causes the lack of a proper blood-supply in other organs, and (2) an inactivity which brings about both a lessened oxygen intake and a decreased carbon dioxid elimination, thus favoring the development of these undesirable symptoms. To these factors must be added the normal stimulation of the sex centers at this time, which may express itself in nervous irritability and depression. The traditional treatment of rest in bed, keeping the patient very warm, directing the attention solely to the sex zone of the body, and the accepted theory that it is an inevitable “illness” while at the same time the mind is without wholesome occupation, produces a morbid attitude and favors the development and exaggeration of whatever symptoms there may be.

From these cases and their response to these regular exercises it becomes evident that the definition of menstruation should be restated more accurately: menstruation is a hemorrhage from the uterus of a woman which occurs at regular intervals. It is Nature's effort to relieve the undue congestion of the uterus which has been induced (1) by the upright position and (2) by interference with the normal physiologic return of the blood to the heart which should be accomplished by the action of the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles. The undue congestion is most frequently the cause of pain at the beginning of the menstrual period, and this pain disappears as soon as the flow is well established.

Additional evidence that the menstrual pain is caused by this excessive congestion is furnished by Dr. Esther Rosencrantz of San Francisco. In a recent conversation she stated that she frequently prescribed to her patients two hot tub baths a day to relieve the pain at the onset of menstruation. The hot bathing would, of course, divert the blood from the overcongested uterus to the skin.

The periodic raising of the local blood-pressure and the lowering of the general blood-pressure has been grossly exaggerated in the woman by her physical inactivity and by her constricting dress and unhealthful habits. The hemorrhage is brought about probably by Nature's usual method—diapedesis4—and there is no shedding of the epithelium in preparation for the reception of the fertilized ovum as was formerly supposed. Does not Loeb's work,6 showing the sensitizing of the uterine mucosa by the secretion of the corpus luteum so that it reacts to the normal stimulus of the fertilized ovum, do away with any theoretical necessity for a new surface?

6.	Loeb, Leo.: Experimental Production of the Maternal Placenta and Function of the Corpus Luteum, The Journal A. M. A., Oct. 30, 1909, p. 1471. See also editorial, Function of Corpus Luteum, The Journal A. M. A., Feb. 25, 1911, p. 59.

Digitized by
— 395 —

I believe that menstruation represents, not a supplemental wave of nutrition (Jacobi7), but rather a waste of potential energy -in the form of blood which might be used in productive work when not required for the development of the embryo. No physiologic purpose is served by the excessive congestion of the uterus and adnexa so frequently found in women. No harm can possibly come from bringing about a better circulation of the blood through the generative organs by the physiologic method here suggested. The healthy functioning of any organ is dependent on perfect circulation which brings oxygen and nutritive material to its cells and carries away its waste products, not on being overfilled by a sluggish blood-flow. In this overcongestion, often unduly prolonged, have we not a condition favoring the development of pathologic conditions?

It is generally believed that primitive and savage women have a very scanty menstrual flow. That a flow of short duration and limited quantity is not abnormal even among civilized women is shown in the following case.

The menstrual history of Patient 47 M began at 16 and was well established at 18; regular every twenty-eight days; flows scanty, duration three days, first day being slight colored flow, second day a little flow of decided color, third day lessened color; no pain. There was complete amenorrhea during the patient’s first year in college; prompt return of normal periods during vacation; on reentering college the second year, amenorrhea again. At the end of this year she was advised by the college physician not to continue her course because of the amenorrhea. Soon after leaving college she was married and has borne eight vigorous, perfect children, and has normal sexual instinct.

Women have been taught to fear every variation in the menstrual function, but they are often quite ignorant of the origin of this unnecessary terror of even slight variations. This has come possibly from the fact that amenorrhea may be a symptom of pregnancy. Is it not probable that the amenorrhea induced by change of climate is an indication of increased rather than diminished vigor, when it is not associated with undesirable symptoms? Excessive work in college, usually social as well as mental, occasionally gives rise to a temporary amenorrhea—a mere colorless show appearing at the regular period. I have pointed out to such young women the relation between the extra strain and the absence of the usual hemorr: hage—they had nothing to waste. If they were not anemic or otherwise in poor condition, the assurance that the flow would return when they ceased to work so hard would set their minds at rest. If they had been encouraged to worry about it, psychic influences might have induced more serious symptoms. Again, the menstrual period

7.	Jacobi, Mary Putnam: The Question of Rest for Women, p. 168.

Digitized by LiOOQie
— 396 —

occasionally is skipped once or twice; it returns, no harm has been clone, apparently—any more than in Patient 47 M already quoted, in which the college career was cut short unnecessarily, through fear, although the young woman was splendidly well in every other particular.

There is, however, some danger of confusing cases of amenorrhea, lessened flow and colorless flow which are due to lovered vitality, to anemia or to other serious disturbances, with the normal shortening of flow and lessening of amount in vigorous women produced by the more perfect circulation induced by the exercises already described, and it is obvious that careful discrimination must be made.

For twenty years I have been asking myself the question: “Why are some weak women free from menstrual disability while some strong ones sufifer much pain?” The answer has been given to me every time I suggested these abdominal exercises to a woman who had never had any pain. She said: “I always breathe this way.” In other words, normal women who have the diaphragmatic type of respiration have no menstrual pain. This does not prevent them, however, from having too long periods nor from undue loss of blood. In order to change these conditions the abdominal muscles must be exercised definitely and regularly.

Constrictive dress and inactivity interfere more with the abdominal muscles than with the diaphragm. The degree to which they induce menstrual pain may be suggested by a comparison of observations made in 1893-6 with others made in 1910-14. In 1893-6 a larger proportion of the women had pain and discomfort of severe type and of relatively long duration. In 1910-14 the larger number of cases have no disability and such pain as the remainder have is rarely severe and of short duration. In 1893-6 the average width fo skirts worn by 98 young women was 13.5 feet—the widest 15 and the narrowest 9 feet. The weight of the outside skirt alone was often nearly as much as the weight of the entire clothing worn by a modern girl. At that period, too, every woman must have a wasp-like waist and several under petticoats were also carried from the waist. It is certainly not difficult to understand why so many women had menstrual pain at that period.

The modern girl with her large normal waist may in some cases have her narrow skirt criticized on the ground of modestv, but-from the point of view of health we should rejoice in her freedom. The only other factor which is tolerablv constant in the two groups com-nared above is that of exercise. In some measure the greater activity of modern girls, made possible by lighter and looser clothing, has undoubtedly assisted, when the skirt is not narrow enough to be a limitation to lessen the menstrual hemorrhage, its duration and the associated pain.

Digitized by uooQle
— 397 —

Under normal conditions there should be no more women suffering with disorders of the generative organs than with the disturbances of the digestion or respiration or heart. But it is still very difficult for us to lend an open mind to any theory which opposes the accepted one of inevitable menstrual disability among women. An English writer,8 who quotes my experiments on women, ignores the corresponding set of experiments on men, thus deducing quite false conclusions. He sets aside the statements that the blood-pressure rhythm cannot be a menstrual rhythm since it is found in men as well as women; and that the coincident functional disturbances in other organs are probably due to the lowered general blood-pressure.3 Mr. Havelock Ellis disposes of the subject as follows:

Suffering occurring at the menstrual period, whether directly or indirectly due to the menstrual process, is quite properly described as menstrual suffering.

In regard to menstruation we have too long confused cause and effect: the menstrual* hemorrhage is not the cause of the blood-pressure rhythm, but an exaggerated result of interference with normal circulation.

The economic loss to the individual woman who has to earn her living and is yet periodically incapacitated more or less is very great; and even to the married woman the loss in time and working capacity is considerable. But these losses are relatively small as compared with the inability of the periodically depleted woman, to be a vigorous mother to the race.

The first of these remedies is the removal of the factors which are producing the disability—constrictive clothing and the inactivity of the muscles of the abdomen and the diaphragm. But more important even than this is an alteration of the morbid attitude of women themselves toward this function, and almost equally essential is a fundamental change in the habit of mind on our part as physicians; for do we not tend to translate too much the whole of a woman's life into terms of menstruation? If every young girl was taught that menstruation is not normally a “bad time” and that pain or incapacity at that period is as discreditable and unnecessary as bad breath due to decaying teeth, we might almost look for a revolution in the physical life of women.

At present all the evidence to the menstrual hemorrhage as a secondary matter more or less fixed bv the upright position. It is unnecessary and undesirable that it should be of more than brief duration or of more than slight amount. Pain and discomfort, where no organic lesion exists, are readily controllable by the physiologic regulation of the circulation from the abdomen and pelvis back to the heart by the restoration of the tone and action of the abdominal

8.	Ellis, Havelock: Man and Woman, 1913, pp. 287, 291, 298.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 398 —

muscles and diaphragm. The coincident functional disturbances in other organs are a result, directly or indirectly, of the undue congestion in the pelvis which has drafted off too much blood from the general circulation leaving other parts, as the digestive area or skin, too depleted to function properly. The congestive headaches, whether they occur at the menstrual or the intermenstrual period, are relieved by the equalizing of the circulation by these exercises.

MUSCULAR WORK AND EFFICIENCY.

Journal Am. Medical Association.

The mechanical efficiency of the human organism as a muscular machine and the conditions which modify or control it are topics that appeal to different persons from different points of view. The employer of labor, the athlete, the physiologist and the physician are interested in the human body; each in relation to that aspect of muscular performance which concerns his own immediate requirements. In one group of cases it is the desire to promote the working capacity of man by suitable diet in which economic considerations may or may not play a part. Scientific management in business has today begun to encompass even such once derided details as the feeding of the employed and the careful regulation of the hygienic aspects of their work. Other groups are interested in the maximum possibilities of the human mechanism and in such questions as the relation of training and whatever this implies to the capacity for muscular performance. In the medical world it is usually the restoration of a depleted function that demands attention. In all of the instances cited it becomes desirable, if not actually necessary, to start from some standard—to refer to some norm whereby the deviation from the usual course of physiologic behavior may be estimated.

The Boston Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington has brought together in considerable detail the important observations already ascertained by careful investigation of the subject of muscular work, many of them determined or verified anew by the researches conducted in this scientific establishment.1 Much of interest in the subject is not new; but when we recall the wide divergence of opinion still existing with regard to the underlying principles of muscular work, the deficiency in our knowledge of the relation of diet and training to it, and the widely differing assertions as to the best practices to be followed, it may not be amiss to review briefly some of the admitted fundamental facts which may be regarded as definitely established.

1. Benedict, F. G., and Cathcart, E. P.: Muscular Work: A Metabolic Study with Special Reference to the Efficiency of the Human Body as a Machine, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Pub. No. 187, 1913, p. 176.

Digitized by Google
— 399 —

When muscular work is performed by the human body, the consumption of fuel either from food or from body material is greatly increased. The character of the supply available for this purpose may vary somewhat with the existing conditions. The amount of protein present is ample to provide for all drains on nitrogenous material during rest or short periods of work. Similarly, in a well-nourished man there is a practically unlimited supply of fat. It is the supply of carbohydrate which is comparatively restricted and liable to be somewhat easily depleted. For some years we have been taught that, contrary to the older beliefs, the character of protein metabolism is unchanged by muscular activity. It has become evident that under ordinary circumstances the power to accomplish muscular work is not derived from destruction of protein, but from the combustion of the non-nitrogenous nutrients. There seems to be little difference in the efficiency of the body as a machine, whether fats or carbohydrates are used as fuel. Inasmuch as the storage of carbohydrate is aparently depleted easily by excessive work, it appears as if this type of foodstuff were used in preference to any other by the contractile tissues.

Reasoning that the ideal conditions for a study of the question as to whether or not there is a selective combustion of carbohydrate material during severe muscular work would obtain after the subject had abstained from food for twelve to fifteen hours, that is, when there was a relatively large supply of body-protein, and a relatively small supply of body-glycogen, Benedict and Cathcart have reinvestigated it from this point of view. If, under these conditions, a selective combustion took place, the supply of body-glycogen would be rapidly depleted and this would be indicated by the respiratory quotient. Although the evidence in all of the experiments cited is strikingly in favor of the view that during periods of muscular work there is an increased draft on carbohydrate material in the body, the data by no means indicate that the muscular work is performed exclusively by the combustion of carbohydrate.

The foregoing has raised the inquiry as to the probable amount of carbohydrate stored in the human body. The calculations made from fragmentary analyses of tissues, as well as indirect evidence secreted from the new experiments on muscular work, suggest not for from 400 gm. (less than a pound) as a normal figure. This is by no means enough to perform a vigorous muscular task such as was undertaken by one of the subjects of the Nutrition Laboratory, who accomplish, on a stationary bicycle, work equivalent to a “century run” of 100 miles before breakfast, a remarkable evidence of staying-power in man. In this connection we may note some of the newer data on the mechanical efficiency of man, that is, the relationship between the energy consumption and the output of work. The

Digitized by
— 400 —

highest value observed, in the case of the bicycle-rider referred to above, was 41 per cent., an exceptionally high, figure. The average efficiency for a large number of experiments was 30 per cent. It does not vary greatly with different subjects. These data considered in conjunction with the usual muscular accomplishment there reported, give substantial evidence of the superior functioning of the human mechanism.

Another observation, on the bearing of which we have commented in the past,2 was that the pulse-rate even during severe muscular work, very closely follows the amount of the energy output— an observation that is fully in accord with the values secured with normal resting subjects which show that the pulse-rate and the total metabolism are intimately related. Although with the cessation of work the pulse falls rapidly, there is a distinct tendency for the rate to stop at a much higher level than before the work is undertaken. The long-continued rapidity of respiration and heart-beat after exercise, as, for instance, after running, is familiar evidence that the intense metabolism incidental to active muscular work does not instantly disappear with the cessation of the work. This after-effect of muscular work indicating the persistence of a distinctly higher metabolism for some time must be taken cognizance of in the future consideration of the physiology of exercise.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

(Continued.)

It will be observed that a great number of the reforms advocated by the Turners in their manifestos some forty odd years ago anticipated the political questions which have come to the foreground at the present day.* The question of universal suffrage, which is the basis for much feverish discussion in our age, was propounded to the American people by the Turners in October of the year 1871. It was urged that men and women should have an equal status in the political life of the nation, and that the power of the ballot should also be conferred upon the latter. This clause, which caused great excitement in numerous gymnastic societies and led to heated debates, was finally withdrawn at the Louisville convention in the following May.

It is but natural that the momentous crisis of the civil war, and

2. The Circulation and Muscular Efficiency, Current Comment, The Journal A. M. A., Sept. 13, 1913, p. 874.

* The Turner Convention at Denver, 1894, recommended the establishment of Postal Savings Banks.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 401 —

the serious problems of reconstruction with which the nation was confronted at the conclusion of that terrible struggle, should leave a deep impression upon the minds of the “Forty-eighters,” as the political refugees of the German revolution of 1848 were called. On the other hand, the Americans learned to appreciate the noble spirit of self-sacrifice which the Germans had shown in the dark days of the civil war. Intercourse between the men of these two great races became more frequent day by day in business, social and political ways. Gradually the conviction dawned upon both that the one could learn a great deal from the other, and unconsciously, in the meanwhile, the Germans became more and more Americanized.

However, the chief factor in this process of transformation, which manifested its slow but irresistible progress in all the German clubs and societies, was the maturing youth. The revolutionary spirit of the “Forty-eighters” which inspired the fathers, was strange and incomprehensible to their children who had grown up in other surroundings, and had been imbued with different thoughts and feelings. The English language, which came so much easier to this new generation, attained precedence at all the social gatherings and entertainments although the official language continued to be German at all formal meetings of the Turners.

Again, it became evident that the Turners of America had but little in common with the Turners of Germany, as was boldly pointed out in the annual report of the executive committee of 1872.

“The Turners of America have nothing in common with the Turners of the old fatherland, except the system of physical training,” says the report, and then proceeds: “Of our endeavors for reform in the political, religious and social fields, of the struggle against corruption and slavery in all forms, the Turners in Germany know nothing, although this has been the object and the inspiration of our gymnastic union.,,

The Turners of Germany have ceased to participate, as an organization, in the attempts to solve the political problems of their country, and confined their activities solely to the practice of physical training. On the other hand, the American Turners continued to be as actively interested in the vital questions of the day after the civil war as they had been in the past. In order to emphasize the different sphere of the Turnerbund, the executive committee made the following statement in this report: “Our Turnerbund might be regarded as a mere branch of the German Turnerbund. But, on the contrary, the American Turnerbund, as it is organized today, with its platform and its constitution, its hopes and endeavors, is preeminently American.,,

The Chicago executive committee, which made the statement quoted above, further urged the various societies to awaken an inter-

Digitized by Google
— 402 —

est in the Turnerbund in the native Americans, and to popularize the practice of physical training through their influence.

At the national convention of the Turnerbund at Cleveland in 1878, a series of resolutions embodying the principles of the Turners was adopted. They advocated the right of recall, the initiative and referendum for all important laws, the abolishment of all complicated representation of the people, and declared the artificial distribution of power, as, for instance, the election of senators bv the state legislatures, to be a pernicious obstacle to true democracy.

As a proper solution for certain social problems as a means for the betterment of social conditions, the Turners recommended laws for the protection of labor against capital; for the inspection of factories, food and lodgings as a sanitary safeguard, and for the restriction of child labor in factories. The abolishment of the senate and the presidency in their present form was recommended on the ground that these were identical with certain monarchical institutions. The cessation of the practice of donating or selling public land to private individuals and corporations was also advocated in this declaration.

Many of the more conservative members of the Turnerbund were opposed to this declaration of principles as drawn up by the Cleveland convention, but it was adopted by a referendum vote. Some years later the paragraph dealing with the senate and the presidency was stricken from the declaration by a primary vote. In its stead the election of senators by popular vote was proposed.

At the convention held at Indianapolis in 1880, Dr. H. M. Stark-loff of St. Louis, the first speaker of the executive committee, made the following remarks in his opening address:

“We have gained that personal liberty the German Turners once dreamed of; we have done our duty in that direction. That part of our program is fulfilled, and it remains for us to find a new field for our energies. How would it be if we would work with all our might to introduce physical training into the public schools of this country? We could not conceive a more beautiful gift than this to bestow upon the American people. It seems to me that this should be a worthy enterprise, for whosoever has conquered the youth has gained the future.”

In 1881 a select group of German-American Turners from Milwaukee, under the leadership of George Brosius, at that time the director of The Normal School of the Turnerbund, crossed the Atlantic as the first team to attend and compete in a gymnastic festival in Germany. The festival was held in Frankfort on the Main, and, upon their return to this country, the American Turners brought back with them the 2nd, 3r, 5th, 6th, 13th and 21st competitive prizes.
— 403 —

As the years passed by the Turners devoted their energies less to the political and more to the educational side of their program. The history of the Turnerbund now consists chiefly of an account of the various gymnastic festivals and conventions which, though eminently successful, are of particular interest only to those who are intimately identified with the organization.

The national festivals, which in former years had been held annually, grew too expensive as the membership of the gymnastic union increased. The financial risk assumed by the society, under whose auspices the festival was held, became too large. For that reason, since 1885, these gymnastic festivals have been held only once every four years. Up to that time the societies had been represented by the picked men of their organization and the total number of active competitors at such festivals ranged from 200 to 300 men. However, when competitive gymnastics between the societies were introduced the total number of active Turners who competed ran into thousands. At the national Turnfest in Cincinnati (1889) 1,179 Turners competed; in Milwaukee (1893) 3>38o; in St. Louis (1897) 2,600; in Philadelphia (1900) at the golden jubilee of the Turnerbund 1,650; in Indianapolis (1905) 1,400, and in Cincinnati (1910) 1,800. At St. Louis, in 1897, school children were invited for the first time to participate in a Turnfest. Since then mass drills by the children have always been an interesting feature of the festivals. The last national festival was held at Denver, Colorado, in 1913.

In the year 1904 the Turnerbund was represented by a class of eight men under the leadership of Henry Suder, director of physical training in the Chicago public schools, at the Turnfest in Nuremberg, Germany. They proved to be no mean rivals of their German brethren in the art of physical training. The next year at Indianapolis, for the first time in the history of the gymnastic union, a class of German Turners, under the leadership of Professor F. Kessler, of Stuttgart, attended a Turnfest in this country. The gymnastic union of Germany comprises a total membership of 750,000 men, from which number the best nine Turners were selected to represent their organization on American soil. It is not surprising, therefore, that these Turners took home with them the highest competitive prizes that were awarded at the festival. The rare skill and the finish of all their apparatus work and their versatility in the various gymnastic exercises amazed the spectators and caused general comment. Mr. Charles W. Fairbanks, then Vice-President of United States, witnessed the gymnastic exercises of the German Turners and bade them, in the name of the nation, a hearty welcome to this country. After a brief visit to the larger cities of the middle West the German Turners returned to Europe, highly elated at the friendly reception that had been accorded them.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 404 —

In 1908 the Turnerbimd arranged an excursion to the German gymnastic festival in Frankfort op the Main. Under the leadership of George Brosius, the oldest and most deserving teacher in the Bund, a class of ninety American Turners was accorded great applause for a meritorious exhibition of dumb-bell exercises. The American Turners also gave an exhibition of base-ball, and our national game aroused unwonted interest among the German spectators. From 500 to 600 members of the North American Gymnastic Union marched in the festival parade and were applauded by the enthusiastic citizens of Frankfort and their guests, who showered the Aemrican visitors with flowers and wreaths.

From the very beginning the societies of the North American Gymnastic Union have endeavored to extend the practice of physical training to all without discrimination as to age or sex. The boy, the youth, the man, the girl, the woman, even the father and mother, are not merely tolerated, but are urged to participate in the gymnatic work of the society. In consequence, the influence of the gymnastic union has increased steadily from year to year. According to the statistics, compiled January 1st, 1911, the North American Gymnastic Union is composed of 24 districts with 232 societies and a membership of 38,751.

The enrollment in the various gymnasium classes is as follows: 5298 Seniors 3645 Juniors 2225 Business Men 4800 Women 10,755 Boys 7665 Girls

The fencing sections enroll 326, singing sections 2061, dramatic sections 546, and women's sections {5155.

Some of the gymnastic societies also maintain elementary schools, freehand and mechanical drawing schools, schools for the study of German, and girls' industrial schools.

The headquarters of the Turnerbimd were removed from St. Louis to Indianapolis in 1898 and the executive committee has been located in that city since that time.

Digitized by
— 405 —

THE REORGANIZATION OF SOCIAL WORK.

By SIMON N. PATTEN, University of Pennsylvania.

It is stating rperely what every one knows to affirm that social work at present lacks a plan to make it effective. Nor is it a matter of surprise that this state of confusion exists. Each new movement in the social field has represented the earnest but narrow views of a few individuals brought into harmony by some local evil. Naturally the suffering and poverty of the dependent and underpaid i classes received first attention. Pity prompted charity, and its ap-I peal was strongest where visible relief could be wrought. With I the progress in medical science, a like appeal was made for hospitals that cured or relieved the sick and the injured. A third call was in favor of orphans, widows and the aged. Last, but not least, arose the demand that the insane, the pauper and the defective classes be humanely cared for. In these ways the philanthropy of our fathers showed itself, generously, but shortsightedly. The relief given resulted not in reduction, but in apparent increase in the number of its recipients.

The change from the old view to a consideration of constructive aspects of philanthropy has of late made progress. The constructive movement has not, however, been carried far enough, nor have its principles been thoroughly enough enunciated to bring either unity of program or harmony of effort. Each group in the philanthropic field, still retains its own philosophy. It seeks its end without due * consideration of, and often in opposition to, the views of others.

To this confusion in the aims and plans of philanthropy are now to be added the perplexities which arise from proposed social legislation. The recent upheaval of political thought is due to a demand for effective action on the part of the state to attain the ends which philanthropy has vainly endeavored to reach. The reduction of unemployment, the care for the aged, the prevention of disease, the protection of children, a living wage, and other related social solutions, will be essential parts of the program through which political mrties appeal for popular support. The ends to be attained are so dearly before the public that effective remedies for long-standing evils must speedily be found. Every failure only serves to create a demand for more comprehensive: measures. No evolution is too radical, nor the cost involved too great, if it is the only road from misery to prosperity.

The evils of disorganized work no longer arise from an inadequate perception of the work to be done nor of the field to be covered. We all see what is wanted only too clearly. The short-coming is in the lack of co-ordination of the various agencies through which results are to be secured. Each agency is trying to do too

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 406-

much, and thus spreads its endeavors over fields where some other agency could be more effective if it had the field to itself and commanded the resources needed for the realization of its ends. Relief from these evils can come only from a comprehensive social philosophy giving a common philosophy to the various Workers and to the public that supports them. It may be too early to effect so great an end, but some effort must be made to co-ordinate and limit social agencies which in isolation will only serve to alleviate suffering which might have been prevented. Surely some crude demarcation of the field of work is better than the waste, confusion and failure now apparent.

Let us divide then the work to be done, and then redistribute the workers so that each shall be in the field where his energy and enthusiasm will be aroused. At present, believers in state activity find themselves in charge of private philanthropies; settlement workers wake up to the fact that what they want can be secured only by state intervention; men are educated for the clergy only to find that their interests lie in social work; while others who thought their plans could be best promoted by prohibition and coercion, become conscious that the evolution of character has more interest to them than the mechanical aids to progress utilized by state action. A new alignment of fields and a new assignment of persons to them, would give a vigor to movements and an enthusiasm to workers which in the present disorganized state of social work is out of the reach of those who have given their lives to the service of the common good.

The basis of any redistribution of work and workers must be sought by contrasting the ends of social endeavor. The first objective is income. We need support, and this must come from personal effort. As income is secured by contact with some environment, the improvement of environments is the second important social end to be attained. In contrast to these external means is the process of self-development, called character. Improvement in income, in environment, and in character thus constitute the visible social ulti-mates. If they are not definite goals, they are at least pathways so important that consideration of them and an analysis of their mutual relations must precede a study of those social aims not yet clearly defined. Each of these ends has a particular agency for its advancement. Income is secured through industry; the environment is modified through state action; and character is improved through voluntary effort.

I do not affirm that these statements are self-evident, or mutually exclusive, or that they should be accepted as final distinctions. It is better to begin by showing the relation between each end and its dominant agency, leaving the interrelations for subsequent discussion. No one would deny that income comes from industry, and

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 407 —

grows as industry is improved. A few generations ago it would also have been said that industry was the main agency for environmental improvement. Today, the emphasis has been changed; not only do we think of environmental changes as needing governmental action, but it is a widely prevalent doctrine that governmental regulation is needed to make industry effective. This is equally true in problems involving the distribution of wealth. Stepping beyond this disputed field, it can at least be said that governmental action is the accepted medium for extensive alteration in the environment. If a Panama Canal is to be dug, or the spread of disease is to be prevented, no agency in carrying forward the work is effective except the state. It has an undisputed field where harmful agencies are to be eliminated, or new elements are to be injected into the local environments in which men live and work. Income and environment can thus be contrasted as ends, the agencies for the improvement of which are industry and the state.

So much is clear even if industry at times improves the environment and the state on other occasions interferes with industry. Is is more difficult to contrast environment with character, and thus separate state from voluntary action. A clue to the difference is obtained by recognizing that environmental changes act on the principle of exclusion and inclusion. We get rid of disease by removing it from any contact with us. We likewise incorporate a new feature into our environment by bringing it in contact with all people. An environmental change thus reaches all within its realm, and acts on all at the same time. For such alterations the state is an effective agent, and often the sole agent. Character changes come, not in this wholesale way but by personal contact. Each individual alters favorably the characters of the few persons with whom he comes in touch. He must rely on them to extend his influence. If in the end the whole society is altered, it is through a series of personal contacts that move, wavelike, from person to person, from locality to locality, from group to group, and from nation to nation. When a canal is dug or the mosquito excluded, the environment is altered for all time. But a character change spreads slowly from person to person, and must, to remain effective, be incorporated into the social tradition and handed on to each generation.

The extent of the group through which character waves move varies with the type of the contact, but it is always small when compared with the arena of environmental modification. Sometimes the contact is made personally, as when a Mark. Hopkins sits at one end of a log and a Garfield at the other; sometimes it is brought in a lecture room or an art gallery; sometimes the high aim is accomplished through a hymn, a drama, or oration; it may even come from an athletic contest or a religious revival. But it is always a
— 408 —

contact growing in intensity with proximity and the magnetism of the giving. The work of character-building is never completed; it is renewable and renewed, but not constructed or inherited. Voluntary effort is effective in personal contact and in group action. It loses its efficacy when great objective alterations are demanded. Efficacy in social evolution demands that the state action required for great environmental changes be complemented by voluntary action when waves of personal influence are needed to advance civilization.

To make this analysis effective demands a study of the factors on which industry, government and character depend. The first two have so often been explained that further work in this direction is not needed. The factors in character-making are, however, obscure. Perhaps it would be more correct to say that the word itself has no definite meaning. I shall therefore start at its elements, so that each factor may receive distinct enunciation and take a definite place in a scheme of character-building. I shall divide, therefore, the factors making for character into groups, each of which has its own backkground and a distinct mode of expression. This division does not, however, deny that ends may be attained in different ways. The degree of completeness with which each end is reached varies with the effectiveness of each factor in that direction. Certainty of results is secured when they co-operate. This happens only in the highest types of character.

The earliest recognized factor in character-building is emotional negation. What men should not do is sooner recognized than what is demanded of them in action. Crude restraints may always be given an emotional setting which adds to their effectiveness. No one can be said to have character unless there is something he will not do. Every harmful impulse in environment or in human nature can be checked in this way. Protection of life and property and cordial social relations can also be attained by a restrictive code. Out of these negations grow up the tenets of primitive morality, and from them much of the religious dogma takes its rise. The Ten Commandments are negations. The virtues of sacrifice, meekness, sobriety and thrift thus get their repeated emphasis and power. The painful is avoided; the lure of unsocial pleasure is curbed; and the future is given an emphasis which otherwise belongs to the present. All asceticism is emotional and negative. So powerful are these negations that they are often regarded all of morality, but they are really only its beginning.

The next advance may be termed budgetary pressure. Every person or family, with an income above the minimum of substance has a budget through which income and outgo are equalized. Items of expenditure are thus entered on a scale upon which they are measured. The intenser wants are first satisfied; when they are indulged,

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 409 —

other wants rise in the scale and are in turn gratified. Upon each income level there are new wants to be satisfied, and in the process definite restraints on other expenditures are set which force character-building.

Budgetary restraints are, however, only relative; they are not prohibitions like those imposed by emotional negations. An increase of income, the rise of new wants, or a change of situation may transform the relatively bad into the good, and thus make its consumption advantageous. The increased freedom is, however, only temporary. With the emergence of higher wants a new group of restraints is imposed, through which what was formerly consumed in freedom is now limited in amount or entirely discarded. In the early economic societies work is endured only to secure food or strong drink. Those who toil are always better than the idle, even if riotous living is the result. Saving for productive ends checks these crude excesses, and creates an uplift by its increased productivity and the limits set to indulgence. The desire for a home sets new limits on consumption and adds additional motives for work. With the growth of the textile industries a greater variety in clothing becomes possible, and its possession is an attractive force. Restraints are thus set to eating and drinking, and character undergoes alteration and extension. The change from superabundant food to a plain diet with no stimulants is due to the relatively increasing power of new wants. Vocational education likewise creates a shift in human wants, and upbuilds character by the restraints its expense imposes on wants which would otherwise be dominant.

To this process there is no end. Each increase of productive power, each -increase in the variety of daily consumption, each new hope of a social uplift through co-operative enterprise, arouses new motives for action, and creates additional restraints. Budgetary pressure thus grows intense with the advance of civilization, and is a growing factor in the moral regeneration of society. There is, however, a region beyond where. its action must be supplemented and strengthened to make morality effective.

This field which interest and emotion fail to control is made obscure by a useless contrast of the material and the immaterial. Where antecedent and consequence are not visibly connected it seems to add to the force of character to assert a freedom from control. This denial leaves men without recognized means of improving character except for those crude emotional appeals which fail more often than they succeed. The problem of psychic life is not whether it is persistent—for this conceded—but whether or not it is mechanical. A machine is something that repeats its movements. There is a persistency in the repetition of established sequence. What is once done is done again until the machine wears out. The persistent man-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 410 —

ifestation of a simple phenomenon, and the persistent repetition of established sequences are so different that they would not have been confused but for the narrow views of matter formerly held. Character gains by the persistence of its elementary phenomena. It loses only when psychic action becomes mechanical.

Heredity has established a multitude of sequences which have the precision of external events. Prominent among these are the instincts which, when aroused, repeat the movements established for them by heredity. When we turn from them to the motor impulses, a field is reached in which the sequences have not been established, or at least they are not so apparent. A motor impulse may be called a mechanism in the formation. This statement implies that all mental mechanisms are established in the process of bodily growth. If so, there was a time when they were not yet mechanical. The sequence of growth is from plasticity to mechanical action, and then to a senile condition where the mechanism is defective because too mechanical. The plastic has too many impulses to activity, the mechanical creates regular movements in useful directions, while the senile falls short of effective action. Plastic brain cells thus have motor impulses that are not mechanical.

To follow one’s impulses means to try to do something for the execution of which heredity has no mechanism. The end of the impulses must be secured by indirect action that uses established mechanisms in new ways. Shall I strive to do what I cannot do mechanically, or shall I confine my endeavors to fulfill the established ends of my heredity? This is one way to state the problem of character-building. Another way is to ask: “What have I to gain by following inchoate impulses instead of instincts and habits which have proved their usefulness?” Is the ant with its mechanical behavior better adjusted than a man with vague desires to do something for which he is not bodily fitted? These are not problems of matter versus spirit, but of the completeness of human heredity and of the desirability of rigid place adjustment as contrasted with a driving impulse to enter some larger, less definite environment. What part of our energies should we use to secure effective present adjustment, and what part for future ends not secured by our mechanical activities? This is the problem of personal evolution stripped of the controversies that philosophy has imposed.

If motor impulse is recognized as a factor in character-building, its relation to surplus energy is important. The amount of energy shown by an individual varies with the state of his health, his age and the presence or absence of toxins in his system. The variations in amount are so sudden and seemingly disconnected with bodily states that it is difficult to get men to recognize them as due to physical conditions. Periods of elation and depression follow
— 411 —

each other in such unaccountable ways that their connection with surplus energy is obscured. It is nevertheless true that variations in energy lie back of bodily states, and that the impulse to act does not come except as it reflects rising states of energy. Each healthy part accumulates a store of energy, which impells such action as will lead to the discharge of this energy.

The body is a group of mechanisms, each of which has in its evolution acquired some useful function. Were these completed mechanisms all the mechanisms in the bodies and brains of men, automatic action would dominate. But in addition to these complete and useful mechanisms there are many imperfect or degenerate parts. An organ useful to our ancestors may in its present action be disjustive, yet vestiges of it are existent, which may be aroused by a superabundant supply of energy. So also other partially formed organs which may be useful to our descendents, at present merely waste surplus energy, with no return in utility or advantage. With a normal flow of energy the complete organs are vitalized; when diseased the degenerate organs are active; while in states creating more than the normal amount of energy, the plastic parts are stimulated into activity.

Motor impulse is thus the activity of parts, which have not as yet become mechanical enough to play a useful role in the survival of their possessor. Mechanical action preserves organisms; all the normal flow of energy is needed to carry on the necessary acts of daily life. Economic activities are especially effective in forcing the flow of energy into mechanical channels. Fewer organs are used as work becomes specialized, and more of the available energy is forced into these narrow groves. The contrast between vocational training and athletic exercise shows the principles that control the flow of energy. Training in any specific direction narrows by causing fewer parts to become active. On the other hand, exercise resting the overtaxed organs arouses vigor in the neglected parts. If such exercise is beneficial, a like activity of all parts of the brain has a similar advantage. Motor impulse is the index of broader mental activity. Checking the action of the overwrought mechanical parts it gives a chance for growth to the plastic centers. The problem of evolution is to decentralize activity, and so make real each of the mind's potentialities. Over-centralization destroys plasticity, every broadening of activity checks that organic growth which brings on senility.

If motor impulse did nothing but delay the oncoming of old age, its encouragement would be advisable. It has, however, another important end. Man by heredity is a timid animal; he lacks the natural aggressiveness characteristic of the wolf and the lion. Fear is predominant in states of depression, while aggression is a
— 412 —

natural outcome of a condition of surplus energy. Motor impulse is obviously aggressive. It leads to the trying of new ways and gives a new tone to personal aspirations. It thus has a function in the mechanical struggle upon which success depends.

Organic evolution in each person goes through three stages— youthful plasticity, mechanical completeness, and senile degeneration. Surplus energy furnishes the material; motor impulse gives the direction; environmental pressure transforms plastic beginnings into definite mechanisms. Motor impulse thus has not only an organic, but also a social significance; it develops mechanisms assuring social progress, as well as those aiding individual survival. Impulse may be directed toward ideals of social survival and improvement in the attainment of which the individual does not participate. The future thus becomes incorporated in the present, and the energy of men goes out as readily in one direction as in the other.

These impersonal ends may be termed social enthusiams. To those with surplus energy they become a means of improving character and reshaping its aims. Each generation sees more distant goals and brings its ideals nearer the realm of reality. When literature is socialized; when poetry vitalizes social ends,—this final element in character-building will be a definite realization of the larger self. Personal needs shape character in its early stages of formation; they lose their force as thought is broadened and the imagination becomes more vivid. Each new stage narrows the scope of its predecessors, and sets bounds to their activity. The personal must yield to the social as the pleasure of use is displaced by the joy of action.

Above the material is the mechanical; above the mechanical is the process of socialization and standardization; and above society is the completed personality that dominates them all. It is the apex of character growth, and the one thing without which it cannot exist. Each mechanism and each social force receive additional limitations as character forms new apexes to the pyramid made by its endeavors. Nothing is free but the will made by the evolution of personality. The more character grows, the more definite are its elements, the clearer is their working seen, and the plainer are the deductions that we can make of their action.

Industry supports, and the state environs, what the builder of character evokes. The first two act on general conditions and effect their results by the changes that are wrought in the whole society. They are exclusive and compelling. They bring benefit to all, or they exclude widespread evils by new restrictions. In contrast to these character is propagated by contact; the groups in which it is active are small; the means of its extension are uncertain; yet if the obstacles are faced with enthusiasm they yield enough to permit char-
— 413 —

acter impulses to pass to other groups. The makers of character are thus workers in restricted fields. They cannot strike down evils with one blow, nor bring in a Utopian by striking revolutions. Teachers and social workers can, however, in time hope to acquire the influence of state officials, and as a group surpass them in the uplift they create.

I can now return to my main thesis. There are three phases of social endeavor—industry, government and voluntary effort,—each of which has a field where it is effective, and into which those workers should go whose interests take them in this direction. To see clearly the fields open and to pick an appropriate one adds much to each worker’s efficiency. Every good cause would gain by such insight. It can also be conceded that the century ahead will be a century of state activity without detracting from what has been said of the importance of voluntary effort and character-building. The urgent reforms are those that alter the environment, which imposes so many maladjustments.

I shall, therefore, outline two programs in one of which the state is the leading agent, in th£ other voluntary effort is demanded.

I.	The first is a program of conservation. Its end is to remove obstacles to a social uplift that the environment or the lack of environment creates. The abolition of poverty, the removal of disease, the upbuilding of health, the redistribution of population and the increase of vocational efficiency are its leading features. In social legislation it is expressed in the measures for,

1.	Industrial stability.

2.	Regularity of employment.

3.	A minimum wage.

4.	Segregation of the physically defective.

5.	The exclusion of disease germs.

6.	Prohibition of child labor.

7.	Efficient schools.

8.	Prolongation of the working period.

Such measures* conserve more than they uplift. Disease, poverty, inefficiency and degeneracy make men miserable, but their absence does not insure evolution, II. Social progress as contrasted with conservation includes problems of

Prosperity.

Conservation.

Health.

Eugenics.

Culture.

Efficiency.

Association.

Philogenetics.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 414 —

In the first group are problems of industry and state regulation. The second depends for its effectiveness not on wealth and environmental improvements, but on personal contracts. Here voluntary action has its place, and those to whom it appeals can find a wide field of effort and enterprise.

In the above table I have used a new word. Many readers doubtless expected philanthropy to have the final place, as about it have clustered the voluntary efforts for the upbuilding of society. Philanthropy, however, does not fit into any related scheme of progress. It represents the crude beginnings of unorganized effort before the ends of social progress were seen. Lovers of mankind were to be found in every age, but effective improvers of men are of a newer generation. Emphasis must therefore be changed from sympathy, pity, and relief to constructive measures of character improvement. Philogenetics brings to the fore the dominating motive for social advance. Evolution, reaching out in every direction, defies definition. It is, however, more growth than conservation, and should be contrasted with the policies of relief and conservation made emphatic by philanthropy.

ON THE AGITATION OF AIR RICH IN CARBON DIOXIDE. —A PROBLEM IN VENTILATION.

By WILLIAM GILBERT ANDERSON, Dr. P. H*., M. D.f Professor and Director, Yale University Gymnasium. New Haven, Conn.

Reprint from the Medical Times, January, 1914.

The increasing interest in ventilation problems has led a number of investigators to study carefully the many factors which must be considered when the purification of housed air is contemplated. Among the findings that have aroused or held the attention of health experts are the general conclusions that carbon dioxide, per se, is of little moment when regarded as a poison, also that air usually considered foul will lose its dangerous effects if agitated by fans. By “foul” is meant the increased percentage CO2, heat and moisture.

The experiments of Dr. Leonard Hill of the London Hospital are widely known, hence they were among those selected for further investigation.

The writer, who devoted one college year to a study of carbon dioxide at the Harvard Medical School, Department of Preventive Medicine, made a number of tests similar to those of Dr. Hill, but did not secure the findings of the London physician.

His studies and experiments further led him to believe that any increase of the percentage of CO2 above the normal amount is unwise and should be avoided. It may be that an increase in the amount of CO2 is merely an index of the poisonous conditions of the atmos-

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 415 —

phere, but after living for weeks in a small air tight cabinet (375 cubic feet, contents), and continually breathing more than the normal amount of carbon dioxide, three parts per 10,000, the results were serious and affected the health of the experimenter. The data relative to this last assertion will be given later. This article has to do only with the special tests of Dr. Hill, a description of which follows:

THE RELATIVE INFLUENCE OF THE HEAT AND CHEMICAL IMPURITY OF CLOSE AIR, BY LEONARD HILL, R. A. ROWLANDS AND H. R. WALKER.*

“Our experimental chamber is air-tight with cubic content of about 3 metres, and is fitted with an electric stove, three electric fans in the roof, and glass windows.

“First type of experiment. Seven students were shut up in the chamber with one of us—in all eight men. No ventilation was allowed. After 44 minutes the dry bulb stood at 87 degrees F., the wet bulb at 83 degrees F. The CO2 had risen to 5.26 per cent. The O2 had fallen to 15.1 per cent. The discomfort felt was great, all were wet with sweat, and the skin of all was flushed. The talking and laughing of the occupants had gradually become less and then ceased.

“On putting on the electric fans and whirling the air in the chamber the relief was immediate and very great, and this in spite of the temperature continuing to rise. On putting off the fans the discomfort returned. The occupants cried out for the fans. No headache or after effects have followed this type of experiment which has been repeated five times.

“Second type of experiment. Two of us have been shut in the chamber, a subject and an observer. The electric heater is used to raise the chamber to about 85 degrees F. wet bulb. The subject inhales through a soda lime tin and exhales through a meter; his pulse frequency, pulmonary ventilation and body temperature are recorded. The putting on of the fans gives complete relief to the feelings of discomfort and lowers the pulse frequency.

“Having proved this the subject then ceased to use the soda lime tin. A bag containing CO2 enough to raise the percentage in the chamber to about 2 per cent is allowed to escape into the chamber, unknown to the subject The sudden increase of CO2 has no influence on the discomfort—it is not sensed, in spite of the increased depth of respiration. The putting on or off of the fans relieves or induces the discomfort as before.”

Below will be found a report of similar tests made by the writer.

The cabinet, about the size of a small closet, was as nearly airtight as it could be made. Artificial CO2 was supplied from cylin-

*Proc. Physiol., Oct., 1910, vol. xli, p. 1.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 416 —

ders. The equipment included two humidifiers, psychrometers, thermometers, electric fans and such apparatus as the research called for.

On the fifteenth day of January, 1912, a test was made with ten persons in the cabinet. It was very cold out of doors, the humidifiers had been at work all the morning and a small amount of artificial carbon dioxide had been slowly escaping up to eleven o'clock when we entered the cabinet.

Dr. A. had been in the room most of the morning but barely noticed the gradual increase of CO2. Dr. R. entered at IQ 145 a. m. and was immediately aware of a change in his respiration. Felt “as though he had been running up stairs."

At 4:30 a. m., eight more persons entered, the temperature was then 83 degrees F., the relative humidity 42, and the CO2 250 parts. Each subject kept a record of pulse rate and respiration and later handed in a report of their feelings and condition.

The gas was at once turned on and permitted to rapidly escape until the percentage was 810 parts in ten thousand (8.10 per cent) or 270 more than the normal amount.

As soon as the general distress was great and the occupants were ready and most willing to hurry from the cabinet, the fan was turned on. The feeling of closeness and warmth was relieved but the dypsnea was not. Suffering from this cause persisted. All were standing, the sense of oppression was such that the women felt as if they “should scream or faint," and the men were quite ready to force open the doors. At 11.51 a. m. the doors were opened and the room immediately emptied. The door was at once closed, and five minutes later Drs. W. A. and A. again entered the cabinet. The CO2 percentage was then 6.70 per cent. This may be accounted for bv the ooening and closing of the doors, which act will soon change the air contents.

Less discomfort was experienced, it seemed as though the two men had regained what corresponds to “second wind."

After leaving the vitiated air the flushed faces, the throbbing temples, the rapid breathing, the sensations of irritability, in most instances disappeared.

We quote from the reports handed in.

Dr. R.—“Dyspnea, slight headache, relief from heat when the air was agitated but no relief from dyspnea; no permanent bad after effects."

Dr. M.—“A very slight headache while in the room and for 30 minutes after, but normal the following day."

Dr. H. L. A.—“At the end of thirty minutes very much depressed, felt weak, dyspnea, headache both sides, parietal, felt crowded, mental depression. When all left the cabinet I experienced

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 417 —

mental and physical relief. Headache lasted three-quarters of an hour.”

Miss. P.—“Dyspnea, headache, depression, suffered with coldness and had slight chills for half an hour after leaving the cabinet. All right in the evening and next day.”

Dr. B.—“First noticed warmth, then dyspnea and flushing of the face, throbbing of the temple arteries later, distress in epigastrium, headache which became worse on leaving the room and lasted all day. Also slight dizziness and slight mental impairment.”

Dr. H.—“Frontal headache, flushed face, some perspiration, symptoms of a cold increased. Following day no bad results in evidence.”

Dr. S.—“Perspiration profuse while in the cabinet, chilly afterwards, dyspnea after about five minutes, sick in the stomach, headache, micturition frequent for four hours. All rest of the day, evening and night head felt full, could not use microscope. Felt well next day when out doors but ‘stuffis!!’ in the laboratory.”

Miss D.—“Had chills and other mental and physical disturbances similar to those mentioned by Miss P.”

Dr. W. G. A.—“After leaving the cabinet there was severe pain in the head, temple and eyes. Some difficulty in seeing and a very evident uneasiness. Walked home, felt nervous. Ate usual light lunch. Attacked by dizziness at 1:15 p. m. (The blind headache of my boyhood). Treated these symptoms and reported at Medical School at 2 p. m. Could not see the figures on the gas apparatus. No after headache but a heavy feeling. Vision normal at 2 130, no return of blindness, but the after effects of poisoning were present until 9:15 p. m.

“When fatigued one particular tooth aches, and certain muscles twitch—biceps, deltoid, etc.—but on this occasion the flexor pollicis twitched for ten minutes and the molar ached or was sensitive for three hours.

“When poisoned by digestive toxics I have blind headaches. When fatigued by overwork I am apprehensive and feel that much is to be accomplished that is not done. The CO2 (?) produced this state of mind. In other words, fatigue of mind and body and CO2 poisoning affect me alike.

“There was no rise in temperature and no chill. There is some slight nose bleeding; this also was in evidence after the week of January 8-13, 1912.

“Slight appendicitis pains January 15th and 16th. This also
— 418 —

occurs when tired. Thirst, dry throat, coughed some on these dates.”

Pulse----	—	Respi	ration—

Name.	Before.	After.	Before.	After.
Dr. R			 96	100	16	20
Dr. Am			 72	90	18	28
Dr. M			 84	100	16	20
Dr. Sch			 92	106	21	26
Dr. S			122	24	34
Dr. W. G. A			 60	90	14	28
Miss P			 72	112	28	30
Miss D			 72	92	20	29
Dr. B					 88	116	20	18
Dr. H			 72	76	16	28

Relative humidity at 11150 o’clock 54 per cent.

CO2 at 11150 o’clock, 8.10 per cent.

CO2 at 12 :oo o’clock, 6.70 per cent (after opening the door).

CO2 at 2 :oo o’clock, .75 per cent (room empty two hours).

CO2 at 4 :oo o’clock, .32 per cent (room not used after 12 noon).

Relative humidity at 4 :oo o’clock, 27 per cent.

Fan started at 11145 o’clock.

The consensus of opinion of the subject was that the fan relieved the unpleasant symptoms for a brief period only when they returned although the air was still being agitated.

The second test of a like character was also made in January, 1912. The cabinet was very warm and close, bright sun but outside air cold. At 11130 the room temperature was 90 degrees F. Relative humidity 28. Artificial carbonic acid was rapidly admitted to the cabinet until there was 701 parts per 10,000 or 234 times the normal amount.

All were suffering from heat, moisture and carbon dioxide. The faces were flushed, the breathing deep and dyspneic, in some cases gasping, all were silent and appeared to be oppressed or apprehensive. The fan was turned on at 12.*0 but brought no relief from dyspnea, although it did relieve the feeling of closeness and oppressive warmth. Miss D. was obliged to leave the cabinet. She was later attacked by "chills.”

The seven persons had been in the room for forty-five minutes and had not only been compelled to breathe the increasing amount of CO2 but also the carbon dioxide from their own lungs.

The relative humidity at the close of the test was 52 per cent.

Ten minutes after the door had been opened the carbon dioxide had dropped to 380 parts.

As the individual report of the tests were similar to those given for the 15th of January we will not repeat them, only give a summary together with the change in pulse rate.

Digitized by Google
— 419 —

Test with seven persons in the cabinet. No special unpleasant symptoms until 12:20. The heat was very noticeable, the perspiration increasing, hands moist, slight temporal headache, attention wavering. Unusual lack of breath and a heavy feeling. The same symptoms as in any case of endurance, such as running, tennis> swimming or mountain climbing, but no nausea.

The most noticeable unpleasant symptoms disappeared almost at once upon leaving the cabinet. ' The fan exerted a mild beneficial effect, but in the case of CO2 rich air it was apparent for but a very few seconds. The breathlessness did not disappear after the fan was turned on. As soon as the fan stopped all the symptoms recurred in more intense form.

The pulse rate increased as did the respiration.

--------Pulse-------

Name.	Before.	After.

Dr. R................................. 86	100

Dr. K................................. 96	92

Dr. H................................. 74	86

Dr. A................................. 80	86

Dr. M................................. 80	100

Dr. An................................ 60	80

Miss B................................ 72	92

On the 24th of February, 1912, five members of the Sophomore Class of the Harvard Medical School acted as subjects. The test was to ascertain the effect of high CO2 temperature and humidity upon the mind and body in still and agitated air, the men to remain in the cabinet one-half hour.

The men entered the cabinet at 2 :oo p. m. (six in all, including Dr. A.). Temperature 88, relative humidity 44, and CO2 .06 per cent. They were impressed by the warmth and the slight “muggy” atmosphere, but in other respects were not affected by the environment. At 2 :o7 four cubic feet of artificial CO2 were liberated slowly until the air content was 124 parts. The men took pulse and respiration before and after the test and made reports which will be found below.

At 2:23, twenty minutes later, the air held 232 parts of CO2, but seemed to affect the men more, as it contained the output from the lungs. Men slightly uneasy and very warm. Fan turned on. It cooled the room, producing body relief, but did not change markedly the slight dispnea referred to by the men.

At 2 125, seven more cubic feet of CO2 were rapidly liberated, raising the air content to 450 parts. Temperature 90°, relative humidity 63 per cent. The men suffered some from “crowd poison,” as shown by their reports. The fan turned on at 2:3s.

It is evident that relief is afforded by agitating the air, but the

Digitized by
— 420 —

forced breathing is not modified to a great extent as the CO2 remains in the room.

Reports from the men. Time, 2 :oo p. m. to 2 135 p. m.:

-----Pulse-----— Respiration—

	Before.	After.	Before.	After.
J. P. B			 102	106	20	23
G. H. G			 84	102	18	18 deep.
WtE.M			 86	92	26	28
H. C			88	24	26
C. F. V			 80	98	18	24
	Remarks.			

J. P. B.—“Dyspnea onset sudden, breathing increasingly deepened, slight fatigue, moderate perspiration. In the last five minutes of the test H2 CO3 tasted on inhalation in nasopharynx. On leaving room the first three inspirations, noticed irritation and odor of ammonia gas; afterwards gave way to more pungent sensations in nasopharynx without any apparent odor, as of ozone, etc. No symptoms, save that of difficult breathing, frequent sighs (one every 5“ 10). Symptoms disappeared within five minutes after returning to normal atmosphere.” (Writer was a chemist before entering the Harvard Medical School.)

G.	H. G.—'Slight headache relieved by the fan. The fan relieved the discomfort from the heat, but not the need of deep breathing.”

W. E. M.—“Feeling of warmth and perspiration which was relieved by the fan. Later the fan gave a feeling of relief from warmth, but the heavy, oppressive feeling with labored breathing was not relieved. Lips became dry and slightly coated. Returning to outer room the feeling at once passed off. The outside air has the odor of ammonia.”

H.	C.—“At end of twenty minutes felt extremely warm and slightly uncomfortable, but breathing normal, slight pain above the right eye. Fan turned on, felt cooler and headche disappeared. Second dose of CO2 caused same symptoms, slight irritation of pharynx *so that I felt like coughing, breathing was deeper, but not markedly increased in number of respirations. Forehead felt clammy but no beads of perspiration. Upon leaving the room the odor was pungent and slightly irritating to the mucous membranes of the nose. Headache disappeared on leaving the room, no feeling of faintness.”

C. F. V.—“Dyspnea and perspiration. Breathing deep and rar>id. respiration decreased to 20 after fan started. Discomfort, which was slightly, relieved after the fan started. Had. no feeling of faintness. Head felt good. I think I had a more comfortable feel-

Digitized by v^ooQle
— A2fl\ —

ing just before I went out than I did five minutes before that time. On leaving the room a peculiar odor was noticed.,,

W. G. A.—“No symptoms except slight dyspnea. Fan relieves the feeling of heat and wetness, but not dyspnea. After these tests a slight sore throat.”

W. G. A. is becoming accustomed to the cabinet air.

One interesting fact has been apparent in these studies, namely, while there has been an odor of closeness after each test, it has not been overpowering and not so disagreeable as we should expect after reading reports of other tests.

CONCLUSIONS.

We have stated elsewhere that the views held by the majority of investigators that heat and humidity and not CO2 are the disturbing features in vitiated air “are distressing in their harmony.” We have made a number of experiments and have come to the conclusion that the CO2 factor is without doubt an important one, if the gas is present in large amounts. It is an undesirable element, insidious in its effects, if habitually and continually breathed in small amounts above the normal percentage.

We spent many hours in the cabinet during the months of January and February, 1912, the temperature varying from 70 to 1200

F., and with never a very high relative rumidity, but in an apparently moist atmosphere. We have experienced much difficulty in raising the relative humidity of the cabinet.

When the air was moist and warm, but contained a low CO2 per cent, the results were distinctly unpleasant and strictly in accordance with conditions described elsewhere. If we added to the above condition carbon dioxide up to 25 or 30 parts we noticed slightly increased disturbing features. We believe that persons may occasionally work in such an atmosphere without distress, but a daily repetition of this mode of living is unhealthy.

We also believe that it is unwise to remain several hours a day in an atmosphere containing twelve or more parts of CO2 even if the temperature is low and the air dry.

The following short test indicates the inability of subjects to appreciate the increase of carbon dioxide, but it does not follow that a daily repetition would leave them quite as free from unpleasant after effects.

On January 5, 1912, Dr. R. dictated to his secretary from n to 12 o’clock. The cabinet was used. Dr. A. was present during the period (three persons in the room for one hour). At 11 o’clock the CO2 was .04 per cent, the relative humiditv, 28 per cent; temperature, 74 F.; at 12 o’clock the CO2 was .38 per cent; relative humidity, 36 per cent; temperature, 77 :q F.

Aside from a tendency to yawn, sigh, stretch the muscles, there
— 422 —

were no unpleasant symptoms. Dr. A. complained of being thirsty with dry throat. The day was cold. As the result of a number of observations we find that an individual will raise the CO2 per cent in the cabinet ten parts in one hour.

It has often lien stated that “The unpleasant effects of remaining in a hot, moist, CO2 rich atmosphere are due entirely to the heat and moisture,, and not to the carbon dioxide. Agitating the air will relieve the symptoms and ward off danger even if persons continue to remain in the vitiated air.”

Our tests have shown that the agitated air does relieve, for a short time only, the unpleasant symptoms, but we do not believe that the danger is obviated by the use of fans if the toxic conditions are permitted to remain.

THE EFFECT OF ALTITUDE ON HEALTH.

By ALFRED J. RIDGES, M. D., Salt Lake City, Utah.

All that is definitely known about the effects of altitude on the human body might be recorded in a very small volume. There have been vague notions and general impressions taken for granted without careful investigation; but when these are subjected to keener analysis, we find that these popular notions are not well founded in many instances.

That the physical factors of climate and their relations to life are modified by altitude we know. Atmospheric pressure and altitude are, of course, closely related; and winds, which owe their origin primarily to fluctuations in the barometric pressure brought about by unequal heating of the earth's surface, are also modified extensively by the variations in humidity, which is again closely related to altitude.

The absorption of the sun's heat by the atmosphere depends almost altogether upon the watery vapor and the impurities suspended in it. These elements, especially the latter, decrease as the altitude increases. Consequently, air temperature decreases in intensity as we ascend above the sea-level; humidity and air impurities decrease also; and these factors, aside from their bearing on winds and other climatic variations, have some effect on human life.

We may very well approach the subject from the standpoints of physiology and pathology.

First, then:

Physiologic influence of altitude.—We know that the respiratory processes demand a certain oxygen pressure in the air, and that the absorption of oxygen by the blood depends upon the partial pressure of oxygen in the air without any relation to the pressure of the nitrogen. At sea-level, the barometric pressure is 760 mm. of mer-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 423 —

cury. Of this, one-fifth, or about 152 mm., is the pressure of the oxygen. Experiments on the blood of the cow and the dog have shown that when the oxygen pressure falls to 60 mm., the gas ceases to be absorbed but begins to be given off. The oxygen pressure is 60 mm. when the barometer registers 300 mm. of mercury. This corresponds to an altitude of about 17,000 feet.

The vital effects of ascent above sea-level are really felt at a much lower level than this, however, and do not seem to be due to the failure of oxygen supply.

Pathological effects of altitude.—Mountain-climbers describe a very peculiar acute disorder, shown by disturbances of the cardiac, respiratory, and gastric functions, when they ascend to about 10,000 feet. The breathing becomes difficult; there is weakness of the legs; the movements of the heart are painfully felt; there is faintness and nausea and dizziness; eating becomes impossible; drowsiness and confused mental activity follow; there is swelling of the veins of the face, arms, and hands; and then bleeding from the eyes, nose, mouth, and bronchi, with severe headaches and coldness of the extremities. These symptoms all abate when one rests in a recumbent position. It has been said that oxygen inhalation helps to restore the normal condition.

This mountain sickness has been a favorite field for sneculation. It was called Acapnia by Mosso, who showed that it is due to the decrease of CO2 in the blood, caused by an over aeration of the tissues. We may easily produce the typical effects by vigorous exercise and rapid breathing. About three years ago, Henderson, of Yale, aroused great interest when he stated that mountain sickness and surgical shock are the same thing in the final analysis, both being due to a lowered CO2 content of the blood. And he produced the condition of shock by forced breathing and by opening the abdomen of animals, exposing the mesentery and passing a current of warm, moist air over it, by which method the CO2 in the blood was much decreased.

It seems to be generally believed now that mountain sickness is not due to any important change in the oxygen content of the blood, or even to any serious deficiency of CO2; but it is a temporary derangement of the vascular mechanism and faulty circulation of the blood to the vital centers. Newcomers to an altitude of one mile or more complain of mild symptoms, which quickly disappear. Little or nothing is heard of mountain sickness in its extreme forms, at least, in the high altitudes of Colorado; for Leadville is a thriving city more than 10,000 feet above sea-level; and thousands of people annually ascend Pike’s Peak to an elevation of more than 14,000 feet.

The blood is capable of absorbing all the oxygen that the body

Digitized by
— 424 —

needs at partial pressures far lower than man is ever called upon to endure. But our physiologic mechanism is adjusted to work under a limited range of atmospheric pressure, and the disturbances reported are chiefly those of a vascular apparatus suddenly removed from a lower to a higher altitude.

It is admitted that rates of pulse and respiration are increased for a time after one removes to a higher altitude, but these are gradually adjusted to the new conditions. The chest and its power of expansion increase with altitude. Gardiner and Hoagland weighed and measured one thousand children at Colorado Springs and compared the findings with those from a similar number of children in St. Louis. It was found that the children from the mountains had greater girth of chest, and possessed greater weight and height. Races living in mountainous parts are generally possessed of greater chest capacity than those living in low countries. It would seem that greater expansive power is required for those who breathe the rarer air.

With respect to the composition of the blood, all observers agree that there is an increase of the cellular elements, as found by the ordinary blood- counting methods, in those who go to higher altitudes. In Peru, Viault found an increase in the red cells to 8,000,000 from 5,000,000, in ascending to 14,000 feet. This occurred in about three weeks. Professor Zuntz, by prolonged observations in the Alps, proved beyond all doubt that there is a permanent increase in the number of the blood cells following residence in high altitudes.

Following along these lines, Webb, of Colorado Springs, undertook to show that there is an independent increase of the number of the white cells of the blood in those who go to higher levels. And he believes that this is due to some stimulation of bone marrow by high-pressure conditions, and that such is favorable to the treatment of tuberculosis. Since it is so well known that the leucocytes play the chief part in the fight against the tubercle bacillus in the body, it is at once evident that anything which can increase the number and efficiency of these little soldiers is greatly to be desired. Webb’s contention does not seem, however, to be very well founded.

As to the conditions of blood pressure in high altitudes, there is little to be said. There seems to be a temporary rise in those who climb mountains or ascend in balloons; but this is soon adjusted. Mosso found that his blood pressure was the same at Mount Rosa,

14,000	feet, as it was at Turin. Janeway and Crile both found that blood pressure fell when animals were placed in chambers where the barometric pressure was lowered; and vice versa.

It seems fair to conclude, therefore, that the permanent effects of changing one’s altitude are not so great as has been generally supposed.

Digitized by i^-ooQle