MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	MAY, 1930	No.	387

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pina, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered, as second-class mailer October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

♦-------------------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint^

' ■ - ♦

PLAY, THE BUSINESS OF CHILDHOOD*

By Weaver Pangbum

“—that youth shall not die and its zest and enthusiasm grow pale.”

—G. Stanley HaU

The main business of childhood is play. Whether in the physical, mental, or moral life, lessons valuable to adults learned in youth are mostly by-products of play, though some are direct products of home and school. The best preparation for adult life is a richly lived childhood.

Of course many persons are blind to this fact, especially those who missed the discipline of recreation in their own childhood. The self-made business man or the farmer who through early working became a drudge before he had rounded out his boyhood, may thank God that he learned hard work when young.

‘Reprint from The American Child

Digitized by VjOOQle
46

But in his leisure hours today, he is helplessly inept away from the office or farm. Now when he wants to play, he does not know how. His chickens have come home to roost. They will come.

The intrusion of drudgery on the rightful play life of preadolescence and adolescence upsets the child’s logical growth. It mars childhood. It often blights adult life in two ways: by blocking the chance for consistent progress in making a living and by abruptly halting training for the use of leisure.

In this day of machines and the short work day, absence of training for a job is hardly as serious as not learning the constructive use of leisure. A Robot can earn a living feeding a machine in seven or eight hours out of every twenty-four, but what can he do with the rest of his time? Nicholas Murray Butler has said that for every young man who needs training for a vocation, there are a hundred who need training in use of leisure.

By the grace of God and uncannily ingenious machines, the United States is an easy place in which to earn a living. If it fails to become a place in which people can and will use their abundant spare time intelligently and fruitfully, how far short we shall fall of becoming a great people!

Here is a boy of fourteen. He is going to leave school to get a job. Let us stand near to look hard at him and to project him into the next two years.

His body is growing rapidly and is plastic. He is awkward but fond of team games calling for cooperation and competition. He likes to run with the pack, his gang. He has streaks of laziness and emotional instability. In him is a lack of judgment combined with forwardness; he is hard to control. Sensitive to ridicule, he is yet given to freakishness and pranks. He has great love of adventure, admiration for physical prowess, and worship for his heroes.

Wanderlust comes on the lad now and then. He wants to roam, to explore. He has great interest in nature, especially in the training of animals. But the passion to belong is the dominant interest in this youth who tomorrow will enter a cotton mill, start running errands or plod the beet field. He is at the age of extreme loyalty.

Of course he will miss his crowd’s baseball and football games those occasions when the other boys will learn to lose themselves in their passion for the team’s victory. In the bickerings, the legislation from which the other boys will learn fair play and abiding by the rules, he will be absent. While other boys through their games are learning to think and feel in terms of a personality larger than their own—learning to be patriots—he will be going through a monotonous round of tiresome work that may lead nowhere.

While at their contests under sympathetic leadership his former pals are learning aggressiveness, ambition, courage, leadership, perseverance, initiative and motor control, he will be learn-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
47

ing disillusionment. The bodies of other boys will be developing symmetrically in athletics, swimming and winter sports, while his plastic body will probably develop excessively large major muscles, minor muscles remaining undeveloped, or vice versa.

These things a boy cannot forsee. He cannot be expected to.

Where, in drudgery, can the boy satisfy the thirst for adventure, the wanderlust, that others satisfy in the hikes and camping activities of Scouting and similar movements? Must he get his heroic thrills in illicit adventure in back alleys and dives, at petty gambling and petty thieving, in raiding apple carts and breaking store windows? Or, shall a dead level of suppressed longing be his portion? At a time in his boy’s life when he is constantly trying to avoid the humdrum of routine existence, he will be thrown continuously into a deadly round of wrapping packages or making brushes.

And what of his normal adolescent dreams of greatness, his reveries, his desire to ex])eriment. to observe? He will lose most of the innumerable activities ana impressions his more fortunate contemporaries enjoy in organized and free play. A minor part in a dramatic performance might encourage a taste, even a talent for dramatic expression that could lead him to achievement as a director of dramatics as it did a Seattle playground boy. A handcraft contest might draw out unsuspected skill in him as it did in the crap shooter who won a model airplane contest. For him a harmonica band or ukelele club might be the stepping-stone to worth-while musical appreciation or even achievement.

Will this boy find his special talent in unending monotonous rows of sugar beets?

If he is to arrive at adulthood a member of the army of unsettled casual labor or of the unemployable, with his physical development retarded or with actual deformities, and untrained in the arts of recreation, will he not beat futilely at the doors of real life? Will he not some day in his despair point the finger of accusation at society and say, "I asked for bread and you gave me a stone”?

The girl’s case is similar to the boy’s. Do her fantasies come true in the canning factory? To what fine purpose does she invite lateral curvature of the spine or flat feet? Can she enjoy the rhythm of the dance, tennis, canoeing, when she gets , home from nine or ten hours of back-breaking labor? Are the Camp Fire and Girl Scout activities, with all their fine training in homemaking and citizenship, for her?

The little boy and girl who come from school only to expend their play time in working in a store or in farm drudgery are also being robbed of their just inheritance.

It is true that many children in city and country would, if spared from drudgery, find inadequate recreation facilities and leadership in their communities. The answer to that problem is that the community should fill the need for these opportunities. At any rate, the children would be free.

Digitized by
48

The plastic, immature child who trips unconcernedly from the school-room into the drudgery of a blind alley job, is like a man striding cheerfully down a road into an ambush. Soon a budding personality, which through wisely led leisure time activities might have had fresh avenues of self-expression opened to it, is befogged in dull monotony. The worst of drudgery is not that it discourages the child’s intelligence and impairs his physique. It often does something to his spirit.

And if a boy or girl faces life with a bewildered, broken, defeated spirit—well, that is an unjust way to start. Shall we not give every child his chance?

THE LEISURE OF TOMORROW*

Food, clothing, shelter, tools, temples, schools, transportation —these has man sought through the centimes. And now comes leisure, the fulfilment of an ancient longing. Within a generation the average working day has been reduced from ten hours to eight hours and the forces which have brought that change are only beginning to make themselves felt. A work period of six hours a day, five days a week, forty-eight weeks a year for the masses is a possibility by 1940. The factors which point in that direction interact upon each other so that each gain at one point means gains at several other points. Among these factors are the lifting influence of universal education; the development of automatic machinery; scientific factory management; the reduction of ill health and disease; changes in home occupations which send women into cffice, shop, and factory; the elimination of parasitic industries such as the liquor business; and the reduction of warmaking activities.

From his own observation anyone can see how each of these factors is at work. All about us we see machines which take the place of scores or hundreds, or even thousands of men. From 1919 to 1927 the number of wage earners in manufacturing plants in the United States actually decreased 2.9 percent while production in these plants increased 46.5 percent. Two percent fewer people produced 46 percent more goods. The total horsepower in all electric motors in all manufacturing plants in the United States in 1899 was 492,036 and in 1915 it was 30,360,026. New power is being developed rapidly. Increased leisure is inescapable.

And what shall man do with this great gift? Shall he use his new found freedom to give reign to his lower impulses and to become the slave of commercialized, mechanized entertainment? Or shall he meet the new day eager to make this latest gift another stepping-stone?

Increasing leisure in the midst of modem opportunity is a profound challenge to the intelligence of the race. It comes with

Reprinted from The Journal of the National Education association, January, 1930.

Digitized by v^ooQle
49

peculiar force to those engaged in education. The schools have taught man to respect the laws of his being and to live in harmony with other men. They have taught him to work. Can they teach him to play? Play! The very word has a confused meaning. Joseph Lee, the delightful philosopher of the recreation movement, points out that we really have no word for the play of grownups. We have been wont to regard play as something use-less—an indulgence for children. But play to the child is life and its equivalent for the grownup is creative art. There you have the real vision of what leisure might mean— e ery man and woman freed for that eager pursuit of truth, goodness, and beauty which we associate with the gardener, the designer, the architect, the sculptor, the composer, the writer, the singer, the teacher, the librarian, and the other creative workers of the world. Our very labor becomes art; the old dualism between liberal and practical education is healed by a wider concept that includes them both. What new heights may the race not reach if one generation of teachers can guide one generation of children to meet the challenge of leisure with eager search for the higher values.

Leisure wisely used will add something to every phase of life. Let each of us ask himself what the extra hours might contribute to the objectives of education and life—health, home, learning, citizenship, vocation, avocation, and character.

Health is not pills and cures. It is positive not negative. It is buoyant, forward-looking. Who has not seen the sick made well by the discovery of a compelling purpose? For those who are sick or feeble the extra hours will mean a lighter load—a new chance to establish balance between energy created and energy spent. The world of tomorrow will demand a standard of maintained physical, mental, and emotional efficiency higher than anything hitherto conceived. The speed and power of modern life means death to the inefficient.

The complicated organization of modem work makes absence, irregularity, and low efficiency a detriment not only to ones self but to the whole organization of which he is a part. Today’s loss from disease and ill health runs literally into the tens of billions annually, not to mention the greater loss in happiness. Tomorrow’s world calls for a stream of life that is strong and certain. Leisure may mean turning regularly to the life-giving forces of nature—to the sun, the air, the hills, and the sea.

Home is not merely a place to indulge appetites, rear children, and to establish economic security. It is a community of enterprise, understanding, fellowship, and happiness—a garden of growth. It cannot be these things in the highest sense without periods of common life, of talking together, reading together, meditating together. Upon the perfection of this little community the well-being of the larger communities depends. We need always to remember that the purpose of education is life, that the purpose of industry is life, that the purpose of religion is life, that the purpose of government is life, and that in the home, life

Digitized by v^ooQle
50

reaches its finest growth. Let us teach the children, let us ourselves learn to use the extra hours of tomorrow for the improvement of the basic institution of civilization.

Learning is no longer regarded as merely childish drill in the symbols of knowledge. It is creative living in accordance with knowledge. It is the development of new knowledge in the very setting of our daily lives. Already America has extended popular education to the highest point ever reached. In 1920 there were two million youth in our high schools. Within less than a decade we have added three million more, the greatest mobilization of all history, giving a great army of young people five million strong, seeking the best education ever given to the masses. The high school of tomorrow will be better still. It will become literally a people’s college. Libraries will multiply. The library of tomorrow will build its book collections around the daily needs of the people. There will be specialists to advise readers. There will be field workers to talk over in homes and schools the book needs of individuals and to make plans for their reading. Collections of small books will be made up for people to carry in their autos and airplanes. We shall learn to use the radio to instruct as well as to entertain.

Psychologists now teach that one is never too old to learn, that ages 25-45 are superior to childhood in ability to learn. Millions have mastered the complicated task of driving autos. Millions tomorrow will fly planes, traveling about the entire earth as they now move about their neighborhoods. Already a great automobile industry has allied itself with the radio industry. Autos and planes are to be so equipped as to keep us in touch with the world of thought everywhere. The lower schools, freed from the duty of cramming all knowledge into childish heads in a few years, can give more attention to the spirit of learning and the technics of learning, so that the school will create with increasing certainty the appetite for learning as one of the moving forces of a long, happy, and intelligent life.

Citizenship in the past, except in times of war, has been largely a negative virtue. Men have been considered good citizens, not so much because of what they did as because of what they refrained from doing. The new age demands a new view of citizenship, which has been ably stated by L. P Jacks, the great English philosopher, in his inspiring volume Constructive Citizenship and by Benton MacKaye in The New Exploration. The new ideal is this: Until now the institutions of civilized life have been largely a matter of chance or accident. Tomorrow faces the challenge of a planned life not only for the individual but for the community, the state, the nation, and the world. Cities will not be allowed to grow up wretched and haphazard and ugly. Homes will not be crowded amid noise and filth. The beauty of nature will be preserved and extended. Homes and schools will be surrounded by parks and open spaces. Traffic and noise will be isolated. Highways will be lined with beautiful shrubs and trees. Unsightly shops and stations will be hid-

Digitized by Google
51

den. Likewise there will be a steady effort to improve the law, to improve medicine, to better education, to perfect government, and to correlate all of these in the interest of wholesome happy living. The citizen of tomorrow will enjoy the increasing fruits of skill, trusteeship or loyalty, and the scientific method.

Vocations tomorrow will range from the routine tending of automatic machines to the highest forms of creative design and the cultivation of growing thingk The monotony of machine-facture will be counteracted during leisure by activities which give variety, freedom, fresh air, sunshine, and widened interests. The masses of men must be given new wants and new tasks. In proportion as intelligence and skill are cumulated in the machines that do our wqrk we shall need increased opportunity in our leisure to express our intelligence and develop skill. As L. P. Jacks points out both play and work have this element of skill in common and the hope of nobler workmanship lies in the skills which increasing leisure may foster. Perhaps during leisure we shall achieve the dream of Kahlil Gibran in The Prophet:

And I say that life is indeed darkness save when there is urge, And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge,

And all knowledge is vain save when there is work.

And all work is empty save when there is love,

And when you work with love you bind yourself to yourself, and to one another, and to God.

Avocations! What can leisure do for leisure? For most of us the spare hours have been so few as to make difficult any plan for their systematic use. With the coming of larger leisure, avocations which have been the joy of a limited class may become the privilege of the many. One will grow roses, another paint pictures, another design houses, another plan cities, another write verse; many will study and read in an effort to capture the nobler asid wider vistas which are the zest of intellectual life. Perhaps all of us will have more time for travel, for companionship, and for the beauty that surrounds our daily lives. Perhaps we shall realize the vision Stevenson gives in The Celestial Surgeon:

If I have faltered more or less In my great task of happiness;

If I have moved among my race And shown no glorious morning face;

If beams from happy human eyes Have moved me not; if morning skies,

Books, and my food, and summer rain Knocked on my sullen heart in vain—

Lord, thy most pointed pleasure take,

And stab my spirit broad awake;

Or Lord, if too obdurate I,

Choose Thou, before that spirit die,

A piercing pain, a killing sin,

And to my dead heart run them in.

Digitized by LjOOQle
52

Character is the supreme value and the supreme achievement. Fine character implies truth, goodness, beauty, and growth. It is the balance one strikes with all the values and activities of life. We think of character as expressing itself in play, in work, and in our relations with others. It reaches its highest perfection in the riper years of life. The leisure of tomorrow may weaken character by releasing purposeless men and women from the restraining force of work, or it may ennoble character through freedom to pursue the nobler ends which each individual sets for his own life. May life not take on a new meaning, a new eagerness, as suggested by James in his revealing essay, What Makes a Life Significant?

To character, the leisure of tomorrow, may mean a new center of gravity—even as Copernicus, the Polish astronomer, in 1543 gave the human mind a new challenge by announcing that the sun and not the earth is the center of the universe. All through the ages man has struggled for power. Now that power is his in abundance it becomes plain that light is a higher value. Will not the center of gravity shift from “the struggle for power, with its mean passions, its monstrous illusions, and its contemptible ideals to the struggle for light, with its wide fellowship and its high enthusiasm?” Perhaps the leisure of tomorrow will bring men and women everywhere to ask, What is true? What is good? What is beautiful? What is right?

This consideration of leisure in relation to the seven objectives —which anyone may pursue further for himself—suggests the magnitude of the problem. The wise use of leisure is not coming overnight. Big movements are slow movements but there is certainty in their very bigness. They roll on like mighty tides. Big movements such as the enlisting of the teaching profession to work on the problems of education and the awakening of the whole people to the importance of leisure will endure because they touch the heart of life.

—J. E. M.

MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD*

C. M. Hincks, M. B.

Medical Director of the Canadian National Committee for Mental Hygiene

The subject—“Mental Hygiene of Childhood”-—is of more than passing interest to psychiatry and to general medicine. Indeed, a number of our recognized leaders are of the opinion that attention to the mental health of children constitutes one of the most significant developments in medicine during the last twenty-five years. Shortly before his death two years ago, Professor Kraepelin of Munich—one of the greatest psychiatrists of our

‘Address delivered to the Ontario Neuro-Psychiatric Association, Whitby, Canada.

Digitized by Google
53

time—predicted the ultimate control of mental maladies and said that the next great advance, in his opinion, would be in the mental hygiene of childhood.

It ipay be asked—what is the scope of the mental hygiene programme for children? What are the problems that face this phase of psychiatric endeavour? In answer to such questions it can be said that there are two main divisions to an adequate programme. The first division takes cognizance of children who have departed from the paths of mental ^health—children who are now psychiatric problems. Belonging to this group are the mentally retarded, psychotics, psychoneurotics, psychopaths, emotionally unstable and those who in one way and another are distinctly out of harmony with themselves and maladjusted to their environment. The mental hygiene task, in connection with these so called problem children, consists in diagnosis and elucidation, and treatment. The second great division of the mental hygiene programme for children does not place its emphasis on those who deviate from the normal, but takes into consideration all children. In this connection the dominant aim is the prevention of mental and nervous maladjustments and the conservation of mental health.

There will be presented a brief outline of activities for children who deviate from the normal—activities related to the therapeutic phase of a mental hygiene programme.

One great group demanding attention consists of those who are retarded mentally. Two per cent of all children in school attendance have intelligence quotients of 75 or less and, from the school standpoint, can be classified as mental defectives. Mental hygiene requirements for this group include diagnosis at as early an age as possible, training in accordance with individual needs and community supervision. The public school system is called upon to make the main provision for this group—provision in the way of special classes and vocational schools. Ten per cent of the worst cases, however, require the advantages of a residential training school where they can be supervised twenty-four hours a day. These latter cases include idiots and imbeciles—those who are lowest in mental equipment—together with higher grade types who require institutional care because of unsatisfactory home conditions.

In addition to mental defectives there is a still larger group of retarded children requiring mental hygiene attention. I refer to those who are designated as dull normals. They possess intelligence quotients of less than 90 but above 75. They are midway between average children and defective children. They constitute 15 to 20 per cent of the school population. Under present educational arrangements they do not get further as a rule than half way through the public school, and because of the lack of an educational programme suited to their needs, they are ill-prepared for citizenship. These dull normals often become social problems in the way of dependency and delinquency. They are a

Digitized by <^.ooQle
54

great challenge to mental hygiene and to those in charge of educational arrangements.

Mental hygiene must also give attention to the psychotic, the psychoneurotic, the psychopathic and the maladjusted.

It is the function of child guidance clinics to make a thorough study of all problem children referred. There is taken into account family history, developmental history and the home and school situation. Indeed an attempt is made to discover the factors that are responsible for the genesis of the problems presented. When the needed facts have been unearthed, the clinic is in a position to prescribe treatment and follow-up activities are ensured through the agency of social workers.

These clinics have demonstrated their ability to deal effectively with problem children wherein bad habit formation is the chief factor and wherein intelligent co-operation can be secured from parents. One clinic in Canada specializing in children who are presumed to be pre-psychotic or psychotic in the early stages has achieved encouraging results. The director of this clinic states that in a considerable number of cases it seems to be possible to re-direct the interests and activities of those with definite psychiatric trends and to postpone or even actually ward off an eventual breakdown.

The child guidance clinic seems destined to play an increasingly important role in the mental hygiene programme. At the present time it is the most practical instrument we possess in dealing with behaviour problems and in heading off serious mental disorders.

Before leaving the question of clinics, may I say that many European psychiatrists are of the belief that outpatient mental hygiene clinics for children should have available bed accommodation to make possible the continued observation of certain cases. Such bed accommodation is found in the clinics in Berlin and Zurich and arrangements are now being made for this facility at the Maudsley Hospital, London.

With this brief reference to the therapeutic phase of a mental hygiene programme attention will now be directed to a consideration of activities for the prevention of mental disabilities and the conservation of mental health.

The need for prevention is emphasized by a review of such facts as the following. More than four per cent of all children in school attendance in Canada will become afflicted sooner or later, in the absence of preventive measures, with the more serious types of mental disturbance and will require treatment in mental hospitals. A larger proportion of our children will enter mental hospitals as patients than will graduate from universities. A much greater percentage will become the victims of milder, but nevertheless crippling, forms of mental disturbance. It is evident, therefore, that mental hygiene must devise if possible a preventive programme.

In approaching this question of prevention, we must ask ourselves if we possess knowledge that can put to account in a work-

Digitized by (^ooQLe
55

ing programme and, if we do not possess the requisite knowledge, how can we conduct research that will lead to enlightenment?

We have at least one source of valuable data. We have the developmental histories of individuals who have become psychotic and psychoneurotic. Many of these histories reveal unfavourable factors that were operative during childhood and they reveal mistakes in upbringing. They reveal unhealthy trends that might have been sidetracked. We can certainly utilize such information in avoiding mistakes in rearing the present generation of children.

There is another way to add to our knowledge. We can study through direct observation how children develop, and if we conduct observations for many years with a considerable body of children, we can discover the factors that lead to mental abnormality and the factors that tend to conserve mental health. This is a method that has been employed for five years in Toronto, involving more than 600 children.

While continuing research will be needed, I think it is true nevertheless that we now possess a sufficient body of knowledge to warrant the undertaking of actual preventive work. And, indeed, a beginning has been made in this direction through the education of parents and teachers in the theories and principles underlying sound mental hygiene child guidance.

In parent and teacher education there are stressed the principles involved in habit formation; the way in which healthy habits of sleeping, eating, elimination, play and work can be fostered; the factors that contribute to independence and self reliance; a discussion of the fears of childhood, of sex education, of inferiority complex formations; the need for the early socialization of the child with healthy relations to other children and to elders. The various stages of child development are discussed from infancy through the school years to adolescence and adulthood. Mental hygiene problems appearing at these age levels are dwelt upon. Unhealthy types of behaviour and mental activity receive attention as, for example, temper tantrums, excessive play of imagination, undue sensitiveness, the tendency to live aloof from other children and so on.

Since parental and teacher attitudes play an enormous part in shaping the environment of children, an attempt is made to alter these attitudes when they are detrimental to child development. For example, over-solicitous parents, domineering parents and neurotic parents affect child life adversely. An endeavour is made to modiJfy the reaction of such parents.

Further reference will not be made to the preventive aspects of a mental hygiene programme. The point should be stressed, however, that education constitutes its central element.

Future developments in the whole field of the mental hygiene of childhood will depend upon research, the application of the knowledge we now possess, the leadership of psychiatrists and physicians and the active co-operation of parents and teachers.

Digitized by kjOOQle
56

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF EDUCATION.

To celebrate the dedication of its new building, a national conference was held at New York University on February 27th, 28th and March first during which many problems were discussed that should be of great interest to all teachers. All addresses have been gathered in a copyrighted book that may be had at the New York University Book Store, Washington Square, New York City. In the following we present the addresses given in the Health and Physical Education Section of the conference, as furnished by the Bureau of Public Information.

AN INTERPRETATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Jay B. Nash, Ph. D.

Is physical education really “physical” or is it “mental” as well? The word physical has been in the past a great handicap to the entire profession because of the influences of old philosophies such as asceticism, scholasticism and puritanism.

Physical education activities are in fact total body activities because in these activities there is a large amount of activity with the large muscles as well as intensive activity in the neural mechanism.

The activity drive is the dynamo of life. Activity is satisfying. When an organism is no longer curious, is no longer interested in new activities, it is dead to all intents and purposes regardless of how many years it may actually exist. This activity drive is hereditary but the results of the drive can to a certain extent be controlled by leadership.

Physical education contributes in four ways to the general aims of education.

Organic Development. By means of big muscle activity it is possible to build in an individual organic power. This might be called by some vitality or the ability to resist fatigue. This is built in no other way than by muscular activity. If health is the result there must be favorable conditions. In other words, there must be no devitalizing drains either from the physiological side or the emotional side and the individual must nave acquired proper nutritive habits.

Impulsive Development. Impulsive development refers to the springs of action, namely, the attitudes, emotions and feelings which promote action. In a democracy these impulses must be of a different type than in an autocracy. People must want to live together cooperatively. Impulses for such activity are the foundation for impulses which will equip one to live in a democracy or aid in the face to face group life of childhood. To a large extent this means in the play or game life.

Menti-motor Development. Through physical education activities the body acquires a menti-motor integration. This integration is at the foundation of posture, poise, ability to instantaneous action.

Digitized by

Google
57

Interpretive Development. Through participation in physical education activities, especially in early childhood, the symbols are learned which the child uses later on in his imaginative or reflective thinking.

In order to prescribe activities which are necessary for the individual much research must be done in studying people. We must find out what people need. We must find out what the ultimate capacity of an individual is. We must find out how near they have approached that capacity and then we must study activities in order to help individuals acquire this ultimate capacity whether it be in organic development, impulsive development, menti-motor development or interpretive development. The individual is one. Behavior is one thing. It is an integration of the living mechanism. In this total behavior of the individual are elements which depend upon physiological processes and other elements which depend upon emotional processes. Physical education activities offer opportunities for this total body development, physiological and emotional, and hence these activities assume great importance In the education of an individual which is meant to give fullness of life.

THE ONENESS OF MIND AND BODY

L. Voeburgh Lyons, M. D.

I do not believe that mind and body are actually one any more than I believe that strength and muscle are actually identical. A common view is that matter is only one of the non-essentials of a great spiritual reality. To me there is much logic in this but little common sense. I am prepared to admit that this may be so in theory but in practice I shall maintain that the existent of an external world is sufficiently probable to afford a basis for rational action.

A definition of dualism is exceedingly difficult due to the several thousand varieties which are presented. A common factor to all these facts is the belief that the effects seen in this universe have their causes partially or totally somewhere else. Science does not find it necessary to suppose the existence of any other realm than the physical universe in which we find ourselves and it believes that the effects seen here have their causes here. Science derives its authority from its verifiability. A new discovery may throw previous conclusions into discard but it does not upset science itself. Science still has much to explain and every field of human investigation is bristling with problems which cannot truthfully be explained by didactically statiug that a problem is unexplainable or by being a stand-patter, one who stands his ground firmly long after he has no ground left on which to stand. Professor Spaulding describes the scientists as trying to imprison humanity between two great walls, heredity and environment, thus making them poor, helpless mortals, the

Digitized by <^.oc>Qle
58

defenseless products of various converging causal lines of forces, implying that he will have no less than to be an omnipotent immortal in order to scale the walls as he desires. He entertains hope of somewhere, somehow dodging the rules of the game and slipping into a playground that is as boundless as his yearnings and as free as his imagination. But liberty is at best a relative thing and imagination itself is rigidly limited by the ability of a material brain to elaborate a finite number of previously recorded experiences. We cannot imagine anything except in terms of what we already know.

The basis of dualism lies in a desire to give an objective reality to pleasant subjective states. Modem psychology calls this an escape mechanism and the concept of full expression in other worlds provides an emotional satisfaction obtained from the imaginary escape from the irritations of the present world. History of human thought shows that by degrees men have escaped from dualistic concepts as their knowledge has increased. This is particularly true in the natural phenomena but because knowledge of the brain is as yet partial most of humanity still holds dualistic conceptions about it. But it is necessary that sooner or later the public know about the modem conceptions of brain and science. It, like every other activity, is dependent upon public good will or at least tolerance.

What is the scientific attitude towards mind? Matter of fact scientists do not bother much about the term for it is impossible to estimate precisely. Without measurement there can be no precision and without precision there can be no science. The determination of the parts of the body which are responsible for behavior is found by noting alterations in conduct when there have been gross anatomical or subtle chemical lesions in various structures. To say that personality comes from some other world only to return when the body perishes seems as sensible as to say that boiling comes to water from purgatory only to return as soon as the water cools. Function is just as dependent upon structure in man as it is in an automobile. Man is capable of an infinitely greater number of responses because he is infinitely more complex. It at once becomes evident that the animals with simple nervous systems act in a simple manner and that increasing educability runs parallel with increasing complexity of structure. In a growing human infant the ability to learn new acts keeps pace with but does not run ahead of the developing nervous system. In many of the deviations from normal behavior, called insanity, structural defects can be demonstrated. While it is true that there are psychoses in which no organic basis has yet been discovered there is every indication that subsequent investigations will indicate a structural basis. Excepting practicability as a criteria there are many reasons for thinking that society would be better off if it discarded dualistic attitudes. Morons are morons because they have not enough brain and not because they are morally perverse. Thinking is a polyesthetic synthesis—an integration of sensory impressions. Enlarge a child’s experiences

Digitized by

Google
59

and you increase his thought capacity. Thoughts do not come from nowhere. The greater the number of your senses that you develop the greater will be your grasp of your environment and hence the greater your ability to cope with it, The elimination of the dualistic concept will assist greatly in our ethical interpretations and in the evaluation of behavior according to these standards. At the present time our criminal code is based upon the alleged ability of an individual to chocse between right and wrong, in which we punish those who choose the wrong path, a code of retaliation rather than a system of correction and a method of prevention.

Science is bringing to us an increasing knowledge of the inevitable foundation of behavior in neuronic connections. Dualism tends to turn the effective trend towards another place. John Dewey’maintains that ideas are worthless except as they pass into actions which have some direct effect on the external world. Stated in neurological terms—ingoing impulses might just as well have never gone into the central nervous system if they eventually give rise to outgoing impulses.

The human race has been on this planet for quite a while. By slow degrees man is learning to conquer his environment. His greatest aid has been his central nervous system. It has helped him, but it has also tricked him. For centuries he has been unable to distinguish between things real and things imagined. The battle is not yet over. The champions of things imagined are still in the saddle in many places. But their power is weakening, and that is encouragement. Meanwhile the process of discovering real things goes on.

THE LIVING ORGANISM, AN ADAPTABLE MACHINE

Edward G. Schneider, Ph. D.

The effects of exercise on the various organs and structure of the body are being studied by the anatomist, histologist, physicist, geneticist and biologist as never before. Modern physiology is concerned with the activities of the individual as a whole.

The human body is much more complex than any man-made machine but it is the proper integration of its working units that make it smooth running. The chief difference between the animal body and a man-made machine is the ability to adjust in response to stimuli. The internal environment of our bodies remains practically unchanged in relation to external conditions. This power of adaptation can be increased by training.

Adaptation is not limited nor guided by blind chance. Heredity may determine its upper and lower limits but between these there are many points on the scale and adaptation is primarily an active process. Physical education provides conditions that tend to modify the human machine as they affect its internal environment. The blood and the lymph compose the internal

Digitized by Google
60

environment of the body. Recent experimentation shows that tissue activity determines the amount of breathing and the rate at which the blood circulates through blood changes. Blood composition is readjusted by changes in breathing and circulation.

In order to be a healthy integrated mechanism the body must maintain certain balance. “The best known and understood of these are the acid-base balance, the proportion of water, the blood temperature and viscosity, the oxygen and carbon dioxide pressures of the venous blood, the total hemoglobin, the concentration of hemoglobin, and the blood volume.” Maintaining the ratio between carbonic acid and sodium bicarbonate is the function of respiration and the liver and kidneys.

The respiratory center is stimulated by the chemical change in the blood to increase the breathing and to wash out an extra quantity of carbon dioxide. The liver and kidneys neutralize and excrete the excess of fixed acids and bases.

In maintaining the proportion of water in the blood the kidneys are again active in that they increase or decrease their activity to meet the need. If they cannot remove water rapidly enough other parts of the body take up the excess.

The heat regulatory mechanisms are finely adjusted to compensate for the great increase in heat production that results from muscular exertion. “Sweating, an increased flow of blood through the skin, and augmented breathing” are the means of reg-gulation. “Knowledge of the circulatory regulation is unfortunately still fragmentary, but there seems to be no doubt that in some way the blood flow through the different parts of the body is regulated in accordance with the requirements of each part. A general parallelism between the increased oxygen consumption and an augmented rate of circulation is found.”

The effect of muscular activity and of continued training is of particular interest to the physical educator and to the layman. “The muscular capacity of a man is measured by the extent to which he can call upon his body for increased effort.” “The crest load is that one in which the oxygen supplying mechanisms, working at full capacity, are just able to supply the oxygen needs and thus maintain an even balance between the call for and the use of oxygen.” It has been demonstrated that the crest load can be increased by training by as much as 3000 footpounds and during the same period the amount of air breathed was reduced 16.6%. By physical training a man learns to breathe more economically.

There is a marked difference in the heart rate of the trained and the untrained man. The trained heart pumps a greater amount of blood per minute, the rest interval in the former is longer and the pulse rate during the work period, less. "When at rest the pulse rate of De Mar was 58 and that of the untrained man 89 beats per minute. During the work period, that required 2000 cubic centimeters of oxygen a minute, the pulse

Digitized by t^ooQle
61

rate of De Mar rose to 118 and of the untrained man to 160 beats per minute.

The functional capacity of the entire circulatory and respiratory systems is heightened by physical exercise. The muscular system is improved: the muscles grow larger, gain in power, unused fibers become active, the nerve impulse enters the muscle more readily and completely, the several muscles involved in the activity work together in the best combination resulting in skill. Regular exercise increases the number of red corpuscles, may cause an increase in muscle hemoglobin, causes new capillary paths to be opened, increases the alkaline reserve in the blood, thereby lessening the onset of fatigue.

The human body adjusts itself in many remarkable ways to the environment and regular physical exercise is of tremendous aid in establishing these changes.

SOME RELATIONS BETWEEN EARLY PHYSICAL AND MENTAL GROWTH

Arnold Gesell, Ph. D„ M. D.

The traditional dualisms are disappearing. The central theme of the dedicatory program of this new building of the School of Education is “the oneness of mind and body”. The old dualisms are losing their strength, their fascination, and even some of their perplexity. Both the scientist and the philosopher have less trouble than of old in reconciling the opposing categories of the mental and the physical.

Why has this come to pass? Because the very thoroughness of the analyses of modern science have revealed the underlying unity of natural phenomena.

The concepts of health also are being influenced by the trend of modem science. It is still convenient to speak of mental health in contra-distinction to physical health; but in principle, it is becoming increasingly necessary to refer all health factors to the individual rather than to his mind or to his body. The concept of the total individual leads us away from the ancient dualisms.

The individual grows as a unitary whole. Extremely early in the prenatal period of development the neuromuscular system takes on design and primitive patterns of behavior are laid down.

Fortunately he acquires much of this equipment through the process of natural growth. Even if his physical education is much neglected, he attains to certain levels of ability through sheer maturation and through casual experience. But his optimum growth in the physical sense will not be realized unless, even in these tender years, he enjoys ample opportunities for exercise and adventure.

There can be little doubt that posture, skill, and g'race are fostered by fortunate experiences in spontaneous play, in rhyth-

Digitized by kaOOQle
62

mic games, and physical activities on staircase, sidewalk, hill, seesaw, slide, kiddie car, and ladders. Through plays and games which give an opportunity for effort and failure and success, for judicious risks and thrills, the child accumulates a store of experience which builds up morale. This morale has several aspects. It is not purely muscular. It means the capacity to endure and to “stand the gaff” in plays and games; it involves elements of sportsmanship. It also means pleasurable interest in physical activity and in outdoor life. In this broad sense, the concepts of physical education reach down into early life. The higher orders of mental and bodily control have a substratum; and in that substratum there is much oneness.

(To be concluded next month)

THE FUEL FOR HUMAN POWER*

The immediate source of the energy that furnishes the driving force for the human machine has long been a problem alike for speculation and for experiment. All three classes of nutrients, the proteins, fats and carbohydrates, are available, theoretically at least, to provide the physical power. If the answer were well established it might provide a rational basis for the formulation of suitable dietaries for persons engaged in severe labor or for athletes and others confronted with exceptional muscular tasks for shorter periods. Custom and tradition rather than scientific argument have largely dictated the practices of the past. Hence, in discussing their observations on the physiologic aspects of rowing in performances of severity, Henderson and Haggard have well remarked that the nature of the fuel which is consumed in an oarsman’s muscles and propels the boat, and the frequency with which the vital engine should be stoked, are topics that would repay thorough scientific study in the light of modem knowledge of nutrition. Most of the ancient superstitions, such as the diet of raw beef for the Roman gladiators and English prize fighters, which still influenced the training table down to quite recent times, have now disappeared; but not all are gone, nor have they in all cases been replaced by well founded conceptions.

At the present time writers in the field of muscle physiology are largely influenced by the studies of the English physiologist A. V. Hill and his collaborators. These are impelled to the conclusion, notably from experiments like those of Furusawa, that in the long run carbohydrate is the source of the energy in muscular contraction. A few years ago it was believed that the respiratory quotient, showing the relation between the oxygen consumed and the carbon dioxide produced during a period of activity, gives a clear indication of the nature of the substances being transformed. The respiratory quotient for carbohydrate is unity; for the other nutrients it is lower. What could be more simple, then, than to

*Editorial. Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
63

determine by direct experiment what is being “burned up” when our muscles work? The determination is complicated by the circumstance that a preliminary conversion of fat into carbohydrate —one of the debated possibilities—would lead to quotients higher than unity that might readily counterbalance the lower figures for fat and protein combustion and thus give rise to misleading cpn-clusions. Furthermore, it is now well recognized that muscles may undergo an “oxygen deficit” that can be made good during rest after exertion.

All of these newer implications that may disturb the momentary relations between carbon dioxide output and oxygen intake— on which the estimation of the respiratory quotient is based— must be taken into account. Not only the period of exercise but also that of recovery (when the “oxygen debt” is being involved) needs consideration. This presents intricacies that only an expert can properly disentangle. Furusawa’s measurements on man show that in persons on normal diets during short periods of muscular exercise the respiratory quotient of the excess metabolism is unity. With more prolonged exertion, however, there is a fall of respiratory quotient which indicates that substances other than carbohydrate are being utilized. When a fat diet was used, it was found that, even when the basal respiratory quotient was

0.71, short periods of exercise gave a respiratory quotient of unity for the excess metabolism, but when the exercise was more prolonged, the fall took place sooner than on normal diets. English reviewers conclude from this that carbohydrate is the real fuel which is used by the contracting muscles, and that when the carbohydrate store has been all used up other substances, such as fat, can be called on, probably being converted into carbohydrate.

The possibility that fat can be converted into carbohydrate in the body may be frankly admitted without the corollary that such a conversion is a necessity because sugar, or its derivative lactic acid, is a specific fuel for the peculiar mechanism of muscle. In their study of athletes, Henderson and Haggard offered what they regard as conclusive evidence that, in whatever proportion fat and sugar are being burned during rest just before the exercise, they are burned in nearly the same proportion to produce the energy for doing work or for the recovery process in the muscles. A man can even make an intense exertion, although rather disadvantageous^, they assert, on a combustion almost entirely of fat from his own body. It is admitted by Henderson and Haggard that sugar is the best quick fuel for intense exertion. Indeed, they think that it would be distinctly helpful to “wind” and to the prevention of overtraining if athletes were fed so that their respiratory quotients were kept constantly well up to 0.85 or even 0.9. In addition it would probably be advantageous, they add, to raise the respiratory quotient further and to provide ample sugar in the blood and tissues, a half or three quarters of an hour before any prolonged contest.

More recently, Rapport and Ralli of the Western Reserve University School of Medicine have reached the conclusion that the

Digitized by LjOOQle
64

muscles, like the tissues of the body as a whole, oxidize carbohydrate, fat or both (usually the last), the percentage of each depending on the proportions in which these substances are presented to them in available form. And now Marsh, who has made extensive studies of the muscular efficiency of children in Mur-lin’s. laboratory at the University of Rochester, lends her support to the older belief of Zuntz that the body uses for the energy of muscular work both carbohydrate and fat. She agrees with all the newer implications that the proportions in which these two foodstuffs participate in the metabolism of work is practically the same as prevailed in the person immediately previous to the work. Marsh finds only meager evidence in her study of an exclusive carbohydrate combustion during work even when the stores of glycogen in the body must have been more than sufficient to furnish the energy for the light work that was done. Nevertheless there may still be validity in Hill’s suggestion that physical fitness for muscular work may mean among other things the capacity to store large quantities of glycogen and also, perhaps, the capacity to neutralize promptly excess quantities of lactic acid that remain unbumed. On this interpretation, a high quotient during muscular work would indicate a better state of training than a low quotient.

LESSON PLANNING IN HEALTH EDUCATION

By Grover W. Mueller

In the April issue of Mind and Body we began the publication of a series of lesson plans in health education. The importance of lesson planning was emphasized. A general outline of plans for the types of lessons most commonly used in health education was presented. This was followed by a more detailed discussion of the development type of lesson. The article was concluded with a sample Development Lesson.

It should be stated that most of the lesson plans which we will print were written by a committee of supervisors of physical and health education, and that the plans have been used and found successful over a period of three years.

In this issue we present another sample Development Lesson, and a Project Lesson. The project lesson is preceded by a brief discussion of this type of lesson. Following the latter lesson plan is a suggested method of procedure which should help the reader in understanding the procedure to be used.

Illustrative Lesson I

Following is the second of the sample lesson plans which will be printed. It is a development type of lesson designed for use in Grade 7A. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. As indicated at the beginning of the plan, it is supposed to be the third in a series of lessons on the general topic: Muscles.

Digitized by UaOOQle
65

HEALTH EDUCATION GRADE 7A DEVELOPMENT LESSON

Topic: Muscles—Lesson 3 (Effects of Exercise)

Teachers’ Referencet: Williams “Personal Hygiene Applied”

Chapter VI

Williams “Healthful Living” Chapter iX Winslow and Williamson “The Laws of Health” Chapter VI

I.	AIM

General

To create an interest in normal muscular development and the health habits that foster it.

Specific

To emphasize the importance of exercise as a factor in the development of the body.

II. CONTENT

Exercise

b.

c.

a. Immediate physiologic effects

1.	Breaking down and consumption of cell material

2.	Stronger heart beat

3.	Increased breathing—greater aeration of blood in lunvs

4.	Replenishment of cell material through increased blood flow to cells

5.	Increased elimination (perspiration and carbon diox-id)

Permanent effects on muscles

1.	Increased size

2.	Increased strength

3.	Improved tone

Permanent effects on other body parts

1.	Better general development

2.	Better functioning of internal organs

(a)	Stronger heart muscle ) f Immediate effects

(b)	Increased lung capacity)

(c)	Increased digestive secretions

3.	Better utilization of digested foods (less fat deposited)

III.	METHOD Approach

a.	Review the necessity of exercise in the development of bones as covered in Lesson I on the topic The Bones

b.	Discuss the great activities of a young child in relation to its health and growth

Digitized by CjOOQle
66

Development

a.	Show how vigorous exercise accounts for a loss of weight demonstrating the consumption of cell material. Account for the hunger and thirst normally following healthful activity. Explain the need for increased respiration by means of the furnace-draft analogy. Develop the fact that the body’s demand for more oxygen and nutriment necessitates a stronger heart beat and increased circulation. Note elimination of waste through skin and lungs.

b.	Discuss the development of the muscles through exercise in relation to size, strength, and tone. Mention the Greek ideal of the perfect body as largely accomplished through exercise.

c.	Develop blackboard outline relative to permanent effects of exercise on general health. Show that exercise should be taken regularly and pleasurably to be thoroughly beneficial. Compare vigorous activities with those relatively poor. Discuss advantages of outdoor environment for exercise.

Conclusion

Note favorite outdoor activities of various pupils (rating

the same).

Assignment

Project: Assign rope climbing or bar chinning over a

period of a week to note increase in strength.

Illustrative Lesson II

Following is the third of our series of sample lesson plans.

It is a project type of lesson designed for use in Grade 9A. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. This lesson is supposed to be presented following a series of lessons on the topic of infections. Before setting down the lesson plan it will be well to make a few remarks concerning the project method in general.

The project method—if it can be called a method—marked a rather complete break with the past. Hitherto, “purposefulness” was regarded as something merely incidental to the lesson. With the defining of project as a “whole-hearted purposeful activity proceeding in a social environment,” we come across an idea which has promoted much discussion. The extent to which the purposing is “whole-hearted” is, of course, problematic. There seems no objective way of determining this.

What is purposeful activity? It may mean a self initiated act which is dominated by an “inner urge” or an act suggested by the teacher and accepted by the pupils as vitally worth while. Care must be exercised, however, that whims of the pupil be not taken as purposive and thus be given precedence over intelligent direction. There is such a contrast between “book learning” and a project that one is tempted to say that the setting in the one is artificial and in the other natural.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
67

Much credit is due to the project in calling attention to the glaring defects in the traditional procedure and in centering attention upon child psychology. The emphasis given to the necessity for activities which actually do grip the child and hold him to his task in spite of distraction leads us a step forward in the science of method.

It is important to realize that “learning” itself is not the recognized goal of the project but rather some concrete result or accomplishment which has caught the interest of the pupil. The learning essential to the satisfactory completion of the activity is always instrumental to the pupil’s goal. That is, whatever learning is achieved is a by product of the activity, and is not directly aimed at by the pupil.

In the light of this discussion we can see that well organized health projects provide an interesting and valuable method of investigating the subject of health. While the field of community hygiene and Sanitation gives ample opportunities for successful projects, the range of health projects is limited only by the cleverness of the teacher in conceiving and suggesting them. Care must be taken, however, to see that the project is of such value that the time devoted to it may be justified.

Too often the project resolves itself into a mere compilation of statistics or data or the creating of posters and other objective features.

This fact gathering or objective presentation may have value per se; but surely the wide awake teacher should occasionally conceive something which will appeal instinctively to his pupils. It is with this thought in mind that the accompanying project lesson was designed by Mr. John E. Boyd, a supervisor of physical and health education. Here we have the glamor of contest, the outguessing one another. Obviously, only that side which has reviewed the problem in its entirety can hope to achieve victory.

HEALTH EDUCATION GRADE 9A PROJECT LESSON

Topic: Infections — Lesson 5

I.	AIM

General

To promote a project in health education dealing with infecting organisms.

Specific

To present dramatically the need of constant watchfulness so as to combat invading germs.

II.	CONTENT

See content of Philadelphia Course of Study in Health

Education, Grade Nine.

III.	METHOD

1.	Purpose

To create a health-war game

Digitized by (^.ooQle
68

2.	Plan

a.	Construct or draw a Health Fortress

b.	Design combatants (figures to represent various shapes of bacteria, leucocytes, etc.

c.	Divide class into two groups—The Board of Strategy (offense)—The Council of Defense.

3.	Execution

The Board of Strategy (offense) is limited in its use of combatants to germs of one or more of the common infectious diseases, the special study of which is deemed important. They plan in detail just how the germ soldiers are to invade the health fortress. All possible schemes of entrance are thought out.

The work of the Council of Defense is to foresee any possible plan of action to be taken by the enemy and have a ready plan of defense. In so far as the Health Fortress is penetrated by the invader germs, so is health scored against.

4.	Judging

The teacher will act as umpire; she will rule out any plan of attack that dees not conform to the facts of health for which the pupils might be held responsible. She shall decide whether the Council of Defense has made adequate preparation to forstall the attack.

Suggested Procedure — Health Project

Our readers will probably be interested in the following suggestions concerning procedure in presenting this project lesson to the class in accordance with the lesson plan.

It is to be understood that the health fortress is not an end in itself and a valid objection might be made as to the value of an elaborate model. The teacher must use his own judgment in this respect. If it is not desirable to construct a three dimensioned fortress, a suitable drawing or a poster of same would suffice.

Just how elaborate the health fortress is to be can only be determined by the facilities available for its construction, and the time which may be given to this phase of the project. It may be constructed during the industrial arts period. Several committees should be appointed to submit plans and drawings of fortresses, and the class should vote as to which model they wish to accept. This phase of the project could be taken care of during the drawing period. The designs for the combatants (various shaped bacteria) offer an opportunity for display of originality and every member of the class should be invited to submit ideas. The final selection is to be by vote of the entire group.

The teacher shall divide the class into two groups (offense and defense). It shall be decided what diseases are to be used to undermine health. For example, suppose typhoid fever and tuberculosis are suggested. The Board of Strategy may then be

Digitized by VjOOQle
69

divided into two groups, one of which will consider all the possible ways by which an individual may become infected with typhoid while the other group will concentrate on tuberculosis. Obviously the Council of Defense will divide its work into two similar groups.

It should be noted that defense in this game is to be interpreted as the ability to foresee a possible plan of action that may be taken by the enemy. Incidental to this will be the measures which they may logically take to avoid a possible attack. An illustration probably may make this clearer.

Suppose group I of the Board of Strategy, assigned typhoid fever, has planned (among others) the following attacks:

(1)	Infection through eating raw oysters taken from polluted waters.

(2)	Infection through eating unwashed raw greens that have been grown in “night soil”.

The spokesman for Group I (offense reads:

“We plan to attack the health fortress through the use of the germs of typhoid. Our first strategical move shall be to make use of raw oysters taken from polluted waters”.

The spokesman for group I (defense) reads in rebuttal:

“We have foreseen such a plan of action as the enemy has taken. We resolve not to eat oysters if there is any doubt as to the purity of their source. Oysters delivered by a reputable firm subject to government regulation are safe. Those gathered by individuals from beds not approved by the government are dangerous”.

Umpire (teacher) “The defense has adequately forestalled the action planned by the enemy”.

The spokesman for group I (offense proceeds:

“We plan to attack health by using green vegetables grown in “night soil” and served at the table improperly washed”.

The spokesman for group I (defense)

“We have nothing on our records that foresees such a plan of attack”.

Umpire—“Offense scores against health”.

This is a legitimate attack against which the defense has not made preparation.

At the conslucion of the topic if health has been scored against, the flag of the fortress should be lowered. The work of the different groups (offense and defense) should be done in the school library and may be assigned a week or more for preparation. Each group must have in writing their findings. The defense must have in writing their foresight of the enemy’s plan and not be allowed an extemporaneous defense.

The game may be extended to cover a number of occasions and a variety of diseases. The final scoring could show the number of times health has remained triumphant.

Digitized by UjOOQle
70

Health Scored Against	Health	Triumphant

Topic - Typhoid	Topic - Tuberculosis

Topic - Measles	Topic - Malaria

Topic - Diphtheria Topic - Scarlet Fever Editor’s note: Two more lesson plans will appear in each of the next few issues of Mind and Body.

<■ ■ ■ <■

Health education notes

, i	—	■■■	i<

Mechanical Factors in Hair Growth*—Sharlit calls attention to the fact that persistent care of the hair and scalp, frequent massage and manipulation of the scalp to keep its surface clean and the follicular openings free from inspissated sebum and epithelial debris is a trait distinctly dominant in the female and recessive in the male. In the last decade with bobbed hair in vogue there has been an increasing number of women complaining of alopecia symptomatica. Can it be that with a shortening of the hair there has been a relaxation in feminine zeal for meticulous care of the scalp? Scalp lotions containing kertolytic agents and fat solvents, reinforced possibly by a rubefacient, with mechanical rubbing of the scalp, is a sensible treatment.

What the Children’s Fund Is Doing.;—The first public announcement of the work of the Children’s Fund of Michigan was made by the director, Dr. Hugo A. Freund, October 24, in an item in the Detroit News. The fund established about seven months ago, has arranged to assist counties which are endeavoring to establish public health units by setting up child health demonstrations. It is hoped that the counties in question will be able in a few years to assume the financial responsibility themselves. The fund is lending aid to promote certain health provisions of benefit to children in other counties; it has undertaken a state-wide program to awaken the public to the necessity of oral hygiene, especially for the preservation of children’s teeth; it has interested itself in the university’s survey of the causes of dental decay, the state medical society’s program of pediatric clinics for physicians, in a summer camp for children, in the problems of recreation and library extension, and in an investigation of behavior and delinquency. The fund intends to formulate a program looking to the establishment of mental hygiene in Michigan. A survey has already been started to determine what may be the best method of inaugurating child guidance clinics. Dr. Freund said that it had been necessary to deny assistance to numerous undertakings. The establishment of the Children’s Fund of Michigan, for which Senator James Couzens, Detroit, created a $10,000,000 trust fund, was reported in The Journal, Am. Medical Assn.

Digitized by v^ooQle
71

Rules for Stutterers.— Every case of stuttering is a law unto itself, but there are a few general principles that are basic in correct speech. If these are practiced by the stutterer he will soon be on the road to recovery, according to the experience of Dr. J. A. Glassburg, writing in Hygeia. These rules are:

Before you speak

1.	Think.

2.	Inhale.

3.	Visualize your words.

When you speak

1.	Never go hack.

2.	Never repeat.

3.	Lengthen your vowel sounds.

Always speak

1.	Quietly.

2.	Slowly.

3.	Caltaly.

Diagnosis of Flatfoot.—As a means of deciding on the treatment indicated in any case of flatfoot, Seiffert has his patient stand barefooted on a flat surface. Then he is asked to raise himself up on his toes. If he can do this, the normal arch of the foot is restored thereby; if the bones have undergone change and the flatfoot is firmly established, this maneuver is impossible of execution. In the first case, only the soft tissues are involved, and exercise and massage should be prescribed. The result is often a good one. When the test fails, other measures must be resorted to such as redressement or open operation. The value of this test is emphasized.

FLUID INTAKE AND SECRETION

Although the importance of water in the organism is duly recognized, the details of its function are by no means elucidated in their entirety. The extremes of behavior are represented in anhydremia, on the one hand, and so-called water intoxication on the other. Ip a recent issue the effect of ingestion of fluids on the cardiac output was discussed, observations being presented to indicate that the forcing of fluids leads to a type of plethora in the circulation that manifests itself in the discharge of blood from the heart. One might expect that abundance or paucity of fluid intake would exhibit an effect on various secretions other than the urine, which, as is well known, varies in volume with changes in the amount of water ingested. There are, in fact, indications that the gastric secretion may be greatly dimished when the water intake is insufficient. The problem has been further studied lately in children by Gantt at the Filatov Hospital in Leningrad. This became possible through the application of the principle of conditioned reflexes developed by the Russian physiologist Pavlow. Salivary secretion is an instance of reflex activity which may be made “conditioned” on a variety of “conditioned” stimuli, such

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
72

as the exhibition of particular types of food. The tests of Gantt, conducted with four different foods, and with both the parotid and the submaxillary glands, indicate that the intake of fluids bears a definite relation to the quantity of saliva secreted. Gantt believes that this holds for all the glands of external secretion. It is a logical conclusion that a sufficient intake of fluid is of prime importance for digestion. This applies emphatically to infancy, a period when the needs of the individual are in part determined by the allowance of the parent or nurse rather than the unrestricted instinct of the baby. Complete liberty of choice comes only with later years—a fact that should never be forgotten by those responsible for the care of the young.

The Regional Planning of London: A Green Belt

Ip the past the growth of London has been left to private initiative, and the provision of open spaces has consequently been haphazard. Now the Greater London Regional Planning Committee is about to lay before the government, and in particular the minister of health and the minister of transport, important proposals for making the work of regional planning more effective. A more adequate distribution of population and industry throughout the Greater London Region is the basic problem. Its solution underlies all efforts to prevent sporadic building and to preserve the amenities of the open lands not already spoiled by indiscriminate development. On this must depend the centralization of those national civic functions and the complementary decentralization of many industries and other activities which can be better located in subsidiary centers. The next point is to secure the best means of reserving an adequate proportion of open space for town populations for pier sure and picnic resorts, playing fields, accommodation lands, air landing fields and allotment gardens, and generally to provide breathing space and to preserve the purity of the air. It is hoped that the provision for these needs may take the form of a green girdle or chain of open spaces which would set limits to the solidly built up areas of London. In regard to regional planning, the necessity for some means of locating development and of reserving areas of open land alike in the public interest and in the interest of landowners themselves is becoming evident. The committee is convinced that this is really the key to the situation. The need has been particularly brought home to it in studying the question of playing fields and the green belt round London. The National Playing Fields Association has carefully estimated the requirements per thousand of population of land for recreation of all kinds. There is needed for the present population of the Greater London region something like 60 square miles of additional land. To meet the need for other open spaces and to preserve for such purpose one tenth of the region as unbuilt on, a further 140 square miles or so would be needed. To such an extent has London been allowed to develop without adequate reservation of open land, particularly as regards

Digitized by
73

playing fields, that even if the necessary area could now be provided it would probably be impossible to convey the people to and from these recreation areas. Month by month lands in use for playing purposes are being absorbed for residential and industrial development. The playing fields are being pushed farther and farther out making access to them increasingly difficult.

Immunization Against Tuberculosis.—Beck’s, Munich, immunization experiments were based on the theory that, by cultivation of highly virulent tubercle bacilli, cultures could be developed which would not cause tuberculosis but would effect a cure and immunization against tuberculosis. The author succeeded in incorporating the tubercle bacilli in an ointment that did not cause irritation. The tubercle bacilli employed for these experiments were cultivated from the sputum of a man. Tests were made on several groups of animals. They were first inoculated with a sodium chloride solution containing highly virulent bacilli. Following the development of tuberculosis, they were given repeated inunctions with the specially prepared ointment. Several months later they were killed, but lesions of tuberculosis were not found. The control animals, however, had either died of tuberculosis or showed tuberculous processes at necropsy. One group of animals received prophylactic treatment with the ointment of tubercle bacilli. Later these animals were inoculated with a highly virulent strain of bacilli. They were killed several months later, and all were free from tuberculosis, whereas the control animals had died of tuberculosis within six weeks. Inunctions with this ointment in healthy persons did not show any harmful results. The preparation is now being tested in tuberculous patients.

Sinusitis and Otitis in Swimmers.—Saunders is convinced that the value of swimming as a means of exercise more than compensates for its dangers for the normal person. Furthermore, the dangers can be greatly lessened. Matters that especially require attention are means of reducing trauma to the nose and ears and correct habits of breathing. Methods of plugging the nose are worth attention. Saunders has devised a clamp to close the nostrils. It is a strip of sheet copper or of other malleable metal about half an inch wide and bent to conform to the external nose. It compresses the alae when it is held in place. An elastic band which is fastened to the metal either by stitching or by adhesive tape goes around the head. This device is easily made and has proved efficient in actual practice. It can be put on or taken c*ff quickly and thus relieve the swimmer of the necessity of having the nares plugged for long periods of time. It would probably be unsatisfactory in high and fancy diving; in these cases plugs are better. The use of an oil spray in the nose before entering the water has been suggested. This helpful measure is almost universally neglected. Persons with riarrow

Digitized by t^ooQle
74

nasal passages, deviated septums and other anatomic abnormalities are much more prone to infection than those who have unobstructed sinus drainage. This leads to the suggestion that all persons wishing to do diving or play polo first have a nasal examination, with subsequent medical or surgical treatment if indicated. To these local measures of reducing trauma and consequently the likelihood of bacterial invasion should be added the general measure of supervision of the length of the swimming period. Forty-five minutes in the water is probably long enough. There is evidence that bodily resistance is reduced with exposure longer than this. Correct habits of breathing are of major importance.

Eyelashes of Children.

Interesting studies on children’s eyelashes have been published by Dr. Tamaoki in the pediatrics department of the Kyushu Imperial University. He has made studies of 7,000 children over a period of two years, and has come to these conclusions: 1. Most children with long eyelashes are in poor health. 2. The eyelashes of healthy children, which are 0.4 cm. long a month after birth, will grow to 0.65 cm. during the year, while those of scrofulous children will grow to a length of 0.85 cm. in the same period. 3. Those of consumptive children will grow twice as long in comparison with those of children in good health. 4. Children in poor health have longer and prettier eyelashes than those in good health.

The Problem of Mental Deficiency

In the report of the Mental Deficiency Committee of England, just issued, it is estimated that the total number of persons in England and Wales mentally defective in the true sense is at least 300,000 (not including the 35,000 children whose defect is educational rather than social.) This is equivalent to an incidence of mental defect of eight per thousand of the total population. A difference in incidence in mental deficiency between urban and rural populations is shown. “The mean incidence of defect for all ages in the urban areas was 6.49 per thousand of population, compared with 10.66 in the rural parts. There is evidence that this disparity is connected with the problem of rural depopulation and with other important social problems.” The committee recommends “that local mental deficiency authorities should make far more use of the existing forms of community care; that they should make them a reality by more thorough and systematic organization of the supervision of defectives, and that the obligation to provide training and occupation in all cases requiring it should be enforced.”

Dealing with the three principal methods suggested for the control of mental defectives—sterilization, segregation and social-

Digitized by Google
75

ization, the report says that they are not mutually exclusive, but that the last two at least are essentially complementary. If sterilization of all adult mental defectives were carried cut, the committee states, the reduction in the numbers of mental defectives in the next generation would not be great. There are many obstacles to the legal sterilization of the mentally deficient, such as difficulty of diagnosis and prognosis, and of drawing the line of demarcation between those who should and should not be sterilized. Such legal sterilization would not remove the need for greater institutional accommodation. The committee believes that legalized sterilization would greatly enhance the difficulty of bringing defectives within the scope of the Mental Deficiency Acts, for there would be a tendency of the parents not to inform the authorities of a defective child. Segregation, the second suggested method, would be too costly to be practicable, which leaves socialization—that is, a careful training of defectives—as the only practicable alternative.

However, at Birmingham, Mr. Justice Cardie commented earnestly on the question of mental defectives, after a woman, alleged to be so affected, and who had had eight illegitimate children, had been brought before him. He said: “The children as they grow up may become the parents of other illegitimate and feebleminded children, and so increase the appalling figures.” Following the appearance before him of an alleged feebleminded youth, the judge said: “I have long come to the conclusion that the people should face the need for a system of sterilization.”

Rheumatic Fever in Children.—It is well known that rheumatic fever and its allied conditions tend to relapse most frequently in the spring months. Common experience shows that while children with rheumatic fever have few or no colds in the summer, in the fall they begin, after school opens, to have minor infections in the nose and throat. In the winter these colds assume a greater seriousness. They are more frequent; there is more response in the body and evidence of increasing activity of infections. Shortly following this period of intense reaction there is this tendency for the individual to show joint pains, chorea, carditis, etc. Predisposing factors, which in the years past were supposed to be the natural cause of rheumatic fever, may be of importance in causing the onset of an attack. These factors are about the same ones that are of considerable importance in the control and care of children with tuberculosis. Briefly, they are fatigue, either of the body or mind, intemperance, bad food, bad housing and exposure to contact infection. These ideas would reemphasize the necessity of supervision and controlling these secondary factors in order to exert any evidence on the occurrence of rheumatic fever and through the control of these factors much can be accomplished toward the prevention of heart disease.— McCulloch, Hugh: Rheumatic Fever as an Allergic Disease, I. Iowa M. Soc., August, 1929.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
76

A Survey of Women in Industry in Australia.

Since women have permanently established themselves in industry, working conditions must be so arranged that no undue harm to health ensues. The adolescent girl is the object of special anxiety, as she is particularly susceptible to such influences as bad habits of posture, excessive strain and unhygienic working environment. The problem of making special provision for women in industry is not only of social and economic but also of national importance, in that the female workers of today must be considered as the actual or potential mothers- of the next generation.

A relation was found to exist between the rate of working and the incidence of dysmenorrhea, headache or complaint of fatigue. In the dusty occupations, especially in the jute and tobacco trades, the employees complained of almost continuous colds, coughs and sore throats. It was recommended that a detailed physical and roentgenologic examination be made of the chests of employees engaged in these dusty occupations.

A high incidence of headache in the clothing and boot trades was ascribed to eye strain.

The relationship between posture and dysmenorrhea was studied, and it was fund that this symptom occurs more frequently among workers who stand than among those who sit, and those who suffer least are able to alternate sitting and standing.

Health Centers and Fire and Police Stations.—Dr. Shirley W. Wynne, commissioner of health New York City in addressing representatives of about 100 health and welfare organizations, October 25, outlined the need for an extension of child health service, indicating that twenty health centers similar to the one recently approved for Harlem should be established throughout the city during the next few years. According to the New York Times, Dr. Wynne said that if the city could afford to build fire and police stations throughout the community, it could just as well establish public health stations where the need exists. The children of about 60 per cent of the parents in New York were said to depend on the city to protect their health. There are now maintained by voluntary agencies twenty-one preschool clinics. They serve only about 7,500 children, where as the number to be reached is many times that figure. The meeting was called to consider the report of a special inventory of child health service conducted by the Welfare Council. Dr. Haven Emerson, who presided, urged the participation of private physicians in child health work. The report demonstrated, it is said, that Manhattan, which has more child health stations and clinics than all of the other boroughs combined, also has the highest infant mortality rate, 86.4 per thousand in 1928; the rate for the whole city was 65.5.

Digitized by ^ooQle
77

States of Exhaustion. In a recent article on exhaustion Drs. C. W. Dowden and W. O. Johnson, say: We have examined the records of 688 patients, seen in the past two years, in which there was no specific underlying disease, as exophthalmic goiter or pernicious anemia. We found that 133, or 19.3 per cent of these, complained of “loss of pep” or exhaustion, in other words, about one in five people consulted the physician because of exhaustion. Although the normal span of life has been lengthened, largely as a result of preventive medical measures, there exist nevertheless increasing and varied causes of exhaustion. These causes may be divided as follow^: first, the World War and its effect on the mental make-up of the people; second, the epidemic of influenza, and its persistent residuum; third the advent of prohibition, with poisonous intoxicants that have followed in its wake, and, fourth, the increasing number of automobiles, with carbon monoxide saturation of the atmosphere to a harmful degree.

Tuberculosis in Children.— In spite of the broad educational campaigns says Dr. Horton Casparis that have been carried on against tuberculosis and in spite of the marked reduction in the death rate from the disease, there is still a tremendous amount of tuberculosis. I often doubt whether there has been any striking reduction in the incidence of the disease, for one has only to institute a careful search for tuberculosis to uncover huge and often unsuspected amounts of it. Most tuberculosis surveys do not reveal the true status of the situation for the reason that there is no simple means of recognizing the disease. In the first place many mistaken diagnosis are made, and in the second place, because of the nature of tuberculosis, many individuals do not apply for medical attention until late in the disease. The result is that much of the active tuberculosis is not included in the surveys. Any means, then, which would make possible the finding of more active tuberculosis than is now being done would be of value; and of even greater importance would be some practical means of preventing the development of active tuberculosis.

TENTATIVE PROGRAM

34th National Turnfest to be Held at Buffalo, N. Y., June

23rd-29th

8:00-10:00 A. M.—-Reception and Registration. Office of the National Technical Committee, Hotel Statler.

Distribution of numbers of competitors, Work plan, Judges’ arm bands.

10:00-11:00 A. M.—Meeting of the College of Judges.

11:00-12:00 A. M.—Meeting of Judges with Group Supervisors. 1:00-3:00 P. M.—Parade.

Digitized by kjOOQle
78

4:00-5:00 P. M.—At All High Stadium Men: Preliminary Volley Ball, Games in 4 groups.

5:00-6:00 P. M.—Women: Preliminary Volley Ball, in 4 groups. 8:00 P. M.—At Broadway Auditorium. Official opening of the 34th National Tumfest of the American Tumerbund by President George Seibel.

4:00 P. M.—Golf Championship for Men and Women at Willow-dale Club.

Tennis Championship Singles and Doubles for Men and Women at Nichols Field and City Parks.

Wednesday June 25th

At 174th Armory 7:30-12:00 A. M.—Decathlon

Men in Apparatus work; horizontal and parallel bars, side and long horse.

At All High Stadium Seniors in Field and Track Work

Standing broad jump, medicine ball throw, dumb-bell exercise (individual)

Juniors in Field and Track Work

Running Broad jump, hop, step and jump, 12-lb. shot put, 100 yard dash 8:00:10:00 A. M.—Special Event Women: Running High Jump 10:00-12:00 A. M.—At Bennett High School Swimming Pool Women: Swimming and Diving 8:00-12:00 A. M.— Fencing—At 174th Armory 1:00-5:00 P. M.-—Septathlon

Women in apparatus work; parallel bars, side horse At All High Stadium

Seniors: Volley Ball games preliminary and Finals 3:00-5:00 P. M.—At Bennett High School Swimming Pool Men: Swimming and Diving Fencing continued Golf continued Tennis continued 2:00-5:00 P. M.—At Bennett High School Auditorium Mental Contests: Singing, Declamation, Essays 7:30-11:00 P. M.—At Broadway Auditorium

Model Exercises of Societies of Group No. 1

Thursday, June 26th

7:30-12:00 A. M.—At All High Stadium

Decathlon: Men in Track and Field work, Running broad jump, hop step and jump, 16-lb. shot put, 100 yard dash 8:00-10:00 A. M.—At 174th Armory Septathlon: Seniors in Apparatus Exercises: Parallel bars, side horse

Decathlon: Juniors in horizontal bar, parallel bars, side horse and tumbling

Digitized by
79

7:30-11:00 A. M.—At 174th Armory

Women: Free Exercises (Society Competitior)

Fencing continued Golf continued Tennis continued 1:00-5:00 P. M.—At AU High Stadium

Septathlon: Women in Track and Field work, Running broad jump, 8-lb. shot put, 50 yard dash Men: Free Exercises (Society Competition)

Fencing continued Golf continued Tennis continued

Friday, June 27th

7:30-10:00 A. M.—At All High Stadium

Pentathlon: Men in High jump, 220 yard dash, hand climbing, hurl ball throw, triple standing broad jump Women: Volley Ball; semi-finals and finals 10:00-12:00 A. M.—Women: Relay Races 1:00-2:00 P. M.—Men Volley Ball, semi-finals and finals 2:00-3:00 P. M.—Relay Races

3:00-5:00 P. M.—Model Exercises of Group No. 4. Physical Education Exhibition of selected groups 7:30-11:00 P. M.—At Broadway Auditorium

Model Exercises of Societies of Group No. 3

Saturday, June 28th

8:00-10:00 A. M.—At All High Stadium

Men: Special Track and Field Events, Pole Vault, 120

yard high hurdles, one mile run

Finals in Golf

Finals in Tennis

Unfinished Events

Physical Education Exhibition

2:00-2:30 P. M.—Apparatus work

Several squads of selected men will perform on the horizontal bar, parallel bar, side horse 2:00-3:00 P. M.—Volley Ball

The winners of the different groups will play exhibition games

3:00-4:00 P. M.—Model Work

Selected classes will show their Model Exercises 4:00-6:00 P. M.—Mass Exercises

(a)	Seniors (Dumb-bell Exercises)

(b)	Women (Free Exercises)

(c)	Men (Free Exercises)

Singing by entire audience, “America, the Beautiful” Awarding of diplomas and wreaths.

Digitized by UjOOQie


80

News, notes and comments

♦— ■- — — ■ ■

To live up to its policy “no public school without playground space,” the Board of Education in Denver recently spent $103,586 to acquire a recreation site for a school in the old section of the city. The Board is purchasing a block of land for each new school, according to School Life for January. This can usually be obtained at a cost of from $3,500 to $10,000, proving the economy of purchasing play space before neighborhoods build up. All new school buildings with the exception of the smallest elementary schools are provided with gymnasiums.

Mexico Is Using Visiting Nurses

The Federal Department of Health of Mexico has just decided to undertake an educational campaign to teach child hygiene in the poorer homes by means of visiting nurses. A nurse will remain in each home one or two days or longer if necessary. She will give the mother theoretical and practical instruction in child care, home management, dietetics, and cooking; she will also teach personal hygiene to other members of the family. Followup visits will be made regularly to see whether the nurse's instructions are carried out. The corps of nurses necessary for this work is already available, and the work will be started very soon. —El Universal, Mexico City, Oct. 15, 1929.

Science Notes recently contained the following item:

Intended for use in the classroom and to allow children to absorb useful facts while playing, a rubber globe of the world that may be inflated like a basketball now is available.

Note by Editor. We always had the feeling that the “point farthest south” had been reached when certain “educators” sponsored the playing of selected games because of their great value upon posture.

Studying geography by means of a bounding basketball is, however, a few degrees farther south.

Dangers of Sport. In a recent note to the editor of the Public Ledger, Dr. J. M. Anders, one of the most noted physicians of Philadelphia wrote as follows:

Sir—There have recently appeared letters and articles on the subject of public high school sports. Some writers stress the supposed abuses and injuries of school athletic activities. Others assert that major injuries are rare, indeed, in high school athletic sports. In this connection Mr. Walter B. Spencer correctly states that “many schools conduct activities without a single major in-

Digitized by kjOOQle
81

jury, and statistics throughout the entire United States appear to show only eighteen injuries.”

In the opinion of the writer, the most serious consequences of competivive sports occur among rapidly growing lads and lassies under seventeen years of age from undue strain of the heart and the great bloodvessels leading from that organ. This form of injury lays the fundation for the development of lesions later on, which are progressive and incurable. The view here expressed is in harmony with the teachings of physiology and hygiene. Sudden great strain thrown upon the cardio-vascular system in the young is quite prone to produce permanently injurious consequences. This fact has also been confirmed by leading clinicians, hence the age of the boy, or girl as a factor in determining whether or not competitive sports are to be recommended is one of prime importance.

A Prize Oflering for the Best Manual of the Hygiene of Youth.—The Societa d’igiene di Milano has offered a prize of

5,000	lire ($262), to be competed for by Italian physicians, for the best manual of the hygiene of youth, the ages 8 to 15 being considered more especially. The manual must treat all the subjects pertaining to the development of the yoUng child: alimentation, clothing, instruction, physical and mental training, and sports. The dangers of tobacco and alcohol, the problems of sex, vocational guidance and training of the will are some of the special topics that must be considered.

Physical Education in the Navy.—The minister of the marine of Italy has sent to the officers of the navy a circular letter in which he emphasizes the desirability of the officers— especially the young men, taking more interest in sports. The marines should all take part in the exercises pertaining to physical education. It should be held before the men that the chief purpose is not to train champions but to improve the health and physique of the masses.

Jewehry Made from Milk.—At a dinner in New York, a manufacturer exhibited hundreds of beautiful and usdful articles made from the protein of milk. From plastic casein (better known as cottage cheese) strands of jade-green beads, bracelets and decorative buckles Were made. There were exhibited knife and fork handles resembling old ivory, green lamp shades, amber colored fountain pens and pencils, shoe horns, umbrella tips and ornamental door knobs that had been made from skimmed milk. Casein, the National Dairy Council says, is used also as the base of letters in electric signs. The plastic casein used was made from sweet skimmed milk.

The Commonwealth Fund of Pennsylvania has appropriated $5,000 for carrying on a study of normals by Dr. Theodore H.

Digitized by t^ooQLe
82

Weisenburg at the Graduate School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania in an attempt to determine the basis for drawing a line between normal and pathologic conditions in speech, sensory and motor activities in children as a guide in clinical diagnosis.

Society Moves Away from Noise and Traffic.—The, Cincinnati Academy of Medicine voted, November 25, following the report of a committee, to leave the downtown district and erect a new home on a hilltop a short distance off McMillan Street, away from the disturbance of traffic and noise. The new home will cost the academy, it is reported, about $200,000.

MAY DAY 1930 AND THE PARENTS.

May Day—National Child Health Day 1930 strikes a deep and vibrant note. Each successive May Day has challenged us to think and act upon one particular thing vital to the health and well-being of childhood, from the correction of their remediable defects to the provision for every child of the right kind of recreation, in the right amount and the right place.

This year May Day addresses itself to the fathers and mothers of the United States. Upon them depends the success of all efforts to ensure a sound mind in a sound body to every child. Therefore, the National Child Health Day Committee of the State and Provincial Health Authorities of North America chose as the special keynote of 1930 “Parent Cooperation in Community Child Health and Protection.” They know that the state’s official health work will be effective for children in proportion to the intelligent cooperation of the parents of the little John’s and Mary's and of their baby sisters or brothers.

May Day asks of us all—parents and health workers—intelligent cooperation in the nation's child health program. The President can call a White House Conference on Child Health and Protection; others can say “Let us consecrate May Day to the children of the United States.” But only parents by their cooperation can make the results of the Conference practical in the life of the child, and can translate the ideal of May Day into child health, child happiness, and child success.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY SUMMER CAMP.

President Daniel L. Marsh has announced the purchase by Boston University of the famous Sargent Camps at Peterboro, N. H. In addition to the usual summer camp for girls which has been conducted through July and August, and which will be continued as in the past, a 6-week intensive program of college grade work for women teachers of physical education, is being drawn up. According to Dean Wilde, dean of the B. U. school of education, under whose administration the Sargent School and

Digitized by VjOOQle
83

the Sargent Camp are directed, the university intends to make the New Hampshire camp one of the foremost summer centers in the United States for teacher-training in the field of physical education.

TANNIC ACID FOR BURNS.

To the Editor oj the	Journal Vr-In view of the recent literature

on the treatment of bums with tannic acid, I was interested to learn that ink has been a household remedy in the treatment of bums for many years in the Philippine Islands. Since most black inks are weak solutions of gallotannate of iron, this is another example of justification of the empiric use of an old home remedy.

I have seen two cases in which ink was used as a first aid application in the treatment of bums: one on the island of Corregidor, another in Zamboanga on the island of Mindanao. The first was a severe degree bum of more than two thirds of the body, in which an unfavorable prognosis was given. To my surprise, however, the child recovered. The other was a mild bum which healed promptly.

On questioning some of the older natives in different barrios, I ascertained that ink has been used by their mothers and grandmothers, and is considered a sovereign remedy for bums.

C. A. Stammel, M. D.

Petit Barracks, Zamboanga, P. I. Captain, M. C., U. S. Army.

HAND CREAM—GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY To the Editor:—My attention has been called to “Hand Cream No. 406“ put out by the General Electric Company. Might I ask whether this remedy is to be used for skin trouble, or is it simply a protective “cream”? Please omit name.

M. D. Columbus, Ohio. Answer.—Inquiry was sent to the General Electric Company; Dr. L. A. Hawkins, executive engineer, replied as follows:

“We have your inquiry concerning our “Hand Cream No. 406/ This cream is not at all a ‘secret remedy.’ It is neither secret nor is it a remedy. It is simply a protective soap to use on the hands before exposing them to oil, grease or other materials which stain them. The cream when rubbed into the hands forms a slightly adhesive film which keeps the oil or grease from the skin and which washes off readily with soap and water. While this is its most common use, it is also used to some extent in some of our factory departments to protect the hands of the workers against certain solvents in our varnishes and lacquers which are slightly irritating to the skin.

"We have found it a great convenience in our own work, and therefore decided to offer it, in convenient form, to the public. “The formula for the cream is as follows:

Gum arabic.................................... 4 pounds

Soap chips (laundry soap).....................19 pounds

Water ........................................74 pounds

Digitized by Google
84

Hydrous wool fat.................................2 pounds

Acid red (small amount to color)

Oil of lemongrass ...............................128 Gm.

“The gum arabic is to make the cream slightly adhesive. The soap chips are inexpensive, of the kind used in laundry tubs on washday. The acid red and the oil lemongrass are added to make the color and odor pleasing.

“If any further information is desired, we shall be glad to supply it.”

NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CONVENTION

Program of the Department of School Health and Physical Education, Monday June 3d—Tuesday July 1,	1930

Columbus, Ohio.

Monday, June 30, 2:15—4:30

Dr. Clifford L. Brownell, Associate Professor of Physical Education, Columbia University, New York, Presiding Officer Dr. R. G. Patterson, Exec. Secy, Ohio Public Health Association, Columbus.

Topic: The Need for School Health Education.

Miss Rachael O. Yaw, Supervisor of Elementary Education, East Cleveland, 0.

Topic: An Educational Physical Education Program for the Elementary Schools.

Herbert J. Stack, Ph. D. Supervisor Child Safety Demonstration, New York City

Lecturer in Safety Education, Columbia University.

Topic: Safety Education in the Elementary Schools.

Dr. Harry B. Bums, Director of Health and Physical Education,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Topic: What Should a School Health Service Program Be?

* * *

Tuesday, July 1, 1:15—4:30

Miss Mary E. Murphy, Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, Chicago, Illinois, Presiding Officer.

Dr. D. Oberteuffer, Supervisor of Physical Education, Columbus,

O.

Topic: Problems in School Health Education and Their Solution.

Prof. J. B. Nash, Professor of Physical Education, New York University.

Topic: A Modem Public School Physical Education Program. Hazel Rex, Board of Education, Toledo, O.

Topic: Girls Athletics

Miss Bess Goodykoontz, Assistant Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C.

Topic- Health and Physical Education, A Vital Value in Education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
85

♦ ■ — ■ ■

Gymnasium and playground

*> <» WAND AND FREE EXERCISES

Tumverein Vorwaerts—Chicago, 111. Ernest C. Klafs, Instructor.

Tumverein Vorwaerts—Chicago 111. Ernest C. Klafs Instructor 32 Participants—16 Ladies—16 Actives—Ladies Wands—Actives Free Exercises.

The exercises are executed in open order, in marching, in a double circle formation, & a series of tactics.

Music—The American Legion March by Carl D. Vandersloot Intro. 8 counts

Formation ranks of six. Ladies stand to the r. of the Actives On command—ladies lower wand to starting pos. with undergrasp & Actives take one step backw. Rest during the introduction.

Ex. I

Ladies

Place the 1. ft. sidew. & raise arms forw. ................. 1-2

Lunge 1. sidew. & wind in 1., 1. arm sidew., r. hand at

middle of chest.......................................... 3-4

Cross layout obi. backw. inw., release grasp of r. hand & circle wand outw. to an obi. pos. 1. arm upw. rounded, r.

arm sidew. & turn head r................................. 5-8

Lunge 1. sidew. & wind in 1., 1. arm sidew. r. hand at middle of chest .............................................  9-12

Place 1. ft. sidew., release grasp of r. hand & circle wand

outw. to pos. arms forw.................................13-14

Close & lower arms.........................................15-16

Repeat opposite........................................... 17-32

Repeat all.................................................33-64

Actives

Place the r. ft. sidew. & raise arms sidew.................. 1-2

Lunge r. sidew. & 3-4 arm circle outw. to upw. pos.......... 3-4

Cross layout 1. obi. backw. inw. & arm circle inw. (1. arm describes a 7-8 circle & the r. arm a 5-8 circle) finish with the r. arm obi. sidew. upw. & the 1. arm obi. sidew.

downw. & look at r. hand...............................   5-8

Lunge r. sidew. & circle arms outw. to upw. pos............ 9-12

Place r. ft. sidew. & 3-4 arm circle inw. to sidew. pos....13-14

Close & lower arms........................................ 15-16

Repeat opposite............................................17-32

Repeat all ................................................33-64

Digitized by LaOOQle
86

Exercise II.

Ladies

Place the 1. ft. obi. backw. inw. (1-8 turn of trunk) & raise

arms obi. forw. upw.......,..........  !................   1-2

Lunge 1. obi. forw. outw., wind in r. the r. arm obi.

backw. downw. & the 1. hand at the r. shoulder............ 3-4

1-2 turn r. & change of knee bending at the same time release grasp of 1. hand & circle wand backw. regrasping

same & finish with arms in forw. pos...................... 5-8

1-2 turn 1. & change of knee bending & wind in r. the r. arm

obi. backw. downw. & the 1. hand at the r. shoulder...... 9-12

Place the 1. ft. obi. backw. inw. & release grasp of 1. hand & circle wand backw. finish regrasping wand with 1. hand,

arms obi. forw. upw....................................  13-14

Close & lower arms.........................................15-16

Repeat opposite............................................17-32

Repeat all ................................................33-64

Actives

Place the r. ft. obi. backw. inw. (1-8 turn of trunk) & raise

arms obi. forw. upw....................................... 1-2

Lunge r. obi. forw. outw. & circle arms inw. to sidew. pos... 3-4

1-2 turn 1. & ch. of k. b., 3-4 double arm circle outw. to

upw. pos................................................. 5-8

1-2 turn r. & ch. of k b. & 3-4 double arm circle inw. to

sidew. pos............................................   9-12

Place the r. ft. obi. backw. inw. & circle arms outw. to an

obi. pcs. forw. up........................................13-14

Close & lower arms......................................  15-16

Repeat opposite .......................................   17-32

Repeat all .........................................      33-64

Exercise III.

Ladies face r. & take 12 steps forw. (place wand at r. side on 1-2 forming to the r. face 1. & take 4 steps forw. (start

forming two circles)....................................... 1-16

The following ex. is taken during the next 32 counts, bend arms to thrust 1-2, thrust arms upw. 3-4 return movements 5-8 repeat 3 times.................................... 17-48

Mark time 8 counts, during which distance is adjusted, face r. & continue marking time 8 counts, on the 5 & 6 counts slide wand to r. at the same time grasp neighbors wand

with 1. hand...............................................49-64

Actives face 1. & take 12 steps forw., forming to the r. Face

1. & take 4 steps forw. (start forming two circles)........ 1-16

The following ex. is taken during the next 32 counts, place hands on shoulders 1-2, straighten arms sidew. 3-4, return

movements 5-8 repeat 3	times..............................17-48

Mark time 8 counts during which distance is taken, face r.

& continue marking time for 8 counts.......................49-64

Digitized by LaOOQle
87

Note—We now have two double circles facing outw., the ladies on the inside joined by holding the ends of the wands, the actives on the outside, standing at the interspaces formed by the wands.

Exercise IV.

Ladies

Place the 1. ft. forw. & raise arms forw.................. 1-2

Layout 1. backw. & lower arms downw......................	3-4

Hold this pos...........................................  5-10

Raise arms upw....................................’......11-12

Place the 1. ft. forw. & lower arms forw.................13-14

Close & lower arms.......................................15-16

Repeat r. 1., & r........................................17-64

Actives

Place the 1 ft. forw. & swing arms forw. upw. ............ 1-2

Large layout 1. backw. on toes & swing arms forw. downw.

& place hands on	the floor............................  3-4

Place the r. ft. on the wand 5, 1. ft on 6 & hold this pos.

7-8..................................................... 5-8

Replace r. ft. in a squat pos. on 9 & the 1. ft. (leg straight)

on 10.................................................. 9-10

Hold this pos............................................11-12

Straighten trunk, place the 1. ft. forw. & swing arms forw.

upw....................................................13-14

Close & lower............................................15-16

Repeat r. 1., & r........................................17-64

Exercise V.

Ladies

Place the 1. ft. backw. & raise arms forw. upw............ 1-2

Lunge 1. Forw. & bend arms to thrust...................... 3-4

Hold this pos............................................  5-8

Straighten arms forw. (push handstand down).............. 9-10

Bend arms to thrust..................................... 11-12

.Place the 1 ft. backw. & straighten arms upw............13-14

Close & lower arms forw. downw.........................  15-16

Repeat r., 1. & r........................................17-64

Actives

Place the 1. ft. backw. & raise arms sidew................ 1-2

1-2 turn 1. & place both hands on floor (start)........... 3-4

Swing up to a handstand on	5-6 &	hold	7-8................ 5-8

Down on 9-10 (as pos.	3-4)	hold this	pos.	11-12......... 9-12

Return to 1st pos........................................13-14

Close & lower arms.......................................15-16

Repeat r., 1. & r........................................17-64

Exercise VI.

Ladies-mark time & slide wand over 1-2, place same at r. side 3-4, face 1 & mark time 4 counts.

Digitized by v^ooQle
88

Actives—mark time 4 counts, face 1. & take 2 closing steps 1. sidew., stepping in between the ladies, 4 counts. We now have a single flank rank in circle formation, 1. shoulder to the center. Divided into ranks of 4 & numbered 1,2

3,4, ranks angle 1. & form a cross, No. 1 leads............. 1-16

Face 1. & immediately a 1-1 wheel around center.............17-32

A 1-1 wheel 1. outw. away from center.................... ..33-48

Ranks march 8 steps forw. No. 1 & 2 face 1. about in 4 steps

and 4 steps in place, No. 3 & 4 1-1 turn 1. in 8 steps...49-64

Ranks of 2 a 1-1 wheel r. around center, all 1. about in 4

steps & 4 steps in place...............................   1-16

Ranks of 2 a 1-1 wheel 1. around center, No. 1 & 2 face 1. about in 4 steps & 4 steps in place, No. 3 & 4 a 1-1 turn

1.	in 8 steps............................................17-32

Ranks of 4,8 steps forw. back to cross formation & each individual a 1-1 turn	1. in 8 steps......................33-48

All face 1. & ranks angle 1. & circle 1. 12 counts, ladies face r. & slide wand over, actives face r. & 3 steps forw. & close .....................................................49-64

Exercise VII.

Ladies

Step backw. 1. & kneel 1. & swing arms upw................. 1-2

Straighten 1. knee, come to a lunge pos. & place hands on

hips & lower trunk forw................................  3-4

Hold this pos. 5-10, return to kneeling pos. & raise arms

upw. ..................................................11-12

Rise place 1. ft. forw. & lower arms forw.................13-14

Close & lower............................................ 15-16

Actives Same r., 1. & r...................................17-64

Actives

Rise on toes & swing arms upw.. ........................... 1-2

Bend knees deeply & lower arms forw........................ 3-4

Raise to a balance stand on r. ft., place 1. ft. on wand &

move arms Sidew........................................  5-6

Hold this pos.............................................  7-8

Return to bent knee pos., arms forw....................... 9-10

Hold this pos.............................................11-12

Straighten knees	&	raise	arms	upw......................13-14

Close & lower............................................ 15-16

Repeat balance stand 1., r. & 1...........................17-64

Exercise VIII.

Ladies

Lunge 1. forw. and bend arms to thrust..................... 1-2

Change of knee bending & straighten arms forw.............. 3-4

Hold this pos. 5-10,	return to	pos. 1-2................... 5-12

Raise 1. leg forw. & straighten arms upw..................13-14

Close & lower ............................................15-16

Same r., 1. & r...........................................17-64

Actives Lunge 1. forw. & raise arms sidew.................. 1-2

Digitized by

Google
89

1-2 turn r. change of kneebending & place hands on floor.. 1-4 turn r. swing r. leg over 1. & grasp wand with

hand (lying support 1. sidew.).....................

Hold this pos.........................................

Return to pos. 3-4 & hold 2 counts....................

Return to pos. 1-2....................................

Close & lower.........................................

Same starting with a lunge r. forw....................

Repeat all ...........................................

... 3-4 r.

... 5-6

.... 7-8

... 9-12

.13-14

.15-16

...17-32

.33-64

Exercise IX.

Ladies—mark time & slide wand over 1-2, place same at r.

side 3-4, face 1. & mark time 4 counts Actives mark time 4 counts, face 1 & take 2 closing steps 1. sidew., steping in between the ladies 4 counts. We now have a single flank circle 1. shoulder to center. Divided into ranks of 4 & numbered 1,2 3 & 4

Ranks angle 1. & form a cross No. 1 leads, 8 counts..........1-16

Ranks 8 steps forw. 8 counts

Ranks No. 1 a 1-4 wheel r. & face 1. about in 4 steps Rank No. 2 of the front division face 1. about in 4. steps &

4	in place

Rank No. 2 of the rear division 1-4 wheel r. & face r. in 2 steps & 2 steps in place.

Ranks No. 3 a 1-4 wheel r. & 4 steps in place Rank No. 4 of the front division a 1-4 wheel r. face 1. in 2 steps & 2 steps in place Rank No. 4 of the rear division a 1-1 turn 1. in 8 steps (individually)............................................17-32

Pose

Ranks No. 1 & 3 & 4 of the front division & 1, 2, & 3 of the rear division will take the following pose (ladies are No. 1

& 3, actives are No. 2 & 4

Take places for pose....................................... 1^1

No. 2 & 4 lunge towards each other with the inner ft. arms

down holding ends of wands.............................. 5-6

No. 1 mount to a stand on wands, 1. ft. on front, r. ft. on

rear wand .............................................. 7-10

No. 3 place hands on floor.................................11-12

Swing to a handstand (ft. grasped by No. 3) & hold.........13-16

Hold handstand ............................................ 1-4

Handstand down ............................................ 5-6

No. 1 down from stand on wands............................. 7-8

2 & 4 close, face front & wand at r. side.................. 9-10

Rest ........................,.............................11-12

Back to place..............................................13-16

Rank No. 2 of the front div. & No. 4 of the rear div. will take following pose
90

This takes the same No. of counts as the above.

All ranks in returning from this pose, will return to place so as to be ready to close forw. to the cross formation.

Ranks 8 steps forw. to cross, face 1., angle 1. & circle 1. When leader of each division arrives back at original pos. in circle, she marches straight away & then angle r.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Health Essentials” by Andress, Mace, Aldinger and Gold-berger; published by Ginn and Co. 1928; clothbound, 5- 1-3” x 8”, 481 pages, price $1.60

The book is written for high school pupils. It will serve best in the junior and lower senior high school grades.

The major portion of the book deals with personal hygiene, although home and community problems are also given considerable attention.

The chief emphasis is given to health habits and the building up of wholesome attitudes and ideals. The information on anatomy and physiology is held to a minimum but is sufficient to give a thorough understanding of the functions of the body.

The book contains many useful pictures and illustrations as well as valuable topics and suggestions for study at the end of each chapter. It may serve as a good text or as a supplementary reader for pupils.

—Fred E. Foertsch

“Recreative Athletic*” (revised edition, 1929) prepared by the Playground and Recreation Association of America, published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York City, 1929; paperbound, 9- 1-4” x 4- 1-2”; 200 pages; price $1.00.

This pocket size book is “an attempt to bring together some of the most helpful material available on the conduct of recreative athletics on the playground, in schools and industries, and to suggest informal group athletics and activities which will make it possible for all to take part.”

The contents consist of eight chapters, nine appendices, and a brief bibliography. In the first chapter the fundamental philosophy of athletic activity is applied to the subject of the athletic program. The second chapter is a discussion of detailed methods

Digitized by CaOOQle
91

of conducting athletic activities. Then follows a series of chapters loaded with very valuable and practical material such as stunts, meets, play days, water sports, and winter sports.

The final chapter integrates all that has gone before in a discussion and presentation of athletic programs illustrated by samples taken from many large cities.

The appendices consist of sample constitutions for athletic associations, lists of athletic and of game activities, and year-round programs of athletics.

It is a very valuable book and a worthy tool for any good playground or physical education teacher or executive.

—C. Kieffer

“The Diagnosis of Health” by William R. P. Emerson, M. D.; published by D. Appleton and Co., New York and London, clothbound, 8- 1-4” x 5- 1-2”, 272 pages, price $3.00.

Although Dr. Emerson considers many factors in the diagnosis of health, his particular fondness and interest is for the underweights. This defect group he treats in a thorough and scientific manner, especially those of the college habitues.

At first thought, his Health Intelligence Quotient seems a highly satisfactory procedure} but on close inspection we find possibilities of repetition, loose judgment, and lack of provision for individual differences that seriously affect the validity of the findings. The self-rating scheme presupposes that the mental patterns of the instructor relative to the factors questioned are accurately duplicated in the minds of the students. Of course, Dr. Emerson only regards these scores as primary indications; and subsequently augments his health analysis with other more accurate procedures.

Of special interest is his Personality Analysis as a health factor in school children; and the chapters dealing with the training regimen of college athletic teams.

The book should prove of considerable value to the college instructor of hygiene, the physical education director, and all those in charge of the administration of the college health programs.

— Howard L. Conrad.

“Science And The Way To Health” by Andress, Mace and Brown; published by Ginn & Co., Boston, 1929; clothbound, 5-1-2” x 7- 1-2” 367 pages.

This book is suitable for junior high school pupils.

The early chapters of this book attempt to arouse an appreciation of science and its relation to healthy living. In this part, we find facts as opposed to superstitions, and interesting accounts of health heroes. The next section contains chapters on the “common cold”, accidents, home nursing, community health measures, and a discussion of the milk and water supply. Then follows a large section devoted to personal health problems supple-

Digitized by C^ooQle
92

merited by sufficient physiology and anatomy to insure a thorough understanding of the problems presented. The final chapter emphasizes the larger community problems with an appeal to good citizenship.

The book is written in an easy, simple style and contains many illustrations. At the end of each chapter, there are many valuable exercises and suggestions for pupils.

—Fred, E. Foerlsch

“Play Days For Girls And Women” by Margaret M. Duncan; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1929; clothbound, 6- 1-4” x 9- 1-4”; price, $1.60.

Out of the West comes this idea for greater and better participation of pupils in sports. The author is a member of the physical education department of the University of Washington, and the ideas she presents have been put into practice on the Western Coast.

The fundamental principle for the play day idea may be found in the platform of the National Amateur Athletic Federation and in resolutions drawn up by the Conference on Athletics and Physical Recreation for girls and women in Washington, D. C. in 1923. The author says, “There is a higher aim than victorious teams and yet a play day retains the fun and pride of victory added to the joyousness of social play.” High Schools and Womens’ Colleges all over the country have adopted the idea; Mills College, Stanford, and the University of California have found the idea so satisfactory that a play day has displaced varsity competition.

Miss Duncan has outlined the whole program in detail so that one needs only follow her organization. In working out the general plan such items as preliminary meeting, publicity, and program are treated. Under the detail of organization are such matters as committee, program, registration, entry information and awards. Among the activities which have proved popular are the following: folk dances, relays, stunts, jump field events, swimming, posture parades, tumbling and games.

The volume is a real contribution to the literature of physical education. The clarity of the presentation as well as the completeness draw commendation. The book is well illustrated, including valuable diagrams which should prove of valuable assistance to the organizer of a play day.

In conclusion, the bibliography and supplement must be mentioned. The former, while not exhaustive, is generous and up to date. The latter is of peat value, for it contains sample programs for play days which have been held by various high schools and the women of New York University.

—Mildred E. Tuttle.