MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	APRIL, 1932 No.	404

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NBW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianarolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the pcstcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

ATHLETICS WITH SAFETY

By Howard W. Haggard, M. D., Associate Prof, of Physiology, Yale University

Some old-time topics are always news. There is that problem of professionalism in athletics or sports. It is' as old as written history but it is perennially news. Twenty-four centuries ago the Greeks were beginning to be excited over the fact that some of their athletes were giving up their amateur status and exhibiting their prowess for a livelihood. Last year and this year the press devoted columns to the same situation in our country; no doubt they will next year.

The prolonged agitation of the subject has resulted from the fact that there are two divergent viewpoints on athletics that no amount of discussion will ever reconcile. From one of these, athletic exercise appears as a spectacle to be watched, an amusing interesting, thrilling show. Many professional athletes are essentially actors who pander to this attitude. From the other viewpoint athletic sport is seen as an appealing game which is a mental and physical discipline, a means by which the body and character of the participant are developed. But even those who hold to the latter view and consequently engage in athletics are not at all adverse to appearing before spectators in the role of

•Printed by Permission of Eastman Kodak Go.

Digitized by Google
2

amateur actors. It is at this junction that the viewpoints overlap and give cause for the endless discussion.

The important aspect, however, is the direction of our own trend. We are becoming increasingly interested in sports. But are we going to develop eventually a nation of amateur sportsmen benefiting themselves, or are we going to develop a nation of critical spectators interested in judging a show? Perhaps in .noderation we can do both with benefit.

The Grecian Ideal in Athletics.

History has given us an instance of the two extremes—much more extreme in each direction than anything we have attained to today. The nation of amateurs was ancient Greece; the nation of critical spectators was Rome. Into the lives of each of these nations sport entered to a far greater extent than it does into ours and exerted in each case a profound influence in shaping the national character.

The Grecian games, the forerunners of all modern athletic competitions, revived specifically in our own Olympic games, started out as a form of religious observance. The contests were carried out in honor of some god or hero. How important they were in national life can be judged from the fact that a sacred armistice, a cessation of all hostilities, was declared at the time of the games. A herald went from city to city announcing the date of the games, and the wars that were under way—and there were always wars under way in those days— were stopped. The warriors, so to speak, marked their positions on the battlefield and then took off their military trappings, greased their bodies, and went into training.

Ten months of training was the minimum requirement for any contestant. The Greeks would not risk injury to health by admitting to the field a man unfit for strenuous exertion. So prepared, anyone could enter the game, provided he was able to prove by witnesses that he was in good amateur standing, had no moral or civil stain upon his character, and was a Greek. Participation in the contest was an honor eagerly sought even by men of exalted position.

The first event of the great day was usually a foot race. The herald called out “Let the runners put their foot to the line” and then appealed to the spectators to challenge any of the contestants for disqualification by blood or character. If there were no objections, a note of the trumpet started the race. Other events followed in rapid succession. The broad jumpers took off with dumb-bells swinging in their hands to give added momentum. The wrestlers rubbed oil over their bodies and then sprinkled sand on their arms. The boxers wore no gloves, but tied hard leather thongs about their hands; instead of hitting out straight from the shoulder they flailed away like windmills with wide swinging blows.

The victor in each contest was presented with a wreath. A herald proclaimed his name, his city, and his parentage. As he

Digitized by uooQle
3

walked before the spectators in triumph, his friends and admirers showered his path with flowers and gifts. But his triumph did not end there; the Greeks literally worshiped perfection of bodily development. The victor’s name was canonized in the Greek calendar; in his native city he was venerated as a saint. And if he came from Sparta, he had the added honor of being given a place in the front line of the troops when war was resumed after the games.

Clean, wholesome, amateur sports aspired to by every one not only exerted an enormous influence in moulding the national character of the Grecian people, but produced that unique type of physical and intellectual beauty that we see reflected in Grecian art and literature.

Professional Athletics, A Passion Among The Romans

Now Rome conquered Greece, and Greece in turn gave the Romans the professional athlete. No Roman citizen would engage publicly in games; for him even to drive his chariot in public was a scandal. The athletes that performed in the games were often Greeks and since they were not required to conform to the rigid regulations of Grecian athletics they were usually men of low character.

The Romans developed a passion for athletic spectacles such as has never been exceeded or even approached. The Roman games became the Roman Circus, and the Circus Maximus seated three hundred and fifty thousand spectators. No admission was charged. Public officers held office by virtue of the fact that they spent their private fortunes in providing exciting athletic spectacles for the people. These spectators were not amateur sportsmen interested in the fine points of sportsmanship. They wanted to be thrilled. Their taste gradually grew callous. They demanded exhibitions spiced for their blunted sensibilities. They wanted blood. They wanted a gladiatorial show. They wanted the arena flooded for naval battles between ’fleets manned with prisoners who would fight until one side was exterminated. To pique their taste animals were brought in; lions and tigers fought with men. Julius Caesar is said to have originated the bull fight. At the games in commemoration of Trajan’s Dacian victories, eleven thousand beasts were butchered for the joy of the followers of Roman athletics. Row vastly different from the Grecian games! It was professional exhibition carried to the extreme for a nation of spectators.

Eventually Rome had its downfall. Now I don’t mean to imply that debased athletics were responsible for this event, but certainly they had their influence upon the national character and the national physique. Rome fell and Roman athletics fell with it.

Fourteenth Century College Athletics.

The athletics of the rising northern people were of a different kind—they were those of the legendary King Arthur. The sword, the lance, and the battle-ax were the fittings, and war

Digitized by CjOOQle
4

and the knightly tournament, the manifestations. The tournaments were strictly amateur affairs, but the wars were open to all comers, mercenary professionals and patriotic amateurs alike. Boys of those days practiced with swords as enthusiastically as modern ones with a football. In fact the boys of those early times were often forbidden harmless games, if one may judge by college regulations. I want to emphasize this point, because it has been in our modem schools and colleges that the Grecian ideal of athletics has had its nearest revival.

In the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries the colleges often suppressed sports more stringently than they did crime and vice. Drunkenness was ignored; immorality was forgiven; even murder was tolerated. True, at Prague a certain Master of Arts cut the throat of a bishop and was actually expelled from college, but a fine usually sufficed for homicide in the case of less prominent victims. But sport—that was more serious. The University of Leipzig had a standing proclamtion enumerating the severest penalties against such simple amusements as using a bean shooter, and wrestling, and against the then popular boyish prank of heckling the hangman during the execution of his duty.

I hardly need to say that there was an extremely wild side to college life in those days when boys were deprived of a natural and harmless outlet for their exuberant energies and of the spirit of sportsmanship and fair play that only competitive athletics can develop.

Gradually, interest in amateur sports has returned, and the beginning of the movement in our schools and colleges dates back to the middle of the last century. The first Yale-Harvard boat race was rowed on Lake Winnepesaukee in 1852; the first intercollegiate baseball game was held in 1859, between Amherst and Williams; the first intercollegiate football game was held in 1869 between Princeton and Rutgers. Today the gymnasium, the ball field, the track, and the swimming pool are as important adjuncts to a school or college as are the classrooms.

I make that statement in all seriousness. When organized athletics first came into our colleges, they were inspired largely by an extra-mural competitive spirit. That is, the students with little or no coaching or supervision gathered up a dozen or so of the biggest and strongest men from among their numbers and sent them out to beat by hook or croo'k a similar contingent from a neighboring college. Attention in school and college athletics was fixed exclusively on that outside competition for the glory of the school. Any competition within the school itself was for the sole purpose of sifting out\the unfit and selecting a team for the all-important outside event.)

That phase was simply a stage in the developirpent of modern school and college athletics. It brought the Extremely important benefits of athletics to tl	athletics	the

Interest Revived In Amateur Athletics
5

least. The rapidly extending modern idea is athletics for every student—some kind of body-building, character-building sport for each boy and girl and each man and woman. Schooling without athletics is incomplete.

The big games, the football contests that fill the columns of the press with sport news and fill amazingly large stadiums with spectators are not college athletics in the broader and newer sense of the word. They are, however, rather valuable adjuncts to athletics, for the gate receipts paid so willingly by those with the spectator-outlook on athletics usually serve to maintain the general and non-lucrative athletics within the college.

The Grecian ideal of athletics is, I believe, spreading rapidly in this country. It is taught in our schools, and it survives among their graduates. Older men and women are turning to golf, to tennis and to other sports as at no previous time in our history. I know of no other force operating on our young people that will make so strongly for good citizenship, respect for the law, and diminution of delinquency as organized amateur athletics.

(To be Continued)

PLAY SITUATIONS IN CHILD LIFE

Their similarity to situations in Adult Life.

Child Life	Adult Life

The Need of Organization and Cooperation

Playful activity organized into games. Teams must play as units. One or two stars cannot win games; the team mates succeed or fail together. Cooperation is a necessity.

Fair Play, Good

Be fair not only to team mates but also to opponents. Strive to win by fair means. Do not take advantage of a smaller or weaker playmate. Be a good sport.

Courage,

Be willing to attempt a difficult task; stay with it until the game is over. Play, until the whistle blows; go across the finish line.

Social necessity brought about the organization of thecom-munity. Part of a community cannot rise while the rest is in bondage. Cooperation is necessary for success.

Sportsmanship

Win honor, fame, money, but do so honestly and fairly. Be able to look the world in the face with the feeling that you have played a fair game.

Determination

Be willing to grapple the difficult pioneer tasks of social welfare, i. e. a fair deal for every one.

Digitized by CjOOQle
6

Rules, Regulations

Every game needs rules so that Every community needs rules the prime object of the activity so that every one has a fair may be reached. Rules are laws, chance to live. If rules no If necessary they must be changed longer fit conditions they should by committees.	be changed by legislators.

Infractions of Rules

Penalties for players that break Fines and other penalties for the rules. Habitual rule break- law breakers. Reform schools ers should be barred from play, and penal institutions for habitual offenders who will not play the game of life squarely.

Officers for Rule Enforcement

Referees, umpires, captains tea- Police and probation officers, chers.	courts.

SOME SPORTS AND GAMES IN OLD HAWAII

Emma K. Mossman, Honolulu, T. H.

The Hawaiians like the Greeks believed that Physical Education was essential in helping to build up the moral, intellectual and social qualities necessary for living the most complete life. Consequently, all type of games, contests and tests of strength and endurance were encouraged by them. Music, poetry and drama also occupied an important place in the lives of the Hawaiians. In fact, beauty of every form was encouraged and enjoyed by them.

The interest in games and contests led them to become an important part in the lives of the people. The games for young children were similar to those played now. They consisted of tags, rolling discs, kite flying, hide and seek games, running, throwing and swimming.

The. physical training of an older Hawaiian child consisted of a series of exercises, running, swimming, boxing, wrestling, makia throwing, javelin and spear throwing, dancing, leaping and foot races. After years of such preparation, the man of Hawaii must have a physique capable of . standing almost inhuman tests of strength, skill and endurance. They ran without tiring, lifted the enemy in the air and broke their backs over head. Foot races were very popular with Hawaiian children. The beginning distances for boys in racing was 100 yards. Gradually this distance was increased until the contestants ran from district to district and very often around the island. Great importance was given to absolute fairness in running.

Among the early Hawaiian sports was “Maika” a game played with the ulu or oloku. The ulu or oloku often was a spherical stone, but usually a thin cylinder with convex ends

Digitized by kjOOQle
7

was used. • The largest ulus weighed nearly 30 pounds. Rough small ones were used by children. Average ulus weighed over a pound. Choice ones were oiled and kept in kapa.

For the game a smooth alley or kahua was required. The first was a test of strength in throwing or bowling, to the greatest distance; the second test required more skill to drive the ulu between the two sticks near the end of the kahua. The third test was rather a test of the ulus than of the players, as the stones were rolled against each other and the toughest won the game of the owner. The players were trained carefully and developed great strength and skill.

There are so many games of strength and skill among the Hawaiians it would be impossible for me to describe every one but I shall attempt to give a few outstanding ones.

Surfing is the most thrilling of all water sports. Many Hawaiians are skilled surf riders sitting, standing up, balancing on their heads, carrying passengers on their shoulders and stunting in other ways. The first problem in surfing is to paddle your way out from the beach to where the waves break over the reefs. Lie down on your board. Use a perpendicular stroke, not a breaststroke. Your feet are crossed on the board. To turn, drag your foot in the water or shift your weight. Do not use the feet for rudders. Pick up your wave—a single wave. Watch for the steepest section of the surf. With your face to the shore, paddle ahead of the wave as fast as possible. As the surf catches you, it is necessary to give an extra spurt of paddling and shift your weight to guide your board. The trick is then one of balancing.

If the wave is steep ride to the stem of the board. Catch the wave, head the board at the angle with the surf. You will slide with the wave. By getting to your knees and watching your balance carefully, you may sit up, stand up and maybe stand on your head.

M.ost interesting among the sports of Hawaii is the fire game. This game is played only on the island of Kauai, at Anaki and Kamaile. It is very hard to get to these places. Great piles of wood are taken to the cliff. A big bonfire is started and long hollow sticks of Papala measuring from six to nine feet are put into the fire. After they burn they are thrown into the air. The wind carries the stick a distance of three or more miles to sea and then returns it to the precipice. The fire is forced through the hollow of the stem and it looks like a shooting star.

This game often was played in teams and great interest was aroused in*challenging one another. The side receiving the most returned sticks, won. This game required great skill and strength.

Before playing this game chants had to be rendered. No one could enter this unless he knew the prayers and chants that went with it. The first prayer was offered to God and the best

Digitized by
8

stick was thrown for Him. The Hawaiians never forgot God in all they did and He was first to them in everything, even in their games.

In the following I give a list of Hawaiian games.

1.	Games for young and old.

Tag games—running—throwing—hide and seek—swimming— jumping— surfing—pahee— kilu— puhenehene—maika—boxing, lone god—kite flying—dancing—konane [checkers]—hi—fire game.

2.	Track and field games.

Running—throwing or maika and spears—races.

3.	Games of skill and strength.

Running—maika and spears—puhenehene—boxing—konane [checkers]—arrow slinging—puzzles and riddles—surf riding— sledding.

STAMMERING AS AN IMPEDIMENT OF THOUGHT*

C. S. Bluemel, M.D., Denver.

If ten men, working with hammers, happen to strike their thumbs, these ten subjects, responding to the same stimulus, will react differently. For the purpose of this discussion, let it be presumed that their reactions are as follows:

The first man inspects his thumb.

The second sticks his thumb in his mouth.

The third wraps his thumb in his handkerchief.

The fourth waves his injured hand in the air.

The fifth gesticulates with the hammer.

The sixth flings the hammer to the ground.

The seventh swears.

The eighth counts in order not to swear.

The ninth whistles.

The tenth faints.

Here is rich material for investigation. But what if the investigators come on the scene a little late; they have seen the man’s reaction, but they have not seen him strike his thumb. It is therefore the reactions that they proceed to investigate. Being earnest and diligent, they pursue their researches along numerous lines. They study the subject’s respiratory curves, his plethysmographic tracings, his spychogalvanic reactions, his latent left-handedness, his repressions and his significant thumb sucking. The outcome of these investigations is naturally a good deal of confused opinion.

All this by way of illustration. These hypothetic circumstances depict what I conceive to be the situation with regard to stammering. The stammerer’s thumb has apparently been over-

*Read before the annual meeting of the American Society for the Study of Disorders of Speech, Chicago, Dec. 81, 1930.

Digitized by kjOOQle
9

looked, and the investigator has become engrossed in researches that relate to the man’s reactions. Every detail from contortion to emotion has been studied and it is possible that the precise nature of the stammerer’s difficulty is not yet known.

Perhaps the situation will be clarified if some of the data that have been gathered can be discarded. This task will not be easy, for the volume of material is enormous, and it is no simple matter to appraise it. One may, however, venture a general inventory of the information at hand.

Broadly, the investigation of stammering has fallen into three categories embracing the anatomy, the physiology and the psychology of speech. Theories affecting the gross anatomy of the speech organs belong principally to former centuries. Lord Bacon believed that stammering was caused by refrigeration of the tongue and that the symptoms were alleviated by drinking wine in moderation because the wine heateth. About the middle of the nineteenth century Dieffenbach supported the theory that the stammerer’s tongue was too low in the floor of the mouth, and he proceeded to elevate it by cutting a wedge transversely from the back of the tongue and sewing the edges of the gap together.

In the twentieth century, attempts are still made to relieve stammering by surgical procedures. The operations, however, are no longer on the tongue but on the frenum, tonsils, adenoids and nasal septum. Yet no student of speech seriously believes today that stammering results from malformation of the speech organs, and one who discusses the anatomy of the question at all falls back on the neurons, the thymus gland, and other things but vaguely understood.

The study of the physiology of speech has seemed more scientific, and over a period of a hundred years there has accrued a wealth of literature on disturbances of respiration, vocalization and articulation. Respiratory disturbances were thought to be responsible for stammering, the cause being found in spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, in disturbance of the rhythm of respiration and in the attempt to speak on an empty lung.

The seat of stammering has also been found in the vocalizing process, the speech impediment being atrributed to refusal of the voice, to ineptitude in the management of the voice and to the stammerer’s inability to impart proper tension to the vocal cords.

Articulation has also been indicated, and stammering is found to be imputed to imperfect training of the organs of articulation, to involuntary action of the speech organs and to the use of excessive force in producing initial consonants.

■When this material is examined, it is seen that most of it is descriptive. Thus are found precise delineations of inspiratory spasm, expiratory spasm, sublingual spasm, vox tremula, os quadratum, and countless other reactions which the stammerer displays. Yet it could scarcely be said that this study of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
10

phvsialogy of speech had revealed the cause of stammering, and although the study has dealt minutely with the description of spasm, it has failed to account for the spasm itself.

Hence one passes to psychology, and incidentally to the contemporaneous study of speech. Just as physiology has dealt with the triple problems of respiration, vocalization and articulation, so psychology deals with its triad of will, emotion and content of thought.

Under the category of will, stammering has been attributed to negative attitudes and to speech doubting. Thus Wyneken believed that the speech doubter was hampered by a wavering of the will. He was like a jumper who suddenly hesitated as he was about to spring; it was then too late to stop and too late to jump effectively. But Wyneken failed to explain how the stammerer came to doubt his ability in speech. After Wyneken, the will received little mention as the seat of the stammerer’s difficulty.

Emotion has long been suspected in connection with stammering. It was first thought of in simple terms such as embarrassment and self-consciousness. Later the study became detailed, and the stammerer’s sublimations were said to have gone awry. This contention is met by the assumption that one’s psychoanalytic friends are right and that the problem is one of conflicts and psychic traumas. Then the question arises, Why stammering? Why does not the patient develop facial tic, torticollis, cardiospasm or astasia-abasia? If one admits that emotion accounts for the presence of the nervous disturbance, then one must look for something that determines the character of the disturbance. In the case of stammering one must go beyond the emotion and investigate the verbal thought. This conclusion seems the inevitable when it is considered that in many cases stammering Tesults from association and imitation; the patient stammers became he has listened to stammering or because he has stammerecNtn jest. His stammering is altogether a second-hand affair. These facts seem to point away from emotion and in the direction of mental speech.

My own feeling in the matter is that stammering is an impediment in thought and not primarily a speech disorder. The disability manifests itself in speech because the speech is patterned on the thought. The thought disturbance, as I view it, is an inability to think the words clearly in the mind. I first explained this a number of years ago as a* transient auditory amnesia,[1] my conception of the matter being' that the stammerer momentarily lost his mental images of words because his mental imagery was faint or dim. His images might be compared to shadows on the ground in moonlight, while normal images would be comparable to the stronger shadow^ in sunlight. This faint imagery, it seemed, could not be readily recalled to motivate the speech.

1. Bluemel, C. S.: Stammering and Cognate Defects of	New

York, G. E. Stechert & Co., 1913.

Digitized by Google
11

My present conception of the mechanism is a little different, though the theory is not substantially changed. I believe that the verbal imagery momentarily drops out of the stream of consciousness, and that this loss of imagery blocks the stammerer's speech. In the present discussion it therefore makes little difference whether the original imagery is weak or strong; the essential fact is that the stammerer cannot speak without the verbal thought.

This momentary recoil of the verbal imagery from the mind might be compared to a moving picture in which blanks appear on the screen because of blemishes in the film. It is during these momentary blanks that stammering occurs. The stammering that is discerned, however, is not the disturbance of consciousness but the speaker’s futile attempt to enunciate words that are not clearly present in the mind. His struggles are not necessarily patterned on the thought disturbance, any more than the carpenter’s antics are necessarily patterned on the injury to his thumb. The stammerer may writhe in his chair, hold his breath, jerk his head or struggle to articulate, but he cannot proceed with orderly speech until the verbal thought comes clearly into his consciousness. It is evident that there is a vast difference between speech-block and the contortion with which the stammerer reacts when speech-block confronts him.

The speech-block or thought-block that I have just described represents to my mind the uncomplicated mental process in stammering. The process does not remain uncomplicated, however, when the stammerer develops fear of particular words, for he then begins to look for synonyms and circumlocutions, and if there is no ready escape he may go into a tail-spin of confusion. For the moment, at least, all verbal thought is obliterated. Still other complications occur to disturb the mental processes of speech.' But there is no occasion to elaborate further; enough has been said to illustrate my theory that stammering is an impediment of thought and not a speech disorder.

I do not want to urge this theory as final or infallible; I do not even want to imply that the stammerer’s thumb has at last been identified. But I do believe that the theory at least points in the direction of the thumb and that in the meantime it affords a basis for a rational therapy. Therapy becomes a matter of thought training, with attention directed on mental speech and not on the physical production of vowels and consonants.

In discussing the therapeutic aspect of the subject, I will treat the matter in summary rather than in detail, for I have quite recently published a full description of this work.[2]

2. Bluemel, C. S.: Mental Aspects of Stammering, Baltimore, Williams and Wilkins Company, 1930.

Digitized by LjOOQle
12

I	feel that the stammerer’s first task in speech correction is to learn to stop the physical struggle with which he has formerly met his speech-block. The struggles are futile in that they interfere with the expression of speech and fail to give expression of any kind themselves.

When he has checked the struggle, the stammerer is admonished to give his whole attention to mental speech. He is taught to regard the act of speaking as the process of thinking aloud, and when speaking he is urged to listen quietly for his thoughts. He is told to make no attempt to control the organs of speech but to let the mind broadcast to the mouth and to permit the speech to produce itself.

Much of the pupil’s training consists in mental drill. He is at first unable to desist from his struggle with speech, and he is therefore trained to relinquish his attempt at speech altogether and to come to a halt when the teacher signals with a snap of a castanet. A short period of silence then ensues, during which the stammerer regains his composure. When he appears thoroughly tranquilized, he is given the signal to proceed— a light tap of the castanet. There is much rigorous drill of this nature, and the signals or commands are retained in the speech work until the pupil is able to eliminate his physical stammering and to speak quietly with his attention on his thought.

Class work begins with a situation favorable for fluent speech; for instance, with the group reading aloud in unison. Later the pupils are required to read singly, but at any hint of stammering the group joins in and carries the stammerer past his thought-block. There are many variations of this procedure. In one of the exercises the instructor reads aloud with a pupil and gradually drops out by lowering her voice and omitting phrases here and there. Eventually the pupil finds himself reading alone, but the teacher joins him instantly if he falters. The object of these procedures is to merge easy situations into difficult ones, and to carry the fluency of the one situation into the other.

Another expedient is that of talking in phantom or silent speech; that is, in mere lip movements without voice and without whispering. This the stammerer can usually do fluently. He then repeats the sentence over and over, and gradually adds the element of voice. Eventually he finds himself saying the Sentence aloud and as a rule speaking normally. Exercises are conducted with this method of speech during the early part of the course. Thereafter at any time in the course the pupil is permitted to resort to phantom speech whenever stammering threatens, and he is allowed to take as much time as he wishes to produce audible speech by the gradual addition of voice.

The three major principles in this work are teaching the stammerer to relinquish his struggle when thought-block ensues; training him to contend with thought-block by focusing his attention on mental speech, and building his confidence by taking him gradually from easy to more difficult situations and by aiding

Digitized by LjOOQle
13

him instantly when stammering appears. In class work the principles are applied in reading, in language games and in spontaneous speech. An attempt is made to secure application of the principles in the home by enlisting the cooperation of the parents.

The work is of course modified to meet the needs of younger and older groups, but the fundamental principle is always the endeavor to train the thinking processes and not the attempt to correct a speech inpediment.

In closing, I wish to make a comparison between stammering and the organic diseases. If it is assumed that the organic disease is characterized by inflammation, which is present in nearly every physical illness, one has to consider not only the presence of inflammation but also its effect. One begins with healthy cells in healthy organs, and with the onset of the disease the cells become inflamed and with its continuance many of them die. In consequence, there is damage to the structure of the organ involved. In endocarditis or inflammation of the heart there is partial destruction of the heart valves; consequently leakage of the heart persists when the inflammation subsides. In meningitis many of the brain cells are destroyed; hence the patient may be blind and deaf by the time the infection is brought under control.

It is only when inflammation is cured in the early stages of the disease that the organs escape with their structure practically undamaged. It therefore becomes the aim of the intelligent physician not merely to stop the disease process but also to stop it early enough to preserve the integrity of the organs.

The situation is similar with stammering. One begins with normal thinking processes and healthy emotions. When stammering supervenes, these structures gradually break down. The thinking processes are then marred by indecision and confusion, and the emotional reactions are disturbed by countless fear associations. There is now the conditioned reflex of the behavioristic psychologist, or, to be more precise, there are many conditioned reflexes. This is the situation with the adolescent and the adult, and it follows that the treatment of stammering, in order to be effectual, must be undertaken before these complications arise. In other words, stammering must be treated in early childhood or as soon as the difficulty appears. Fortunately, this may in time prove possible through the cooperation of the schools.

The study of stammering has made tremendous strides in the past few decades. The old misconceptions of anatomy have been discarded; ideas on physiology have been adjusted, and conceptions in psychology are being clarified. But, more than this, a phase of organized study is being entered. It is within the potentialities of this new movement to establish early and effectual treatment for stammering and thus to save thousands from untold suffering.

Digitized by kjOOQle
14

SOME INTERPRETATIONS OF RECENT RESEARCHES IN THE CORRECTION OF STAMMERING.

Elizabeth A. McDowell, Ph. D., New York: The results of experiments with programs for improvement have shown that students improve most by applying the following technic:

1.	The recognition of the habit to be acquired by the person who must acquire it.

2.	Exercises and activities for setting up “connections." Among the most useful have been reproductions of the records of the speaker’s voice and the noting of the symptoms that are desired and those that are not.

3.	A more or less hit-or-miss scheme for experimenting on the part of the patient with exercises and schemes for acquiring the desired speech reaction. These must be very simple at first. One exercise that is universally successful, is the speaking of isolated syllables in unison with the instructor, who is employing an easy, well modulated voice.

4.	Repeating the reactions that have been proved successful in various situations and.attaching rewards and satisfactions to each successful effort.

5.	Association of the desired reaction with situations in which it must be used.

6.	Directing of effort and treatment toward the increasing span of the period between relapses into stammering and decreasing the length of the duration of relapse when it has occurred.

DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF STUTTERING

Lee Edward Travis, Iowa City: Studies have shown that approximately one half of the stutterers are essentially ambidextrous in unimanual activities. A great deal of this is undoubtedly the result of attempts on the part of parents and teachers to make naturally left-handed children right-handed. Some of it is the continuation of a condition of ambidexterity that existed from the beginning. The task of the speech pathologist is to develop in the stutterer strict one-sidedness, in all motor leads. The side to be selected and made the leading one is determined in the diagnosis of the case. Family and personal histories of handedness and stuttering, physical, psychologic and speech examinations are used for diagnostic purposes. After the side that is to be made the lead one has been decided on, every effort should be made to accomplish the desired end. Typewriting and piano playing should be discouraged. One patient reported a consistent relationship between the amount of daily practice on the piano and the severity of his stuttering. The more he practiced the worse his speech became, and the less he practiced the better his speech became.

Play and games should be introduced into the routine. They should be games that will tend to develop strength and skill in

Digitized by AjOOQle
15

the left arm and hand, or the right, as the case may be. Punching a striking bag, throwing a ball, playing tennis, playing jack-stones, ping-pong, handball, horseshoes, and any number of other games will help to develop left-handedness or right-handedness where this is desired. Moreover, they will change an otherwise monotonous routine into a truly delightful program. If competitive games are used, scores should be kept from day to day; tournaments may be held. These things are stressed here because motivation and interest can never be overemphasized.

PSYCHOLOGY TO THE AID OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Some of the Principles of Psychology Involved in the Teaching of Physical and Health Education.

W. P. Maclean, J. Sterling Morton High School, Cicero, Illinois.

[Conclusion.]

“The possession of birthmarks and other physical peculiarities may also influence an "individual’s mental development. Shyness, sensitiveness, and secretiveness may arise in this matter. The social connection is obvious in the case of the proud and haughty beauty. The development of such social reaction is not limited to the period of youth. It is no unusual circumstance for adults to take advantage of and to capitalize the public’s sympathy for their misfortunes. Physical peculiarities, however, do not invariably induce any significant mental effects. Their social influence may be prevented by the adoption of an intelligent attitude on the part of parents and teachers. Neither is the effect when present always detrimental. The persistent teasing of a boy with unusually large ears may induce an attitude of sullen resentment, or it may promote the development of his sense of humor, his good nature, and an attitude of sympathy and kindness to others. The type of attitude developed depends upon the way the individual reacts toward the social situation.”[48

The lesson for the health and physical education teacher above is [a] that his class in health or physical education is not a class, but rather a number of individuals with separate and distinct personalities, needs and potentialities, [b] His department, if it is efficient, is not separate and distinct, but inextricably identified with the success and failure of all the other departments of the school, and, indeed, with the whole life of the child both at school and at home. If the child reacts at all, he reacts as a unit, mind, body and moral character are affected.

In this same vein Miller[49] writes, "Mental health means reasonable adjustment to the realities and actualities of daily

48.	Harvey A. Carr, Op. Cit.; pp. 262-263.

49.	H. C. Miller, The New Psychology and the Teacher, Seltzer,1922. pp. 126-42.

Digitized by Google
16

life. The evidence is indisputable that unpleasant and annoying affective experiences are reflected daily in the- modification of certain organic processes vital to the health and buoyancy of the organism.

“Therefore wise and proper emotional adaptation to the environment is doubly important. Physical hygiene and mental hygiene are both dependent upon it. The well adjusted personality seeks outlet and expression of the self in action that is beneficial and developmental.”

Games and cooperative group activities offer ideal situations for adaptation to school environment.

“Many a stable child and many a nervous child tottering on the brink of instability,” says Wood, [50] “can be happily drawn away from the precipice by being made keenly interested in his school work, and given an opportunity to throw the whole weight of his mental and volitional powers into it, or into some phase of it.

“The vegetative processes also influence mental development through their nervous connection. The body is sensitive throughout, and the vital activities continually stimulate the somaesthetic nerves of sensitivity. Since all the sensory stimuli release neural energy that must find some motor outlet, necessarily these vital activities will influence the organism’s behavior in some manner.

“Under normal conditions these sensory impulses are successfully integrated for the most part with the ongoing actitities of the moment, and therefore aid in merging them. The vital activities thus furnish a part of the ‘drive’ to mental life. The degree to which an individual’s acts are invigorated or vitalized by this background of organic sensitivity necessarily varies with all fluctuations of bodily vigor. Lowered vitality can thus produce a corresponding lassitude of mind, while a high degree of bodily vigor is conducive to an energetic response.”[51]

Fear

“What begins in fear usually ends in folly.”---------Coleridge.

“I know that oft we tremble at an empty terror, but the false phantoms bring a real misery.”------Schiller.

“The thing in the world I am most afraid of is fear.”---------

Montaigne.

“The haunting fear of disease that does not exist.”-------Dr.

Richard C. Cabot.

It is self evident that health habits and sex education should not be taught through the medium of fear, through holding up a bugaboo of probable penalties for breaking the laws of health. Teachers should, themselves, take a healthy scientific attitude toward their subject.

50.	Walter Wood, Children’s Play and Its Place in Education; with an

Appendix on the	Monlessori Method, Duffield,	1917 p. 21.

51.	Harvey A. Carr, Op. Cit.; 263.

Digitized by UjOOQle
17

It is much within the province of the health and physical education teacher to seek to allay the groundless but often very real fears that are aroused in the minds of youth by quacks and patent medicine advertisements.

In games the teacher should keep in mind that “timidity born of awkwardness is the enemy of will, and that through kindliness, forbearance and individual attention, awkwardness may often be conquered, and with it timidity.”[52]

“Energy is the highest goal of all things, and the world belongs to the energetic. Timidity is rarely natural. From the most tender age, make the boy sure of himself for timidity is the enemy of mental and physical health. It is the parent of envy.

“Sincerity, self-confidence, high-spirited audacity that conceives and executes, contain harmonies that will move up in spite of any handicap, for the union of these qualities constitutes beauty..

“There are two qualities necessary in traveling through life: perseverence comes first and then energy to practice perseverence”

62. Yoritomo Tashi, Timidity. Funk & Wagnalls, 1916.

THE IMPORTANCE OF PSYCHIC PROCESSES

In an article in the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrijt Prof. G. von Bergmann of Berlin emphasizes the importance of the psychic for the treatment of the physical. While a few physicians of the old regime [for instance, Hufeland, in his “Makrobiotik”] recognized the influence of emotions on the bodily functions, more precise research on the.subject was not done until recent years, especially since the Russian psychologist Pavlov established by his famous experiment on dogs the existence and the mode of origin of a physically induced secretion of gastric juice. It has been shown by hypnotic experiments on man that the mere suggestion that a fine meal is spread before one may stimulate the secretion of the gastric juice. If one looks through a “celluloid window” set experimentally in the abdomen of a rabbit, it may be observed that an active movement of the whole intestinal canal begins when a turnip is shown to the hungry animal. If, however, the ear of the rabbit is then pinched, under the influence of the pain the intestinal movements will quiet down and the intestine will become pale. At the mere suggestion of physical work that is to be done with the right arm, the right arm becomes heavier owing to the influx of a greater blood supply. These remarkable facts attract-■ed attention before they were understood. As far back as 1834, Beaumont reported observations on Alexis St. Martin, who had a stomach fistula through which one could observe that, when the subject was influenced by fear or anger, the gastric walls became red and dry and lost their shiny appearance, while the

Digitized by v^ooQie
18

gastric secretion was diminished. Some time ago, a man was presented at clinical lectures who gave evidence of a chill, accompanied by trembling and goose-flesh, when he caught sight of the physician in his white overgarment standing near him, suffering from the delusion that the physician was a snow man and that he himself was standing nude out in the cold. Many such illustrations of the influence of the mind on the body can be given. Such connections are, however, much more subtle than is commonly supposed. The approach of a sick spell is heralded often by a change of mood and of disposition. We are irritable, low spirited and “nervous.” The “cold” or the sore throat does not appear until the day following. Certain contagious disorders or mild poisonings are, according to the observations of Bergmann, more easily recognizable by observation of psychic behavior than by the study of clinical symptoms, which fact should be utilized more than it is for the diagnosis. ‘‘There are for the physician,” he writes, “a great number of observations through which the subtle subjective perception of the patient will furnish important points of evidence, whereas the much coarser objective observations fail completely to accomplish the purpose; for instance, fatigue, weakness of memory, absentmindedness and mental excitement are often subtle indicators when it is impossible to recognize a poison by chemical means, a cell injury through an anatomic examination or a disturbed functioning as an objectively discoverable manifestation. Therefore, the subjective complaint of the patient often becomes for the internist the most important, and, not infrequently, the only evidence of illness.” These foreshadowings of sickness may consist of an exalted mood and increased activity; for example, in alcoholic intoxication or following an injection of morphine. Another example: A senior student in the “gymnasium” is happy over the fact that he no longer needs to resort to strong coffee in order to keep awake. His drowsiness has disappeared, and he memorizes his odes from Horace with great ease, whereas previously it required great effort. A few days later he dies from epidemic encephalitis. The increased memorizing capacity was only a foreshadowing of a grave brain disorder. The study of personal character is an inherent part of the study of the constitution, and it is important for the physician to know how his patient “steps” in both a literal and a figurative sense of the word; how he shakes hands; how the most delicate motions are revealed as graphic strokes in the handwriting; in short, even how he clears his throat and expectorates. From the study of the physical bases of psychic moods, certain conditions may be more accurately understood; for instance, the idea of convalescence. So long as all that was known was that the patient was no longer ill but was not yet well either, tne physician had to be content with such complaints during convalescence as: “I am tired, weary, have no desire to work.” Now, however, it has been shown that, for weeks after a sore throat or pneumonia, when temperature, blood picture and other reactions
19

have long become normal, the cell composition of a blister produced artificially on the skin is still abnormal; that is it still presents a changed behavior in the organism. Thus a biologic explanation is available for the proverbial irritable mood of the convalescent patient.

COOKERY AND DIGESTIBILITY

Cookery has become an important feature of the modern dietary regimen. As the application of heat to foods represents an important distinction between the feeding habits of man and those of animals, one may properly ask tor an explanation of the human peculiarity. Indeed, the “back to nature” cults in many instances insist on the preference for raw foods. There is the widest divergence among races with regard to the use of heat in the preparation of the daily diet. Writers on dietetics avoid the fundamental aspects of the cookery problems. Bron-son[l] asserts that civilized peoples ordinarily have a decided antipathy to the use of raw flesh as food. He believes that in part this may have had its origin in the recognition of the necessity of cooking as a health measure. The cooking of meat and some other foods has also been regarded as esthetic in purpose.

Modem bacteriology, with its concern for ubiquitous baneful microbes, has doubtless promoted the cause of cookery to some extent. However, there are many signs of incipient revolt against the widespread prevalence of the use of high temperatures in the processing of foods. This reaction is based in part on the newer knowledge of valuable properties or constituents of foods, notably the vitamins, which are in some instances subject to deterioration when they are exposed to heat and other destructive environmental conditions. The fear of loss.of undescribed essential properties of foods has produced some enthusiasm for raw foods. Probably there is much physiologic wisdom in such an attitude. However, justice demands a balancing of all the reputed advantages and disadvantages of heat cookery in the formulation of final judgments. It is desirable to establish all the important facts.

Some of the debated questions involve the comparative digestibility of raw and of cooked foods. The advantage of cooked starches and starchy foods is generally conceded. In the case of protein foods, such as meats and eggs, one often hears it asserted that cookery decreases their digestibility. Raw eggs are lauded by many persons, including physicians, as presenting the acme of digestibility. Yet there are convincing researches indicating that raw egg white, at least, like blood serum, is quite resistant to the proteolytic enzymes. ‘When the protein is heated to the stage of incipient coagulation, digestibility is greatly enhanced. The belief that hard boiled eggs are indigestible is largely a myth. Certainly it is not substantiated by

Digitized by Google
20

experiment. It is true that raw egg white leaves the stomach with unusual rsipidity. The emptying of the stomach is not, however, an indication of digestion.

And now the raw meat propaganda is meeting with experimental rebuff. Against the bold generalization, like that of Hutchinson,[2] that the digestibility of animal foods is diminished rather than increased by cooking, may be pitted the tests of Clifford[3] at King’s College of Household Science in London. These show that, taking rapidity of hydrolysis as a criterion, meat when raw is in the least digestible condition. The most rapidly digested meat is that which is roasted or grilled until it is just red inside with a moist surface when cut. This point probably coincides with that at which the antienzymic properties of animal tissues are destroyed, while the hardening effect of heat on proteins has hardly come into play. Clifford adds that, if the heating is carried beyond this point and the meat is definitely overcooked, the rate of digestion is slowed but, unless the meat is actually carbonized, it even then appears to be more rapidly digested than raw meat. The least rapidly digested form of cooked meat found in these experiments is an overboiled mince; the most rapidly, an underdone roast. It would therefore seem that, for people with weak digestive powers or for young children, the ideal form in which to administer animal protein is as underdone roast beef minced after cooking. The mince that comes from an ordinary household machine as a moist paste is palatable. Clifford also found that the decrease of digestibility in overcooked meat appears to be due to hardening and drying of the protein since, if underdone roast or grilled meat is rewarmed but not overcooked, its digestion rate is unaltered; but if so reheated until it is quite overcooked, the rate is slowed. This is in accordance with general opinion among cookery teachers who recommend the rewarming of meat but condemn recooking. Incidentally, it may be remarked that there is no objection to heated milk on the score of digestibility; and several investigators have emphasized the importance of cookery for the most effective utilization of the proteins of the commonly eaten legumes. Apparently, many raw tissues exert some sort of antienzymic action. At any- rate, whatever their inherent virtues such as richness in sensitive vitamins, digestion of their proteins is not universally enhanced when they happen to be consumed in nature’s state.

MENTAL HYGIENE IN AUSTRALIA

Dr. Ralph Noble of Sydney read a paper before the section of neurology and psychiatry on “The Mental Hygiene Movement and Its Possibilities in Australia.” Mental hygiene, he said, was that body of knowledge ..which dealt with factors that modify the resistance of the individual to the stresses of life. It was an effort to conserve and improve the minds of the

Digitized by v^-ooQle
21

people in order to secure minds so endowed and nurtured that the people would live better, act better, and think better. There were three main objects: protection of the mental health of the general public; the study of mental disorders and their causes, treatment and prevention, and the amelioration of mental disorders or deficiencies. Mental hygiene called in the aid of other sciences, such as psychology and sociology.

The mental hygiene movement commenced recently in New South Wales and New Zealand, and it was hoped by cooperation with other organizations and government departments connected with social welfare to extend the movement over Australasia and found an organization to aim at promoting the following objects:

1.	The education of the general public concerning mental health and the building up of an enlightened attitude toward mental disorders, so that the stigma which is so frequently attached to mental illness may be removed, and medical advice be sought in the earliest stages.,

2.	To further the best methods of care and after-care of mental disorders.

3.	To further the establishment of psychiatric clinics attached to general hospitals.

4.	To promote the study and treatment of nervous manifestations in childhood, with the object of preventing more severe developments in later years, and the instruction of parents and others in the handling of difficult and “problem” children.

5.	To obtain adequate provision for the care and treatment of the congenitally defective.

6.	To investigate the problems of social maladjustments, such as dependency and criminality, in relation to congenital and acquired mental disorders.

7.	The organization of social service in the community.

8.	The coordination of all the resources of the community which have a bearing on mental hygiene.

Every psychiatrist , knew that the mental symptoms of today were usually the result of faulty adaptation in the past—not yesterday, but years previously. At the ages of the greatest receptivity, harsh, too indulgent, ignorant or selfish parents molded the child’s mind into faulty grooves. Later the structure collapsed, and mental invalidism resulted.

There was a tendency on the part of some parents to allow satisfaction to come to the child through uncontrolled imaginings which did not lead into any kind of concrete activity. The kindergarten opened an obvious approach to the problems of childhood. There was a great need for facilities for the residential treatment of difficult children, more particularly those showing emotional imbalance. Even university students required investigation, and every college should have a consultant psychiatrist on its staff. The psychiatrist could be of the greatest

Digitized by Google
22

value also in investigating faulty methods of working in industry, as this resulted in much mental invalidism. Early treatment of nervous disorders was most desirable, and a mental hygiene movement could draw attention to the necessity for early action.

Sterilization would £eem to be the most economical method of dealing with the problem of mental defects, and it is one which must eventually be faced. The children’s court was another most important field for activity. The modern idea was to place a psychiatrist and a social worker at the disposal of the magistrate. This had proved most successful, especially in America. A successful mental hygiene movement must have trained and inspired leadership if adequate work was to be done. Eventually its use would be universal, and succeeding generations would marvel at the spirit of “muddle through” in which the earlier decades of the twentieth century conducted most of their sociological relationships.

Dr. Maudsley emphasized the importance of getting patients with psychoneuroses early, and spoke of the necessity for school psychologists. The work should be in the hands of the medical profession. All discharged patients from mental hospitals should be kept under observation by the mental hygiene department. Social workers who would visit the homes of such people and advise them as to the conditions of their home life would also be of service.

The proposed mental hygiene organization received the approval of those taking part in the discussion, although no formal resolution was adopted.

THE TENTH OLYMPIAD.

The program of the games of the Tenth Olympiad will open in Olympic Stadium [Coliseum] on Saturday afternoon, July 30, with the historic Opening Ceremony, a part of which will be the impressive Parade of Nations, in which 2000 sons and daughters of 35 nations, led by their respective national flags, will participate in the march past the Tribune of Honor.

One athlete will then step from the drawn-up ranks to take the Olympic oath for all the teams of the participating nations. As the oath is administered the Olympic flag will be raised; the Olympic torch will blaze forth atop the massive peristyle of the stadium and in the presence of representatives of foreign countries, world-wide Olympic organizations, and officials of state, the Games of the Xth Olympiad will be declared officially opened. Many other beautiful features of pageantry will mark the Opening Ceremony.

The Olympic Games will bring to Los Angeles the greatest gathering of dignitaries ever to assemble on the Pacific coast. Members of royal houses from all parts of the world are expected to attend the Opening Ceremony as will official delegations from their governments. In accordance with Olympic traditions that

Digitized by t^ooQle
23

the ruling head of the nation pronounce the Games opened, President Hoover will be officially invited to open the Games of the Xth Olympiad.

Something of the magnitude of the program is suggested by the fact, that during the 16 days the Games are in progress, more than 135 distinct programs of competitions from 15 branches of sports will be held mornings, afternoons and evenings at nine or more stadia, auditoriums or water courses.

Competitions will be held in the following world-wide sports: track and field athletics, boxing, cycling, equestrian sports, fencing, field hockey, gymnastics, modern pentathlon, shooting, rowing, swimming, diving and water polo, weightlifting, wrestling, yachting, national demonstration, international demonstration and fine arts.

Olympic Stadium [Coliseum] in Olympic Park [Exposition Park] with a seating capacity for 105,000 persons, will be the center of Olympic activity. In it will be held, in addition to the opening and closing ceremonies, the track and field athletics, gymnastics, field hockey semi-finals and finals, equestrian jumping events and the demonstrations of national and international sports.

In addition to these competitions the first and official announcements of tlje final results of all Olympic events, regardless of where they are held, followed by the historic ceremony honoring the countries represented by the victorious athletes, will occur several times daily in Olympic Stadium.

Beginning July 31 and lasting for eight days, trials and finals will be held in the men’s 400-meter hurdles, high jump, shot put, 100-meter race, 800-meter race, 10,000-meter race, hammer throw, 3000-meter steeple-chase, 110-meter hurdles, broad jump, 200-meter race, 5000-meter race, pole vault, discus throw, 1500-meter race, 400-meter race, javelin throw, hop, step and jump, 4xl00-meter relay, 4x400-meter relay, decathlon events and the marathon.

Events for women in Olympic Stadium during the same period will include javelin throw, 100-meter dash, discus throw, 80-meter hurdles, high jump and 4xl00-meter relay.

Olympic Auditorium with seating capacity for 10,400 persons will be the scene of boxing, wrestling and weightlifting events which will start August 9 and continue afternoons and evenings until the closing day.

The ancient Olympic sport of wrestling holds a ranking place on the official program. Parts of seven days will be devoted to the staging of 12 separate programs of Greco-Roman and free style events.

World famous men and women athletes will occupy the limelight in the swimming, diving and water polo events to be held in the swimming stadium to be constructed in Olympic Park.

Digitized by ^ooQle
24

Swimming events for men include the 100-meter free style, springboard diving, 4x200-meter relay, 100-meter back stroke, 400-meter free style, 1500-meter free style, 200-meter breast stroke, high diving, 200-meter breast stroke and 1500-meter free style and water polo.

The aquatic events for women will include 200-meter breast stroke, 100-meter free style, 100-meter breast stroke, springboard diving, 4xl00-meter relay race, 100-meter back stroke, 400-meter free style and high diving.

All rowing events will take place in Long Beach Marine Stadium, which forms a part of Alamitos Bay. The Olympic Yachting course will be at Los Angeles Harbor and is ideally adapted to this form of sport. The dates for the rowing are August 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, while those for the yacht races are August 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.

Other sports in which athletes of the world will compete during the Games are weight lifting in Olympic Auditorium, fencing at the Armory in Olympic Park, track cycling at Pasadena Rose Bowl, equestrian events at Riviera Country Club, field hockey at Olympic Stadium and elsewhere, gymnastics at Olympic Stadium, rifle and pistol shooting at the rifle range, and national and international demonstrations in Olympic Stadium.

Throughout the period of the Games, fine arts exhibits will be on display at Los Angeles County Museum..

ENLIGHTENMENT NEEDED

Harry Nissen, Boston, Mass.

After attending one of the recent National Conventions of the American Physical Education Association, one comes from such a convention with so many conflicting ideas that it is difficult to think clearly for a considerable time.

For instance, one renowned educator told us that formal drill work for large masses of school children was the direct cause for the existence of the jails of a certain country which are being filled with young, if not juvenile, criminals. He led us to believe that here in this country where we develop individualism, our jails are empty. Following along this same line of thought, another very eminent, highly paid and voluminous writer took a half hour or so to tell us in his characteristically beautiful language that, first, we must determine the nature of our problem; second, we must then determine our objective, and, third, we must execute our program. Is this not exactly what any person of intelligence would do, whether the new problem is the buying of a pair of shoes, a new car or the setting up of a new course of study?

Let us consider how such a procedure would work out in applying physical education to children—say, of the junior high school.

Digitized by v^ooQle
25

First, we determine the nature of the child. No two children are alike, although human nature the world over is very nearly the same. Children who live near the sea-coast like to play with boats and enjoy the allied activities. Children brought up in the tenement districts of our large cities have decidedly different play activities than those who live in the suburbs or in the rural districts.

It is natural for some children to want to play all the time, neglecting studies. It is natural for some children to prolong rising from their beds until the very last minute, arriving late for school; again, it is natural for some children to prefer to stay indoors on a perfect day absorbed in a book. Now, with all these different natures we are told to set up our objectives. Obviously, for the good of the race and health of the individual, the studious child must have as an objective more play; and the frolicsome child should have more study. The lazy child should develop habits of early rising; the tenement child should develop a liking for activities which will be wholesome and have carryover value in later life. Fine, so far, but how are we to do all this? The delegates, over two thousand in number, were told this could best be done by developing the individuality of the child—in other words, give him free play and natural activities.

Let me ask, what are natural activities? Creeping, crawling, rolling, walking, climbing, running, breathing and the taking in of food are all natural activities. At Newton, Mass., High School we were treated to a' demonstration of what are called Natural Activities. Ten stunts were typewritten and given to each contestant and each stunt checked off when executed. What were these strange, new, natural activities which have swept our country like a prairie fire?. . .Rise up on the toes, bend

knees slowly and rise up again.................A	fine exercise when

done properly, but only one contestant in my range of vision did it with straight back, head high and heels together. Another

on the list. . . .Kick heels behind and slap heels with hands.......

Done correctly once! Again...........Forward, roll and balance on

hands, elbows between the knees. . .and so forth for ten minutes. These were all stunts which we as youngsters did in the parlor at birthday parties but which were hardly classed as activities designed to increase the circulation, the heart beat or the respiration, and if not these, how then could they possibly affect the metabolism? Increasing the absorption and the metabolism of the body is the only method of obtaining organic vigor which we must have first before we can have any of the three C’s—Character, Citizenship and Culture.

Looking at these from the purely educational side, where, may I ask, is there any value—in what has been taught or what has been caught? We are told that character cannot be taught; it can only be caught! That citizenship is the art of living in accord with one’s neighbor and observing the rules of society as well as the rules of the nation. But, unless the children have

Digitized by CjOOQle
26

cooperation, team play, the give-and-take of life, these things are not and can never be developed, by individual stunts.

Going back to the program of objectives, if we were to set up a program for each individual child according to his or her individual nature, what a stupendous task we educators and teachers would have! On the contrary, what is needed is more team play, cooperation, playing the rules of the games, better discipline, deeper respect for authority, and only thus can we hope* for law-abiding men and women in business and later life.

We have so much leisure time at present that we are greatly in danger of a softening influence which is doing great harm to our boys. Few, very few, college graduates are willing to start at the bottom and work up. They are afraid to soil their hands. It is beneath their dignity to take any job other than a white collar job, and our girls will not marry until John has a $2500 job or better, and a car.

There is a tombstone in Plymouth which says “Let us not forget that which our forefathers fought hard to establish.” We must not forget the fundamentals of organic vigor for a healthy life. In order to achieve organic vigor, activities must be done in good form. How much good form was present in the demonstration of natural activities the other night? In these natural activities just described, where is there a situation that has to be met on the spur of the moment, that requires quick thinking, keen judgment, discipline, loyalty to one’s team or school or city or country? Father Jahn’s activities were all natural activities—his jumping ditch, the live horse, vaulting to the saddle; his first horizontal bar was a low branch of a tree. Sir Hendrick Ling used the boom and the ladder and the ropes. They were adaptations from the ships and were natural for his time and country of seafaring people.

However, we must instill into the children discipline and how shall we get discipline by free play? Most of our American children are much too selfish and egotistical as it r, and this condition can be softened only by drill and team work, by creating situations which portray those they will have to meet later on.

Wherein is the culture of it all? At this convention we saw a dance called creative—the free abandonment of the spirit or interpretation of the music. By the use of just a little imagination one could easily believe he was in the wilds of Africa with a bevy of wild savages jumping around. Not one of the young ladies acted as though she enjoyed her dance. Culture is refinement of speech, of thought and action. As no talking was done in this dance, one can only guess at their thoughts, but their actions and dress spoke volumes. The dance was even more vulgar and primitive than the “Black Bottom” or other “Jazz”.

Physical Education is always changing; therefore, there can never be any one system we were told; true; then why try to

Digitized by CjOOQle
27

force on teachers and educators in the field a system of natural activities that are as unnatural as anything can be? And why should we adopt a system, withoilt reservation, which has been developed for another country of purely agricultural people of the market garden variety? It is not adaptable to our environment.

We are over-run with persons afflicted with a craze for testing, testing, testing. Life is competition and keen competition, and we must prepare our boys and girls for life.

Again, I ask, Education, what crimes are committed in thy name?

Diet and Teeth.—Prof. Edward Mellanby of England and his wife are well known for their experimental work on rickets. A report by Mrs. Mellanby entitled “Diet and Teeth: An Experimental Study: Part 1. Dental Structure in Dogs/' has just been published. Mrs. M.ellanby reasserts her conclusion that the character of the teeth and jaws both in their general development and in their microscopic structure, can be greatly influenced by diet. The dietetic substances that tend to promote well developed and well calcified teeth are those which have a high content of vitamin A, but M.rs. M.ellanby finds that there are certain differences in distribution between this vitamin and the factor favorable to calcification which indicate that they are not identical. The latter is now recognized as a separate entity and is generally known as vitamin D. Mrs. Mellanby produces evidence that the development of perfect teeth can be insured by an adequate supply of vitamin D, either as found in natural food, as egg yolk, milk, suet or cod liver oil, or as artificially produced by irradiation of the ergosterol content of foods or even by irradiation of the animal’s skin. Proteins, carbohydrates and most vegetable fats and foods, such as cereals, oranges and egg white, have no calcifying power. Lard and bacon fat are usually deficient in vitamin D. Heating and simultaneous oxygenation gradually destroy vitamin D, and substances so treated lose their power to promote calcification of the teeth. An increase of cereal intake has a bad effect on calcification. Oatmeal has the powerful decalcifying effect, white bread the least powerful. But a plentiful supply of vitamin D overcomes this tendency. Exercise plays little or no part in the development of the teeth. Mrs. Mellanby concludes “it must be confessed that we know very little as to the intimate physiological processes whereby the specific substances which affect tooth calcification produce their effect, either individually or in relation to one another.”

Digitized by kjOOQle
28

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

The Tactic Tap Dance which follows was written especially for us in the big demonstration of physical activities to be held on Friday evening, April 22, in connection with the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

The other convention demonstration numbers will appear in following issues of Mind and Body.

Non-subscribers will wish to take advantage of this fine opportunity to obtain such practical worth while material. We wish to assure new subscribers who desire to enroll now that they will begin to receive their copies of Mind and Body at once in order that they will not miss any of the series.

TACTIC TAP DANCE

Eva M. Pletsch, Temple University

Music: The Billboard March, published by Theo. Presser Co., Philadelphia, or any 4-4 march arranged in 16 measure phrases.

Participants: 6 groups of 16 individuals [96 individuals]

PART I. [including entrance]

Entrance—[column of couples]

Beginning left-1-3-1 for 8 measures; on 8th measure face partner ...........................

Slap back left and step back left. Repeat right

Repeat 3 times ........................   [

Run forward—12 cts. [Very small steps. The knees are kept straight and the free foot is

brought to the front.] .................

Pace about—jumping, moving feet apart an<^ then together, and repeat .......................

Measures of Music

[ 8 [ 8 4 r

[ 3 [ 8 [ 1 [

											16
		Figure		of Entrance			and Part I				
Entrance	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
Finish  Facing  Partner	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T
	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T	T T

Digitized by

Google
29

PART 1  l	1		1	1	1	1	1	1	1	1		H
	H	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	h	H
<—	—> ■	<— —>	<— —>	<— —>	<— —>	<—	
	H	1	1	1	1	H H	1	1	H	H
H	H	1	1	1	\	1	1	1	1	h	H
I-	H	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	1		H
H	H	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	1		H
—>	<—	—> <—	—> <—	—> <—	—> <—	—>	<-
	H	H H	I	1	1	1	1	1	h	H
H	H	1	1	1	1	H H	1	1	h	H

Finish Back to Back

PART II

In fours 1-4 wheel to the front with 3 step L-R-L.

Repeat R-L-R ............................... [	4	[

Bow—[bend forward—1, 2; straighten—3, 4]

Salute right—5, 6; lower hand—7, 8	  [	2	[	8

Front line face left and rear line face right [cts. 1,

2]; mark time 3, 4, 5, ff, 7, 8...........

Place hands on shoulders of one in front, and all

Point right foot forward—1, 2 ....,..........

Point right foot backward—3, 4 ............  '

Step right forward—5, 6 .....................

Turn head sharply to the left, and return head..

7, 8 ..

Repeat the preceding 2 measures using right foot Repeat the preceding 4 measures right and left

These 16 measures of music should be repeated.	*	16

Face about with

Stamp R—brush left forward—brush left backward crossing over R—place the ball of left foot outside R heel [4 cts.]

Face right about—lower heels with sound

Stamp L. R. L. R. [5, 6, and 7, 8]...........

Starting with L foot—repeat the touch or point step with head turning [L, R, L, R] ..........

Bring L to R—1; face front—2; stamp lightly—

3, 4 Bow—5, 6; salute—7, 8 ...............

In couples 3-4 wheel L [6 cts.] and face R—7, 8,

making 4 lines ...........................

Lines 1 and 3 then move L, and lines 2 and 4

move R, doing 2 jumps [ on both feet] ....

Reverse direction, doing 4 jumps

32

2 [

8 [ 8
30

Figure of Part II

r*rH ^ r*rH H>\ r-1 h^v

H h H h H h

V V

H h H h H h

v v

H h H h H h

H h H h H h

V V

H h H h H h

V V

-1

HI- v

r-""\ r*

' 1 H h	i	r y  H h		f \ H h
H h		H h		H h
v H h '	r i	7 H h T	r l	’ H h v

r		r  X  T  V		
H h		H h		H h
H h		H h		H h
v H h '	r 1	' H h ^	r 1	7 H h v

34 wheel into two front lines.

Couples 34 wheel and face into 4 lines.

Part III

[Lines are numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 from front to back] Lines 2 and 4 mark time 8 counts, while Lines 1 and 3 step sideward L and tap R; step backward R and tap L; step backward L and tap R; step sideward R and tap L [8 cts.] ....

Lines reverse movement^ ......................

Reverse all ..................................

Move into circles—center 4 of each 16 make small inner circle; outer 12 make outer circle. All

face center—1, 2.	Bow—3,	4................. [	1	[

M.arch forward—[or mark time]—adjusting spaces,

etc., into closed circle	[8	cts.] ............. [	2	[

Inner circle make full turn in 4 jumps. Outer circle make half turn in 4 jumps. Finish with inner circle facing inward and outer circle

facing outward ..............................   [	1	[	8

Inner circle bend forward—1, 2; straighten—3, 4; a slight bend backward—5, 6; straighten—7, 8; while Outer circle:—Lunge forward L-l, 2; return to position—3, 4; lunge R-5, 6; return—

7, 8 ..................,..................... [	2	[

All mark time [8 cts,]	 ........................ [	2	[

16

Digitized by LjOOQle
31

Figure of Part III

Moving alternately in squares.

Each Group of 16 forms into circles; an inner circle of 4 and an outer circle of 12

PART IV

Circles, moving right sideward:—

3	L; tap and step R

Repeat ....................................... [	4	[

Slap left backward—step left crossed in rear ...... ... [	[8

Step sideward R-L in back-R, L, R, L [each time

accenting the	L] ......................... [	4	[

Reverse—begin R—move L

Repeat all ................................... [	8	[	8

16

Figure of Part IV

Moving in circles

PART V	J	„

March out of circles to files of 4’s [8 cts.], and all

face front ..................................... [	2	[

Mark time [8 cts.] ..............................    [	2	[

[drum taps—music is to be very soft]

Beginning left—1-3, 1-3, 1-3-7. Repeat right .. [	8	[	16

Files numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 [from their right to left]

Then in all groups;— ........................ [ 2 [

Files 1 and 3 march forward—6 steps and face left Files 2 and 4 march backward—-6 steps and face right

March and mark time to adjust into star formations [8 cts.] .....;........................ [	2	[

16

Digitized by Google
A

32

Figure of Part V

A

A

In all groups files 1 and 3 march forward 6 steps [cts. 1 to 6] and face left [cts. 7-3] while files 2 and 4 march backward and face R

-1 yi	
X V 4  x	4
J$y*	 <  h< x ►	T
A* •<	
a r ^	r*  X.
	>

a

•i

•r

■T

T

H h

V____

h h

8 counts for marching and marking^iSQe to adjust star

formations.

PART VI

Groups 1, 3, 4, 6 in stars, the rays of which point to corners of room Groups 2, 5, rays point to sides and ends of room Form 2 groups of 3 steps, points overlapping

a.	A 5 left in place .........  ,..T....	[	1

b.	A 5 right in place ............,...........  [*	1

c.	8 running steps forward executing 1-4 star-

wheel ...................................     [	2

d.	Repeat the above [a,b,c] seven times ....... [28

[ 32

32

NOTE: When the above indicated steps have been completed, two 4-4 wheels will have been completed.

Figure of Part VI

Groups 1, 3, 4, 6-in stars, the rays of which point to corners of room.

Groups 2 and 5—in stars pointing directly to sides and ends of room.

Groups 1, 2, and 3 overlap Groups 4, 5, and 6 overlap Into this formation

Digitized by v^ooQle
33

I-

Groups 1 and 3—wheel right Groups 4 and 6—wheel left



Group 2—wheels left Group 5—wheel right

PART VII

Groups 1 and 3 and 4 and 6:—

Spokes 1-8 wheel forward or backward to column of 2’s; turn facing front—5, 6; mark time

-7, 8 ....................................... [	4	]	[

Then side closing steps inward, Group 1 toward 3 and Group 3 toward 1 [8 cts.]

Then mark time [12 cts.] ......................   [	4	]	[

Groups 2 and 5:— ................................ [	[8

Squads in center line one small step forward and

mark time [4 cts.] .......................... [	2	]*	[

Side spokes 1-4 wheel to double line [4 cts.]

Then all face rear of room and mark time [4 cts.]

Then march inward in column of 2’s; then up

the center in 4’s ........................... [	6	] *	[

♦Same 8 measures of music as the preceding 8 measures.

All Groups:—

Bow—[bend forward—1, 2; straighten—3, 4	[

Salute—[hand up—1, 2; hand	down—3, 4] ........ [	2	[

Face about with: Stamp R-l; brush L forward-2; brush left backward crossed over R-3; place

ball of L at heel of R-4	................... [	2	[	8

Turn R about and lower heels-5; stamp-6, 7, 8	[

March to Exit .................................. [	4	[

16

Continue marching until all have passed out of room.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
34

Figure of Part VII

\ ' N	✓

V	/

\ /

/ V.

V

\

\

N H-Ml

j\o’_

.11 / i«6 -

/ i v

y 1	N

\	/	|	N

N '	.	\	'

\/ ‘	_ '

N	/

/

^ * /\ !

'	'	/	\	i

*	N	/	\	,

' I .

»

Costume for Tactic Tap Dance

Florence R. Bacon, Wagner Junior High School, Philadelphia A soldier suit is to be worn.

Material

2 1-2 yds. red cambric—coat and hat

2	1-2 yds. white linen—trousers

3	yds x 2” white oilcloth—belt, shoulder straps, and 2” button on hat

Instructions

Coat

Should flare slightly around bottom; length to wrist with arms hanging at side, sleeves to wrist. Fasten coat down front with snaps, hooks, or pins. Collar is 2 3-4” high when finished and should fit tightly around neck. No buttons are to be used on coat.

Trousers

Make bottom of trousers 3” from floor.

Red stripe 1” wide [finished] down each side of trousers

Hat

A high red hat is used. Cut cardboard to fit head and 8” high. Cover with red cambric. Sew circle of red cambric over top. On front and 3” from lower rim of hat, place 2” circle white oil cloth. Paste.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Belt and Shoulder Strap

The shoulder strap passes over each shoulder and crosses in front and in back. The cross pieces and the belt are in one piece. Fasten under left front strap with pin, hook, or snap. Belt and strap are 2” wide.

Foreign items of interest

In Holland a movement is gaining momentum to take little children from the streets. This is done through socalled Play-gardens. These are suitable shady play spaces, often in the center of city blocks. They also are found in rural communities. The equipment of these gardens consists of play apparatus that may be used by little children without too much supervision, like giant stride for hanging and sitting, benches for various kinds of jumping, sand boxes, rocking horses, low swinging rings, climbing poles, beams for hanging, swings, slides. There also is movable play apparatus like balls, rings. An attendant takes care of the apparatus that is stored in a small house, when not in use.

Lord Burghley the English runner who has visited the United States several times and who also is an Olympic winner has been elected from Peterborough to the House of Commons.

According to the last yearly report the German Gymnastic Union [Deutsche Tumenschaft] has had a slight gain in membership even during these depressing times. The organization is composed of 12963 societies in 10902 cities with a membership of 1,617,849 persons, divided as follows: men 990,231, boys 219,-424, women 238,953 and girls 169,241. Berlin has a membership of 39,530, Leipzig 31,739, Dresden 20,491, Frankfort on the Main 19,289 and each of the following cities has over 10,000; Hamburg, Stuttgart, Chemnitz and Munich.

Education towards a higher conception of citizenship is the aim of the Jugend-Ausschuss of the German Gymnastic Union. Neuendorff, the chairman of the committee for the Care of Youth outlined the new program as follows. 1] A more intensive training in the responsibilities of citizenship. The creating of a will to struggle. A handbook on national ideals and on Turner ideals is to be prepared as a guide for leaders of youths sections and societies.

2.] A more capable leadership. An examination for a leaders certificate is to embrace a] The acquisition of a sports and a Turner emblem, b] a life saving certificate, c] at least one

Digitized by L* ooQle
36

year’s service as a leader in a Turner society, dl Four hiking trips with young folks, three of one day each ana one of three days, e] an oral examination in national folk lore.

For the year 1932 the following tasks were outlined for all youths organizations, a] daily cooperation with the agencies relieving unemployment, b] active participation in endurance hikes, c] the learning of three prescribed songs, d] the learning of three prescribed folk dances, e] a thorough discussion of all questions pertaining to national welfare with particular reference to the part to be played by the Gymnastic Union, f] a minute study of Hans Grimm’s book “A Nation without Space”, g] a new member by everyone.

3.	A consideration of the psychic and economic needs of unemployed youth. The efforts are to be guided by the viewpoints adopted by the directors of the Gymnastic Union. These include voluntary work in the interest of the organization and of the community, active help in the welfare work of the organization and of the community.

NOTE BY EDITOR: The above would be a splendid outline for the guidance of teachers who are looking for ideals that should guide the activities undertaken for the social development of their pupils.

Schools for Sports. These training schools for those interested in physical education in the rural districts of Germany now have formed an association with 12 members [there are 15 such schools]. The work accomplished last year by these schools is as follows: 172 full courses, from one to two weeks, with an attendance of 4251. 44 partial courses [courses during the evening and other free time of the participants] with 977 attendants. Short courses 75, with 2045 attendants. 16 vacation courses with 718 participants. 461 courses in the organization and conducting of hikes with 16635 attendants. Compared with the work of the previous year there was an increased attendance of nearly 10,000 participants. The German Gymnastic Union warmly supports these folk schools for sports.

*----------- --------------------------------

News, notes and comments

♦------------------------------------------------

Chicago’s New Field House. The new $700,000 field house at the University of Chicago is unique in many respects, but its one main room, which is large enough for a full-sized gridiron and for basketball to be played across the breadth of the floor, commands the most attention.

With the basketball floor removed there is room for a straight away track of 100 yards. The entire surface is free of obstructions and the height from the floor to the trusses is fifty feet.

Digitized by kjOOQle
37

There will be no echoes inside as the structure has been treated to absorb sound. The lighting system and the interior provide perfect illumination at all times. The ceiling is white to reflect light from the windows, eliminating the necessity for skylights. The circular track is eight laps to the mile and is fifteen feet wide. [New York Times.]

Recent tests conducted by the Medical and Physical Education Department at Barnard College show that the mythical freshman, a composite of measurements and statistics, is stronger, taller and altogether sturdier than her predecessor of ten years ago, Professor Agnes Wayman, head of the Physical Education Department at Barnard, declared in making public the result of the tests.

Measurements reveal that the girl who would graduate in 1935 is more than half an inch taller than the graduate of 1925. Miss 1935 weighs a little more, has a stronger grip, a larger lung capacity and a greater chest expansion than her fellow student of a decade ago. The tabulated results follow:

Miss 1935	Miss	1925

Height ................. 64.33	inches	63.79	inches

Weight ................ 124.18	pounds	122.98	pounds

Grip ................... 70.69	pounds	67.11	pounds

Lung capacity........... 191.00	cub. in.	179.00	cub. in.

The New York State Public High School Athletic Association has taken action to abolish not only state basketball tournaments, but all state ‘championships’. This action will begin to take effect after the games which have been scheduled for this year have been played. The committee felt that they might be in a' position of having ‘broken faith’ with certain schools who have made arrangements in order to participate in these games, if they made the rule effective at once.

Declaring that the great majority of mental disease cases are the result of heredity, Walter M. English, president of the American Psychiatric Association, recently called upon that association to approve sterilization to decrease the percentage of feeble-minded persons.—School Life. ,

The lowest infant mortality rate ever attained by the cities of this country was that of 1930, according to the Statistical Report of Infant Mortality, based on the records of 860 cities in the Birth Registration Area of the United States, just issued by the American Child Health Association. The 1930 rate— 62.2 deaths for every thousand live births—is four points lower than that of the preceding year, when it was 66.2.

During 1931, the National Recreation Association spent $13,580 in connection with its national physical education service. This service, which works primarily with state depart-

Digitized by Google
38

ments of education, conducted field efforts last year to secure more adequate and better public school physical education activities in 21 states.

Boy’s Week. This year Boy’s Week will be held from April 30 to May 7. The program for every day is as follows: Saturday, April 30—Boys’ Loyalty Day; Mayl—Boys’ Day in Churches; May 2—Boys’ Day in Industry; May 3—Boys’ Day in Schools May 4—Boys’ Day in Entertainment and Athletics; May 5— Boys’ Health Day and Evening at Home; May 6—Boys’ Day in Citizenship; May 7—Boys’ Day Out-Of-Doors.

The activities of the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A. and the Olivet Boys’ Club of Reading, Pennsylvania, will be thrown open to families now on the relief list of the Unemployment Relief Board. The leisure time group of the Board will also open two new recreation centers and special cards of introduction will be issued entitling their possessors to full use of the facilities at the centers. Games, books, magazines and music will be provided, and there will be classes in carpentry, weaving and basket making. To equip these centers without expense to the Board, an appeal has been issued for tools, work benches, books, magazines, and comfortable chairs.

Every school in Ogden, Utah, has joined with the City Recreation Commission in presenting one good play which the unemployed may attend free of charge. The use of gymnasiums has also been given certain hours of the day for the use of the unemployed. Attendance has more than doubled during the last year and basketball, winter sports, baseball and the reading rooms have been most popular. The unemployed have been given work on the building of toboggan slides, ski jumps and skating areas, and in the clearing of a baseball field and work on the municipal golf course.

Amateur Athletic Federation—Championship Dates, 1932, Cook County, Illinois.

Swimming, March 3—April 17.

Basketball, March 21.

Handball, M.arch 26-31.

Wrestling, April 6-16.

Fencing, April 12.

Volleyball, April 16.

Boxing, April 23.

Gymnastics, April 30.

Indoor Baseball, June 15.

Tennis, July 2.

Horseshoe Pitching—August 13.

Track and Field—-September 20.

Cross Country—October 15.

Digitized by CjOOQle
39

The University of Southern California is taking advantage of the Olympic Games, which are to be held in Los Angeles next summer, and has placed on its summer school staff two outstanding European authorities in physical education. These men are Doctor Eugen Matthias, of the University of Munich, and Doctor Carl Diem, the dean of the famous physical education teacher training school in Charlottenburg, Germany.

If we recognize health and its basic attitudes as objectives, then let us, as a group, be scrupulously careful that we do not violate the most fundamental health truths. Dirty gymnasiums, dressing rooms and bath rooms, surely are contradictory to a health objective, and permitting or even urging participation of boys and girls who are not in the pink of physical condition, is being traitor to the cause of health and physical education.— Massachusetts News Letters.

. World War and Tuberculosis Mortality.—Lee studied the influence of war on tuberculosis mortality on the basis of the experience of Germany and the United States as recorded in their tuberculosis mortality rates from 1900 to 1928. Massachusetts data are used to compare with German data by age groups and by sex. The rates in the United States rose slightly but significantly during the war period and fell rapidly after the armistice to a rate about 20 per cent below the prewar trend. The German rates in 1918 exceeded those of the United States by 55 per cent. The available data do not indicate that the influenza epidemic of 1918 exerted much, if any, influence on the tuberculosis mortality. Germany apparently lost approximately 280,000 civilians from tuberculosis, more than probably would have died had the war not occurred. The excess tuberculosis mortality in the civilian population in Germany, due to the war and postwar period 1914-1927, was equivalent to the total tuberculosis mortality in Germany - for five years at the rate prevailing in 1928. For every 10.6 German military casualties during 1914 there was one German civilian who died of tuberculosis who probably would not have died had the war not occurred.

Gymnastic Exercise for Women. Gymnastic exercise for women was recently discussed by Professor Sellheim, director of the Leipzig Universitats-Frauenklinik. In dealing with men, aside from considerations of age, we have to do with only one kind of physical makeup and one mode of functioning of the organism all through life, and can arrange for the strengthening of the physique and for the preservation of robustness by gymnastic exercises by applying what is essentially the same prescription. In dealing with women, one must, in prescribing physical exercises, differentiate precisely between the various types of women with reference to build and the mode of functioning of the organism at the time in question, and only by taking careful

Digitized by LjOOQle
40

account of these differences can one hope to reap the advantages of gymnastic exercise. From the standpoint of gymnastics, eight classes of women must be recognized: [1] the girl approaching puberty and during the years immediately following; [2] the woman during the period of menstruation; [3] the woman during pregnancy; [4] the woman during the puerperium; [5] the woman after cessation of the special functions of the matron and of old age; [6] the woman who is deprived of the privilege of propagation; [7] the woman whose constitution has been undermined by giving birth to too many children, possibly in association with occupational work [these two classes being especially characteristic of the times in which we live], and, finally, [8] the woman with abdominal disease. Specially prescribed gymnastics are more important for women than for men. The more the value of gymnastics comes to be recognized by physicians and the general public, the greater becomes the responsibility of the physician for the sins of omission and commission in this field. There is danger that here the physician may be charged with neglect, and that in case damage results an attempt may be made to hold him responsible.

Preparing A Pedigree. The importance of heredity in relation to disease is generally recognized. Unfortunately however, few realize that the study of heredity is a scientific problem and that the language and technic of studies in heredity are specific to that science. A study of heredity charts in various periodicals will indicate to any observer the necessity for uniformity in the use of various symbols and the desirability of completeness. Since heredity charts are likely to be used fifty or a hundred years after they are first prepared as well as at the time of their first publication, and since they are likely to be studied by investigators in various parts of the world, the need for simplicity and accuracy becomes still more apparent. The Eugenics Society of Great Britain has prepared for those especially interested a pamphlet entitled “How to Prepare a Family Pedigree” and a book of forms, charts and directions to be used by those who undertake such studies. The forms are concise; the directions take into account all the considerations that have been mentioned. The current tendency in medicine toward greater attention to problems of constitution and heredity indicates still further the desirability of this material.

Incidence of Cancer of Stomach in European Countries.

Although the total incidence of cancer in males is approximately the same in the various European countries, only 25 per cent of the deaths in England and Wales are due to cancer of the stomach, whereas the figure is 50 per cent or more in the other European countries for which accurate statistics are available. This discrepancy is increased when the incidence in different social classes is compared. In England and Wales, cancer of the stomach and upper alimentary tract is more com-

Digitized by
41

mon in the lower classes, while the incidence in the lower alimentary tract is the same for all classes. In Bavaria, with double the frequency of gastric cancer in the whole male population as compared with England and Wales, the proportion in the working classes is from 60 to 70 per cent of the total cancer deaths. From the analogy which these figures present to the incidence of occupational cancer, it is concluded that the factors in producing this remarkable result are external, bound up with the habits of the social levels involved and therefore avoidable. As these vagaries in organ incidence accompany uniformity in total incidence, the plus of one organ is reflected in a minus of others for the different countries; thus, cancer of the tongue is nine times more frequent in England than in Bavaria.

President Hoover and his game with a medicine ball. The New York Times recently had the following story.

"On his second day in the ‘White House President Hoover talked matters over with Dr. Boone, the White House physician. Possibly, he ventured, he might be fitter for the big job if he took some regular exercise. What should it be? Golf? No, that required too much time. Walking? It did not call enough of the muscles into service. Volley-ball with its light sphere knocked with the hands across a high net? Not enough pull on the muscles. Bull-in-the-ring? It was not much of a game, but the medicine ball was a substantial, tangible thing on which to lay hands. Could not a game be evolved which used the medicine ball but which had in it all the elements of the contest of tennis? And there should be a contact with others, a fellowship, a frolic in the exercise as well as a contribution to health.

Then began the evolution of a game in which the tennis court furnished the ground plan. The medicine ball should be thrown over the net, caught and returned. Naturally the net had to be elevated, as when volley-ball is played. The proper height for securing balanced play could be arrived at only after much experiment. It turned out to be about eight feet. The proper weight of the ball for this game also must be determined by experiment. The big nine-pound medicine balls were too heavy to be pitched over this high net from the positions occupied by players. Experiment arrived at the conclusion that a six-pound ball, less in circumference than the gymnasium type, was about right. A good man, standing at the base line of a tennis court, could serve such a ball with one hand.

The game is scored as is tennis. The server throws the ball. The opponent must catch it on the fly and return it, attempting to put it where it cannot be reached and returned. The side that misses the ball or throws it out of bounds loses a point. When the set-up is just what it should be the game is rapid. Every player is constantly tense; he must go after high ones, low ones, those to the right and left. Stopping a six-pound ball with steam back of it, returning it with similar steam,

Digitized by kjOOQle
42

is not pink-tea stuff. Dr. Boone estimates that as much beneficial exercise is obtained from half an hour of it as from three times as much tennis or six times as much golf."

Eyestrain Among School Children.—A comprehensive study of the strain on eyesight in school activities is being undertaken as a joint project of various departments of Columbia University and the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness. No time limit has been set for the completion of the work, nor is the scope of the problem being limited to fit a given group of workers, the report states. The plan is to carry the investigations over as long a period of time and into as many fields as is necessary. A study of the eyestrain of the school children from the ages of 5 to 10 years is now being carried on as the first step in the proposed work. The program of research will include the vision of the child, the lighting conditions under which he works, the materials he uses and the length of time he uses them. The announcement reports that plans have been completed for this research after a year of planning by Teachers College of Columbia University, staff members of the department of ophthalmology in the medical school, authorities in related fields within the university, and staff members of the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness.

“Colonies” for Mental Defectives.—In January, 1930, the board of control, England [for lunacy administration], with the approval of the minister of health, appointed a committee to report on the essential structural requirements of a complete colony for mental defectives of all types, and on the extent to which the cost could be reduced by adoption of semi-permanent or temporary buildings or of other new methods of construction. The report has just been published. Although not required to deal with questions of policy, the inquiry inevitably involved consideration of the present-day method of housing defectives in colonies, as compared with the older bne of placing them in large barrack-like structures. The report is strongly in favor of the colony system and states that a complete colony should contain all the structures necessary for the housing, training and recreation of defectives of all grades and ages, and the arrangements should be designed with reference to the fact that the great majority of the colonists will reside there for many years and some for their lives.

His Friends.—Do you want to know what I am doing? I devote myself to my friends, with whom I enjoy the most delightful intercourse. With them I shut myself in a comer, where I escape the windy crowd and either speak to them in sweet whispers or listen to their gentle views conversing with them as with myself. Can anything be more comfortable than this? They never hide their own secrets, yet they keep sacred

Digitized by Google
43

whatever is intrusted to them. They never divulge abroad what we confide freely to their intimacy. ' When summoned they are at your side; when not summoned they do not intrude. When bidden they speak; when not bidden they are silent. They talk of what you wish, as much as you wish, as long as you wish. They utter no flattery, feign nothing., keep back nothing. They frankly show your faults but slander no one; all that they say is either cheering or salutary. In prosperity they keep you modest, in affliction they console, they never change with fortune. They follow in all dangers, abiding with you even to the grave. Now that you may not miss the meaning of my metaphor, pray understand that all I have said about these friends to be meant of books, companionship with which has made me a truly happy man.—Erasmus.

A series of tours of Russia is being arranged for the summer of 1932 by Mrs. Lindsay Patterson, who is now in Russia, and Roy H. Mackay, who has been conducting Russian tours for the past several years. A special tour for those who wish to make a study of political, social and economic conditions in Russia and their international significance, will be given. Inquiries should be addressed to Roy H. M.ackay, New York University, Washington Square, New York City.

♦ ----------------------------------------*----------♦

Health education notes

■ . ♦

Changes in the Lungs During Physical Effort.—Professor Arnone of the University of Palermo, Italy, spoke, at a session of the Societa di studi scientifici sulla tuberculosi, on the radiologic changes that occur in the lungs of athletes before, during and after physical effort. An examination of numerous roentgenograms showed that, during the effort, there appear, or become notably intensified, certain hilar and pulmonary shadows which are due to a vascular network more distended than usual.

In the discussion. Professor Fici pointed out that observations on the lungs of athletes during a period of heavy breathing reveal an increased transparency, especially in the upper areas. This may be proof of what some authors advance in explanation, in certain cases, of the frequency with which, in the adult, the specific pulmonary lesions have their primary seat in the apical and infraclavicular regions. This fact would appear to be due to the varying itensity of the expiratory current between the lower and the higher areas of the lung, with predominance of the basal or ascending current, as compared with the apical or descending current. There would be, in that case, a stagna-

Digitized by v^ooQle
44

tion of air in the upper areas of the lungs and hence an arrest of the dust that serves as a vehicle of the tuberculosis virus.

Professor Giuffre considered that, in order to weigh properly the results reported by Professor Arnone, it would be necessary to compare them with observations made on persons who do not participate in gymnastic exercises.

The Appearance of Children in Day Nurseries.—In order to determine what have been the effects on the health of German children, brought about by the economic conditions of the war period, the period of inflation and the present crisis, Drs. Felix Boenheim and Franz Heimann examined groups of children that they found in the municipal kindergartens and in the day nurseries. The demand for admission to these centers is great. Constantly, children have to be rejected who for social, hygienic and pedagogic reasons are in dire need of such care. As these writers said in the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift, the children examined were mostly the offspring of the unemployed and of recipients of welfare benefits. The living conditions were the worst imaginable; in many instances from eight to ten persons occupied small apartments consisting of one living room and a kitchen. The disorders in the children, resulting from the economic depression, are, to a great extent, irremediable. About 30 per cent of the hort children examined may be said to have bodies more or less permanently impaired. Some, in spite of institutional care, are still undernourished and stunted in their growth. The examinations, however, excluded the existence of all wasting diseases—also tuberculosis. The causes responsible for their condition are solely of an economic order. Whereas most of these children presented a growth and a weight that were below normal, some showed overweight, which must be regarded as “paradox obesity due to undemutrition.” This pathologic picture, which was observed also during the war period, in which undernourished children appear too fat, is probably produced by hypothyroid conditions, although no special constitutional type is manifest.

Flatfoot.—The third day of a recent German convention was characterized by a comprehensive discussion on the operative treatment for flatfoot. On the basis of a questionnaire addressed to members of the society, Dr. Schrader, chief physician of the Heidelberg Orthopedic Clinic, discussed the indications and the technic of the many different types of operation. It was formerly held that flatfoot consisted in the lowering of the arches of the foot, due to weight bearing. It has been discovered that the cause lies in an inward turning of the heel, produced by an inward deflection of the lower leg. All operations that aim to lift the arches of the foot are doomed to failure; hence the reluctance of specialists to perform an operation in childhood. If, however,

Digitized by L^ooQle
45

the early forms are treated surgically, after nonsurgical methods have failed, one prevents the more severe types of advancing years, which are difficult to improve even by surgical means.

Food Blockades and Disarmament.—In tha

medizinische Wochenschrift, Prof. Karl Kisskalt, nygienist of Munich, publishes an article in which he describes briefly the misery caused by the food blockade during the World War and the period immediately following the armistice. In the Heil-und Pflegeanstalt Neustadt in Holstein, the records of which were studied by Kisskalt, 474 of the 800 inmates died in a single year. The -death certificate gave cardiac degeneration as the cause of death, and necropsy showed complete absence of fat, but starved was not allowed to appear on the death certificate. Also many persons among the general population, who refused to buy anything from unauthorized pedlars, died of hunger, to mention only Gaffky, the director of the Institut fur Infektions-krankheiten. The deaths resulting from the food blockade, during the war, are placed at 400,000.

Are wars in the future to be carried on in this manner? For the German physicians who went through such experiences during the World War, it was pleasing to learn that President Hoover said in his armistice address of Nov. 11, 1929: ‘fThe time has come when we must prevent using as a weapon of war the starvation of women and children.” All our hopes must be directed toward bringing about the realization of this idea. Will anything be done in the near future? At the recent preliminary disarmament conference this idea did not find expression. At least, in the future, a food blockade established in time of war should not be extended beyond the signing of an armistice.

Therefore, the German physicians, who saw the suffering caused by the food blockade, must demand that the disarmament conference convening in 1932 adopt the following regulation: “The establishment of a food blockade, with a view to cutting off the food supply of a people consisting of noncombatants [namely, women and children], shall not be permitted as a war measure.” But if the conscience of the present race of mankind is not sufficiently matured that one can expect the adoption of such a regulation, then, as a minimum expression of the great need, the following resolution should be passed: “When a city has surrendered or when the army of a country has surrendered its most important weapons, it shall, in the future, no longer be permissible to cut off the food supply of the population.”

Intoxication of Inhabitants of Lyons by Industrial Gases.—An accident that calls to mind the catastrophe caused, three years ago, in Belgium by the death-dealing fogs has just occurred in Lyons, although the consequences were less grave. Within a few minutes, a section of the city in which there were many factories and in which many workmen resided found that
46

its atmosphere had become irrespirable. The people suffered from attacks of choking and coughing. The police interrupted all street traffic and ordered all the doors and windows closed. Several cases of bronchitis with choking developed in children, but no deaths occurred. An inquiry soon showed that emanations came from a factory on the banks of the river, in which various chemical products were manufactured and which produced stannic chloride, employed in the manufacture of silk goods, silk weaving being the principal industry of Lyons. This salt is obtained by the direct action of chlorine on tin, the operation being carried on in a closed vessel, because, in the open air, vapors of hydrochloric acid are produced. During the absence of the workman, a leak developed in a lead joint, and the gas as it escaped attached itself to the droplets of water composing the fog that enveloped the city. The inquiry instituted by the prefect of the department of Rhone resulted in an order prohibiting the manufacture of this product within the city limits, which made it necessary for the factory to seek a new site outside the city. At the time of the accidents that occurred in the Meuse Valley, which cost the lives of sixty persons, the noxious gas was sulphurous anhydride, emitted by the numerous factories in this valley, which is enclosed on all sides and very winding, poorly swept by the wind and subject to frequent fogs. The Belgian inquiry resulted in the suggestion that work in the factories be interrupted on foggy days. One village [Engis], in which the general mortality has been constantly increasing during the past ten years, is threatened with the necessity of closing all its factories.

The Prenuptial Medical Examination.—Dr. Louis Ver-vaeck of Belgium has published the conclusions he reached in an inquiry among a large number of lawyers, teachers and physicians in regard to the utility of the prenuptial medical examination:

If one extracts from the opinions expressed the suggestions that are of a nature to bring about within a short time a reform of a moral, social and medical order, the two steps to be taken in attaining the desired goal can be summarized as follows:

To prepare the way for the general acceptance of the prenuptial examination, an intensive, publicity campaign must be organized on a scientific basis, emphasis being laid on the moral aspect of the problem. The publicity material must be addressed to all classes of society, including the medical profession, since its sympathy and interest are indispensable to the success of the reform. Two points must be emphasized; respect for individual liberty and the need of consulting a physician before becoming engaged to marry.

Prematrimonial consultation centers should be organized where specialists in eugenic medicine may be trained. Such a course of instruction, extending over three years at least, would, it is hoped, be sufficient to create a eugenic mentality that

Digitized by LjOOQle
47

would fit one to carry out a prenuptial examination. Under these conditions the legal obligation would affect only the social strata that are neglectful of altruism and ideals.

If the publicity campaign should disappoint those who have confidence in it, they would then at least cease to oppose the promulgation of a prudent and moderate law.

Future spouses would be compelled to furnish proof that they had consulted the physician of their choice and had communicated to each other the opinions they had received. They would remain entirely free to marry in spite of any contraindications and possible dangers, provided they insisted on assuming the risks. Such a solution would take full account of the principles of morals and of individual liberty, which are the foundation of social life. It is hoped that the evolution of ideas in Belgium will lead to the enactment of such a law in the near future. As Dr. Marcel Pinard, physician to the Hospital Cochin in Paris, states, "people insure their lives; they insure themselves against accidents; they have their lawyer, when they marry, draw up a contract that will protect, if need should arise, their financial interests, but they neglect to take such action as will effectively insure their health and that of their offspring.” Physicians will agree that one of the best forms of insurance to promote happiness in the home is a medical consultation before marriage.

LIME, AND WHY WE NEED IT IN OUR DIET.

Lime [a form of calcium] is one of the most important minerals in our food.

Lime has much to with our muscles and their ability to contract. It has to do with the rhythmic beat of our hearts and the coagulation of our blood, with the response of our nerves to stimuli, and many other complex functions, including retention of iron in the body and coordination of other mineral elements in the body. Lime forms a great portion of our tooth and bone structure. One of the most important recent findings regarding lime in our diet indicates that diets containing large quantities of lime result not only in somewhat earlier maturity, but at the same time diets rich in lime greatly extend the active, productive portion of life which lies between maturity and the appearance of old age. Hence, for early maturity and the best chances for a long, efficient, healthful life, we should choose foods containing plenty of readily assimilable lime.

Prof. H. C. Sherman of Columbia University states that the average American diet is more often deficient in lime than in any other single chemical element. If lime is not supplied for our body processes, the lime is taken from our teeth and bones. This is one reason why so many people have such bad teeth, or none at all. There is a hint for all persons desiring

Digitized by Google
48

good teeth. This is of special importance to prospective and nursing mothers, as well as growing children.

Fortunately, milk is one of our greatest sources of lime. Believe it or not, but there is more lime in milk than, there is in lime water. Since the average American diet is so likely to be deficient in lime, and since milk is so rich in lime, it behooves all of us to increase our present low milk consumption to at least a pint per day for adults and a quart per day for children under sixteen.

Although milk and dairy products are by far the best sources of lime, vegetables, particularly such green leafy vegetables as spinach, turnip greens, collards, cabbage, lettuce, carrots, tomatoes, and fruits, contain much lime _ and other valuable dietary-essentials and should be included in liberal quantities in the diet every day.—No. Carolina Health Bulletin.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Mind-Body Relationships,” Vol. I of Interpretations of Physical Education Series, by Jay B. Nash, Editor, 276 pages, 12 vo. clothbound, $2.00, A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1931.

This volume contains the technical discussion which appeared in a paper covered book entitled ‘^Symposium on Physical Education and Health” the latter part of February 1930.

As the editor stated in the preface of the “Symposium” the central theme of this volume is “oneness of mind and body”. Each of the chapters attempts “to show life outcomes in terms of a total picture and to show the impossibility of a separation of physical and mental activities”. The underlying purpose of this volume it is hoped ‘Should serve as a basis for students in physical education and health in analyzing some of the component parts of the profession in the light of its objectives. It should also be of value to the many teachers in the school system who are making valuable contributions to the total outcome of education through various other types of activities. The administrator should find it of value because it indicates the relationship of the physical education activities to the other educative activities in the total school curriculum”.

JOHN C. KIEFER.

Digitized by Google