MIND AND BODY

NOVEMBER, 1907.

Vol. H.

No 163

Editorial Committcc :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil,, Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wla

PHYSICAL TRAINING AS A FACTOR IN SOCIAL ETHICS.

By JAGOB BOLIN, New York.

The individual of our day rises to professional eminence and material success chiefly through specialization. The evolution of society forces each of us with wellnigh irresistible power into some narrow field of activity, while excluding us more or less rigorously from participation in, and .even knowledge of, the struggles which take place in the broad expanse of human life outside of our own little corner.

Speaking in a general way, the skilled artisan, master of all that pertains to his trade, is jio more. He lias been succeeded bv an automaton. who presses buttons, reverses levers, and turns wheels in a monotonous routine. The scientist of yore, embracing the whole field of human knowledge, has, hy the extension and intensification of this knowledge, been forced to yield place to a host of specialists, weighing atoms of worlds, measuring imponderable substances, dealing with figures and fractions which, in their approach to the infinite, far transcend concrete human experience and nearly baffle the imagination. The multifarious aud seemingly opposing interests in our body politic all have their special representatives in the halls of legislation, hut few are those who may be said to speak for the nation as a whole.	•

Far be it from me to deprecate this development, which undoubtedly is a mvessary condition for the advancement of the race. But in far-going specialization there always lurks the danger of intellectual provincialism. In focussing his attention closely to one single thing, the individual may easily lose from his view the many things which belong to the marginal zone, and thus fail to perceive the many bonds of union between that which he is set to do and that whuh falls in the field of others. When the mind is constantly confined within a definite horizon it has a natural tendency to become cramped, stunted, and unable to grasp, or even to recognize such ideas as fill the world outside this horizon. However keen of vision the specialist may he in his own field, he usually perceives objects outside this field only in dim outlines. However unfailing his judgment may he, where each object, thoroughly

Digitized by C.ooQle
—2^4—

la miliar to him, brings up a multitude of associations, he usually loses his power of ratiocination as soon as he steps outside of his own field, because the objects and phenomena which there obtrude themselves upon him appear detached and disconnected, without relationship to each other. But breadth, as well as depths of our intellectual life depends on our ability to readily discern the relationship between apparently isolated facts. It behooves us well, therefore, to see that this far-going specialization, in which we pride ourselves as an effective tool for making material and intellectual progress, does not also serve as a weapon by which we are segregated and closed in from the general intellectual advance of humanity. However, that is a subject which does not immediately concern me in this article even though it be one well worthy of serious contemplation.

But recognition of the relationships of men, things, and ideas is at the basis not only of abroad and deep intellectuality, but it is also the foundation for social morality, for the conduct of each individual towards his fellow men, or rather the attitude of mind from which this conduct springs. In order to conduct myself properly, and to have the will and desire to do so, it is necessary that I be able to see clearly the relation between myself and others, between my sphere of activity and theirs, between what I am pleased to call my rights and those claimed by others, between the duties imposed upon me bv conscience, by custom, or bv law, and those imposed upon others. If, as already stated, a fargoing specialization tends to narrow the field within which^ we clearly see existing relations, may it not be that it deprives us of the basis for right living as citizens?

I am moved to these reflections when looking about me among my professional brethren, among those who have taken up the physical training profession, I find few who have any far-reaching interests beyond their specialty. Few whose hearts throb in unison with the great movements of the times. Few to whom the revolution of Bussia has any meaning. Few to whom the publication of “The Jungle” was of any account. Few who care howr the next election is going to turn beyond their desire to be on the winning side. Few who see anything else in Millet’s pictures than pieces of canvas valued at so much per square inch. I see men and women whose minds are revolving around drills and exercises, lesson* and exhibitions, visits of the superintendent and rules of the Board of Education, the return of the payday and the possibility of advancement, the victory of yesterday and the contest of to-morrow\ I see men and women entering the profession in ever-increasing numbers, who, by technical knowledge and skill, are far better fitted than those of previous generations to care for the physical needs of youth, men and women who in normal schools have had presented to them, ready-made, the results at which their predecessors arrived by considerable thought, labor and struggle. But in seeing them, 1 also see men and women who, in the hustle and bustle incidental to acquiring their professional knowledge and professional preferment, seem to have focussed their glance so in-

Digitized by CaOOQle
—in-

tently on the technical side of the question that they have lost the true perspective, that their specialty so occupies tlu'm that they do not see its relations to other civilizing agencies, that they fail to appreciate, as they should, the extreme complexity of life in the highly civilized community in which they are placed. Studying muscles and nerves, it seem to me that they often forget what*, for lack of a better term, may h.» called the soul. Dealing with men, man becomes unreal to them. The individual stands forth prominently. Society is but a nebulous cloud. To-day is everything. The past and future are empty terms. Ideals awaken little enthusiasm. Records broken and victories won appear eminently desirable achievemnents in themselves. They are considered of more importance than the preparatory routine work, which should be considered in its relation to the well-being of the nation and the advancement of humanity.

In other words it seems to me that the physical trainer of to-day has become so much of a specialist that he has lost touch with the world, that he is falling from the position he ought to occuppy as a living member of society to Ik come a mere cog in the complex social machine. As such a cog he is absolutely unconscious of his duty to society. The gymnasium is his world. His activity is limited by its walls. He attracts pupils there to in order to keep them out of the coarser temptations of street and alley. To give them plenty of fun and pleasure. To supply them with activity sufficiently vigorous to set healthy blood pulsating through their vessels. To care for their physical well-being. To secure their physical well-being. To secure their symmetrical growth. To teach them the benefits of a systematic use of soap and water, of regularity of living. Aid that is all.

But that must not be all that there is to our work. That side is simply the routine work, the trade, the bread-and-butter-supplying pari. Tt is the kind of work which easily becomes drudgery. It is the kind of work for which we should as rapidly as possible substitute mere mechanical contrivances:	apparatus,	machines, diagrams, tables of

figures. Behind this work, however, which tends to the making of first-< lass.animals, there should he the constant endeavor to make first-class human beings, with the emphasis on human, beings who rise above the rest of the animal kingdom not only bv superior intelligence, but bv a feeling of responsibility for self and others.

And it is no new doctrine that T am preaching. It was the doctrine of the ancient Hellenes when their gymnasiarchs strove to form citizens for the well-being of the state. It was the doctrine of the renaissance of physical training in modem times. Ling's object was to develop a man who resembled the old Vikings, not only in physical prowess, but in pristine honor and morality. Old Vater Jahn was consciously laboring to make Germans fit to serve the fatherland and progress. His followers in all times haVe felt their responsibility. Think of '48! Think of their service to the cause of liberty when they turned Kentucky and Missouri to the side of the Union cause! It was an inspiring sight to

Digitized by CjOOQle
—2 Mi-

me at the World's Fair at St. Louis to see the political platform of the North American Gymnastic- Union in a prominent place, showing that even though this organization does not now protrude itself in the daily struggle against shams and humbugs of all kinds, it can probably still be relied upon in crises like those of the forties and the sixties.

There is another great organization in our land which professedly has great ideals and which takes a prominent part in the physical training of our people. That is the Young Men's Christian Association. Its athletes carry on their sweaters the motto, "Spirit, Mind and Body.” Do they realize the meaning of this? Do the physical directors—like members of the militant church, of which they are part—live for the ideals and make their physical work a vehicle for actual practical Christianizing? I do not mean to ask the question whether they attend church and lead prayer-meetings, explain the Scriptures and sing hymns. I think personally that there is too much of that sort of thing, particularly bv those who are not fitted for it. But I wonder if there is any general and conscious endeavor on the part of the physical directors to approach their pupils with sympathy and friendship, and thus unlock the gates to their souls so as to gain an insight into their inner lives, to understand their thoughts and feelings, hopes and aspirations, fears and prejudices; do become acquainted, in brief, with the man before them not merely as bo many inches of flesh and bones, but as a living, thinking, feeling individual. Do they use the gymnastics, the games, the rollicking fun, for the purpose of merely making healthy trick animals, or do they see beyond this and strive to rear citizens?

And there is the large body of physical trainers in our public and private schools, colleges and other educational institutions. Are they fully aWare that the chief object of the school of our day is to form character? If aware of it, do they share in the work?

Would that I could burn it with red hot iron into the consciences of men and women that the chief work of the physical trainer is the glorious one of forming characters, realizing ideals, creating citizens.

Our conservatism, the tenacity with which we hold on to old ideas— or perhaps it would be more befitting to use the less flattering words, our intellectual inertia and sluggishness—are perhaps nowhere better exemplified than by the general conception that education shall and must chiefly be gained by parental admonition, study of books, and the exhortations of the teacher. That life itself is the great master from which wc learn more in every direction than from all other agencies together, we are ready to confess with our months, but this really has not got so thoroughly ingrained in our consciousness that we act upon the knowledge automatically and persistently. However, we have got so far in the matter now that all the time-honored educational institutions—the home, the schcol and the church— have been placed as far as possible in close relationship to life itself.

Take the school as an example of this. For the last century we have constan v been striving :o teach more and more by doing. By doing, that

Digitized by CaOOQle
is by living the actual life as far as possible in school. Laboratory methods are employed not only in chemistry, and physics, and geology, and astronomy, and biology, and all the other branches of the natural Sciences, but the so-called humanities have been brought more and more under the sway of the same methods by the introduction of seminars.

All branches are dominated by laboratory methods with one notable exception. In ethics we still talk, we do not do. We preach at home, wa preach at school, we preach at church, and then we add a Sunday-school for more preaching. We have even tried to tack a moral sermon on to every little tale and story intended primarily for the amusement of our children, until within the last few years we could not fail to note the disgust evoked by the traditional hero in the Sunday-school books. But where is the laboratory work in which we should make the pupil translate precepts into activities? Where is the seminar in which the pupil shall by his self-activity work out practical problems under the guidance of experienced leaders. I must confess that I see little trace of it in our scheme of education. It is true that in the middle-class home, blessed with several children and a common-sense mother not over-burdened with drudgery, there are opportunities untold for the children to come in contact with each other and with parents and perhaps with servants, under the beneficial guidance of the mother, but this contact is too restricted to be a real preparation to the social life of the citizen. The only place in which our boys and girls come in contact with society, with their fellow'-beings, w'ith those wThom they are to meet later on in real life, at the store and at the shop and at the office, at the political meetings and in the street car, is the playground. There the little human animal appears among the other beasts of the same kind, but from different litters. That is the place wdiere they shall learn to mingle with each other in the manner and mode recognized by society as proper. That is the place where, in a practical way, they shall learn their rights and duties. And that is the place where they do learn them far better than by listening to any sermons of ours. That is the laboratory of social ethics. That is the place wThere our captains of industry are evolved, where our leaders of men are created, w'here men are made who advance civilization, and wdiere those originate who prey upon their fellowmen, whether within or without the letter of the law'. That is the place where character is formed, where souls are moulded. But in this laboratory from which the citizen emerges we let the child run amuck. No guide, no leader but the child’s own immature instinct, aided and abetted by the experience of the older ones, which in its turn was developed in the same hap-hazard way.

We have an excellent laboratory for education in social ethics, hut we do not use it. I hold that it is exactly because wre use laboratory methods in our intellectual branches but overlook them in the ethical field that we turn out learned scholars, keen business men, able engineers, eminent jurists and the like, and at the same time fail so sadly in making even fairly decent citizens, morally speaking. It is a matter of general knowledge that there is frequently considerable discrepancy between a

Digitized by CaOOQle
—Io-

nian's private and public morality. I remember when a man died a few years ago who had accumulated many millions by what was generally concidered to be predatory practices, that the one single good thing said in the necrologies was that he had been a kind husband and father. In every other field than in his home life he had utilized his brilliant powers to encroach upon the rights of others and at the same time keep out of jail. I suppose that as a bov he had by both precept and practice learned to be considerate to those in the family, but at an early age, thrown upon his own resources to fight his way in the keen competition without any other guidance than the common acceptance of the dollar as a sign of success, he naturally could not look upon his fellowmen in any other light than as beings in his way, to be pushed aside or used as stepping-stones.

If we do not utilize the laboratory w-e have for cultivation in social ethics our progress in that direction will be as slow* in the future as it has been in the past. And has it not been slowr? Hardly anybody relies or can rely upon the mere w ord of another. Everybody expects to be cheated if he is not particularly looking out for his ow n interests. If he does not look out for himself and gets defrauded, we have an inclination to laugh at him as a simpleton. We say that we believe in the goodness of human nature, but we do not act upon that conviction. Socially considered, we are low, immoral beasts, ready to lie and cheat all around us. And the wrorst of it is that we do not knowr it. Let us take a few examples. Everybody claims to be greatly shocked bv revelations of secret railroad rebates bv prominent magnates, by which a few, because of their lack of scruples, have succeeded in amassing great fortunes dragged out of the business ruins .of others. I see the immorality of this procedure as vividly as anybody, and T deplore it. But criminality of the individual can be dealt with even if that individual is among the pillars of society. Ciiminality. on the other hand, which is born into a wdiole generation, cannot be readily effaced. And when I see the average citizen who waxes eloquent in his denunciation of the Standard Oil and the Sugar 'Trust and the railroads for their criminal rebating, go straight out to the street car and foist upon the conductor a transfer, the time for which has expired, or use his ingenuity to defraud the railroad company by letting his twelve-year-old-boy ride on a half-fare ticket good for those under ten, then I detei t that rebating is a crime not of the few’ berated for it, but of the many. 'Then 1 say to myself. This is not crime of this or that big trust magnate, but a crime of the nation as a whole, and the cure for it lies not in laws, but in education. I hear a matron denounce in unmeasured terms the filthiness of the slaughter-houses as a menace to public health, and then I see the same woman shake her dirty rugs in such a manner that her filth tnust enter the apartments of her neighbors. Or is it a man who declares that be is going to vote against “the whole confounded nastiness as perfectly indecent, sir,” and to emphasize his declaration he spits his tobacco juice or microbes on the sidewalk to be picked up by the next comer. The trouble is that every one around us assumes

Digitized by CjOOQle


a holier-than-thou attitude. We do it perfectly unconscious of the fact that as a rule each of us breaks as many moral laws as the next fellow. And when our attention is called to it we are apt to say, “Well this is different.* Yes, it is different. The difference is, that in one case in it is in the other case you.

The moral turpitude of the men against whom the hue and cry has been raised lately is probably no greater than of the average of my readers. Their acts are, in my belief, actually committed without consciousness of their anti-social character: they are results of the generally accepted theory that each has to look out for himself. Looked upon from a higher view point, we are all of us more or less moral imbeciles. We have been preached to, but we have never been properly guided in the great laboratory of social ethics, which is the playground. You may teach your bov to repeat, parrot-like, all the moral maxims, not to steal, not to lie and so on all through the list, but if you stop at these abstractions he will not recognize the concrete examples of stealing and lying when he meets them in life, and consequently he will steal and lie without knowing that he is doing so, and the result will be that he hardly ever sees where the demarcation line runs between honesty and dishonesty, especially when his self-interest clashes with the moral maxims. The latter, having no solidity and substance, yield to the onslaught of the former, and the man is perfectly satisfied with keeping the letter ot the law while breaking its spirit and hiring lawyers to show how to do it and still remain officially an honest man.

My contention is, then, that morality cannot be taught by mere precept any more than geography or astronomy. To make it living the child must be confronted with a large number of concrete examples taken directly from life, from his social life; that is, largely from his plays and games, which are to a great extent instinctive or conscious imitation of the pursuits and vocations of adults. In life he competes with some men and combines with others for common interests, he subordinates himself under the leadership of some and himself leads others, his interests frequently clash with those of others, and he demands that others recognize his rights as he is forced to recognize theirs. In all of these respects he experiments on the playground, and that is why I call it the laboratory of social ethics. It is the only place where he can learn in a practical way the difference between right and wrong, and it is M play that his moral conceptions are formed. If this lie true (and T am sure nobody can gainsay it who has seriously considered the matter) it follows of necessity that his development in social ethics will suffer if he has no proper guidance but is left to his mere instincts, modified by the impressions made upon him bv the examples of others as immature as himself. I do not expect that my boy of ten shall have the same moral conceptions that T have. It would he unnatural if ho had. lie is of course only anotner illustration of the great general biological law of the recapitulation in the * individual of the racial development,and consequently T expect him not to have reached as high a level as his fatlmi. I expect this from him no more
—240-

in the field of morals than I do in the field of intellect. The child is by many considered to be absolutely moral, and I suppose this idea is greatly nourished by parental pride. But it is nevertheless a false one. The child is not a moral being. Neither is it immoral. It is merely inlmoral. And whether from it shall spring a moral or an immoral adult depends on the kind of guidance it receives in its years of development.

We seem to have got so far in our moral development that the different members of a given family treat each other fairly well. They do not cheat each other. They do not lie awake night> concocting schemes by which to ruin each other. They consider themselves in duty bound to assist each other in many various ways which cannot be specified, but which make life worth living. I believe this comparatively high ethical development in the family is chiefly due to the fact that the child is not exclusively left to follow its own barbarian instincts in its relations to the rest of the family, but is guided by the maturer intellect and parental sympathy of the adults, which have imposed the demand of a fair degree of consideration of others upon the little savage from i:is •arliest days, and thus made such consideration habitual to him.

But as soon as this fairly decent individual steps outside the threshold of the house he feels immediately as if he were in the enemas country, more or less. He at least does not see the familiar faces. Strangers meet him, and his savage instincts teach him to treat them with suspicion, and he soon finds that his suspicions are more or less well founded. Some members of the community into which he now* enters are always ready to take advantage of him, if lie does not know how to take good care of himself, and, as they are unrestrained by adults, he soon learns that, as a stranger, he has few rights except those which he can make good by physical strength or intellectual shrewdness. When he has shown these, then he has such rights as he can get and maintain, and he learns that in the social life outside his home he must fight for his rights, real or imaginary, and that rights consequently are based ultimately on might. Thus I try to explain to myself the awful discrepancy between public and private business corruption and private and personal highmindedness and sweetness.

The consequence is that I see the remedy in supplying children with adult leaders in the laboratory of social life, leaders fitted by their own education and inclination to lead in the development of citizens of the highest type. And quite naturally I claim that this role shall fall to the ph ysical directors who already are assigned to the leadership in physical activities. But if the physical director is ossified in technicalities and does not realize any higher responsibilities than training efficient physical and intellectual machines, he will fail sadly in his work.

It would carry me too far to give many examples of the duties which thus should be taken up by the director. If only common sense be made to rule we are safe. And how I w'ish that common sense were substituted jor many of our wr’tten laws and rules. 1 believe the general tendency of physical directors all over the world, is to inculcate respect for law.

Digitized by

Google
-241-

But I believe a great mistake is made in not distinguishing between the letter and the spirit of the law. If we could sweep away with one stroke the majority of our laws of games and leave the conduct of the game to the common-sense judgment of the participants, [ believe we *j\ ould have not only more fun, but very much greater benefit front our games Let me give you some examples of this. A game of baseball, as we all know, depends upon the ability of the players to get the ball to certain given places at certain given times. Now, if a player, by a smart trick, succeeds in hiding the ball and, unknown to his opponents, smuggles it over to its place he may win the game. This is not forbidden in the rules, and it occasionally does happen. When it does, it is defended on the ground of being conducive to intellectual quickness, alertness and observation. I do not want it forbidden in the rules, but I want the physical director not to emphasize the mere intellectual smartness, and I am sure that by general consent of the players a game so won would be considered a game stolen. In a football game a few years ago one of the players tucked the ball under his sweater for a run. It was a theft, even if the rules did not prohibit it. The man simply invented a new form of an old crime, and would have been immediate1 v ruled out of the game if the respect for the letter of the law had not smothered the respect for that higher spirit, which words can but inadequately express. If a number of competitors from the same institution enter a long-distance run it is a common practice that one who has no real idea of winning the race, acts as a pacemaker for another in order to save the latter for the final spurt, while endeavoring to confound the opponents by getting them out of the stride. This, in an individual contest, is not fair play. It is two against one, It is bad, immoral, reprehensible, even if not prohibited by the rules. It seems to me to be a direct training to such anti-social acts in later life as, for instauce, combinations in restraint of trade. At the recent Olympic games the winner of the Marathon race was a fine young fellow, fine physically, bright intellectually, and morally clean, as we understand it. He won his race fairly within the rules. I do not wish to detract from his honor, but I cannot help consider that, judged from a higher moral standpoint than the one generally accepted, there is a serious cloud to his title. He had been at Athens for a month, had run the road almost daily during that time, and he himself ascribed his victory to the fact that he knew every part of the course, every declivity, every hill, every place where he could with advantage let himself out and where he could save himself, while the other competitors were un-acquaitned with these conditions. You may say: Well, what of it? He had accumulated an extra knowledge and was entitled to the results. Why did not the others do the same? Why did they not look out for themselves? All of which is correct reasoning if the main thing to be considered was the victory to be won. But according to my viewpoint it was not. It was to be a test of skill, endurance, and strength under equal conditions for all competitors, and the conditions were not equal.

While I am on the subject of competitive exercises I cannot refrain

Digitized by

Google
-242-

from calling attention to the evil influence of the athletic spirit. I mean the spirit which demands prizes of any kind, be it in the form of cups, medals, or personal aggrandizement in the public press. Are we not by these elements introducing a force which tends to develop citizens who in after life will inquire if such or such a course pays them? We certainly do not thereby train people who are willing to do things for the things themselves.

But I do not principally think of organized games as being factors in the development of a socially ethical race. These games are after all only for the more mature ones. I am more concerned about the actions of the little folks in their more or less unorganized play, where the guidance of the adult is absolutely necessary.

I notice here in the city of New York that the boys living and playing on a certain street resent the intrusion of an outsider. A strange boy may pass through “their” street numolested, but if he presumes to loiter and play there, he is driven off. We have here the conception of proprietary interest because of occupancy. I take it that these boys are on the same level in social ethics as those adults who prate of vested in -ferests or inviolable constitutional and divine rights when the public policy and their private ownership of public necessities clash. I take it that these boys also are the prototypes of the men who in after life are ready by malevolence to deprive the possessors of the vested rights in “their property” and establish a new ownership by the savage rule of “might is right.” I take it that these boys need very badly the guidance of elevated adult minds.

On the playground “I had it first” gives a practically incontestable title of occupancy. This is, I think, as it ought to be. But I have noticed, now and then, a belief that this title is absolute, not only lasting during occupancy, but transferable at will to anybody else. Thus a little girl using a swing at a public playground wanted to transfer it to her best friend in spite of the fact that others were standing in line waiting. Now, if such things are permitted, do you wonder that we hear of individuals or corporations holding public property—e. g., unused patents —not in order to use them, but to prevent others from using them.

Here are duties for the physical directors far more important than are technical routine duties. Do we all see them? Do we all fulfil them? Do we all work for fair play on the playground, and thus lay the foundation for fair play in our business and professional life? Fair play i* synonymous with social morality.

FBEIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., Milwankee, Wis.

Gentlemen:—Let me congratulate yon on the recent improvement of “Mind and Body.” It is exactly meeting the demand for a scientific journal of physical training.	Sincerely,

Chas. H. McCloy.

Yankton, S. Dak.

Digitized by Goog
-243—

CULTIVATE CHILDREN LIKE FLOWERS.

By LUTHER BURBANK.

Which has the more influence in building the life of a child, heredity or environment? And are acquired characters inherited?

My own observations prove that all characters that are inherited have once been acquired, and that heredity is only the sum of all these pssi environments, which, if impressed on the heredity long and strong enough in any specific direction, will become part of heredity itself, and this new heredity, already slightly changed by these late environments, will have to meet new environments as before, which will, by repetition, become fixed in the ever new and constantly fluctuating heredity.

Did you ever think wliat is the most pliable and the most precious product of all the ages? It is not pigs, mules, books, or locomotives, cotton or com—but children.

Children cannot all be treated alike; each has his or her social individuality, which is the most valuable of all endowments. If all were alike, no progress could be made and right here comes the weakest point Ir. the present educational systems.

I have long been studying the intricate complexity of the action of heredity and environmental forces on life, both in plants and in man, and these comparisons and deductions came clearly, sharply, and naturally. It has been said that to improve a child we should begin with the grandparents. This is only a half-truth, which perhaps had better never have been said. Do not waste any of your time on grandparents unless you commence on them in earliest pliable childhood. If we hope for any improvement on the human race, we must begin with the child, as the child responds more readily to environment than any other creature in existence. The change may come in the first generation, or it may not. It may not show for many generations, but patience and constant attention will finally be rewarded in the survival of the most beautiful, the most precious, or the fittest, whichever you may wish to call it.

In child-rearing, environment is equally essential with heredity. Mind you, I do not say that heredity is of no consequence. It is the great factor and often makes environment almost powerless. When certain hereditary tendencies are almost indelibly ingrained, environment will have a hard battle to effect a change in the child; but that a change C8n be wrought by the surroundings we all know.

A child absorbs environment. It is the most susceptible thing in the world to influence, and if that force be applied rightly and constantly when the child is in its greatest receptive condition, the effect will be pronounced, immediate, and permanent. There is no doubt that if a child with a vicious temper be placed in an environment of peace and quiet the temper will change. Put a boy born of gentle white parents among Indians and he will grow up like a Indian. Let the child born of criminal parents have a setting of morality and decency, and the chances are that he will not grow up to be a criminal, but an upright man.

I do not say that heredity will not sometimes assert itself, of course.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—244—

When the criminal instinct crops out in an individual, it might appear as if environment were leveled to the ground, but in succeeding generations the effect of higher environment will not fail to become fixed.

We in America form a nation with the blood of half the people of the world in our veins. We are more crossed than any other nation in the history of the world, and here we meet exactly the same results that are always seen in a much-crossed race of plants; all the worst as well as all the best qualities of each are brought out in their fullest intensity’, and right here is where selective environment counts.

All the necessary crossing has been done, and now comes the work of elimination, the work of refining, until we shall get an ultimate product that will be the finest human race which has ever been known. It is perhaps this country which will produce that race. Many years will pass before the finished work is attained, but it is sure to come. The characteristics of the many peoples that make up this nation will show* in the composite, with many of the evil characteristics removed, and the finished product will be the race of the future,

In my work with plants and flow’ers, I introduce color here, shape there, size, or perfume, according to the product desired. In such processes the teachings of nature are always followed. Its great forces only are employed. All that has been done for plants and flow’ers by crossing, nature has already accomplished for the American people. By the crossing of bloods strength has, in one instance, been secured; in another, intellectuality; in still another, moral force. Nature alone could do this.

Man has by no means reached the ultimate. The fittest has not yet survived. In the process of elimination the weaker must fall, but the battle has changed its base from brute force to mental integrity.

Statistics show' many things to make us pause, but after all the proper point of view is that of the optimist. The time will come when insanity will be reduced, suicides and murders will be fewer, and man will become a being of few’er mental troubles and bodily ills.

Wherever you have a nation in which there is no variation there is comparatively little insanity or crime, or exalted morality or genius. Here in America, where the variation is greatest, statistics show a greater percentage of all these variations.

As time goes on in its endless and ceaseless course environment will, crystalize the American nation. Its varying elements will become unified, and the weeding-out process will probably leave the finest human product ever known. The color, the perfume, the size and form that are placed in plants will have their analogies in the composite, the American fj the future.

And now, what will hasten this development most of all? The proper rearing of children. Don't feed children on maudlin sentimentalism—give them nature. Let their souls drink in all that is pure and sweet. Rear them, if possible, amid pleasant surroundings. If they come into the world with souls groping in the darkness, let them see and feel the light.

Don‘t terrify them in early life with the fear of an after-world. Let

Digitized by v^ooQle
—245-

nature teach them the lessons of good and proper living, combined with an abundance of well-balanced nourishment. Those children will grow to be the best men and women. Put the best in them by contact with the best outside. They will absorb it as a plant does the sunshine and the dew.—Chicago Tribune.

THE FIRE DRILL.

Several recent instances where children in public or parochial schools were saved through the efficiency of the fire drill from possible panic because of the nearness of a fire which threatened the school building have served to call renewed attention to the value of this feature of school discipline. It cannot be too strongly commended. The drill has a twofold influence. It helps to give to the pupils that self-control which is one of the most important elements of any sort of training. It is a safeguard against possible tragedies bringing sorrow to many homes.

Children are naturally excitable. They are not able to form the quick and correct judgments which belong to more mature years. Thev are more dependent upon those who are in charge of them than older people are. They look for direction in times of difficulty and danger. This is particulary true in case of a threatening fire, where the tendency is for people to lose their heads. The ability to calm fears, to form the lines, and to march the pupils from a place of danger is a praiseworthy quality in a teacher. That so many of them are able to do this reflects credit upon them and tells of the attention given to the fire drill itself.

There is no reason for limiting the application of these words to educational institutions. They have bearing likewise upon the big stores or manufacturing establishments where there are large numbers of people collected at work. It is an easy thing to neglect the precautions which experience has proved desirable. Fire escapes are provided with proper marks. In many places there are chemical extinguishers, hand grenades, coils of hose, and other similar facilities for fighting fires. "Put these have no value unless there are also persons near at hand who understand what to do in emergency and who feel the burden of responsibility which rests upon them. It requires constant attention to keep safety de-vices-in condition. It demands systematic drill to make an unorganized collection of clerks a disciplined body of people, each of whom knows what to do when the alarm comes. The drill may become a matter of mere form, taking up apparently needless time, so long as nothing happens. But the spectacle of a line of school children or of empToyes marching in orderly fashion from a burning duilding or from one filled with smoke is one which shows the value of constant attention to the safeguards which may protect lives at some time of unexpected danger.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-246-

TEACH THE PUBLIC HOW TO FIGHT DISEASE.

By CHARLES W. ELIOT, President Harvard College.

Recent events have brought into strong light a new function of the medical profession which is sure to be amplified and made more effective in the near future. I mean the function of teaching the whole population how diseases are caused and communicated, and what are the corresponding means of prevention. The recent campaign against tuberculosis is a good illustration of the new function of the profession. To discharge it well requires, in medical men, the power of interesting exposition, with telling illustration and moving exhortation. Obviously, the function calls for disinterestedness and public spirit on the part of the profession; but to this call it is certain that the profession will respond. It also calls for some adjustments and new functions in medical schools, which should hereafter be careful to provide means of popular exposition concerning water supplies, foods, drinks, drugs, the parasitic causes or consequences of disease in men, plants, and animals, and trie modes of communication of all communicable diseases.

Medical museums should be arranged, in part, for the instruction of the public, and, with some suitable reservations, should be statedly open to the public. The medical schools also habitually should provide popular lectures on medical subjects, and these lectures should be given without charge and on days and at hours when working people can attend. In other words, selected physicians should become public preachers, as well as private practictioners. America has much to learn from Europe in regard to this public spirited sendee on the part of the profession.

In another respect the teaching of medicine must be broadened in the century we have now entered upon. Medical study has been, in time past, far too exclusively the study of man’s body bv itself. Hereafter the study of medicine must be largely comparative, or, in other words, must include man’s relations to the animal and vegetable kingdoms. The Harvard Medical School enters into possession of its new buildings with three professorships of comparative medicine already established—the professorships of comparative anatomy, comparative physiology, and comparative pathology. This tendency to comparative study already has been developed well in other subjects, as; for example, in comparative psychology, legislation and religion. Wherever this study by comparison wins adequate place, it makes the study of the subject broader and more liberalizing, and the results obtained more comprehensive and just.

Medical students, therefore, should have studied zoology and botany before beginning the study of medicine, and should have acquired some skill in the use of the scalpel and microscope. It is absurd that anybody should begin with the human body the practice of dissection or of surgery; and, furthermore, it is wholly irrational that any young man who means to he a physician should not have mastered the elements of

Digitized by

Google
\

-247-

biology, chemistry, and physics years before he enters a medical school. The mental constitution of the physician essentially is that of the naturalist; and the tastes and capacities of the naturalist reveal themselves, and, indeed, demand satisfaction long before twenty-one years of age, which is a good age for entering a medical school.

As at the preliminary stages of the medical career, so at its climax, there is an increasing need of men who have the working knowledge of several sciences which formerly were treated as distinct, and whose best representatives in medical schools labored apart, each in his own field. The most promising medical research of our day makes use of biological, chemical, and physical science combined. Physiology advances by making applications of the principles, the methods, and the implements of all three sciences. The physiologist listens to the normal or abnormal sounds in the bodies of men and animals with a modified telephone, and may record by electricity almost all the phenomena he studies. Bacteriology and biological chemistry go hand and Hand in serving pathology and the public health.

A great number of chemical substances, coming from organic sources, and yet as definite and uniform in composition as salt or alum, prove serviceable in pharmacology and physiological and pathological research, although they were neither discovered nor manufactured with any purpose in view. The stainings of bacteriological technique, and fhe quantitative colortests for characteristic ingredients in the various secretions of the body, ingredients which fluctuate in amount in health or in disease, illustrate the present dependency of medical research on chemistry and physics.

For the effective study of toxins and antitoxins, within and without the body, the bacteriologist and biological chemist must cooperate. Many of the effects produced by the toxins in the living body are definite chemical changes, such, for instance, as may be produced by the activation of certain ferments, and thb antagonism of toxin and antitoxin probably is a chemical reaction. Many of the great discoveries of the future will come through the cooperation of sympathetic groups of medical scientists representing different modes of attacking the same problem. There will be a like necessity for cooperation between the clinician, the pathological anatomist, the physiological chemist, and the bacteriologist.

The world has observed and will not forget that some of the greatest contributors to the progress of medicine and surgery during the past thirty years have been not physicians but naturalists and chemists. Pasteur was a chemist, Cohn, the teacher of Koch, a botanist, and Metch-nikoff, a zoologist. Students of disease must, therefore, be competent to utilize in their great task every aid which natural science can furnish. How vastly is the range of medical science and medical education broadened by this plain necessity! The dignity and serviceableness of the medical profession are heightened by every new demand on the intelligence and devotion of its members.—Chicago Tribune.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—248 —

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND NEW BOOKS.

ACUTE OVERSTRAINING OF THE HEART.

Theodore Schott, of Frankfurt-on-Main, Germany, discusses excessive heart straining at some length. He states that we must distinguish between acute and chronic overstrain, and calls attention to the fact that the latter can result only from an accumulation of repeated single overstrains. In studying this subject Schott had wrestling performed by strong, healthy men in such manner that they alternately inhibited their movements by forcibly resisting each other, or by each lifting his antagonist. Before the wrestling began, the heart limits and the apex beat were correctly outlined, sphygmographic curves and blood pressure were registered, the position of the diaphragm and of the posterior pulmonary limits were located, the frequency of the respiration and of the pulse, the quality of the pulse waves and of the heart sounds were acurately determined. So long as no dvsnea appeared, only an increase in the fre ouency and respiration was noticeable; everything else remained as before. But even in a few minutes after dyspnea manifested itself, the picture Tvas changed. He notes in detail the changes occuring after the violent exercise, and reports cases. The article is illustrated by numerous pulse tracings and diagrams of the heart limits. He states that in acute overstraining of the heart rest is of the utmost importance, and that among drugs digitalis is in the lead. For quieting the action of the heart the application of ice or sinapisms on the anterior pectoral surface is indicated. It will hardly.be possible, he states, to dispense with the use of morphine in order to alleviate the severe pains in the cardiac region, ' nevertheless it is advisable to be cautious in the long continued use of large doses of this drug. The use of stimulants is indicated in excessive cardiac weakness, and in threatened heart failure. When by such therapeutic means the patient is rescued from the threatening condition and when recovery from the injuries already present has taken place it may be advisable to resort to tonics to counteract the heart weakness, this being liable to persist for a considerable time. Generous nourishment of the patient is one of the most important tasks of the physician. A rational treatment by means of baths, the careful Tise of gymnastics, suitable exercise in the fresh air, with the avoidance of any kind of straining, all come into consideration.—Jour. A. SI. A.

HEALTH HINTS.

“A goblet of water taken before breakfast, does several things, 1st. It passes through the stomach into the small intestines in a continuous and uninterrupted flow. 2nd. It partly distends the stomach, stretching, and to some extent obliterating, the rugae, ,3rd. It thins and washes ont into the gut most of the tenacious mucus. 4th. It increases the fullness of the capillaries of the stomach directly, if the water is warm, and indirectly, in a reactionary way, if it is cold. 5th. It causes

Digitized by CaOOQle
-249-

persistalsis of the whole alimentary tract, wakes it up, so to speak, and gives it a morning's exercise and washing.

“The beneficial effects of a drink of water before breakfast may account for the desire for water at this time of the day, particularly on rising. How often we find that when we are very hungry (when our stomachs are tubular and filled with mucus) we want a drink before beginning to eat.

“Moderately cold water taken into the stomach chills locally, it stimulates to contraction and produces a reaction. A warm, healthy glow succeeds the contraction due to the cold. The clean and the* hvperaemic mneous membrane is in excellent condition to receive food, which now comes in direct contact with the bare gastric wall. The re-\ flexes act to best advantage. A copious flow of digestive juice is the result, and the food not being covered with mucus, digestion is easy and rapid, for it takes place under the most favorable conditions and in a minimum time.

“The following is a brief summary of the major points I have sought to bring out in this note:

“1. The position of the stomach is more nearly vertical than horizontal.

“2. An empty stomach, if in good tone, is always tubular.

“3. A tubular stomach should be the rule on rising.

“4. Non-irritating liquids pass directly through the tubular stomach.

“5. They do likewise if the stomach contains food, and in such cases pass along the lesser curvature.

“6. The morning mucus contained in the stomach hinders or retards digestion.

“7. Water drunk before meals dilutes and washes out this mocus. stimulates the gastro-enteric tract to peristalsis, and causes hyperaemia of its lining membrane, thus greatly aiding digestion as well as elimination.

“8. Cold water should be given to those who have the power to react, while hot or warm water must be administered to all others.

“9. Salt added to the water is very beneficial in preventing the formation of unabsorbable parapeptone.

“10. It is perfectly proper to drink water before, during and after meals.”—From “The Stomach,” by Dr. Leuf.

HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.

The cry of the day seems to be, give me happiness. In this age of national prosperity and personal accumulation of wealth, men and women -are trying harder to find happiness than ever before.

And yet few there are that find it. In the quest of gold, or truth, or education, or fame, only a glimpse of happiness may be found. Amusements of all sorts are tried, and they give pleasure to a greater or lesser degree, but not happiness. Happiness begins with health and ends with health and service for our fellow men.

Digitized by Google
-250-

It may seem strange, and yet it is true that a man cannot be in ill health and have happiness. A sound pair of lungs, a strong heart and a stomach that functionates promptly are absolutely necessary.

The man who daily uses up 10 ounces of blood and nerve, while he can manufacture only 9 ounces, soon finds nature warning him, for despondency points out the road to the hospital or insane asylum.

Each physical disorder rings the danger bell. Statisticians tell us that the average age of our great statesmen, merchants, artists, financiers, and inventors is fifty-six.

This is significant and seems to show us that people have not yet learned that the primary requisite to great work is the ability to carry the body in such a state that health abounds, happiness reigns and creative work is made possible.

Sickness ought to be a form of personal disgrace. It is Ella Wheeler Wilcox that said:

“Talk happiness —the world is sad enough without your woes. Talk health—the dreary never changing tale Of mortal maladies is worn and stale.

You cannot charm, or interest, or please,

By harping on that minor chord, disease.”

Some believe that health consists of having big muscles and power to raise great weights. Not so. Health means more than that, for men with big muscles many times are the weakest when put to prolonged tests of endurance, and those men die young. “Health is more than mere unconsciousness of the existence of one’s body. It is positive pleasure in having a body; positive pleasure in all activities which develop the best of life; positive dislike to all that degrades health. Health is vitality and power to endure long mental and physical tests.

Be healthy, be happy. Prescribed exercise systematically taken will produce health, which will permit of endless labors for one’s fellow men, and this brings happiness.—John H. Scott.

THE WEAK FOOT.

In a consideration of the causes and the characteristics of the weak foot Dr. Royal Whitman in the “Medical Record” gives as the causes of the weak foot those that favor the predisposing and stimulating attitude, of which even advanced deformity is simply the exaggeration. The^e predisposing causes he divides into four classses, which are, of course, interdependent and often combined; 1. Congenital or acquired abnormality or weakness of structure; the support is deficient. 2. Weakness of muscles; the power is insufficient. 3. Overweight or overstrain; the burden is too great. 4. Improper attitudes that subject the foot to a mechanical disadvantage in the performance of its functions;the adjustment is imperfect. The ordinary symptoms of the wreak foot, aside from the attitude and impaired function, are sensation of weakness, of tire and strain along the inner border of the foot and beneath the arch. Pain in the heels, due in great part to unrelieved pressure, is often a prominent

Digitized by Google
—251 •

symptom. The discomfort may be confined to the feet, but it often extends to the calves, knees, and especially in women to the back, symptoms explained by the disordered function which affects the entire body. As a further illustration to this, it may be mentioned that the weak foot in adolescents is usually accompanied by a droop of the spine (posterior curvature), which, in turn predisposes to lateral deviation. It is true that the two forms of postural deformity may be caused by general weakness, but it is probable that in many instances the general posture is a secondary result of the loss of spring elasticity and stimulation of the proper use of the feet. As far as attitude is concerned there are several classes, which are, in order of the most noticeable deformity:	1. The

abducted foot; the arch is well formed. 2. The abducted and flat foot; the arch is lowered. 3. The flat and abducted foot; the foot is flat. The prognosis as to cure is favorable in the order of the classes. Of importance in treatment is the shape of the shoes. Essential is one of particular type, both for children and adults with a well pronounced inward twist (right and left), since it aids in preventing abduction. A second point of importance is to make the inner border of the sole and heel thicker, or slightly wedge shaped, so that the foot is inclined somewhat toward inversion. This is one of the oldest of remedies, one that is continually discovered and applied by the iminstructed patient, whose shoes wear away on the inner side. The principle is applied also bv the expert blacksmith, and if the shoe were firmly attached to the foot, instead of merely containing it, the expedient would be of much greater advantage in the treatment of human beings. The patient having been properly shod must now be instructed as to attitudes. Outward rotation of the limbs must be avoided. The foot should be advanced in the line of the .the walk and the “springy” step should be cultivated; that is, the body should be lifted over the forefoot by exercising the calf muscle. This protects the foot from overstrain and at the same time strengthens the muscles and improves the tone of the entire body. As the prevailing attitude has been one of abduction, one now cultivates the adducted attitude; thus, in the sitting posture one should always cross the feet so that the weight resting on the outer borders should incline them inward (invert the soles), The influence of the modified shoes, the attention io posture, and the cultivation of muscular strength may be quite sufficient io cure the milder cases of disability if the cooperation of an intelligent patient is assured. In most instances, however, the tendency toward deformity has advanced so far that it cannot be controlled 1>v the patient, and, as a cure depends on reconstructive changes, in adaptation to the prevailing uses and attitudes, the importance of preventing frequent recurrence of deformity is apparent. For this reason a brace is usually an indispensable adjunct in curative treatment. For the adjustment of such a brace an accurate plaster model of the foot in the proper attitude is essential. In many instances the deformity is such of long standing, or the resistance is so great, that forcible correction of the deformity under amesthesia is indicated.
ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Published Monthly.

fgabtcrlption Price, 91.00 per Year.

MUwa*cOcm, Wlacor>»!n.

49* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herald Bldg., Milwaukee. Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHfiR, iao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—WE WISH TO CALL SPECIAL ATTENTION to Mr. Jaoob Bolin’s article on '‘Physical Training as a Factor in Social Ethics,” which we reprint from “Physical Training.” In these days of doing things by “hook or crook” so long as you get there, there is gr^at need of continually calling the attention of teachers and, especially, of coaches to the fact that physical training is the greatest tool in the hands of educators for forming character; that to allow unfair plays “as long as the umpire does not see it,” or plays that are so close to dishonesty as the rules will allow, is just as damaging to the character of the players under their care as to tell them that it is right to steal “so long as no one sees it.” If we may utter a further wish, it is to ask teachers who conduct leaders’ classes to read this article to them and get them to discuss it.

—INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS BEFORE THE FORUM. Recently a rich member of the Friends Church, Miss Jeanes of Philadelphia, died and left an estate valued at about three million dollars. In her will she gave different sums of this money to various public and charitable institutions. One of these was SwTarthmore College, a higher co-educational school situated in one of the suburbs of Philadelphia. This school is to get approximately two million dollars if it will prohibit intercollegiate games; otherwise this money is to go to some hospitals. The effect of the publication of the will just when the football season opened can be imagined. On one side are those, students interested • in football (for, strange to say, this is the only sport spoken of—as though there were no others) and their sympathizers, and on the other side are the older public, among them many professors. The newspapers bring daily cards ranging from students “who would stay not a minute in a college that had no intercollegiate competitive games” to others who believe “that colleges are primarily for intellectual advancement and thai all competitive sports should be abolished.” We reprint an editorial from the “Philadelphia Ledger” to show that the discussion is by no means left to the undergraduate students:

INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS IN THE BALANCE.

A very unusual opportunity presents itself to Swarthmore College. A substantial and valuable mining interest which has produced much of the Jeanes fortune is to be transferred to that educational establishment

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-253 -

if it will forego competitive athletic meets with other colleges. It is not clear how great the total sum and its annual income will he, but it is assumed that it is large enough to place the institution above want if those who are charged with the responsibility for the decision act with that wisdom which the community expects of them.	,

It must be remembered that Swarthmore College is one of a number of educational agencies proudly identified with Philadelphia and its neighborhood. In the University of Pennsylvania, Swarthmore, Haver-ford and Bryn Mawr we have a group of institutions engaged in a large public work. Their cultural service has been important for many years. All have needs that are great, and they are all particular deficient in the means of endowing professorships, drawing and holding teachers of high rank and making themselves intellectual factors in truth as well as in name. Money in plenty is at hand for rearing buildings which it is expensive to maintain. The call now is for funds to develop the spiritual rather than the material. Nowhere else in this country is there so inviting an opportunity as in the beautiful suburbs of this city to establish an intellectual centre which will attract students from all parts of the • world.

This dream is in the way of being realized at Swarthmore if there is wisdom enough in the councils of the college to put tlie corrupting influences of competitive sport behind it and to face the future confidently on other lines. The playing of baseball and football and the track and field games have become crying evils in colleges, as President Eliot, President Butler and many others have often asserted with warm pleas for reform. Players at many colleges, particularly in football, are sought and bought; prolonged training interferes with study bv the men on the teams, and on the days of important contests there is a festival of excitement which involves the entire student body. Games cease to be sport. The valuable object, the placing of a sound mind in a sound body by physical exercise, is not subserved, but the managers of our institutions of learning look on favoringly in the knowledge that such contests are a tremendous advertisement. Thus is publicity given to a college; thus are students attracted; thus are deficits made smaller for the rich men who are approached for contributions at the end of each educational year.

It must be understood that nothing could be worse for a college than the necessity, or the supposed necessity, for such perverted views and policies. The students who go to Yale this year because it won a football game from Harvard last year are not worth their boot leather, and no one knows it better than enlightened educators like President Eliot. There are institutions like Clark University, in Massachusetts, which go on their intellectual way triumphantly without intercollegiate games. Under Dr. G. Stanley Hall. Clark University has won a name for itself in doing that business which rightfully adheres to it. and no other. It is a choice between God and mammon, and a college that cannot decide a matter of this kind in the right way when it comes to the crossroads is not worthy of the name. Of course, Swarthmore will accept the Jeanes

Digitized by C^ooQle
-254-

money under the condition named by the donor, if the sum is considerable enough to permit its president and trustees to make it an educational institution which will be above the need of the claptrap and hum-bug of competitive athletics. The Society of Friends, the city of Philadelphia, the State of Pennsylvania and the whole Union will be proud of a Swarthinore College which shall strive alone for the development of the mind and the upbuilding of the spirit. Now what will the answer be?

It seems to us that in this question, like in most others, the truth is halfway between the two extremes. We believe that competitive sports are needed at a certain time of one’s mental and moral as well as physical development. Because these competitive sports have at present assumed a shape that is out of reason, and that self-respecting institutions have taken steps to bring them into their correct sphere, this is, we think,, no reason why they should he forbidden altogether. Wise regulation, as, for instance, the subordination of selfish coaches under the direction of a sane head of the physical training department, a man whose reputation, like the coach’s, does not rest on the number of stars he has produced (how many students the coach has injured morally and physical is. strange to say, never inquired into), a cutting down of the number of intercollegiate games, and rules of a like Tenor would soon do away with most evils complained of. We can imagine even competitive sports conducted in a manner that Miss Jeanes would have been glad to support with her millions. In the mean time Swarthinore College is wrestling with a problem that will be watched with intense interest by all educators.

—IN THE SEPTEMBER NUMBER OF “AMERICAN MEDICINE’’ we find the following article by Dr. George M. Gould. While it appears that Dr. Gould has very little knowledge of how much is done in our country, especially in the West, in the way of rational gymnastics, the attitude he takes toward athletics, that is, competitive sports as exploited in the daily newspapers, is so correct and so encouraging for teachers who for many years have been fighting for recognition that we reprint the article in its entirety.

The factors of safety in animal structure and animal economy were described by Dr. S. J. Meltzer, of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, in his Harvey Society Lecture at the New York Academy of Medicine, December 15, 190fi. It is difficult to comment upon the vast importance of this subject without using language which apnears extreme. It explains many matters of current discussion. Indeed, the whole subject of the management of health and disease would be profoundly modified if every physician and pedagog would take to heart what Meltzer has so ablv set forth in this most interesting and instructive lecture. For the purposes of safety, engineers always design a machine several times stronger than necessary to stand the maximum strain to which it will be subjected. Some machines need be but twice as strong as the maximum load. In others it is necessary to use a factor of twenty, the machine being twenty times stronger than the calculated loads.

Digitized by Google
-255-

Surplus strength has long been known, in a general way. Nature constructs the organism so that it is more powerful than the usual strains, but Meltzer proves that the law of engineering really holds throughout, and that there is a factor of safety of six to ten or more in every organ and every function. It is a natural law as well as a human. It results from the law of selection. “Those species which are provided with an abundance of useful structure and energy and are prepared to meet many emergencies are best fitted to survive in the struggle for existence.” Extra strength is a “reserve fund” without which physical bancruptcy and death constantly stare us in the face. A neurasthenic has no factor of safety and is bowled over by strains which the normal resists. The normal eye has far more accommodation than needed, but when presbyopia or refractive errors like astigmatism and hyperopia reduce the factor of safety, there's trouble. In eyestrain there is no factor of safety.

The factor of ignorance also describes the factor of safety, for it is a provision against unknown strains or temporary accidental reductions of strength. A man must be able to put forth tremendous cfiorts now and then., otherwise he perishes. He must have a surplus everywhere, say, in breathing power, for if disease disables a part of a lung, he would otherwise suffocate. A boiler would explode every time a plate rusted or a bolt loosened, if it had no factor of safety.

The dangers of athletic “training” are now self-evident, for the “trained” man is using surplus energies designed for short emergencies. He works to the limit of his powers and reduces his factor of safety. His arteries are under a prolonged pressure which they cannot safely stand, though they are designed to bear it as an exceptional short load. Consequently they thicken. The heart is overloaded, and it too enlarges, for Meltzer shows that nature’s rule is to restore the factor of safety when possible. The nervous system is likewise overloaded and its “reserve fund” drawn upon, with subsequent neurasthenia, alcoholism and allied habits of the nervously exhausted. Arteriosclerosis, heart disease, neurasthenia, alcoholism, drug habits, increased susceptibility to tuberculosis and other infections—these are the results of imposing upon our factors of safety whether by muscular or mental strains. What a plea for the simple life!

The mortality of college athletes has been statistically investigated by Dr. Wm. G. Anderson, director of the Yale gymnasium, who finds that while death has claimed 12.9 percent of Yale graduates since 1855, yet only 7.2 percent of those who have “made” a team have died. He states that this lessened mortality might be due to the fact that the teams are composed of picked men, selected by reason of original strength and perfect condition. The “weaklings” do not attain the team. Nevertheless, Anderson’s article implies that college athletics are not injurious, and it is most dangerous for that reason. These picked men should show a tar less mortality—extra good insurance risks. Moreover, he fails to show that the worst dangers are not the product of the methods grown up in the last 25 or 30 years. In 1855, and for a long time afterward, un-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-256-

natural training was not so common, if it was permitted at all. Finally, the dangers are not immediately fatal, indeed the worst result—neurasthenia—seems actually to prolong life, for the sufferer ceases the strains, stops work, and gets far below his reduced factor of safety.

The Reform of College Athletics.—Statistics have rarely been put to a more unscientific use than by Dr. Ander&on, for they imply the opposite of the truth. Modern college sports must be in a bad way to stoop to such a defense. A method is bad if it selects for unnatural strains a few of the best, for the delectation of a horde of pimply-faced, hollow-ohested boys, whose ideal of physical training is to smoke cigarets, drink Deer, give the college yell, and root for the “beef” of the college. If a student is so well developed that he can “make a team,” his further training is unnecessary. Nature can be trusted to continue the good work. The efforts of gymnasium “experts” should be directed to men unable to make a team. All the money spent in “training” for college contests is worse than wasted, for some of it does harm. Present methods produce the “mollycoddles” of the bleachers. Proper sport cures them. Professor Wilder, of Cornell, has wisely written against football and such “sports” of the few, and his words should awaken the universities to their duties to the mollycoddles caused by “sport.”

The decreasing need of a great musculature is a point which our universities would do well to keep in mind. Primitive man domesticated certain animals for their muscular power, but modern man has long been inventing mechanical devices to supplement or replace his own feeble muscles. As civilization advances, the man of intelligence is becoming more of a brain worker, directing the power of machines and the labor of animals or the lower rrices. Consequently a great musculature is really a parasite requiring time and labor to keep it healthy and also an undue amount of nourishment. Such men are not necessarily the best—indeed many of them die much earlier than is supposed for they are physiological profligates. The digestivee system is required to do much work unnecessary in men of lighter build and in the race of life the least burdened have the advantage. Boys are naturally proud of muscular development and can usually be depended upon to work it up themselves without the unwholesome stimulation of a gymnasium designed for the defective. It does seem as though onr college sports were developing muscles beyond all practical needs of educated men of intelligence.

The dangers of great musculature are now well known. Such men are constantly tempted to an exertion for which the heart and arteries are not fitted, so that cardiac hypertrophy and arteriosclerosis are the inevitable results. Savage man did not work hard as a rule; he hunted intermittently and lay idle be-times. The arteries can stand that kind of treatment, but not persistend high tension. Muscular workers do not live as long as the sedentary who are able to live normally. Of course tailoring rind such trades are fatal from infections due to confinement, but the clergy, wh) can live in the open air, are long lived. Trades requiring great exertion, such as steel puddling, are very quickly fatal
-257-

Boys, then, need not be stimulated to develop a fatal degree of musculature; if anything, they need restraint.

The advatages of a good physique need not be mentioned. There have been many frail men of genius, but the successful and noted men of the world are generally the opposite. They are notoriously large framed and congenitally endowed with great reserve powers which they never call on. Their factors of safety are enormous, and they can survive blows which are fatal to the frail. They are not necessarilly muscular, though many of them are; but they do not use their muscles any more than necessary. Indeed many of them have been noted for their dislike for exercise ami have, therefore, never suffered from high arterial tension, and though lazy have attained advanced age in health and comfort. Some of these factors of success are mental and congenital and no amount of “training” will create them. Though there can be no denial of the good accomplished by proper exercises for the defective, yet it should he recognized that the real development is during childhood, and is a matter of proper living as well as congenital endowment. Boys may, therefore, be taught that wholesome living will be of more benefit than piles of parasitic muscles. Physical culture is not muscle culture.

The neglect of college faculties to control student athletics is the alarming state of affairs brought out in the minority report of Moorfield Storey, appended to the majority of the Harvard joint committee on the regulation of athletic sports (Feb. 27, 1907). It seems that time and again the faculty called attention to the harm done and recommended changes, even forbidding football and other intercollegiate abominations, but was repeatedly ignored. This is amazing, as fathers arc under the impression that a college faculty acts in loco parentis. There seoms to be a serious neglect ol duty to guard the boys against their mistaken enthusiasm. To claim lack of power will not do. for every faculty can expel a student who defies them by playing any forbidden games—gambling or athletic. In view of the fact that the brutalizing exhibitions of beefiness are harmful and that the men who need developmental exercise do not get it on the bleachers, and the further medical fact that severe training in youth is extremely prejudicial to health and longevity, it is a severe condemnation of American college faculties that they have so neglected the boys who have been confided to their care. It is an axiom of the racing world, that a “Derbv colt*' is ruined for life by overstraining while immature, and never does much afterward. The same law holds as to boys. Mr. Storey should receive the cordial support of the medical profession.

The stupidity of college athletes is a popular impression, because of the fact that great athletes are in the lime-light and their failures in studies attract undue attention. It has generally been said that athletics tends to diminish scholarship, whereas it is possible that great intellectual power may not be in the possession of the athlete. Sports may have had nothing to do with the matter. Whatever the cause may be, it is certainly a popular impression that scholarship and athletics are incom-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-258-

patible. This is confirmed by some remarkable statistics collected by Professor Foster of Bowdoin College. With few exceptions, the athletes show poorer results in studies than the nonathletes, considering the average of the two classes, though the differences are not nearly as great as generally assumed. He claims that college sports are not excessively injurious, though he seems to acknowledge they are somewhat harmful.

College sports should benefit scholarship and it is time to inquire why they are harmful even in the least degree. If they are regulated so that they would serve the purpose for which they exist, the statistics would be reversed. Sensible men will welcome the time when the class honors will be taken by those who are also excellent in sports. At present, a ’student who desires to excel in scholarship is compelled to shun the sports—and this is a hygienic blunder for which we may blame the college faculties. If it is true that the athlete tends to be less intelligent it certainly is a great blunder to allow him to set the pace, which the more mentally gifted cannot endure. No matter what the cause or the effect may be, there is something wrong to produce the figures published by Professor Foster.

—DR. G. STANLEY HALL was the principal speaker at the recent celebration of the one hundreth anniversary of the University of Maryland at Baltimore, Md.

Dr. HalPs address characterized five points in the new field of social therapeutics. First, what he designated as the growing tendency to “celibate life,” especially among graduates, male and female, and among the cultivated classes. He described Galton-s scheme of endowing wedlock for the poor but fit, in the interests of the state, deplored the cynical views of wedded life, which he said were too rife, and described various propositions proposed in different lands to remedy the growing evil.

Secondly Dr. Hall discussed declining birth rates, not only in France, butdn every European country as well as in the United States, and pointed out that most of all of the white races in Australia show’ a distinct tendency to the point where deaths and births balance. He also discussed the factor of “deliberate volition” in this respect of race suicide.

"Heredity, the most precious thing on earth,” said Dr. Hall, “is nowr the favorite theme of the modern novel and drama, and posterity seems now demanding of the present generation the right to be born and well born.”

The third evil which the speaker said the doctors should combat is the bitter cry of infants for pure, and above all, natural milk Statistics of various countries show that death rates during the first year of life are about fourfold as great among those brought up on proprietary food and upon cows’ milk as among those fed at the breast. The legislation in Europe to compel mothers who can do so to nurse their children was t spoken of, and statistics were cited showing that evny three months added to the period of natural nursing not only increases viability at

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—259—

every stage of life, but makes children taller and heavier in body and brighter in school, less frequently rejected for the army, and morally better.

“Physiological separation from the mother at birth.” Dr. Hall declared, “may well fill us with sad forebodings for the future, for thus the maternal function is abridged and dwarfed.”

The fourth point of the speaker referred to the time when the child passes from the home to the street. In the city, he said, every yard and sunny, grassy open play space tells for life and "health. If the very grave space of needlessly dead city children were to be added to th: play space of the living there would be room enough for breathing, games, and exercises. Unused lots, permission to play on the grass of public parks, baths, opening of school yards, play sheds as lately installed in progressive cities, were described, as well as the advanced systems under which the doctor follows the child into the school with tests for the most common diseases, selects sites for buildings, looks for the ventilation and lighting, and even now is studying with great detail mental economics in the methods of teaching, which prevents strain, overpressure, and fatigue by medical inspection.

—IN THE SEPTEMBER NUMBER of “Mind and Body” we spoke of the sharp practices employed by some coaches, yes, even by some teachers, so as to win by means that come as close to crookedness as the rules, or the umpire, will permit. A clipping from the “Outing Magazine” sent to us bv one of our subscribers was used to illustrate the point. Dr. F. W. Van Lengen, a prominent member of the Syracuse Tumverein, sends us the following note defending Mr. Ten Eyck against the attack made upon his honesty. We are glad to print it.

Dear Sir: In your September number of “Mind and Body,” under the'head of Notes and Comments, I read the criticism “The Ethics of American Rowing”- by Samuel Crothers, Jr., which appeared in the “Outing Magazine” for July. I wish to take exception to Mr. Crother’s article, especially in the statement where he says, that “Coach Ten Eyck a few days before the race reported that his young son, the stroke, was ill; he kept him out of the boat for several rows and then put him in to win the race.” “All of which was an unpardonable ruse to obtain bets.”

I am a practicing physician in Syracuse, N. Y., and while at Poughkeepsie prior to the boat races I was called to attend young Ten Eyck who was suffering from a gastro-intestinal affection, and prescribed for him.

He was ordered by me to remain out of the boat for several rows.

Very respectfully yours,

F. W. Yan Lengen, M. D.

It is an encouraging sign to have lovers of sport of any kind recognize the validity of attacks upon unfair methods. We further hope that Mr. Bolin* s article in this month’s issue will help to bring still more forcibly to the consciousness of all fair minded sportsmen the dishonest methods often employed by some in order that they may win.

Digitized by Google
-2B0-

—ALTHOUGH YACHT-RACING will scarcely come under the type of diversions of most of our readers, the following expert article written for the “New York World” by John R. Spears, author of “The History of Our Navy,” on Sir Thomas Lipton’s challenge, is such a plea for fair play, and takes such a strong stand against technicalities which often obscure the aim of all sport, that we are glad to reproduce it.

The action of the New York Yacht Club in declining to accept the challenge of Sir Thomas Lipton to sail a race for the America’s Cup with a boat not only of the size inferior to those that have recently raced for it, but of a type decidedly slower; ought to have the hearty support of every sportsman in the United States and of the world.

No argument on this assertion is needed by those who are familiar with the whole situation, but for those who have not followed the evolution of yacht designing carefully a statement of the facts is necessary. The America’s Cup is without a peer as a trophy for outdoor sport, because it has always stood as the prize of the swiftest yacht in the world of the large type, and because it has been successfully defended against the attacks of the ablest designers and yachtsmen of the best yachting nation of Europe.

For years the British yachtsmen came after the cup with yachts of their favorite designs, entirely confident on each occasion that their models were superior to those of the American designers. The older yachtsmen remember well the confidence with which the British declared that the blade models, like the Genesta and Galatea, the cutter yachts, would drive the Yankee skimming-dish off the sea. They failed to do so, and then the British began adopting first one and then another of the features of American yachts.

This too failed.

Having failed to build a yacht that could take the cup, the British yachtsmen began to talk about the American defenders being monstrosities. It will be remembered that this talk did not begin until the da} of the Defender. The Defender was, in fact, a very good cutter. With her we beat them on their own model in these races.

But the Columbia was a racing machine; the Constitution was a worse one; the Reliance was the worst of all. Incessantly from the day that Shamrock I. was defeated we have heard the changes rung on the wholesome ship idea. What was wanted was a ship that could do cruising. The talk from beginning to end has been a sham, and a contemptible sham at that.

Sir Thomas has had rhany friends in this country help him talk about the wholesome model. This talk was so insistent that all clubs have given wav to it more or less. But I repeat that the talk was not sincere; for when a new rule of measurement was provided, that was to develop the more wholesome model, they left in it the only features of the old rule that should make a yacht unwholesome—and by that is meant dangerous and difficult to handle.

Sir Thomas pretends to think that if he were to build a yacht under

Digitized by CjOOQle
—261—

the new rule it would be safer in crossing the ocean than one like his last Shamrock, but he knows, and every other yachtsman of intelligence knows, that it is not so. His designer would build a challenger under it with the thinnest possible frame just as was done in each of the other Shamrocks. He would spread every possible yard of canvas above the deck.

To assert as is now being asserted over and again, that such a thinframed and heavily-loaded yacht would be safer simply because it wrould not be quite as wide as one under the old rule is to insult the intelligence of every yachtsman.

A 68-rater under the new rule would be in more danger while crossing the sea than either of the preceding Shamrocks.

The fact is that the big yachts built under the old rule w^ere the strongest yachts ever set afloat. I saw one of the Shamrocks in a wrind squall that traveled at more than sixty miles an hour—more than a mile a minute—as the weather observer at Sandy Hook measured the speed.

It laid the yacht over until the mast wras at an angle of perhaps thirty degrees with the horizon; but she never parted a rope yarn.

To refuse to race for the cup under the new rule is to rebuke the blab with which the yachtsmen have been afflicted since the Columbia first defended the cup.. Further than that, refusing to accept the challenge for a race with 68-raters is to maintain the dignity of the old trophy. What it stands for is supremacy in big yachts.

If a race with 68-raters w ere made and the cup saved the* challenger would come the next time with a sonder-class skiff.

It is the trophy of the swiftest possible kind of yachts, and it is not the trophy of floating bed-rooms. Time was when British yachtsmen gloried in races in which there was some danger. A race in which someone did not lose a topmast or a gaff was counted tame.

It is humiliating to note now the chatter about the danger involved in swinging 16,000 feet of canvas above the sloop's deck. The word "yacht” means a chase. It is an insult to the memory of our Viking ancestors to talk of an international race for yachts that are to be de , liberately made slower than the fastest. It is enough to make a man hang his head in shame to note that our new rule fifty-seven footers are really longer than the old rule sixty-eight-footers, and yet they are slower boat for boat.

The new rule longer boat is made to win out against the old rule boat by means of mathematical calculations.

Who owns the swiftest ninety-foot sloop in the world? To him belongs the cup, without any chicanery of rule 6r mathematical calculation whatsoever.

Or, if you prefer a schooner rig, build 115 feet long and then come and try. Is a schooner 115 feet long such a monstrosity?

Let no one suppose that the American designers are afraid that they would lose the cup through races in the class and under the rule that Sir Thomas favored. We have already had races between still smaller boats

Digitized by CjOOQle
-262-

built under that rule by the leading designers of the world. Have the readers forgotten the last races for the Canada Cup? In those races the * Canada yacht was designed by Fife, who is to build for Sir Thomas, while the American boat was designed by Captain Nat Herreshoff! and the American boat won out, blow high and blow low; and it won in spite of the fact that Fife was brought over to coach the Canadian crew.

In what I have said I do not mean to be offensive to Sir Thomas. He has good sporting blood—blood that is as good as his advisers are bad Sir Thomas wants a fair race on the best terms possible. The others want to get hold of the cup by hook or by crook. They have waged a long war of words and they succeeded in throwing so much dust into American eyes that a rule was adopted to discourage the building of swift boats. But they have not yet succeeded in making the America’s Cup the trophy of a class, of houseboats.

—SIR JOHN W. BYERS, one of the speakers before the International Congress on School Hygiene, which was held recently in London, and president of the section of physical education and training in personal hygiene, urged the importance both of systematic physical exercise and of games, but in referring to the games he uttered a warning against professionalism and quoted approvingly these lines from the editor of “Punch”:

Yet in a hundred scenes, all much the same,

I know that weekly half a million men (Who never actually played the game),

Hustling like cattle herded in a pen,

Look on and shout,

While two and twenty hirelings hack a ball about.

Considered as a contemptuous reflection upon fans and rooters, we do not think much of these lines because a good game is worth seeing as . well as playing, and this is true of college, school and professional games.

\ But now that we are at the opening of another school and college year it is pertinent to remark that games reduced down to two and twenty, whether they are hirelings or not, are of very little value. The millions of girls as well as boys should all particitate in games out of doors and thus derive a direct benefit from them. They should go in for some exercise besides mere howling, and when they are present at intercollegiate or class contests they should be as different as possible from the touts and bookmakers and queer crowds that have given such a sport as horse racing an evil name the country over.

The college or school game may have a value as healthy play, may be an important factor in physical training, may help to develop strong qualities of mind and character, but only if it is entered into in the right spirit and is not absolutely centralized in an eleven, a nine or an eight, to the exclusion of the many and the excessive training of the few. This reminds us, moreover, that for one and all there is need of Dr. Byers’ warning:	“While	urging the importance of physical education let me

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-263-

say that it must not be overdone either in the case of boys or girls; rather it must be regarded simply as a necessary and useful adjunct to the cultivation of the mind.”

THE DEUTSCHE TURNERSCHAFT.

The Gymnastic Union of Germany, undoubtedly the largest body of organized gymnasts in the world, has just published the results of the statistics taken in January 1907. The Union is composed of 7,787 societies, having 808,525 members, this being 249 societies and 36,391 members more than the preceding year. The average attendance was 260,062 against 255,068 during the year before. The number has risen from 123,448 to 131,057. Although gymnastics is an integral part of the curriculum of all schools in Germany the special gymnastic classes conducted by 841 societies were attended by 47,408 boys and 20,275 girls, showing that the compulsory two and even three hours of school gymnastics per we^k do not satisfy the demands of youth. (This may quiet the fears of those members of some “Turnvereine” who imagine that the introduction of physical training jnto our schools, with probably only from 50 to 75 minutes per week, will harm their schools. The German experience coincides with that in American cities, i. e. that the introduction of physical training into the public schools, under competent teachers, increases the attendance in gymnastic schools.—Ed.).

The number of the class leaders rose from 38,379 to 39,500. The greatest gain (as also here in the United State) is to be found in the number of women participating in gymnastics. 1093 societies have women’s classes. These are attended by 39,765 pupils under the leadership of 2,091 women leaders, showing an increase of 4,659 members over last year. It has taken a long time for the conservative German to take kindly to the idea of women’s gymnasiums, but the yearly increase now is nearly five times as great as that of the men’s classes.

In connection with these statistics we want to call attention to the next festival of the German Union which will be held in Frankfurt on the Main next July. Mr. Peter Scherer, the First Secretary of the N. A. G. U., in a statement in this peek’s “Turnzeitung” announces that enough members of the X. A. G. U. have signified their intention of going to Frankfurt next year to insure the chartering of a special steamer at reduced rates. Those of our readers who contemplate going are advised to write to Mr. Peter Scherer, Box 248, Indianapolis, Ind.

—IT IS SELDOM that modern sports enthuse our poets, but here is a poem relating to one of our everyday games. It has such a goocl swing, and recalls so many scenes dear to one’s boyhood, that we believe our readers will be glad to have it.

PITCHING QUOITS.

Ever pitch quoits with a horseshoe over a hickory pin?

Ever capture a ringer and count up the score with a grin?

Digitized by LjOOQle
—264—

Ever pitch quoits in the country under the boughs of a tree.

With lads of the old-time revel in lands of the used-to-be?

Ever pitch quoits with a horseshoe? Think of it! Wasn't it fun?

In days of the dews of glory where shadows of childhood run!

A fine old quoit is a horseshoe! Hurrah for the hickory peg!

Look out! I'm the wildest thrower, and likely to hit your leg!

Oh, I swing the quoit with a gesture that threatens to win the game. And I’m going to throw a ringer as certain as wood makes flame!

Ever pitch quoits with a horseshoe out by the blacksmith shop.

In the days that are dead forever, the dreams that can never, stop?

The courthouse yard or the alley beside the engine shed,

The schoolhouse lane in the summer, the streets where the maples spread—

Ever pitch quoits with a horseshoe back in the olden days Where shapes of the dear old shadows dance down through the dreamy maze?

Ah, toss me another ringer, as we add.to the growing score,

Partners there in the happy game of the comrade days of yore!

Hurrah for the rusted horseshoe! Hurrah for the hickory pin!

Hurrah for the pitchers pitching in the ring and revel and din!

With a thud on the dust they’re falling,the quoits that the shadows throw, From the dust of the dead lips calling, the songs of the old days flow; From courthouse yard and the alley behind the engine shed The horseshoes fly to the pivots from the hands of the dreamless dead!

—Baltimore News.

ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE PHYSICAL DIRECTORS’ SOCIETY OF THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS OF NORTH AMERICA,

NOVEMBER 20-21, WASHINGTON, D. C.

Theme: The Sociologic Aspects of Physical Training.

Place of Meeting: Young Men's Christian Association Building.

MORNING SESSION.

9:00 Informal Reception.

9:30 Address—John R. Mott, Secretary International Committee. 10:00 President's Address—Geo. J. Fisher, M. D.

10:30 Intermission.

10:45 The Social Significance of Personal and Community Hygiene— Dr. Theodore Hough, Professor of Biology, University of Virginia.

11:15 Discussion.

11:30 Report of Committee on Graded Work.

Digitized by

Google
2:30

3:00

3:15

3:45

4:00

4:30

4:45

5:30

8:00

8:30

8:45

9:15

9:40

9:00

9:15

9:30

9:45

10:00

10:10

10:20

10:45

11:00

2:30

3;00

-265-

AFTERNOON SESSION.

Recent Researches in Dietetics? and Their Practical Application— Elmer E. Berry, B. S.. International Training School, Spring-field, Mass.

Discussion.

Government Inspection of Food Supplies—Dr. Harvey M. Wiley, Chief of the United States Bureau of Chemistry. Discussion.

The Public Health Defense, How the Y. if. C. A. may Co-operate With It—Champe S. Andrews, Secretary the Public Health Defense League, New York.

Discussion.

Report of Committee on Anthropometry.

Adjournment.	x

EVENING SESSION.

The Significance of Public Playgrounds and How the Association may Assist in Their Promotion—Henry S. Curtis, M. D., Secretary Playground Association of America.

Discussion led by C. R. H. Jackson, Physical Director, Scranton, Pa.

Physical Training for Country Children—Myron T. Scudder, Principal, State Normal School, New Paltz, N. Y.

Discussion led by F. M. Hill, State Secretary for County Work, New York.—F. B. Barnes, Secretary Physical Work, International Committee.

Report of Committee on Extension Work.

&ljur«ban.

MORNING SESSION.—BUSINESS SESSION. Inspirational Address.

Secretary's Report—William E. Day, Dayton, O.

Report of Committee on Publication.

Report of Committee on Nomenclature.

Report of Committee on Gymnasium Uniforms.

Report of Finance Committee.

Report of Committee on Research.

Report of Committee on Social Hygiene.

Unfinished Business.

New Business and Election of Officers.

AFTERNOON SESSION.

A Suggested Method for the Administration of the Physical Department—G. B. Affleck, Physical Director Chicago Central Association.

Discussion led by Walter \U Wood, Manager Association Activities, Y. M. C. A.. Chicago. 111.—Fred. C. Green, General Secretary, Y. M. C. A., Toledo, O.

Digitized by

Google
-260-

3:30 Report of Committee on Athletics.

4:00 Life Problem Courses—George M. Martin, Y. M. C. A., Toledo, Ohio.

4:30 Discussion.

4:45 Report of Committee on Religious Work.

5:15 Report of Committee on Equipment and Construction.

EVENING SESSION.

8:00 The Educational Value of Physical Training—Elmer Elsworth Brown, United States Commissioner of Education.

8:30 Discussion.

8:45 Physical Needs of Industrial Workers and How to Meet Them— Hon. Chas. P. Nod], United States Commissioner of Labor.

9:15 Discussion by Dr. Wm. Burdick.

9:30 Summary of Conference—Dr. Wm. H. Kinnicutt. Cleveland, O.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By J)r. ROBERT N’OHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public School* #

< Continued^

A Class Drill, squad and class work on the apparatus, and ebbing with the game “Captain Ball.'’

As a preliminary a short run of about 2 or 3 minutes, during which i'me hold the arms a given number of counts in the various positions. Gymnastic tactics.

In front formation count off to fours Ranks open order fony.. the r. flanker leading to two steps distance.	\

CALISTHENICS.

1.	Squat rest and place hands behind the head—1! Pos.—2! Raise leg backw. and raise arms forw. upw. (overh.)—3! Pos.—4! As 1,2 —5, 6! As 3, 4! but r. 7, 8!

Arms outw.—raise!

2.	Bend trunk forw. and fold arms backw.—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk backw., move arms upw. and clap hands—3! Pos.—1! Arms— j lower!

In front leaning rest on the floor.

3.	Lo circle r. with both legs to back leaning rest—1! R. about face (to front leaning rest)—2! Repeat 1—3! Repeat 2—4! Repeat 1, but 1/5 <*ircde 1. with both legs, etc.—5! L. about-face! etc.—6! Repeat 5—7! Repeat 6—8! Squat rest—1! Fundamental pos.—2!

4.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Turn trunk to the 1. (arms remain on a level with the shoulders)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alt.—1, 8!

Arms to thrust—bend!

5.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms forw. upw. obi.—1. 4!

Digitized by CjOOQle
-2B7-

b) Lunge backw. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms backw. downw. obi.— 1, 4! Arms—lower!

In place—rest! Or close ranks by marching backw.

Fours *4 wheel 1.—1,4! L. about face in tour stepss!

Repeat three times to starting pos.— 9, .42!

Repeat the marching order to the r.—1, 42!

Class march forw. to the center of the space, fours \\ wheel I. around the center of the rank, then open order outward bv marching forw. (three and one step resp.) and face toward the shorter members.

6.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and place hands on the shoulders—1! Kneel on

1.	knee and throw arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.— 5, 8!

7.	Bendkneestep sidew. 1. (place 1. foot sidew. and bend r. knee) and bend arms to thrust—1, 2! Bend trunk sidew. 1. and thrust arms outw.—-3, 4! Change knee bending (extend r. knee and bend 1.) and bend 1. arm overhead, the r. arm on the back—5, 6! Starting pos.— 7, 8! Same r.—1, 8!

NOTE.— Use the double count for each movement.

In front leaning rest!

8. Bend arms—1! Straighten aims—2! Baise 1. leg sidew.—3! Pos.

-—4! Bend arms—5! Straighten arms—6! Raise r. leg sidew.—7! Pos.—8! Repeat twice. Fundamental pos.—stand! 1, 2!

9.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms ontw.—1! Jump to stride pos. inw. (1. leg crossed in front of r.), move arms upw. and clap hands—2! As 1—2! Pos.—4!

Repeat in lively rhythm and alternate crossing with the 1. and r. leg in front about 1 to 42 counts.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. upw. in four counts: exhale and lower arms outwr. to starting pos. in one count.

Close order to the r. by marching forw., then fours % wheel r. to front formation, lace toward leader and march to assigned places lor the apparatus work.

First Division: Lowr horizontal bar.

Second Division: High parallel bars.

Third and fourth Division's:	Flying	rings.

Remove the apparatus and reform the class for apparatus work.

First Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp.—

1.	Jump up. then drop backw. with feet raised to liar, kip (upstart) and squat rest on the bar, stand erect, then dismount forw.

2.	Start as ex. 1, but squat forw. after the kip, holding both legs forw. at r. angle: drop backwr., squat forw., underswdng and down with y2 turn l.nr r. to front side stand.

3.	Jump up, then drop backw. with feet raised to bar, squat backw. and circle both legs forw. over bar to back rest; drop backw., squat

Digitized by U.ooQLe
-LM’,*-

forw.. feet to bar and kip to momentary free front rest and flank vault forw. 1. and r.

4.	Jump to front rest and front hip circle forw. to free front rest, drop kip (upstart) io front rest and y2 circle 1. with r. leg, then scissors sidew. 1., the r. leg to continue the circle 1. until it has passed over bar on r. side again to join the 1. leg to side seat on the outside of r. hand; feint with both legs and rear vault r.

5.	Jump to momentary free front rest and squat forw., holding both legs at r. angle; 4/4 circle backw. (i. e. drop backw. and back kip (upstart) to former pos.) once or twice; drop backw., squat forw. and immediately spread legs wide and squat backw. on outside of hand^ and swing up forw. on bar (hands between thighs);drop backw., squat forw.. feet to bar. kip to straight arm rest and continue the turn over forw. to hand balance; squat vault forw., dismount to hack sid*-stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Repeat all cxcrci*c> that have not been executed in good form.

Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

In front cross stand with hands resting on end.—

1.	Lower forw. to front leaning hang, slowly pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw., then turn over forw. to r. shoulder balance; dip swing forw. and rear vault r.

2.	Jump up, then drop backw. with feet raised between hands and kip (upstart) to straight arm rest, dip swing forw. and y2 turn 1. (or r.) to straddle mount forw. behind hands; turn over forw. to upper arm balance; turn over sidew. to cross stand.

In back cross stand, hands in reverse grasp on end.—

3.	Turn over backw. to straddle seat behind hands; place hands in back of thighs; lower backw. to upper arms and flex thighs over body, then continue the turn and straighten hips to upper arm balance, lower backw. to upper arm rest, swing forw., lower (backw.) to upper arm rest and flex thighs over body and kip (upstart) to straight arm rest; swing forw., flex thighs over body and kip (upstart) to straight arm rest and high backw. swing: swing forw. and rear vault r. with y2 turn r. to cross stand.

Inside side stand, hands in ordinary grasp on front bar.—

4.	Jump to momentary front rest and squat backw. over hack bar to front leaning rest: straddle vault dismount forw. over back (r.) bar to inside side stand; front hip circle backw. over front bar and 14 turn

1.	or r. to straddle seat over both bars; place hands in front of thighs, then roll over forw. slowly to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body, kip to straight arm rest, swing forw. and rear vault r. with 4/4 turn r. to cross stand.

5.	Run and jump to the center of the bars to upper arm rest and 4/4 turn over backw. on upper anus, again turn over backw. to upper arm
—2 fib-

res t, lower backw. and dip swing forw. and straighten arms, then circle r. with 1. leg (backw. under r. hand) and y*> turn 1. to straddle mount backw. in front of hands; raise r. leg between bars, then swing backw. and rear vault r. over both bars (the 1. hand to be placed on r. bar near the 1. when the r. leg circles backw.).

6.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute class work on two pairs of flying rings.

Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

Formation for the third and fourth divisions.—Form files for 0 or 8 members each for each pair of rings, standing in flank order facing the rings.

Marching order.—The members leave the head of the files to approach the apparatus and return on the 1. or r. side to form in the rear of the same. The files move forw. with each succession.

Hands in outside (usual) grasp.—

1.	Lower backw. to front leaning hang, then circle body r. four or five times.

2.	As ex. 1, to the 1.

Raise the rings to about height of the head or a little higher.—

3.	Pull up to bent arm hang; raise both knees forw.; straighten legs downw.; straighten arms slowly, and down. Repeat once.

4.	Pull up to bent arm hang; raise both knees upw., straighten arms, turn backw. and cross both legs around arms; return in reverse order to starting pos., and down.

5.	Pull up to bent arm hang; release grasp of r. hand and straighten r arm sidew.; regrasp the ring; lower to starting pos., and down. Repeat, but straighten 1. arm sidew.

C>. Jump up to dip rest 1.; down. Repeat twice:

7.	As ex. 6, but with r.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and place the jump standards (one set for every two files if there are not enough for every file) in front of the class.

High Jump.

Start the cross bar at about three feet and raise the same two inches after every trial of the class.

The first and second divisions to join the third and fourth in flank formation.

Preliminary jumps.

1.	Hurdle (springing off of the 1. foot).

2.	Hurdle (springing off of the r. foot).

3.	Spring off of 1. foot and V4 turn 1. in the flight and raise arms sideward r.

4.	As ex. 3, hut opposite.

h. As ex. 3, but VL» turn I- and arms forw. upw.

As ex. 5, but U> turn 1. and raise arms forw. upw.

Digitized by Google
—270 —

7.	Spring off of both feet, raise both knees forw. and arms forw. upw. in the flight.

8.	Spring off of both feet, spread both legs wide (sidew.) and arms outw. upw. (overh.) in tlie flight.

9.	Try for height.

Alter conclusion ol the high jump clear the floor and prepare lor the game “Captain Ball” (see rules of the game). Continue the game for about twenty minutes, clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

EXHIBITION WORK.

Indian Club Exercises for the 8th Grade of the Indianapolis

Public Schools.

(Concluded.)

One count to each movement.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1. a. Three arm. circles outward to starting position 1—4. Extend arms obliquely sideward upward 5. Cross clubs overhead 6. Extend clubs obliquely sideward upward 7. Starting position 8. Repeat 9—16. b. Three arm circles inward to starting position 1—4. Cross clubs overhead 5. Extend obliqueilv sideward upward 6. Cross over head 7. Starting position 8. Repeat 9—16. Exercise 2. a. Three double arm circles to the left to starting position 1—4. Extend both arms obliquely sideward upward left o. Swing left arm behind and right arm in front of body

6.	Oblique position left at 7. Starting position 8. Repeat 9—16. b. Right 9—16.

Exercise 3. Repeat the first exercise, a. and b., with kneebending at 6 and 14.

Exercise 4. Repeat the second exercise with charging sideward left at 5 and 13. Right 1—16.

Rest sixteen counts.

GROUP IT.

Exercise 1. a. Three-fourths arm circle outward and dip clubs in front of body 1—2. Return 3—4. Repeat 5—16. b. Three-fourths arm circle inward and dip clubs in side position 1—2. Return 3—f. Repeat 5—16.

Exercise 2. a. Three-fourths arm circle left and dip clubs in side position righf 1—2. Return 3—4. Repeat 5—16. b. Right 17—32. .

Exercise 3. Repeat the first exercise with trunk bending backward during first sixteen counts and forward the sixteen counts, each time the clubs arc dipped.

Exercise 4. Repeat the second exercise with charging sideward left and

Digitized by CjOOQle
bending trunk sideward left at 1—5—9—13. Right 1—16. Sixteen counts rest.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1. a. Two arm circles outward each time to starting position with two follow steps forward 1—4.

Two arm and hand circles outward back of shoulders >—

8.	Repeat 9—16. b. Two arm cicles inward each time to starting position with two follow steps backward 1—4.

Two arm and hand circles inward back of shoulders 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Exercise 2. a. Two arm circles to the left each time to the starting position with two follow steps sideward left 1—1.

Two arm and hand circles to the left back of shoulders 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Exercise 3. a. Two arm circles outward each time to starting position writh two follow* steps forward 1—4. Arm and hand circle outside of shoulders 5—6. Hand circle forward down and arm circle to starting position 7—8.

Repeat 9—16. b. Same inw*ard and march backward 9—16.

Exercise 4. Two arm circles to the left each time to starting position with two follow* steps sideward left 1—4.

Arm and hand circle to he left back of shoulders 5—6.

Arm and hand circles left forward dow*n and arm circle to starting position 7—8.

Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Rest eight counts.

Grouping eight counts.

Boys:	Stride stand and extend clubs obliquely sidew. upw.

Girls: Kneel on right knee and cross clubs in front of chest.

FIST BALL.

liy DR. D. V. RfcSSKR, Philadelphia, Pa.

The necessary requisites for the game are four lines, dividing the gymnasium floor into three fields, namely: A, B. C. The w*alls may form the ends or sides of the field. The two center lines, marked A, B. are five feet apart and indicate the division lines of the opposing players, while the rear lines C. D, are fifteen feet from the respective center lines.

At one end, between the two center lines, is the umpire's box.

Space B is reserved for the umpire to roll the ball in.

Space A and C are occupied bv the equally divided opposing forces, which are not limited to any particular number.

Digitized by CjOOQle
	{/AfP/R£	
X		\ *
X		
X  X	K fs	" ft ^ ^
s	X V	
5 ^ X	* £	x
*** A.x		. c.
O* x		b  X ..  X X
x X Jr		* * X
/s pee	5 FT	/S FT

To play the game properly an umpire is chosen who occupies the

hox.

He supervises the game, starts the ball, keeps the score and decides fouls.

Each side choses its own captain. The duty of the captains is to place their men judiciously at the front and rear lines and scatter the other players between the two lines in order to prevent the players on the opposite side from scoring a point, by batting the ball beyond the rear line C or D of the opposing side.

The umpire starts the game by forcibly rolling or bouncing the ball from his box in space B

The players being lined close to the space B try to get possession of the ball. They are not allowed to enter the space B, but are privileged, however, to step into it with one foot. The successful side punches the hall along the floor, trying to force it beyond the opponent’s rear line or against the wall, known as goal. The opposing players, bv moving about freely, not only try to prevent this by closely guarding their lines and rot permittimr the hall to pass, but they repel the attack by quickly punching the hall towards their opponent’s goal. Should the ball reach the goal, the players on the side forcing the ball over score a point.

After a point is scored the ball is returned to the umpire, the players change spaces, and the game starts anew.

A regular basket hall is used in this game. Ladies and girls may use a lighter volley ball.

The ball must always he punched. Tt may he stopped in any manner. Kicking and throwing the ball constitute fouls. Punching the ball higher than the shoulder is also a foul. In such cases the ball is givem to the opposite side.

Play for 10 to 15 minutes.

Digitized by CaOOQle