HIND AND BODY

Yol. 19.	JUNE,	1912.	No.	210

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, {Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

■dttorial communications are to Jt>e sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa . AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wi*.

CORRECTION OF LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE.

(A REVIEW OF DR. E. G. ABBOTT'S METHOD.)

By D. M. FEED. KROGH, M. D.

It was generally conceded up until the present day that rotary lateral curvature of the spine was an incurable deformity, when the case under consideration was a fixed curvature. Treatment of such cases was confined to the wearing of braces or plaster of Paris jackets, and exercises were prescribed to prevent an increase in the deformity. It was also admitted that a case of spinal curvature in a patient of 13 years of age and over, meant a life-long cripple. Yet, orthopedists were optimistic and hoped that there must be some way of restoring the spine to its normal position and to secure normal function.

It has been left to the untiring efforts of Dr, E. G. Abbott of Portland, Me. to find out the mechanical appliances necessary, and to give to the afflicted patient and to the profession a method that is so remarkable and interesting, that it will supplant everything done heretofore in correcting fixed spinal curvature. His method revolutionizes the underlying principle of mechanical treatment of fixed scoliosis.

Dr. Abbott reports a series of eighteen cases in the New York Medical Journal of April 27th vol. XCV, No. 17, one of which is especially remarkable, as the patient was 34 years of age and had a right dorsal rotary-lateral curvature for over 22 years. To get such, a marked deformity, as is shown by the illustrations in the Journal, into a normal position with normal function would be unbelievable were it not for the facts presented.

Dr. Abbott reported his method to the medical profession in June-last, but no one credited the possibilities he reported. Since then he has labored incessantly, and now, no less an authority than Dr. Dexter

D.	Ashley of New York, in an article appearing in the above mentioned! issue of the New York Medical Journal says:	"Abbott's	paper, ip‘

the New York Medical Journal for June 24th 1911, was not credited! by a single man in orthopedic surgery, so far as my knowledge goes. • Although I was a personal friend of his thirteen years ago, I believed the man was mistaken. John Ridlon, of Chicago, criticized Abbott's

Digitized by
—146-

statement in his usual pointed manner, went to Portland, saw, and conceded his error. I saw the work in September and was convinced beyond a doubt, seeing thirteen patients. I am impressed more and more each day with the careful, painstaking work that has been necessary to perfect this technique, and the importance of the operator being an active worker in spinal gymnastics and plaster cf Palis work. Abbott's work will brand as inefficient and harmful many mechanical appliances, braces, and exercises, now in use.”

The principle underlying Abbott’s method is to overcorrect the deformity, as the orthopedist does in correcting club-foot, by a plaster 01 Paris bandage and braces.

“Lovett taught that deformity occurs in flexion, as in this position the spine is more mobile. Abbott’s conception is based upon the theory of a rotating forward of the.concave side, and that in correction the bodies must move to the concave side and backward; as the deformity was produced by the flexion and side bending toward the convex side, in the same position of the flexion and side bending to the other side.”

Dr. Abbott suspends a hammock on an iron-pipe-frame, on which he places the patient, after bandages have been applied. He raises the low shoulder by means of a bandage under the axilla of the left shoulder, (if the the curve is to the right) and fastens this bandage upward and backward on the iron frame. Another bandage is drawn around the hips, from the left side, and fastened on the frame on the lower right side. Thus the upper part of the spine is drawn back, to the right and upward, and the lower part is forced downward and to the right. A third bandage is now applied from over the lower ribs of the right side and fastened to the frame on the left to draw the convex right side of the spine over to the left. The plaster of Paris jacket is now applied, after the bony prominences have been protected by pads. Openings are made in the plaster corsets in the back on the concave side of the curvature, and in front on both sides, so that felt pads may be inserted over the ribs to produce pressure to secure rotation of the vertebrae.

“Abbott’s work is based upon the theory that the concave side has swung forward in a circle to the right in a spine with a right dorsal, left lumbar deformity,” says Dr. Ashley, “the bodies of the vertebrae pointing to the right side, into the convexity. All previous efforts have been founded upon the idea that there, was rotation backward of the convex side, and heretofore, in our endeavors forcibly to correct the spine, we have been making pressure upon the prominent angle of the ribs.”

To cite from Dr. Abbott’s report of cases the following is an illustration of his procedure and result:	“In	all	patients	who	have

been put under treatment the curve was a fixed one, and in those cases presented the spines could not be straightened by muscular effort any further than is. shown in the cuts representing the original deformities. Many of the patients had been under treatment for years (corsets, braces, and exercises) with very little, if any improvement.—

Case of Girl; aged twenty-three years. Deformity first noticed

Digitized by CnOOQle
-147-

thirteen years ago. Was placed under treatment for a time soon after the deformity was discovered. Five years later more corrective plaster of Paris corsets for three years, but deformity continued to develop. During the following few years took corrective exercises with some improvement in general health. For a period of two years following this, again more plaster of Paris corsets with a corrective force of seventy-five or eighty pounds pressure. Improvement slight, if any. Two years previous to entering the hospital, very little in the way of . treatment was done. At the time of admittance was suffering from stomach trouble, which had been severe during the last year. General condition not good. No evidence of disease, except an enormously dilated stomach.

Examination showed a marked, fixed, lateral curvature of the spine with extreme rotation and posterior bulging of the ribs.— A plaster corset was immediately applied, and no more inconvenience or suffering was experienced than usually follows the application of any ordinary corset. Felt pads were inserted both anteriorly and laterally, from time to time, and complete overcorrection was obtained in three weeks. The corset was worn for six weeks longer in order thoroughly to stretch the parts. When it was removed at the end of the ninth week, a left lateral curvature was formed which was even as marked in its deformity as the original right curve. An x ray picture was not taken at this time, but was taken about ten days later, after exercises had begun. This radiogram does not show the extreme overcorrection, but does show the vertebrae rotated considerably beyond the normal position. Exercises and massage were given, and the patient improved rapidly. A light brace was worn all the time, except when the patient was under treatment, and at the end of twelve ^eeks after removal of the corset she was practically in a normal position. An x ray picture taken four months after removal of corset shows vertebrae in a perfectly normal position. The patient has gained over twenty pounds in weight, and her general condition is much improved. Six months after the corset was removed it was possible for her to bend forward and touch the floor with her hands, and. lateral motion was normal.”

“The average length of time taken to produce complete over-correction was three weeks. In some cases ten days was sufficient, while in others it was necessary to continue the insertion of felt for six weeks. The amount of overcorrection is easy of determination, but the length of time for the following fixation is more difficult to estimate. In most of the cases mentioned the average was two months. In some instances, however, the period of fixation was too long, making it hard to bring the spine back to the normal position under exercises. This was especially true in some of the easier cases.

In reviewing not only these cases, but also a number of others, it has often been not easy to determine before beginning the treatment what kind of a case would prove the more difficult to straighten. Some of the very worst deformities yielded far more readily than the lighter ones. There are three factors to be taken into consideration:	The

age of the patient, and the length of time since the beginning of the
-148-

deformity; the size and sfyipe of the body'; and the amount of flexion, which can be made. On the other hand, it is frequently easier in the case of an adult patient to correct a deformity of some years5 standing than it is to accomplish the same result in a thick set child where the curvature is of recent development. The general condition of the patients after the deformity has been straightened, has been of much, interest. Invariably the health has improved, and many have gained as much as thirty pounds in weight. One of the most striking results, especially in adults, is the increase in height; in: some of the severe cases this has amounted to fully three inches. The gait also improves. What seems, however, to be of far more importance than, all else is the change in their mental attitude. Life seems to present a very different aspect to them, showing indubitably that a deformed body does have a pronounced effect upon the mind.55

Dr. Ashley, in concluding his essay says:

“Very few realize the complete plant and earnest corps of workers which the State of Maine has furnished in support of Abbott5s general work. As he turned over ream after ream of x ray prints of patients treated, I was impressed with the completeness of his work, and as I now view his experience, I consider his discovery to be one of the greatest advances in orthopedic surgery in ten years, and another great triumph for the x ray and American medicine.55

There can be no doubt that Dr. Abbott’s achivement is the great-est in orthopedics since Dr. Lorentz of Vienna, demonstrated the bloodless method of reducing congenital dislocation of the hip more than 10 years ago.

In conclusion it must be said that ordinary postural curvature will in the future be treated mainly by exercises as heretofore, but fixed lateral curvature will be treated by the Abbott method with the improvements this may undergo in the future.

HOW FAST DO BOYS AND GIRLS IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS RUN V

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Director Physical Education, Philadelphia Public Schools.

For a number of years we have been trying to secure for the pupils in the Elementary Schools of Philadelphia class-aims in many forms of gymnastics, i. e. standards which every normal boy and girl of a given age should be able to accomplish. Eecently the question of running was taken up.

While there is much information regarding the time it takes special trained athletes to run any distance, from 20 yards to a Marathon, the information at hand to guide one in the selection of sane^ class-aims in track and field events is exceedingly meager. To be sure,..

* Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association Montreal, Canada, February 1912.
-149-

during the last few years we have secured the records of large numbers of competitors at public school field-days, but even these do not .give one the figures of whole classes. They give mainly the figures of selected pupils, of the best performers in the selected classes.

The records secured in the so-called class-athletics used in some school systems, while of great interest in showing the averages attained by certain school grades, do not give the performances of age-groups. Class-aims in track and field events in Elementary Schools should, however, be based upon, age, and not upon grade; i. e., mental ability.

In order, therefore, to get definite figures in running, it was decided to secure the actual running-time and age of at least 5000 boys and 5000 girls in the 3. 4. 5. 6. 7 and 8 school grades. The schools selected were situated in different parts of the city. The distance 'run was 50 yards, as the opportunities for running greater distances are extremely rare for the majority of boys and girls in city schools. Tne children did not know of the test until they were inarched out of the room. Every pupil in the room was tested, anu ran in his (or her) regular school clothes. The time of each runner was taken separately. The running was done partly on cement in the school-yards, partly on macadam, brick or asphalt on the streets adjoining the schools.

The data thu& secured was then separated into age-groups (irrespective of mental grades.) Then the performance of each group was posted under seconds and fifths.

TABLE NO. 1.

Showing the age and time of 5395 Boys.

Age—Years.		9	10	11	12	13	14	16	Total
Number tested.		523	787	1003	1079	1105	703	195	5395
Time 11 sec.				.1				......	1
10 4-5	sec.	3	2		/.....				5
10 3-5	“	1	1	1	.....	1		1	5
10 2-5	a	‘ 7	5			1			13
10 1-5	tt	3	2	4					99
10	tt	14	15	6	3	1		2	41
9 4-5	tt	23	13	10	6	3		1	56
9.3-5	tt	35	22	23	10	6	1		97
9 2-5	tt	47	36	23	17	11	2	. ,,,,	136
9 1-5	ft	58	59	53	30	19	11		230
9	tt	104	112	64	36	25	11	1	353
8 4-5	tt	64	99	114	78	44	20	5	424
8 3-5	tt	43	104	119	91	80	34	5	476
8 2-5	tt	60	115	178	162	134	59	5	713
8 1-5	tt	26	94	168	182	168	69	8	715
8	tt	30	72	105	168	156	83	16	630
7 4-5	tt	5	28	90	145	194	115	26	603
7 3-5	tt		6	27	71	106	86	28	324
7 2-5	tt		2	12	51	75	71	23	234
7 1-5	tt			4	25	60	59	33	181
7	tt			1	3	13	55	16	88
6 4-5	tt				1	6	18	16	41
6 3-5	tt					2	3	1	6
6 2-5	a							4	5	9
6 1-5	tt						1	3	4
6	it						1		1

Digitized by CaOOQle
-150-

TABLE NO. 2.

Showing the age and time of 5295 Girls.

• Age—Years.		9	10	11	12	13	14	15	Total
Number tested.		630	830	1002	1006	1006	612	209	5295
Time 11 4-5 sec.		1	1				1		3
11 3-5	sec.		1	1	1	1			4
11 2-5	It	1	2			1			4
11 1-5	It	3	3	1		4	1		12
11	n	5	9	*2		1	1		18
10 4-5	it	5	8	7	8	6			34
10 3-5	it	20	16	5	9	3	1	1	55
10 2-5	it	35	24	16	8	10	7	3	103
10 1-5	“	26	14	13	5	10	6	1	75
10	tt	82	54	65	23	24	20	4	272
9 4-5	ti	64	44	32	37	22	12	6	217
9 3-5	tt	48	60	52	31	30	33	6	260
9 2-5	ti	71	74	65	62	50	38	11	371
9 1-5	tt	61	89	98	63	61	24	8	404
9	ti	86	142	135	118	100	62	13	656
8 4-5	it	41	85	109	109	113	52	16	525
8 3-5	tt	31	69	94	92	116	52	23	47T
8 2-5	ti	30	51	131	166	123	73	24	598
8 1-5	tt	11	36	76	87	104	57	24	395
8	tt	7	31	62	108	108	77	27	420
7 4-5	«	2	15	31	45	79	51	19	242
7 3-5	tt		1.	4	18	27	18	11	79
7 2-5	it			3	13	9	14	7	46
7 1-5	tt		1		2	3	8	3	17
7'	ti				1			2	3
6 4-5	»<					1	4		5

It next became necessary to decide upon which basis the aim for each age-group was to be selected. Another re-grouping was therefore decided upon. This new grouping, in curves, was to show the performance of 75 per cent., 66 2-3 per cent., 50 per cent., 33 1-3 per cent., and 25 per cent, of all participants, boys and girls to be charted separately.

The fractions of seconds were changed to tenths, and the time consumed for each group was plotted into curves. The first curve shows what 75 per cent, of the children accomplished, the second curve shows the 66 2-3 per cent, group, the middle line shows the 50 per cent, group, then comes the 33 1-3 per cent, group, and,'at the bottom, we have the curve of the fastest runners, i. e. the 25 per cent, group. Each group, therefore, represents the actual accomplishment of 50 yards in the stated time. These are not the averages. The 50 per cent, group thus represents one-half of all the pupils tested in every age (9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14 and 15 years.) Fifty per cent, of the pupils ran in the time indicated, or in less time.

In deciding upon the aim or time to be demanded of each age it was at first thought that the performance of the two-thirds group should be adopted. After some discussion, in which attention was called co the fact that these standards were attained without any training, the fifty per cent, standards were provisionally adopted for our schools €is indicating the time in which boys and girls of our city should be able to run fifty yardB.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-151-

In comparing the curves of the boys it is interesting to note that, excepting the group of the best runners, the lines run nearly parallel from the ninth to the fifteenth year. For the greater part of the boys there seems to be a slight slowing-up at about the 10th or 11th year. The most erractic curve is that of the best runners. With these the greatest slowing-up appears to be between the 12th and 13th year. It ie our intention to continue this study into the high school groups.

Comparing the curves of the girls we see at the beginning; i. e., from the ninth to the twelfth year, a progression nearly as rapid as that which characterizes the boys* curves, although it took the girls longer to run the 50 yards. After this the slowing-up (exhibited by the boys) develops into a standstill or a retrogression with the girls. During two years, from twelve to fourteen, the fifty per cent, class stands still for a year, and then advances one-tenth of a second. The sixty-six and two-thirds per cent, class advances nearly one-tenth second during the year of twelve to thirteen, but it recedes to nearly its twelve-year standard during the year of thirteen to fourteen.

The seventy-five per cent, curve is practically like that of the fifty per cent.

When we come to the better runners it appears that their slowing-up time comes :a little later, due undoubtedly to a later development into puberty.

Dr. F. A. Schmidt in his “Physiology of Exercise** in speaking of the kind of exercises each school-grade needs, divides the pupils in the Elementary schools into three periods, the first period being from six to nine years, the second from nine to twelve years and the third from twelve to fifteen years. Using this division for the present test, our figures seem to show, so far as running 50 yards is concerned, First: that there is a rapid, even, increase in quickness for both boys and girls during the second period, i. e. from nine to twelve years. Second: that at the beginning of the third period there is a slight slowing-up so far as the boys are concerned, and practically a standstill for girls. Third: that for boys at the end of this period there is again a steady increase in . * quickness, although not so great as during the second period, while for girls the increase appears to be not so decided. With girls, also, it is our intention to elaborate this study, and to continue it into the high school group.

—Open Air Classrooms in Boston.—Protests against the plan of ^open-air** classrooms tried in the Boston schools this past winter have numbered but two or three and came from only two schools, although the plan was given a trial in many of the larger schools.

The classrooms were all located on the south side of the buildings and the windows were kept open all the time. The heating arrangements kept .the temperature abdut at 64 degrees. In extreme cold weather it was necessary to close the windows at intervals to get the room warm. The' “open-air** rooms were for all of the pupils in the rooms selected for the experiment. The results were uniformly gratifying.—“Journal of the outdoor Life.**

Digitized by L^ooQle
BOYS

Digitized by ^ooQle
Digitized by v^,ooQle
-154-

FIXATION OF THE PELVIS WITHOUT APPARATUS.

By WILLIAM SCHATZ, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa.

It is interesting to note the prevalence of the idea that some exceptional form of apparatus or harness must be used in the employment of corrective exercises; usually the more unwieldy or higher priced such apparatus is the better it is supposed to fill the requirements. It is often amusing, and, sometimes, even pitiful to see what inconvenience and expense some people will go to for the sake of employing some unwieldy or ’ elaborate apparatus, as though it were impossible to accomplish anything without it. Note illustration (1),

No. 1. If the right heel is placed on a table or chair and the body then-bent forward, the hamstrings of the right side will be stretched forcibly. This is-only one of the many ways in which this can be accomplished without the use of special apparatus.

for a simple method of stretching the hamstrings, then compare this method with that used by a certain physician who was at a loss to know how these muscles could be stretched. He devised an apparatus as follows: a pulley attached to the ceiling of the patient’s bedroom, a rope passing through the pulley, one end of the rope attached to a strap around the patient's ankle, the other end in fyands of tha-

Digitized 6y Google
- -155-

patient's brother; the brother pulled on the rope while the patient held himself on the bed so as to maintain his balance while his one leg was being raised skyward. This shows how far the idea of using special apparatus is often carried. Of course, there are many cases in which an apparatus must be employed but something should be provided which is inexpensive, which is easy of application and which is not likely to suggest the pillory or some instrument of torture carried over from the days of the Inquisition.

In certain exercises for the correction of curvature of the spine fixation of the pelvis is necessary, for if this is not done the exercise instead of being localized becomes a geneial one. The writer will endeavor to show how fixation of the pelvis can be accomplished successfully without apparatus.

In sideward bending exercises, without fixing apparatus, if the heels are kept together, the pelvis as a whole will move toward the side opposite to the one toward which the bending takes place. This movement of the pelvis can be avoided if the performer takes a large side-stride stand. In this position the femurs act as braces and the adductors, which are extended, act as guys; these two factors work effectively in fixing the pelvis. Note illustration (2) (made from a photograph in which two exposures were made on the same plate; a white mark was placed over the performers right and left anterior superior spine of the ilium before the sideward bending took place, then an exposure was made after which the marks were erased and

Digitized by
-156-

the sideward bending was executed; after this the marks were \again placed over the spines (this second marking was done to avoid any error from the slipping of the clothing,) a] id a second exposure made. The composite photograph shows that the pelvis did not move from side to side, that the right spine remained perfectly fixed, and that the left spine moved downward about an inch. No apparatus can hold the pelvis in position better.

In forward bending exercises without apparatus the pelvis will move backward if the heels are kept together; this motion can be avoided if the performer takes a large cross-stride stand. The position of the femurs makes them act as braces against any motion, either forward or backward, of the pelvis as a whole and the hamstrings of the front leg being considerably extended oppose flexion in the hip joint So that the forward bending motion occurs almost entirely in the spinal column. Note illustration (3), another composite photograph, shows that the pelvis as a whole has been moved backward very little, and, according to the position of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, marked by the white cross, that there has been no flexion in the hip joint.

Digitized by Google
-157-

The forward bending in this exercise involves mainly eccentric action of the erector spinae group in opposition to gravity; in the for--ward bending shown in illustration (1) the movement is produced mainly by the (concentric) action of the flexors of the hip joint aided by gravity; it is opposed by the forced extension of the hamstrings of the right side.

It is sometimes taught that the motion of forward bending takes place only in the hip joint if the pelvis is fixed by the apparatus, but observation of the anterior superior spine of the ilium at the beginning and during the course of the exercise will show that very little motion does occur in the hip joint until the body is lowered almost to a right angle to the femurs.

Standing with the heels together, if the body is twisted to the right the pelvis will rotate toward the right so that the movement becomes a general one, including the lower limbs. The pelvis can he fixed if the performer takes a right cross-stride stand. In this position the right femur and the structures which bind it to the pelvis allow no motion backward of the right side of the pelvis and the left femur and the structures which bind it to the pelvis allow no motion forward on the left side. Any rotation to the right also brings the thighs in contact with each other in such a manner as to make them act as braces against any further rotation. Note illustration (4), the mark over the anterior superior spine of the ilium show's that no rotation of the pelvis has taken place. If, however, the rotation is done to the left when the right foot is advanced there will be rotation of the pelvis. Usually no apparatus is provided for fixation of the pelvis

Digitized by
-158-

in rotating exercises. This is probably due to the difficulty of constructing a satisfactory apparatus for the purpose mentioned.

Observe some of the machines and harnesses employed in certain places for the treatment of curvatures of the spine and there will be little need for explanation as to why children and even grown-ups have a terror for such places; children especially are terrified on being strapped into frames or machines. Therefore, any method in which little or no apparatus is employed but which is otherwise satisfactory must necessarily be more desirable than one in which apparatus is employed.

The advantage of doing the exercises without apparatus must be evident when it is considered that no possible expense is attached to tfye procedure, that there is no limited capacity on account of a limited number of appliances being at hand, that there can be no aversion to being strapped into machine or harness because there is none used, and that the exercises can be employed at any place and at any time.

CAMPING.*

Suggestions of what a circular on camps should contain.

CAMP LIFE.

Camping out is the thing, after all—the camp, the tent, a bit of shelter in some delightful, unfrequented spot, a place for pleasure, freedom and firm friendship. Naturally we are all tent-dwellers, from the oldest to the youngest.

A time comes to all, when an intense longing takes hold of us to be free from school and work ; to get away and revel in the good things which nature so bountifully offers. Take the tonic which has been stored for you in the winds, the sky, the sunshine, the smell of the earth, the oder of the forests, the free pure out-of-doors. It is all yours, girls and boys, if you will but join a camping .party.

TENTS AND CAMP LIFE.

The regulation U. S. Army* (9)£xl4 ft.) khaki tents, such as are used at West Point, have been selected. Each of these tents, will be placed upon a board floor and furnished with cots, camp chairs and all the larger camp equipment. Four campers will occupy one tent. Each camp has been located so that an abundance of fine spring water is available, and the sanitary conditions have been made perfect by excellent natural drainage.

i Boating, swimming, river sports, tennis, baseball, basketball, quoits, etc., will be included in the daily program. The days will be varied by long walks over the hills, excursions to particular points of interest, picnics at intervals, and in the evenings a glorious camp fire enlivened by stories and songs Campers possessing musical talent will gladly contribute toward the pleasure of all. In addition to-the recreations named above, the councilors will be continually devising other and varied forms of pleasure. -

* This outline of a circular in camping has been prepared at the request of a number of subscribers. It is an abridged copy ot the circular issued by the Playgrounds Association ot Philadelphia.

Digitized by Google
-159-

Sunday will be a quiet day in camp ; reading, letter writing, a stroll through the woods, and, in the evening, a song service around the camp fire will constitute the usual activities. By a wise mingling of freedom and restraint a sane and self-reliant womanliness and manliness will be cultivated. (The Philadelphia Playground* Association maintains two camps, one for boys and one for girls.)

CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.

Boys and girls, who range in age from twelve to eighteen years are eligible for membership. Only children of good physical condition and of good moral character will be received. Sickly children endanger the health of the camp and must be refused membership. The right to dismiss girls and boys from the camp is reserved by the directors, should the welfare of the camp demand it. The health, morality and safety of every child will be most carefully safeguarded.

THE EXPENSE.

The fee is six.(6) dollars per week (which amount covers all necessary expense while in camp, including the use of boats, athletic material and swimming lessons). In addition to the fee a sum of $2.50 will be charged to cover cost of transportation. One day of service each week shall be required of each camper. This service will consist of such work as shall be assigned by the camp director. No one will be registered for less than one week, and that week must begin and end on Wednesday. Registration may be for one week or for several, as desired. The weeks will be arranged as follows:

Week No. 1-July 3d to July 10th.

Week No. 2—July 10th to July 17th.

Week No. 3-JulV 17th to July 24th.

Week No. 4—July 24th to July 31st.

Week No. 5—July 31st to Aug. 7th.

Week No. 6—Aug. 7th to Aug. 14th.

Week No. 7—Aug. 14th to Aug. 21st.

Week No. 8—-Aug. 21st to Aug. 28th.

In order to secure the exact time you desire, registration should be attended to early. This can be done by going in person or sending a friend to (insert place) any day on or after April 15th, between the hours of 9 A. M. and 4.30 P. M. A deposit of one dollar for each week reserved will be required upon registration, the rest of the fee to be paid before leaving the city for the camp. Should circumstances prevent a child from going to camp, the money deposited for a reservation will be refunded, provided another child is secured to take up the reservation.

These camps are not established with the idea of making money. On the contrary, they are equipped at great expense by the (insert organization) and the weekly rate of six dollars is fixed to cover expenses of board and supervision.

A WORD TO PARENTS.

Parents need have no fear for the welfare of their children while in the camp or en route. The Association is arranging with the Railroad for a special car to and from the camping sites. This car will be in

Digitized by
-160-

charge of a competent person, so that the children will be tinder constant supervision.

While in camp a director, in conjunction with his wife, both with experience in managing groups of boys and girls, will supervise and govern all camp activities. Able councilors and assistants have been appointed, so that at every period of the day and night your child will be in charge of persons of approved efficiency. Boating and swimming will be allowed only at certain fixed hours, and since all those in authority can swim, there can be no danger while in or on the water.

For the girls’ camp strong, wholesome young women have been selected to act as councilors, each possessing a strong love for nature and outdoor life. They possess also a knowledge of many games, can swim, row, and, in fact, are in every way just ideal companions and guides for your girl. Additional protection to the child is secured by the appointment of a trained nurse for each camp. Any possible accident or sickness can be attended to professionally until a physician arrives. Fortunately, there is a doctor in the village near each of the camps.

The main object of these camps is to give your girl or boy a real wholesome uplifting vacation at but little expense, and one which will appeal to them more strongly, perhaps, than any other. The tone and morale of the camps will be the first consideration, and no influence outside of the camp need be considered by you. The camps are located quite a distance apart. The girls’ camp is near (insert place,) while the boys’ camp is located at (insert place.)

DAILY PROGRAM.

6.45—	Rising Bell.

7.15—Wand Drill or a Short Run.

7.30—	Breakfast.

8.30—	Tent Inspection.

8.45—	Athletic Activities (super-

vised.)

10.30—	Swimming, Tramping, Boat-

ing.

12.30—	Dinner.

1.00—Rest Period.

2.00—	Baseball, Tennis, etc.

3.00—	Swimming Lesson.

3.10—Swimming.

4.00—	Captain Ball, Quoits, etc.

5.30—	Supper.

7.00—	Basketball.

7.30—	Camp-Fire or Indoor Recrea-

tions.

9.00—	Retire.'

9.30—	Lights Out.

OUTFITS.

The two following lists will suggest the necessary and less essential articles for camp life. The clothing should be plain and such as can be packed in suit case or telescope. A separate bundle may be made of blankets, pillow, hammock, etc.

The nights at camp are cold. In addition to the blankets mentioned below, each boy and girl should bring an extra blanket, comfortable or something that will serve as a mattress for the cot. This mattress insures a warm and comfortable place on which to sleep. It is suggested that each camper bring a pair of heavy woolen socks or sleeping slippers, to keep the feet warm at night, should this become necessary.

Digitized by

Google
-161—

WHAT EACH GIRL,SHOULD BRING.

LIST OF NECESSITIES.

- v-‘

1.	Usual outdoor clothing.	1

2.	Two pairs of full-size	woolen 2.

blankets.	3.

3.	One pillow.	4.

4.	Towels.	5.

5.	Two sheets.	6.

6.	One pillowcase.	7.

7.	Toilet articles, mirror.	8.

8.	Toilet soap.

9.	One pair substantial shoes.	9.

10.	One pair rubbers.	10.

11.	Short skirt or bloomers.

12.	One waterproof coat or cape.

13.	One sweater or jacket.

14.	Outing hat or cap.

15.	Several middy blouses.

(The popular and sensible camp costume

DESIRABLE ADDITIONS. Bathing suit.

Tennis shoes.

Tennis racket.

Fishing tackle.

Camera.

Hammock.

Book or magazine.

Any musical instrument, with music.

Sewing or fancy work.

Any other things which may add to the interest or enjoyment of the camp should be included.

It is recommended that no jewelry be brought, is middy blouse and bloomers.)

WHAT EACH BOY SHOULD BRING.

LIST OF NECESSITIES.

1.	Two heavy blankets.

2.	A sweater or heavy coat.

3.	An extra £uit of old clothes for

change in case you are caught in the rain.

4.	An old overcoat or raincoat.

5.	Shoes that have good soles, and

a pair of rubbers.

6.	A comb and brush.

7.	A small mirror.

8.	A toothbrush.

9.	Towels and soap.

It is suggested that old clothes, not torn, that have been discarded for school use be used in camp.

HOW TO REACH THE CAMPS.

Upon paying your registration and railroad fees, a ticket will be given you which , admits,you, to a special car on train leaving (insert* 'v place) every Wednesday. The exact train time will be given at the time i oi of registration. This special car arrives1 at (insert place) at about * 9('d. A. M. Some one in authority will accompany each group from the city Vo t and conduct them to the respective camps.	:	t

If this does not contain all the information you desire, communis cate with the officers of the Association.

DESIRABLE ADDITIONS*

1.	Tennis shoes.

2.	Baseball bat.

3.	Baseball glove.

4.	Fishing tackle.

5.	Bathing suit or swimming suit ‘

(full suit.)

6.	Book or magazine.

7.	Any musical instrument, with

music.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for y$ur friends.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
—162—

A SHORT REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Held at Odense, Denmark, July 1911.

The object of the Congress as stated in the minutes was that of encouraging the international study and practice of physical education by gymnastics and sports based upon the rational principles laid down by P. H. Ling

Besides scientific discussions and social re-unions the program included demonstrations of gymnastics by the pupils of the town and country schools, and of several hundreds of gymnastic societies.

Some of the subjects under discussion were:

1.	Educative Forms of Sport in the Danish Schools.

2. Results obtained in a school in Copenhagen thrpugh ten minutes daily gymnastics in the open air.

3. The organization of Examinations for Teachers of Physical Training in the Secondary Schools and Colleges.

4.	The Biological Foundations of Physical Training.

5.	Value and Organization of Young People’s Walking Expeditions.

6.	The Value of Shooting as a Means of Education.

7.	Physical Training for Women.

8.	P. H. Ling and his place in the History of Physical Training.

The following is a resume of one of the principal addresses which

should interest all students of the international playground movement.

Report on th& Play of Children and upon Open-Air Playgrounds. Delivered by Hans Dragehjelm of Copenhagen.

In 1906 the following figures showed the proportion of the population of different countries, that lived in cities.

Oriental Europe .....................    16%

Great Britain and	Ireland................68%

Holland and Belgium......................60%

Italy ................................... 55%

Germany ................................  47%

Denmark ................................  40%

Norway ...........................   ..	29%

Switzerland ............................  27%

United States .........................   40%

There has resulted an abnormal state in the life of man, who was created for life § in the open air. Some provision has already been made fpr the physical education of adults and of older children. It is the children under 10 years of age that have suffered. Nothing has been done to put a little method into their play in the open air.

Our densely built cities, our paved streets leave little room for children to play. But active and intelligent children do play in such surroundings because of their need of play, notwithstanding the. danger from vehicles, street cars and from the bad examples met with in streets of vice and misery.

The physiological peculiarities of the child characterize its play. Its pulse is extremely lively; it makes constantly movements that are

Digitized by CjOOQle
/

—163—

not to be ascribed to restlessness but to the necessities of growth, of establishing equilibrium in its organism.

The child plays constantly when performing its most ordinary activities and its varied play inspires it with the qualities of energy,, vigilance, courage and self-reliance that are necessary for the formation of character and personality. Especially vigorous is the play of children between the ages of 5 and 10 when the spirit of emulation and of social play begins to awaken.

The child possesses an instinct of play, but not all play is to be attributed to that instinct. Much it learns by imitiation, by means of which it becomes little by little an adult.

In the dance, in singing, gymnastics and manual work as well as in free play the child makes little effort at new and original things. Adults have always done the actual constructive work. The mother initiates the children in play. But without knowing it the child has given its contribution to the number of actual plays in choosing and in cultivating the different motives it has received.

It is in play that the imagination of the child reveals itself. That is why obstacles should never be put in the way of the child's ideas when we are inspiring it with our ideas. A child has more pleasure in making for itself a toy than in being presented with a costly, ready made one. It is the work itself that interests, children, not the means.

A playground offers to children a beautiful and sane distraction in an authorized and safe neighborhood. A little place with sand seems a paradise to children. Large playgrounds which must be enclosed and remain open during certain fixed hours all the year, should contain a certain amount of gymnastic apparatus. It is also best to have organized surveillance. Children readily allow themselves to be directed in their occupations. There ; should also be pavilions where children can find shells from the sea.

Much patience and love is needed to direct play with intelligence. Those who are in charge of this work must put themselves thoroughly in touch with children, must encourage those who are reserved, calm those who are violent, watch over the health of the children, take part in their pleasures,—in short render themselves everywhere useful. We should profit also in the organization of playgrounds, by the experience gained in the kindergartens and in the school excursions.

Playgrounds should be as near the children's homes as possible. Where other space is lacking the yards of* the schools should be used.

The question of playgrounds has a’ great social importance. We have seen juvenile criminality considerably lowered in Chicago since the reform of her playgrounds. Children cease running about on the streets and thus are spared the temptations of vagabondage. By systematizing playgrounds and making preventive efforts we shall certainly reduce in the future the sums that will have to be expended in the maintenance of children's institutions.

The United States—especially the cities of Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Cleveland—are the pioneers in playground organization. Munich has also 120 playgrounds, Hamburg 83, Dresden 72.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—164—

During the last two years there have been organized at Copenhagen 28 public places provided with sand banks and sometimes with other apparatus.

Well directed playgrounds form a good preparatory school for the child of about 7 years that is going to commence its primary studies. Children have to make themselves useful; they must work. Let ns help them, then, in their little enterprises. The primary schools will benefit by it. The playgrounds will, furnish occasion for better understanding the complicated character of children. The child is not a passive being. It has a right to play and to work, and the present generation must understand this.

ANNUAL MEET OF THE NORTHWESTERN GYMNASTIC

'	SOCIETY.

Reported by L. Norman Zarfoss, Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.

The third annual competition of the Northwestern Gymnastic Society was held at the University of Minnesota armory, Minneapolis, Minn. 8 p. m. March 23rd, 1912.

Fifteen different teams competed. Four colleges, four turnver-eine, two Y. M. C. A*s., four settlement houses, and one high school were represented by these teams.

, The competitors were divided into three classes, and the scoring v^as done according to the custom of the N. A. G. U. at a regular turn-f est..

~ The University of Minnesota won first place with a team mark of 93.34; Carleton College second with a mark 'of 91.40 and St. Paul Turnverein third with a mark of 90.82.

169 men competed in all compared to a total of 96 men in 11 teams last year, and 66 men in 6 teams two years ago.

A massed calisthenic drill was given by all the competitors at the opening of the program.

. ^ A copy of this drill, and of the voluntary exercises in the upper two classes may be gotten for a nominal fee from Mr. H. N. Watson, 823 Fifteenth Ave. So., Minneapolis, Minn.

g>fafe "gCni^erstfp

wants Physical and Medical Director for September; new gymnasium ; fine opening. Public School System will pay $1600 for strong supervisor. * Positions for Physical Directors is our specialty* We need good men for positions paying $800 to $2500. Get in line now for best September openings.

THE

SPECIALISTS’

Robert A. Grant, Manager.

EDUCATIONAL BUREAU,

Webster Groves, St. Louis, Mo.

GYMNASTIC TEACHERS WANTED

Am in need of several good instructors of Physical Training.

Kindly ad vise .if you are qualified to teach Public .School Gymnastics, both High and Grade School work.

— >V	DR,	W.	A.	OCKER,

;	;	.	'	2259	N.	New	Jersey St.,	.	>	,

Indianapolis, Ind. •
ftND BODY. %

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Published Msntbsf.

UY

Price, 91.00 per Year. Foreign $1.26.

Milwaukee, Wlacond a ■

Address aU business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Hcrold Bldg., Milwaukee. * is

—THE FEDERAL CHILDREN’S BUREAU AND ITS FIRST DIRECTOR. An act creating a Child Welfare Bureau was recently placed, with the President’s approval, on our national statute-books. This legislation had been earnestly and continuously advocated for several years by progressive men and women, and during its pendency in Congress no reasonable argument was ever advanced against it. Certain conservative statesmen were shocked that “children were to be treated like pigs,” but they were silenced by the retort of the more enlightened that, as a matter of fact, pigs were being better treated by the .federal government than children, since the government has for years gathered and disseminated information concerning the welfare of pigs, but the question♦ relating to the life,, health and welfare of children it has left almost untouched.

The new bureau will be part of the Department of Commerce and Labor. Its duties and functions will be wholly educational. It will make investigations, collect information, classify, digest and publish it, and furnish it on application to state, municipal and other authorities, as well as to private bodies or persons. It will study laws and ordinances bearing on child-labor, education, play, discipline, juvenile courts and like institutions, and all measures or proposed measures designed to protect, reclaim or healthfully develop childhood. Such studies will in turn suggest and influence further legislation.

It'was in the highest degree important to give this new and largely experimental bureau a good start, and President Taft has done this, rising fully to his opportunity and surprising many politicians by appointing as the director and chief of the institution Miss Julia C. Lathrop of Chicago. She will be the first woman to direct a federal bureau. Her fitness for the position is quite exceptional; indeed, there are few whose qualifications, both natural and acquired, could be fairly compared with those of Miss Lathrop.

Her natural qualifications comprise administrative ability, tact, fidelity to ideals, industry and common sense. She is also chairman of the Juvenile Psychopathic Institute, an organization which undertakes the scientific stuay of juvenile delinquency in relation to physical defects and is pledged to rne principle that a physician as well as: a

Adlrtu 211 editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER. 73 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the-Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.



NOTES AND COMMENTS

judge is needed in efvery court dealing with children.—From “The Journal :A. M. A.”

Digitized by

Google
-166-

—AT THE INVITATION of the University of Breslau, the representatives of the German universities met in Berlin recently to discuss measures for the advancement of athletics among the students*. The meeting was presided over by the hygienist, Professor Rubner. The principal address was made by Professor Partsch of Breslau. At the end of the debate the following statement of principles was adoptedr There is a timely demand for the German universities to give attention to athletics. This assembly unanimously declares it to be a duty of the state to provide the necessary means therefor. The fulfilment of this duty is most suitably entrusted to a special committee for athletics. The co-operation of the student body is regarded as especially desirable. For the further advancement of this matter an annual representative assembly of the committee is contemplated. The establish-ment of gymnasiums and athletic fields is regarded as necessary. Annual local competitive games among the students are to be established, and every three years German university Olympic games. In these matters the assembly expressed itself in favor of sympathetic co-operation with the German academic league for athletics. The next German Olympic games will occur in Leipsic in 1913 by an agreement of the assembly and the German academic league for athletics with the University of Leipsic.—Ftom “The Berlin Letter to “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.”

THE THEORY, TERMINOLOGY, AND TECHNIQUE OF GYMNASTIC DANCING.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Conclusion.)

ALTERNATIONS OF STEP-SEQUENCES.

Step-sequences may be alternated with each other in two ways; viz., in an unlimited or limited manner. Unlimited alternations consist of changing from one exercise to another upon the command of the teacher and are frequently used for the purpose of reviewing previously learned dance-steps. E. g. the class is moving about the gymnasium in a long flank rank or in a column of .front couples and upon command of the teacher performs the change-step. After a number of repetitions the instructor commands, “Step-hop.” Awaiting the proper moment he gives the command jof execution, “begin,” whereupon the class changes to the new exercise. In limited alternations-the two steps intended for practice are named and the number of repetitions of each definitely stated. To illustrate: Rocking-step left and right sideward and three glides left and then right forward (or a greater number of each if desired.) This will suffice if the class ia thoroughly familiar with the steps that are to be taken upon command while it is moving around the gymnasium; if not, it is necessary to halt the class and demonstrate.

Bilateral steps are best suited for alternations because they regularly lead to a right and left execution. The unilateral steps may be

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-167-

nsed, However, if they are altered by the addition of some element, thereby changing their rhythm and making them possible of being done left and right.

A point to observe is that steps of the same musical rhythm are ' alternated with each other. A few examples are given below.

Four step-hops (or variations,) or swing-hop, or balance-hop, etc., alternated with

a)	Eight marching steps.

b)	Eight skipping steps.

c)	Four glides left and four right.

d)	Four two-steps.

e)	Four change-steps.

f)	Four polka-hops, etc.

Two rocking-steps, or balance-steps, or waltz-steps, etc., alternated

with

a)	Two leap-hops with an added hop.

b)	Two balance-hops with an added hop.

c)	Two redowa-polkas.

d)	Three gallops left and three right.

e)	Two three-steps or three-step-tums.

f)	Six marching or skipping steps, etc.

Two Schottische-steps, or three running steps with swing-hop taken twice, alternated with

a)	Four leap-hops.

b)	Four cut-hops.

c)	Four glide-hops.

d)	Four swing-hops.

e)	Eight cuts.

f)	Two cross-dip-steps, four counts to each step, etc.

Two waltz-steps, or six running steps, alternated with

a)	Two balance-hops.

b)	Two draw-closing-steps to one side.

c)	Two swing-hops (variations.)

d)	Two balance-steps, etc.

These examples of march, mazurka, schottische, and waltz rhythm may be varied in different ways (see suggestions after “Combinations.”) Other steps may, of course, be alternated; those given, however, adequately illustrate how readily alternations may be arranged.

STEP-COMBINATIONS.

Step-combinations consist of joining two or more of the described steps in such a manner that their execution singly or an even number of times, will be adaptable to a musical phrase. They differ from alternations inasmuch as each combination presents a composite whole which is performed generally left and right alternately, though sometimes only to one side. This, however, does not prevent the occurrence of sequences within a combination which are repeated to the left and right and preceded or followed or both preceded and followed by other steps, as is often the case in the longer combinations used in dances, by which arrangement the various parts are unified or bound together

Digitized by CjOOQle
-168-

into a composite whole. According to the number - of sequences used in this whole, we may have two-, three-, or four-part, etc.,, combinations, although care should be taken riot to burden the mind with too long an order of sequences.

In arranging combinations a number of points must necessarily be observed. It will be found, for instance, that such combinations which may be executed left and lead without interruption to /the right are more practical for class work than those which constantly. repeat to the same side and must be brought to a close in order to begin their execution to the opposite side.

The inherent rhythm of a sequence is a factor determining its fitness in a combination with another step. It is quite eyident that a step in polka (2-4) time cannot be joined with one in mazurka (3-4) time. Such combinations are, however, possible and frequently used if a pause be introduced into a step of 2-4 time thereby giving it the time value of mazurka rhythm. Thus a step and touch-step followed by a pause may be used in a combination of 3-4 time. Generally, steps of identical time value are used. Moreover, steps of the same tempo differ in the momentum they produce, some possessing a tendency toward acceleration, others toward retardation. This .should be observed when arranging combinations. It is of particular value in the grading of steps.

Besides the inherent speed and rhythm of sequences direction also influences selection for combinations. A bilateral step is impossible of execution twice to the same side for its completion always places the opposite foot in readiness for the opposite side. If, therefore, a bilateral step be done to the left, it follows that it, or some other step, must be performed to the right. This is, however, not true of unilateral steps, for their performance' to the left may be followed by a repetition to the same side of the same .or some other step, on the other hand it cannot be taken left and right alternately. These obstacles in arranging combinations may be overcome by the use of a catch or intermediate step.

The catch or intermediate step consists of a rapidly executed closing-step or leap occurring on the last part of the last count of f the step. By the use of the catch-step two bilateral steps may be joined so that they can be performed to the same side as follows; e.'g. Rocking-step to the left, catch-step and repeat the rocking-step to the left, the combination requiring six counts; balance-hop to the left or forward* catch-step and balance-hop repeated, requiring four counts. The catch-step takes place on the last part of the third count ip the first, and on the last part of the second count in the second combination. A unilateral step is made possible of a left and rigjjtt execution as follows:	Cross-step-turn to the left, a catch-step and, a 4cross-§tep-turn

to the right. If the cross-step-turn* is taken inmaziirka (3-4) time; the exercise will require six counts and the catch-step occurs on the last part of the third count, i. e. upon completion of the first cross-stqp-tura. It cannot be used to connect steps that (begin ivitli a; leap^-or-hop.."	r''	•	"	v	'	•	;■■;; • ■	/

• r . .. ,	...	t	i	’•	.	;•	I	..	.	.	...	:	.	.	.	‘	*

, ..	.	;■	-r.}>	v	'	v-'	■	■	V	k
—169—

The unilateral step is most frequently employed in combinations and leads pleasingly, without disturbing the rhythmic fluency, to a bilateral step which in turn leads to the opposite side.

There is another method of joining steps quite worthy of consideration. It consists of fusing steps into each other as it were, and is best described by the term linking steps. The last movement of a first step is utilized as the first movement of a second step, i. e. the second step begins before the first is completed. E. g. in linking the change-step and the rocking-step the last movement of the former, i. e. the forward step, constitutes the first movement of the latter producing a combination of four counts.

These combinations always require less counts than the total of the two (or more steps) joined would indicate. This mode presents some pretty combinations, but by overdoing produces unesthetic exercises and may bring an unemphasized movement on an emphasized part of a measure, or vice versa.

Besides the original difficulty of the selected step the number of measures required for a combination also determines its difficulty. Care should therefore be exercised in their arrangement, so that there is a gradual progression of the number of parts executed in a given number of measures. This and other factors determining the development, progression, and grading of steps, the procedure of teaching and the value of dancing are not within the scope of this paper and will be considered later.

A few examples of combinations are given below.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

TWO PART COMBINATIONS.

Four measures of polka time.

Three polka-steps and a cross-step-turn.

Change-step or two-step in place of polka-steps.

Balance-hops and a step-cut.

Three leap-hops and a cross-step-tum.

Two step-hops and a step-hop and rocking-step linked.

Four measures of mazurka time.

One mazurka-hop and three draw-rocking-steps.

Three mazurka-hops and a three-step-tum (or three stamps). Three mazurka-hops and a balance- (or balance-touch-) step. Three redowa-polkas and a mazurka hop, or a rocking-step, or a balance-step.

Three balance-hops with cuts and three leaps.

Two rocking-steps, a three-step-turn, an intermediate step and a rocking-step.

Two measures of schottische time.

One schottische-step and a slow cross-step-turn.

Three running steps with swing-hop and two swing-hops.'

Three leap-hops and two leaps.

One schottische-step and two cut-hops.

Two cuts with swing-hops and three running steps with swing hop.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-170-

Two measures of waltz time.

1.	A waltz-step and a balance-hop (only to one side).

2.	Three running steps and. a draw-closing-step.

3.	A swingr-hop and a balance-step.

4.	A swing-hop and a cross-step-tum linked.

Two measures of polka to gallop time.

1.	A change-step and a draw-rocking-step linked.

2.	A glide-balance-hop and a follow-step.

3.	A polka-hop and a cross-step-turn.

4.	A cross-step-tum and a rocking-leap.

5.	Two glides (finished) and a glide-hop.

Two measures of mazurka time.

1.	A mazurka-hop and three glides.

2.	xx inazurka-hop and a balance-step.

3.	A step-cut and hop and step-hop, hopping twice.

4.	A cross-step-tum and a draw-rocking-step.

5.	A waltz-step-tum and a balance-hop (only to one side).

THREE AND FOUR PART COMBINATIONS.

Four measures of polka to gallop time.

1.	Two	polka-hops, a cross-dip-step	and	a	cross-step-tum.

2.	Two	change-steps, a balance-hop	and	a	cross-step-tum.

3.	Two	swing-hops, step and touch	and	a	step-cut.

4.	Two	leap-hops, a cross-step-turn	and	a	polka-hop.

Four measures of mazurka time.

1.	Two mazurka-hops, a draw-rocking-step and two stamps.

2.	Two balance-steps, three walking-steps and a cross-step-turn.

3.	Two leap-hops, hopping twice, a redowa-polka, and a cross-step-tum.

4.	Two balance-touch-steps, mazurka-hop, balance-hop with cut and a' catch-step to lead to execution right.

Four measures of schottische time.

1.	Two schottische-steps, a three-step-tum with swing-hop, and a slow cross-step-tum (one measure).

2.	Three running steps forward with swing-hop taken twice, two swing-hops in place, and four running steps backward.

3.	Two running steps and a balance-hop taken twice, and four cut-hops.

4.	Two cut-swing-hops, four running steps, two swing-hops and three running steps with swing-hop.

Four measures of waltz time.

1.	Two waltz-steps, a glide-hop, and a draw-closing-step.

2.	Two balance-steps, a balance-hop, and a draw-closing-step.

3.	A slow cross-step-tum (2 measures,) a draw-closing-step, and a step-hop.

4.	A glide-balance-hop, three running-steps, a glide-cut and a glide-balance-hop.

These examples of step-combinations as well as the exercises given under alternations of step-sequences may be varied by performing them in different directions; by changing the number of repetitions (alter-

Digitized by {^.ooQle
-initiations); by executing them in various formations as in a long flank rank, in open order, or in a column of front or flank couples, when they may start with the same, the outer, or inner foot; by adding exercises of the head, arm and trunk; and by performing them with tactic ■exercises.

When thus applied tor the gymnastic lesson they arouse and maintain the interest of the classes throughout the .grades. This subject, kowever, is part of the procedure of teaching dancing and in connection Vith other valuable points will be considered later.

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES. 3

Compiled by Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

FORMS OF GRIPS. (GRIFFARTEN.)

Upper grip. (Ristgriff.) The surface of the apparatus is grasped irom above; the thumbs are below the grasped surface and directed toward each other; the hands are pronated and shoulder-width apart. This grip is most frequently used in horizontal undivided surfaces, but also occurs on the horizontal divided surfaces as the hang support position on the double horizontal bar or boom, and in side support lying pisition frontways on the parallel bar with one hand on the near and the other on the far bar. When bars of small diameter are grasped the fingers and thumb should always encircle them (horizontal bar, parallel bar,) while in grasping beams the thumb should be placed next to the forefinger (beams of the ladders, booms.)

Under grip. (Kammgriff. Untergriff.) The apparatus is grasped with hands in supination, shoulder-width apart, and little, fingers to-, ward each other.

Outer grip. (Speichgriff. Aussengriff.) The divided surface of the apparatus is grasped from its outer side with the hands midway between pronation and supination, shoulder-width apart, and the palms turned toward each other. On the undivided surfaces, the thumb of one hand and small finger of the other are toward each other, and the hands are less than shoulder width apart, body is in cross relation (close grip).

Inner grip. (Ellengriff. Innengriff.) The divided surface of the apparatus is grasped from the inner side with the hands hyperpronated, shoulder-width apart, and the palms directed outward. On the undivided surfaces, the thumb of one hand and the small finger of the other are toward each other.

Reverse under grip. (Zwangellengriff.) The undivided surface of the apparatus is grasped from the far side and from above with the hands hyperpronated, so that the fingers will be on top, with the little fingers toward each other, and the palms directed backward. It is only assumed in. the hang on undivided horizontal surfaces.

Mixed grip. (Zwiegriff.) A combination in which the hands grasp with two different grips. It generally consists of upper and lower grip, but may consist of any other two.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-172-

Span grip. (Spanngriff.) It consists of any grip or grips in which the arms are further than shoulder-width apart. (Examples: span-upper grip; span-outer grip.)

Closed grip. (Schlussgriff.) It consists of a grip or grips in which the hands are close together.

HANGS AND DERIVED HANGS. (HANGARTEN.)

The hand-hang. (Streckhang. Hang.) The hand-hang, briefly termed hang, may be assumed with any grip. The body is suspended by the hands, with chest raised, arms extended and in line with the trunk; legs straight and slightly behind a perpendicular line dropped from the hands.

Bent-arm hang. (Beugehang.) Same as the preceding position excepting that the arms are bent, with the elbows preferably at the side of the body (sometimes they are more in front of the body) instead of being extended.

Elbow hang. (Unterarmhang.) Same as the hang, but the body is suspended by the elbows.

Elbow hand-hang. (Unterarmhandhang.) Selfexplanatory.

Upper-arm hang. (Oberarmhang.) The body is suspended by the upper arms. On the undivided horizontal surface, the hands meet in front of the chest; on the divided surfaces the arms are slightly bent and directed forward.

Upper-arm hand-hang. (Oberarmhandhang.) Selfexplanatory.

Knee-hang. (Kniehang.) The body is suspended by one or both knees.	f

Knee hand-hang. (Kniehandhang.) The body may be suspended by both hands and both knees, or both knees and one hand, or both hands and one knee, or one hand and one knee. In the latter case, the other leg is straight, the body horizontal, the chest raised, and the head in line with the trunk. These positions may be taken on undivided and divided surfaces. On the latter they may be taken as an outer or inner hand-hang on left, right, or both knees, and on the same or opposite bar as the knee used in the hang.

Toe hand-hang, or nest hang. (Nesthang. Schwimmhang.) In the nest hang the body is suspended from hands and toes with the back directed toward the apparatus (toe hand-hang rearways). On the undivided surface the body is extremely arched in this position, but this is not the case when it is assumed on a divided surface. Here it has an appearance which has given rise to the term hammock hang (Schwimmhang).

Inverted hang. (Sturzhang.) The body is suspended vertically by the hands, head downward. On an undivided surface it is assumed frontways and rearways.

Inverted hang, hips bent. (Abhang.) Same as the preceding with the body bent at the hips.

Inverted hang, hips and knees bent. (Sturzhang mit Anhocken.) Same as preceding with an additional flexion of the knees.

Hang lying. (Liegehang.) The body is slightly supported by the

Digitized by LaOOQle
-173-

feet which generally rest on the floor; the greater part of the body-weight being suspended from the hands. The arms are straight, the chest raised, and the head, trunk, and legs in a straight line.

Hang stand. (Hangstand.) The same as the preceding excepting that the greater part of the body weight is supported by the feet which generally rest upon the floor, while the lesser part is suspended by the hands.

Other parts of the body sometimes take part in a hanging position, but because of their infrequent use they have been omitted:

SUPPORTS AND DERIVED SUPPORTS.

Straight arm support. (Streckstuetz.) (“Support” for short.) The arms are straight with the chest well raised and the head held high, counteracting the downward pull of the body. The legs are entirely extended and together. When contact with an apparatus is possible there is a slightly greater angle of inclination than in the free support.

Bent-arm support. (Beugestuetz.) Same as the preceding, but the elbows are bent as far as possible.

Forearm support. (Unterarmstuetz.) Same as the support, but the forearm lies on top of the apparatus furnishing the support instead of the hands.

Support lying. (Liegestuetz.) The toes, with feet closed, rest on the floor or apparatus, the arms are straight with the hands, shoulder-width apart, supported on the apparatus. The body, from the head to the feet, is in one straight line, with the greater part of the body-weight supported by the hands and the lesser part by the feet.

Support stand. (Liegestand.) The same as the preceding but the greater part of the bodyweight is supported by the feet and the lesser part by the hands.

THE PRESENT SITUATION IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF ATHLETICS AND WHAT TO DO.

By Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

THE PRESENT SITUATION.'

That there is a widespread dissatisfaction with the present scheme of national control and direction of athletics, is well known. The purpose in writing this series of articles has been to analize the situation, present facts and suggestions in the hope that there will come out of it all a constructive re-adjustment m the relationships of the various organizations having athletic interests. We are not bent on destruction, but believe there is a great need of a re-construction in administrative methods and a re-adjustment of the viewpoint concerning the place and function of athletics.

We need a getting together, for the purpose of working out a progressive and constructive policy for the entire country, of all organizations that believe in the educational value of the varied play activities comprehended by the general term of athletics. This desired co-opera-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
tion, however, cannot be brought about under the leadership of the* Amateur Athletic Union for the following reasons:

First. The Amateur Athletic Union insists that it is the only national controlling body for athletics in this country in spite of the" fact that it has a membership of only 538 clubs and a registration of only 18,861 individuals (the Federations in Chicago, Philadelphia and North Eastern Pennsylvania alone have between 400 and 500 unite representing more than 20,000 individuals). The Amateur Athletic Union therefore declares that every “open” meet (one in which a. college and a Y. M. C. A. or turner, etc., compete) must be sanctioned by the Union, otherwise every athlete who takes part will lose hia amateur standing. The Amateur Athletic Union even declares that a meet between two branches of the Y. M. C. A. must be sanctioned by it, otherwise the meet is illegal and every man who. participates will be disqualified. We should like to ask — “Disqualified for and from what?”

This unfortunate autocratic position of the Amateur Athletie Union will never bring the athletic forces together under its banner. While the Union’s system of registrations and sanctions may do for unattached athletes and athletic clubs, clubs organized primarily for some one branch of athletics, it is a system which will not be accepted by permanent organizations (such as educational institutions, turners, playgrounds, Y. M. C. A’s. etc.) which conduct athletics as one of ^nany other activities. It must be remembered that the Amateur Athletic Union’s system was developed to meet the problems presented . by athletic clubs and unattached athletes.

Second. We have been informed by good authority that high . officials in the Amateur Athletic Union have said that their organization cared nothing for educational athletics, but that all they wanted was control of the situation. We may have been misinformed (we think not however), never the less we do know that the average athletic club does little or nothing in the way of promoting the educational view of athletics. The prime object of these clubs seems to be to corral all the “star” athletes in order to beat some other club, win a meet and furnish a spectacle for the amusement of spectators.

This viewpoint of the Amateur Athletic Union as to the function of athletics is wholly at variance with the trend in educational institutions, turners, Y. M. C. A’s., playgrounds, etc., which is toward a scheme of athletics which will not only serve expert performers, but * will also interest and stimulate every man and boy of athletic age to take part in wholesome competition.

Third. During the past fifteen years thousands of individuals who have come in touch with amateur sport in universities, colleges, normal schools, high schools, turners, Y. M. C. A’s., ets., have gone throughout the length and breadth of the land carrying with them the principles of amateurism and clean sport. Many of these individuals have been instrumental in organizing college, high school and church leagues upon an amateur basis without any assistance whatever from the*' Amateur Athletic Union. Furthermore, these organizations are grapp--

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-175-

ling with the problems in the administration of athletics, working out their own salvation and setting up new and high standards without any help from the Amateur Athletic Union. Therefore, when these organizations are requested’ to become members of, or affiliated with the Union, they naturally ask “Why should we become members of, or registered with the Amateur Athletic Union ?”

Fourth. Practically 85% of the gymnasiums, athletic fields and swimming pools are controlled by the organizations that are independent of the Amateur Athletic Union. With these same organizations are many trained physical directors and teachers giving: much time and thought to educational athletics. The large bulk of men and boys of athletic age are also connected with organizations outside the Amateur Athletic Union.

It would seem therefore, that the groups of organizations which have in their membership the bulk of the men and boys of this country, possessing also so large a majority of the gymnasiums and athletic fields and directed by trained leadership, must certainly hold the “whip handle” of the situation. What would membership in the Amateur Athletic Union bring these organizations which they do not now have?

While we might give other reasons, the four herein stated are sufficient to show why the great constructive forces in athletics will never get together under the Amateur Athletic Union’s present form of administration. For the colleges, turners, playgrounds, etc. to accept the Amateur Athletic Union as the national controlling body would mean the adoption of a viewpoint out of sympathy with the general policy and objectives of these organizations. It would mean the adoption of a system for athletic control and administration at least in spirit like the system which England imposed on our Pilgrim forefathers, namely “Taxation without representation” which finally led to “The Boston Tea Party.”

It is evident that few organizations will subject themselves to the system of control of an organization composed primarily of athletic clubs and unattached athletes.

WHAT TO DO.

In the April number of “The American Physical Education Review” there appeared the following statement under news items: “The minutes of the meeting of the Athletic Research Society, of the Federated Committee and the articles herein published written by Dr. H. F. Kallenberg describing the Cook County Federation, represent points of variance with the Amateur Athletic Union. Both sport and morals would be improved if these factions could get together.—Editor.

We agree with the Editor of the Review that we ought all to work together for the best interest of sport and morals. We contend also that the organization which claims to be the national controlling body ought to do its share in this bringing together and ought to be willing to re-adjust itself to meet the 20th century conditions instead of fighting every forward movement which threatens to relieve the national body of power.

It should be clearly understood- that the Amateur Athletic Union

Digitized by CaOOQle
-176-

h&s been repeatedly asked to co-operate in bringing about a more effective scheme of national organization for the administration of athletics. That organization, however, refuses to co-operate with other organizations on an equal basis, but insists that its present system needs no change, is sufficient to meet present needs, that it is the parent and only controlling body of this country and that all other bodies must be subservient to it. Representatives of the Amateur Athletic Uniorw have toured the country telling every one that “there was peace when there was no peace."

Furthermore, in communities in which the Amateur Athletic Union has had control in the past there was never a coming together except at athletic meets. For example, in Chicago prior to 1908 the playgrounds, churches and Y. M. C. A*s., although identified with the Amateur Athletic Union, worked independently of each other. The Amateur Athletic Union did nothing to unify efforts and even refused to help its own members to raise standards, but seemed to be interested only in controlling and dictating.

Now what is to be done in the face of the situation presented thus far? Since the Amateur Athletic Union insists on maintaining its attitude of self-sufficiency and superiority, the thing to do is to go ahead without that organization, if necessary, with a movement which shall ultimately unite upon a democratic platform all organizations interested in athletics. It should be the privilege of any organization to cooperate or refuse to co-operate. Those whioh refuse to co-operate, however, need not necessarily be denounced as outlaws. The thing to do is to go ahead without those who refuse to -join in the general movement for a more effective form of adminstration for athletics.

An encouraging fact is that a forward movement is already on. The Federation idea is rapidly taking hold of the country, uniting the constructive forces in athletics upon a sane and democratic platform. The Federated Committee, organized last fall representing nearly a dozen national organizations touching from ten to fifteen million men and boys of athletic age, has endorsed the Federation Movement. The Middle West Conference of Physical Education and Hygiene, held in Chicago April 26 and 27 of this year, was heartily in favor of the federation scheme.

However, before the desired progress can be made we all need to catch the spirit of co-operation. The various organizations in every community that have in their membership men and boys of athletic age must get together realizing that they have many things m common, that each can help the other and that both will benefit by co-operation. Neither the high schools, playgrounds, churches, turners or Y. M. C. A*s. can afford to work independent of each other for the reason that high school boys, working men and boys are found both in the playgrounds, churches, turners or Y. M. C. A*s.

The universities and colleges must for the sake of their own interests give active support to all organizations which have in their membership prospective college students for the reason that ai* individuals ideals are fairly well established before he gets into college. The boy whose athletic education has been bad prior to his entrance
—177—

into college is largely responsible for the “athletic problem.” A large proportion of the universities and cplleges thus far have not sensed the situation and, therefore* have not seen their responsibility and relationship to the athletic situation at large. To be. sure universities and colleges have problems and troubles of their own, but so have the rest of us. Let us, therefore, get together realizing that “Just as no man liveth or dieth unto himself,” so no single institution or group can live or die unto itself.

The next article will discuss the Federation form of Organization in Athletics. We have thought it more logical to discuss “the present situation and what to do,” before presenting the Federation Scheme.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The Summer Session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union will be held in Indianapolis, Ind., July 8 to August 3, at the college building. The course consists of the following subjects, and is arranged for first and second year students :

Theory and Practice of German Educational Gymnastics. Two and one-fourth hours. Comprising lectures on the theory and terminology of tactics, free exercises without and with hand apparatus, gymnastic dancing and apparatus work (three-fourths hour). Practical work for public school grades I to IY (high school work for advanced students) in tactics and gymnastic dancing (one-half hour); free exercises (one-half hour); and exercises on apparatus, such as horizontal bar, rings, circle swing and poles (one-half hour). Classic and Esthetic Dancing. One-half hour. Consisting of a series of esthetic movements and classic dancing steps, whose progression and combining possibilities are methodically taught; also of a series of dances for various grades.

Fencing. One-half hour. Comprising class and individual instruction in foil fencing.

Playgrounds, Plays and Games. Lectures, three-fourths hour. Plays and games, one-half hour. Consisting of lectures on the theories of plays and games; their social, physical, mental and moral value; their importance in a system of education; instruction in the most popular ones. The location, size, construction, equipment and management of playgrounds.

Field and Track Work. One hour. Comprising the most popular field and track events, such as Sprinting, jumping, putting and throwing. Methods of teaching and training for the same. Practical work.

Folk Dancing. One-half hour. A series of folk and national dances of various degrees of difficulty will be taught.

Wrestling. One-half hour. The catch-as-catch-can style of wrestling will be taught. The students will be made thoroughly familiar with all locks and breaks. Lectures on wrestling tournaments and related topics.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-178—

Descriptive Anatomy. Three-fourths hour. Lectures on bones, ligaments, and joints.

Applied Anatomy. Three-fourths hour. A study of the various gymnastic movements, the principal free exercises, exercises on apparatus and field and track exercises, and the muscles and bony levers en-‘ gaged in them. Prerequisite: Descriptive Anatomy.

Personal and Gymnasium Hygiene. Three-fourths hour. A study of health; the causes of unhygienic conditions and disease; heredity; the improvement of health by hygienic living. Hygiene of digestion, respiration and circulation; of the skin and its appendages. Proper clothing. Relation of hygiene to physical training. The care, cleaning, ventilating and lightmg of the gymnasium.

Anthropometry. Three-fourths hour. This course will be made a& practical as possible. Measuring and testing the body. Methods of taking the strength and vitality tests.

Physical Diagnosis, Th^ree-fourths hour. This course will be made aa practical as possible. Various methods of examining the internal organs.

Civic Hygiene. Three-fourths hour. Modern methods of caring for the health of municipalities.

The course is divided into two terms «>f twelve days each. The following subjects, Educational Gymnastics, Classic and Esthetic Dancing, Fencing, Descriptive. Anatomy and Applied Anatomy, will be continued through both terms. The playground work, the lectures on Personal and Gymnasium Hygiene, and the Anthropometry work will be given during the first term only, while the other subjects, Field and Track work,. Folk Dancing, Wrestling, Physical Diagnosis, and Civic Hygiene, are to be taught during the second term only. The time given with each subject indicates the time alloted per day.

Preceding the Summer Session, on July 6 and 7, the Tumlehrer-schaft (organization of gymnastic teachers) of the North American Gymnastic Union will hold a convention at which some interesting* papers will be presented for discussion. This date has been decided upon to accomodate a number of teachers of Turnvereine who also expect to attend the summer course. The committee in charge also contemplates the arrangement of re-unions of the classes of *82, *87, ’92, ’97, and 1902 and looks forward to a good attendance.

The closing exercises of the Normal College of the N. A. G. TL at Indianapolis will be combined with the reception of the delegates to the 25th biennial convention of the North American Gymnastic Union to be held in Indianapolis June 22—26, and will take place in the evening of Saturday, June 22, in the large hall of the German House. The delegates, of whom 175 to 200 are expected, will have an opportunity to inspect the College building and to view the work done by the classes. Of the 45 students enrolled, 14 will graduate this year.

The program for the graduating exercises includes music by the German House orchestra of 60 pieces, songs by the male chorus of the Musikverein, and addresses by Judge Hugo Muench of St.‘Louis, Pro-

Digitized by

Google
-179-

fessor Albert B. Faust of Cornell University, and Mr. Emil Rath, president of the Normal College. The exercises will be followed by the farewell banquet.

The Alumni Association will hold its annual meeting June 22, at 1.30 p. m., in the College lecture hall.

With the opening of the last of the second semester, out-door field and track work has been resumed at Butler College Athletic field. The field is in excellent condition and the work is progressing nicely. The women have taken up field hockey under the direction of Miss Milicent Hosmer, physical director of Shortridge High School.

The Students* Alliance soon will bring to a close a year of unusually successful work with a dinner and outing at Turner Park.

The men of the College class took part in the May Festival at the Winona Technical Institute grounds May 18. Their number was the “Bow and Arrow Free Exercises.**	Geo. F. Miller.

GENERAL NEWS.

At a conference of teachers of physical education and hygiene of the Middle West held in Chicago April 26 and 27, a permanent organization was established. Over 200 educators responded to an invitation sent out by a committee of Chicago teachers of which C. W. Hethering-ton was chairman, and in a very enthusiastic meeting elected an executive committee and instructed it to draw up a constitution and by-laws, and to perform other duties necessary for the welfare of the organization.

The executive committee selected is composed of representatives from various fields of endeavor, as public schools, colleges and universities, Y. M. C. A*s., tumvereine, playgrounds, etc., and consists of C. W. Hetlierington, president; W. J. Monilaw, secretary; Gertrude Dudley, W. P. Bowen, Francis Musselman, G. Little, George Wittich,

G.	M. Martin, E. B. DeGroot, and Emil Rath.	,

The following program had been arranged by the Chicago committee:

Friday afternoon, April 26, conference at the Chicago Teachers* College. Physical Education and Social Education, Wm. B. Owen, Principal of the Chicago Normal School. Demonstration of the Social Hour. The Social versus the Individualistic in Physical Education,

E.	B. DeGroot. Friday evening, at the Auditorium of the Central Department of the Y. M. C. A.: The Survival of Asceticism in Education, Dr. Edward Scribner Ames, University of Chicago. The Social Psychology of the Spectator, Dr. George E. Howard, University of Nebraska. What is Physical Education, C. W. Hetherington, Joseph Fels Endowment.

Saturday morning, April 27, at the Kent Theatre of the University of Chicago:	Child Hygiene, Dr. W. A. Evans. Athletic Discus-

sion; Section 1. The Federation Idea in Athletics, led by Dr. H. F. Kallenberg; Section 2. Basket Ball for Women, led by Miss Jessie Witham of Detroit.

Saturday afternoon, at the Bartlett Gymnasium of the University of Chicago: Demonstration of Physical Activities by children of public

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-180-

and i>riyate schools. Saturday evening: Demonstration by older boys and girls, Y. M. C. A., turners, park playground classes. Colleges and high schools.

The executive committee is to determine the place of the next conference.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOOIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

The Swedish doctor, Svante Arrhemus, has concluded some interesting experiments at Stockholm to test the effects of electricity in the growth of human organisms. According to the Matin, Paris, two groups of fifty children, roughly corresponding in age, health, weight, height and intelligence, were chosen from among the pupils of the Swedish communal schools. One of these groups of fifty children was set to work in a room which was filled with an electric installation, which passed high currents into the atmosphere from wires in the walls, floor and ceiling.

The other group was set to work in an ordinary classroom. Neither group of children or the teachers were aware that the experiment was being made.

At the end of six months the children who had lived in the electrified atmosphere were found to have grown on an average three quarters of an inch more than the other group in height. Their intelligence had also increased in the most marked manner and they completely outclassed the non-electrified children in a competitive examination.

The electrified teachers declared that their own powers of resistance to fatigue had been increased by the treatment.

—Popular Lectures on Hygiene.—The German Association for popular hygiene (Yerein fuer Yolkshygiene) which as may be seen from its name has dealt for many years with the popularizing of a knowledge of hygiene, has lately formed a plan at the instigation of the Prussian minister of the interior to advance its purpose by placing easily understood pamphlets in the offices of physicians and dentists and in pharmacies. It will first, according to this plan, distribute

100,000	circulars furnished by the department of the interior on the most important communicable diseases. In addition there will be placed in the localities mentioned 1. a short, easily understood circular on the importance of public and personal hygiene; 2. circulars on the abuse of alcohol, the campaign against the spread of tuberculosis, and things injurious to plants and the like, which the imperial health office and the medical department of the Prussian department of the interior have published; 3. rules for the care of infants. All teaching with reference to the cure or treatment of disease will be avoided in these pamphlets. The public, on the other hand, will be advised to apply immediately to a physician on the appearance of illness. Instruc-

Digitized by LaOOQle
-181-

tion with reference to the damage done by quacks and nostrums will be included.—From “A Berlin Letter* to Journal of Am. Med. Assoc.

—Switzerland, we should imagine, must be the school children’s paradise, for we find that the evils of overwork have claimed on their behalf the attention of the health authorities to this extent, that in Canton, that of Lucerne, the provision is made that no lessons shall be studied at home and that only moderate tasks be required in the secondary schools. Ten-minute recesses every half-hour are called for, and a week’s vacation every six or seven weeks. Attendance at school is not to begin before the age of seven years.—Editorial in “Health”— London.

—Books and Bacteria. What we are pleased to call modern civilization brings with it an almost endless number of perplexing problems which the conservators of public health and general welfare are condemned to face. The public school and the public library have come to stay; and they have brought with them the public book, an acknowledged carrier of contagion and disseminator of disease. The day has gone by when the guardians of health can afford to overlook these facts, despite the indifference with which they are regarded by many people. Was it not yesterday that a poorly concealed sneer greeted the crusade against spitting in public places? Yet ivho will deny that an unremitting campaign of education has brought about a decided change in public sentiment and a distinctly sympathetic attitude in such matters?

Need we recall the danger of contamination involved in the ordinary handling of books?-

Notwithstanding this, the numerous attempts to secure a suitable method of disinfecting books bear witness to the recognized dangers which it is intended to avert thereby. Books are known to have infected people with septicemia and tuberculosis as letters have carried scarlet fever and small-pox.

As a result of experiments on this subject Dr. Nice has recommended the use of moist hot air at 80deg. C. and 30 or 40 per cent, humidity for thirty-two hours. This is alleged to destroy all non-sporing bacteria in closed books, even tubercle bacilli in thick layers, without injuring the most delicate bindings. It is suggested that as a matter of precaution, especially against tuberculosis, it would be well if public library books that are much in use and all school books were disinfected by this method at regular intervals. Public school books should, perhaps, always be disinfected before they are given out to a new set of pupils. The. lack of a really satisfactory method has hampered progress heretofore.—From an editorial in the “Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.”

—Mental Hygiene and Special Child.—Downing emphasizes that neither heredity, environment nor personal choice alone will explain the facts of social life. The tendency of heredity is to produce an environment which perpetuates that heredity. Let us have, he says.

Digitized by
-182-

preventive education and preventive medicine working hand in hand. Open-air hospital schools for neurotic children axe needed in our cities, to be a part of our school system. This should have financial aid from parents, philanthropists and the state.—Boston Med. Surg. Journal 4-18-12 J. A. M. A.

—Oxygen Intoxication.—It was recently asked if the authorities in charge of the Olympian Games this year to be held in Stockholm would permit the competitors to carry oxygen bags to take whiffs from while they run; it was contended—and this by so emment a scientist as Sir Edwin Ray Lankestef—that “as oxygen gas is not a drug, but as natural an article of consumption as water, there seems to be no reason why the runner should be disqualified from refreshing himself with it, as he may with water or soup.” Oxygen gas is a drug in the sense that it has therapeutic value in affections of impaired respiration, such as comas and lobar pneumonia. Otherwise pure oxygen is as deleterious as any stimulant, for the stimulation is followed by depression. Frequent intoxication by this means must inevitably exhaust the vitality and shorten life. Nor is it true that “pure oxygen is as natural an article of consumption as water.” Oxygen is safe for those in health only in its mixture as atmospheric air, with several parts of nitrogen. This is the only suitable form of oxygen inhalation for normal individuals—the form to which human and all other life has during the ages become adapted. Meddling with Nature is bound to be disastrous in the long run. Athletes have before this been given “jags” of undiluted oxygen, to stimulate them to outdistance their opponents. But such oxygen-made records will not for a moment stand in the estimation of a true sportsman, because they are not made under the conditions with which human life must ordinarily cope. Besides, such “sport” must inevitably invite collapse, ruined myocardia and premature death.—-Editorial Comment J. A. M. A. May 4. 1912.

—“WOMAN AND WOMANHOOD” by C. W. Saleeby, M. D. 398 pages, 6 by 8% inches. Published by Mitchell Kennerley, New York and London. Mailing price $2.75.

Dr. Saleeby, one of the foremost physicians of England, states that his book is a search for principles. The scope of the work is indicated by the statement in the introductory chapter that “the whole teaching of this book, from social generalizations to the details of wise management of girlhood, is based upon a single and simple principle. .	.	.

Woman is Nature's supreme organ of the future. .	.	.	. The

purpose of adding yet another to the many books on various aspects of womanhood is to propound, and, if possible, establish this conception of womanhood, and to find in it a never-failing guide to the right living of the individual life, an infallible criterion of right and wrong in all proposals for the future of womanhood, whether economic, political, educational, whether regarding marriage or divorce, on any other subject that concerns womanhood"

BOOK REVIEW.
-183-

All teachers who are in doubt as to how woman shall be educated will find the book very stimulating. In the chapter on the “Physical Training of Girls” Saleeby makes the same mistake that occurs in Allen’s “Civics and Health” of not distinguishing between competent and incompetent teachers of physical training. Saleeby also shows how necessary it is to introduce the study of physical training in medical colleges when he states that the Board of Education (in London) has followed the best medical advice and has introduced into its schools an admirable syllabus based upon the Swedish system of educational gymnastics. “But,” he says, “it is fortunately recognized that that system requires modifications.” In the same chapter he says “there are continental systems of gymnastics which do not believe in the use of music because, forsooth, they find that the music diminishes the disciplinary effect! Such an argument,” says Saleeby, “dismisses those who adduce it from the category of those entitled to have anything to do with young people. They should devote themselves to training the rhinoceros, etc. etc.”

Well, now, isn’t it strange to have an educated physician call attention to an admirable system introduced in London, and then, by insisting upon the very things that this system can never give, condemn it? What a monstrosity the Swedish system would be if “modified” by the use of music! But here Saleeby, like many other physicians, praises and condemns something he does not understand.

In spite of these shortcomings the book is highly recommended to all thinking teachers.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—“GYMNASTIC TACTICS Part 1. TACTICS OF THE INDIVIDUAL” by E. H. Arnold, Director of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics has just appeared in a third edition. 38 pages, 5% by 7% inches. Mailing price 35 cents.

A chapter on curvilinear marching has been added.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—THE FESTIVAL BOOK by Jennette E. C. Lincoln. 74 pages, 8^2 by 11V2 inches. Illustrated by 18 large half-tone engravings, by 17 diagrams ^and many, figures. Published by the A, L. Barnes Company, New York. Mailing price $1.65.

One of the most reassuring signs that recreation is gradually winning its way afenong us is the increased number of 'books that are being published dealing with plays, games and dances. With this growth it is perfectly natural that a little ibook on “Maypole Possibilities” should grow into the handsome “Festival Book” now’ before the public. Physical activities in the form of games and plays are natural at out-door gatherings. But there are times at which something more than simple dance> are appropriate. The festival book is designed to help at such occasions. It is a guide for arranging and conducting elaborate as well as sipiple festivals. The book is warmlv recommended.

To be had from Migd and Body, Herold Bldg.* Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Digitized by CaOOQLe
-184-

Special Summer Normal School for Teachers of Physical Training

FIVE WEEKS’ COURSE, JUNE 24 TO AUGUST 3

Classes will be conducted in Folk Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Public School Gymnastics, and Playground Courses. These courses are especially pointed for beginners who wish fundamental instruction. Secondly, for those with some experience in teaching who desire additional instruction. Third, teachers can acouire additional material for broadening the scope of their work in the way of drills, etc. Fourth, teachers seeking advanced instructions in the theory and practice who cannot give time during the regular school year. Credit for the summer work will ,be given on the regular course of the school to those seeking a diploma. If you are coming to the N. E. A. make our school rooms your headquarters. For particulars address

CHICAGO SCHOOL Or PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND EXPRESSION

Mrs. Robert L. Parsons, Box P, 430 So. Wabash Ave., Chicago, III.

The Demand for Physical Directors IS GREATER TO-DAY THAN EVER

Home of the Physical Culture Training School, jsnd and Grand Blvd., Chicago, 111.

The PHYSICAL CULTURE TRAINING SCHOOL, Chicago, Illinois, will have a Special Summer School, beginning July 1st.

Learn a profession that is not over-crowded. There are thousands of the smaller cities that would gladly pay a grade teacher an additional salary for supervising the physical work.

Why not combine this with your regular teaching work, and earn more money? Classes will be conducted in all branches in which we will accept beginners, also those who have had some experience. We will also offer additional material for broadening the scope of work for teachers seeking advanced instruction.

The field is open to both men and women.

The boards of Education all over the country are in want of Physical Directors.

We own our quarter-of-a-million dollar building.

Attend a recognized school. Address

Secretary, Box L,

42nd St. and Grand Bird., Chicago. Illinois.

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by LaOOQle