aiAiEMKfflaiiUi

'-iCSBjtesjns, c-

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 19.

OCTOBER, 1912.

No. 212

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, l\ is.

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE BLIND.

By Lesser Erenstone, Batavia, New Yoijc.

The following is an outline of my work in the Kew York State: School jor_ the Blind, at Batavia, and also methods used in teaching the blind gymnast and athletics. The first part of this article was embodied in my annual report to the superintendent for the year 1910-11.

The classes in this department were arranged in October. The total enrollment of the department for the the year ending June 9 }vas 150, with a daily attendance of 140. These were divided into eight classes as follows: Intermediate boys, Intermediate girls, Junior boys. Junior girls, Kindergarten children, Senior girls, and two classes of Senior boys; five in the morning, two in the afternoon, and one in the evening. Work began at 9.25 A. M., closing at 12.00, and again from 4.00 P. M. to 5.30, and from 7.20 to 8.00 P. M.

The older pupils were provided with suitable clothing for the work which was kept in separate lockers in the basement. At the beginning of the school year anthropometric measurements of the senior boys and the necessary measurements of the other pupils were taken, and the work was graded according to the greatest necessities of the pupils in each class. The measurements were again taken in May. The results were very satisfactory and without one exception showed improvement in each individual.

All the classes were given free exercises, Indian club drill, wands and dumb-bell drill, parrallel bars, horse, ladder work, p.ole climbing, games, and in and out door track and field work.

The boys became interested in an indoor athletic championship contest which worked very successfully. The events were as follows: Chinning, dipping, standing broad jump, standing hop, step and jump, high jump, fence vault, rope climb, snapping under the horizontal bar, three broad jumps, and throwing the nine-pound medicine ball. There was a different event each week. The purpose of this contest was to show who the best athletes are among the junior and senior classes. The pupils were extremely interested in these contests; it was something new for them, so they worked very hard to make a good record.

Digitized by kjOOQle
226 __

The point system for scoring was used so that the ability of each pupil could be averaged for the ten events. In order to make a good showing it was necessary that a good record he made for general ability rather than special ability along one line. The point system that was used for the seniors was as follows: Chinning, 2 points for each chin; dipping, 2 points for each dip; standing broad jump, 1 point for every inch above 4 ft. (> in.; fence vault, 1 point for every inch above 3 ft. 6 in.; high jump, 2 points for every inch above 2 ft. G in.; hop, step and jump, 2 points for every inch above 15 feet; snapping under the horizontal bar, 2 points for every inch above 3 ft. 6 in.; three broad jumps, 2 points for every inch above 15 ft.; 18 ft. rope climb, 1 point for every second under 25 seconds. The juniors were rated under the same point system, but with a lower standing required in jumping.

On March 10, a demonstration of physical training work of all the classes was held. It was well attended by the teachers and outsiders, and the program, which was of two hours duration, was greatly enjoyed. It was as follows:	1.	Musical	dumb-bells, pole climbing, and

tug of war by the kindergarten class. 2. Free exercises, ladder work, stick fight, and toe wrestle by the intermediate girls’ class. 3. Free exercises and parallel bar exercises by the intermediate boys’ class. 4. Indian club drill and Indian wrestle and arch ball by the senior girls’ class. 5. Dumb-bell drill, fox and hen, class work on the parallel bars and horizontal bar by the senior boys’ class. 6. Exercises and pyramids on the parallel bars by the senior boys’ class.

In introducing a system of gymnastics to the blind, one must first teach direction and position with simple movement. It is necessary to show each child bv putting the parts of his body in the correct position. In teaching calisthenics, drills, etc. to our older pupils, they are first taught to line up in a proper position, then count off by fours, then lock arms by fours and take so many steps forward and wheel to the right or left; from here they open ranks. Other methods are used to divide the classes, but we find this one to be the best for our pupils.

An exercise frequently demands a more elaborate explanation than one might expect, hence, the teacher must be accurate in the choice of words, and must simplify all directions; there must be a conscious mental effort for each movement; as soon as the child ceases to listen, to think, to try, he falls into his old habits of listlessness and relaxation.

Teaching apparatus work is more difficult than calisthenics, it is _ less- easily descrihed,._and requires help until considerable proficiency is gained. Here, again, we teach position and simple movements first, and are then able to dictate more complicated exercises. Sequence is very necessary in apparatus work; we build up very closely from one exercise.to a more difficult one. Confidence in the teacher is a large factor here.

In our gymnasium we use the parallel and horizontal bars, the horse, buck, poles, rings, etc. We have succeeded in teaching dancing to our girls, but this work is very difficult as a great deal of individual instruction is necessary.

Digitized

i by Google
AVe have one day for free play, some like to do what they please, and others on that day would rather play set games, such as teasing game, circle games of all kinds, changing places, and many other games are played. The teasing game for instance, is played like this: Any number can play this game, all take hands and form a circle; in the center of the circle, we have a cigar box and in it is a dry battery and bell that is ringing, on the box we have an Indian club. The stunt is to tease each other to throw the club over; the purpose of the bell ringing in the box is that the players may be able to locate the center of the circle. Our girls and boys that are partially sighted play the game without the bell, and with just a club or two in the center of the circle, and they enjoy it very much.

The game the girls enjoy playing more than the boys is called changing places. They all take hands and form a circle; one is “it” and she stands in the center of the circle and calls two names, as “Esther and Belle.” The two that are called must exchange places before they are tagged. If either one is tagged before changing, that one must go in the center and do the same, etc. The method used for this game is, when the two names are called to change places, they must call each other by name, as, Esther will sav “Belle,” and Belle will say “Esther.” If this is not done, the one that is “it” will not know where to find them. These games are very valuable for blind boys and girls, because it teaches them location.

Our annual outdoor track meet was run off at the usual date, May 20th. The meet last year was entirely different from previous meets held. Every boy in the school, physically able, took part. In former years a picked team represented each school in the association and the events were run off in the same manner as interscholastic meets only that each team remained at home, the records made by each school were compared, and the winner decided upon. The new order of things gives a better comparison and allows every boy to take part. Our boys are extremely enthusiastic over athletics, and even though they are handicapped, they go into it for all they are worth, and make as good showing as sighted boys. The high jump, of all the events in which the blind athlete competes, calls for the greatest skill and judgment, for there is no artificial aid to depend upon. The jumper stands close to the bar and with wonderful precision fixes the height of the bar in his mind by the sense of touch, then, with a preliminary action that is his distinctively, he takes his spring. Some good records arc made.

The running broad jump is of special interest because of the method which has to be followed in order that the jump may be made at the right spot. I stand near the “take-off*' clapping my hands as the runner approaches and tell him to jump. Some good distances are made in this event.

In the running events, a wire is strung along the edge of the track, attached to the wire is a rope and the man running on the inside keeps hold all the way down. When the required distance is finished, the runners are stopped by ropes that hang down seven feet from a pole extending over the track .

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 228 —

For the track meet, the boys were divided into four classes according to age as follows: Class A, Boys 16 years and over; Class B, Boys 14 years of age or over, and under 16 years; Class C, Boys 12 years of age or over, and under 14 years. Class D, Boys under 12 years of age.

The events were as follows: Class A, 75 yard dash, standing broad jump, running broad jump, chinning. Class B, 60 yard dash, running broad jump, chinning. Class C, 50 yard dash, standing broad jump. Class D, 40 yard dash, standing broad jump.

Our school gained second place in this meet among seven competing schools.

EDUCATION VERSUS PUNISHMENT.

By D. M. FEED. KEOGH, M. D.

The purpose of education is to elevate mankind to the highest standard possible. Education must not be confined to the child in school, but must begin at birth and continue until death. We have, therefore, various periods and factors in education. 1) the home, 2) the school, 3) the family, and 4) the community. The child is taken care of and educated in the home and in the school. The family educate by means of the family-life and the family council. The individual is selfeducative, and the community educates through its individual members. Punishment throughout life should be in conformity with the offense, and it must vary according to the period of the individual's life. But the main point in view in any punishment should be to make a better individual of the offender. This means, in other words, that punishment should be educative and not cruel. If a person transgresses the laws of nature, nature itself is the judge and the jury and thus the convictor. The individual learns by the punishment not to tamper with nature. If, however, the offense is committed against the community or a part of it, the offender is put in jail or a reformatory. Usually these institutions fail to accomplish the true purpose of their existence, namely to elevate the offender to a higher standard of morality. Very often, yes, usually, the offender is worse instead of better alter being released. There is a great sociological movement on foot throughout the world to mend past wrongs on these lines, to do away with medieval or semi-medieval customs.

This movement is fostered by associations and specialists in medicine, sociology, physiology, anthropology, psychology and jurisprudence. In this country its main advocate is Mr. Arthur MacDonald, of Washington, D. C., who was Honorary President of the “3rd International Congress of Criminal Anthropology” of Europe.

His main activity is to foster the growing importance and interest in the education of defective, dependent, delinquent, moruly, dull and exceptional children, as well as to encourage moral education, and also medical inspection of schools. He says: “The prison should be a reformatory and the reformatory should be a school. The principle object of both should be to teach good mental, moral and physical habits.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 229 —

Both should be distinctly educational.” “Every man who is dangerous to property or life, whether insane, criminal or feeble-minded, should be confined, but not necessarily punished.”

The following clipping illustrates part of the results of Mr. Mac DonahTs propaganda.

“A laboratory for the study of criminals, on the general plan advocated by Arthur MacDonald of Washington, has recently been established in Russia, with a somewhat similar relation to the Russian government as that of the Smithsonian Institution to the United States government. It is understood that about $750,000 has been set aside by Russia for the purpose. MacDonald, two years ago, submitted his scheme to foreign countries in connection with his propaganda of the scientific and sociological investigation of crime, and other abnormalities, under Federal, state, or municipal auspices.

Other countries have promised consideration. The scheme includes investigation by use of instruments of precision and the obtaining of all important facts regarding the individual and his surroundings.”

WALKING.

An essay by Emerson, never before published, is given us in the Atlantic. It is as fresh as if the ink were still wet in Mr. Emerson’s pen. It has the freshness of his stoutest youth, and bubbles over with playful life. It is an apotheosis of walking. Emerson loved walking because he was a good seer. We do not intend a play on words, for to be an intellectual seer requires first that one should have keen and unstinted vision. Emerson’s insight was not at variance with an a-bounding outsight.

Walking is the best charm of land ownership. The agriculturist is compelled to be a great pedestrian. Under his own apple trees he finds the whole world and all of evolution in its branches. There is history here, far richer than that which tells of the struggles of emperors and armies. The struggle for existence was a stout one between apple trees and forest long before man became the cultivator. Now the orchard rows take in a vast amount of brain work as well as limb work and sap work. The owner does not have to go to a World Exposition to learn what nature and human nature can accomplish, when harmonious. But what an infinite zest is there about a common country farm! The contact with animal life, the discovery of individualities. A particularly good writer says:

“Not only my collie, but my pet hen takes long walks with me. She picks along the way where I think—occasionally having some thoughts of her own. But the companionship is what we both enjoy. When I take out my plow, and run long furrows up and down the land, do not think that my tramping is at all dull. The birds hop around me, and have much to say. There is life every square inch of the sod. It is glorious to go on one of these voyages of discovery about one’s own acres, throwing open the leaves of nature’s book, and finding new truths on every page.”

Dr. Johnson said that “few men in the world know how to take a

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 230 —

walk.” Emerson thinks Johnson was not one of the few. The growling lexicographer preferred Cheapside to the fairest country-side— where he rumbled along, growling at everybody and hitting things with his staff. In the country he declared that everything looked alike. When some one praised Lord Abercorn's trees and their rapid growth, he answered that they “had nothing else to do but to grow.” When Nero advertised for a new luxury, Emerson thinks he should have tried a walk in the woods. He despises a house set at the roadside. He would have it approached through a bit of forest, if possible—certainly by an avenue of trees. Let us not get into our houses and out again without a good walk. One should live where one can shout and not disturb his neighbors. He should be able to get out on a lawn of his own and roll with his children.

The American highway is the very ideal road for a pedestrian. If the driveway is not as perfect as those in Belgium, certainly the variety of plant life exceeds that of all other countries. A mile of highway walking will reveal more flowers than a king's garden. Its brooks gurgle and chuckle under little bridges. It is strung with villages and crossroad hamlets. It goes from New York to Chicago, and then to Portland or Duluth or San Francisco. Farm houses look at it, and farmers' daughters and sons consider you the event of the day. You carry novelty as well as find it. You are yourself the most curious growth abroad. The highway is a rare one that will not give you a dining table where you may eat your parched corn and sandwiches, and where a‘sweet brook will not give you better water than a city reservoir. We have not yet learned that we own all the roadways in America. They are for us to walk in, discourse in, and, if we please, to live in—that is to do our best living.

Emerson wishes that our colleges and schools paid more attention to walking. Well, there was a short spell when they did. Students tramped the country geologizing. They carried well-tempered hammers, and while they pounded the rocks they secured cleaner blood, as well as a few facts. Some walked all their vacations as colporteurs, h\ this wav trying to excuse their zest for walking by doing a little good. In that day one could not live honestly for this world without bestowing more or less attention on another world. Others went West, until they found the Mississippi, and they got very foot sore—but they knew where to go when they graduated. Just now the college boy, with all his athletics, is a poor walker. You cannot start one of them up without he starts off on a trot. Unfortunately one cannot sprint it all the way through life. It would be well should every college have a walking section in its curriculum. Draft off a little of the physical force that goes into football, and distribute it with more individuality.

We do not wonder that Emerson insists that botany is much the better study compared with astronomy. It is not possible for every one to find a new star—hardly a new comet, or even a meteor. But almost any day you may find a new plant or a new fruit. In the New England States and New York, where the first orchards were of seedlings and where new apple trees are always springing up about the

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 231 —

fences and the road-sides, Downing tells us that we may at any time discover a better fruit than is found in the catalog. The Seckel pear came np by fhe gate of a Dutch farmer in Pennsylvania. One should know a little about botany, however, before he starts out for a long ramble; otherwise he will not see what he is looking at.

When Charles Kingsley was in this country be said the one thing that most amazed him was that Americans walked so little, and as for American women, he believed they were incapable of walking. Yet he thought there was no country in the world better got up for long 6trolls. We ought to get up with the dew and make ten miles before breakfast.

“Ah! that will give you appetite; but it will also give you lungs; and after breakfast you will know the luxury of a siesta in the orchard or balcony.”

He thought the moral result would be as good as the physical. Tobacco would not be thought of.

“Tobacco is simply a makeshift, essential to sedentary life—an effort to get out of our stolid surroundings, our stupidities. An athlete never smokes.”

Walking is good for all seasons. It always has something new to enliven us and quicken the pulses, without disturbing the balance of our forces. Naturally Emerson honors the morning as the best time of day for the pedestrian—a part of the day as undiscovered to most people as the North Pole. It is then that one finds the world in its native condition. The night has washed it of human contact. There are no rumbling wagons about and the plow lies on its side in the furrow.

“Get up, son of man, as the sun looks over the horizon, w’alk a-broad, and know that in thy soul the surveyor has never run his lines. The whole wTorld is thine own. '—The Independent.

THE DOG-PADDLE STROKE IN SWIMMING.

By JAMES BOYLE, Swimming- Instructor, Orinsby Park Pool, • Pittsburgh, Pa.

It has been the universal custom to teach swimming by putting the beginner at the breast stroke. This has done more to retard the popularity of swimming than all other hindrances combined. The breast stroke is an artificial, complicated stroke and is harder to master than any other stroke. The swimmer must think of several movements at once while practicing the breast stroke, and that is almost impossible for a beginner to do.

The dog paddle is a stroke that follows the movements of a dog when swimming. If you have ever seen a person who has fallen or been pushed into deep water, you will have noticed that he will start to paddle with his arms like a dog .does. This almost proves that the so-called dog stroke is the natural method. The person may not keep afloat very long, but I have seen many keep afloat long enough to be rescued.

Digitized by CjOOQle
This picture illustrates position of arm in crawl stroke. Note difference between crawl and dog paddle.

The dog stroke is very simple. The arms, drive alternately, submerged all the time. They start from the chest, are thrust forward, close to the surface of the water, until near full extension; they then press down and come hack at right angles to body; elbow is then bent and hands are brought to chest as in the start. The legs perform an up and down movement, exactly like scissors if the blades crossed each other.

The head is held just high enough to keep the mouth above the >watyr. The body is slanted with the feet about 12 inches below the surface. After my pupils can swim by the dog paddle I instruct them to bring the feet closer to the surface as this prepares them for the crawl stroke.

One thing the beginner must bear in mind. Nothing can be gained by going through the movements hastily. This exhausts the swimmer. Take time and make each movement slow and deliberate. I had one girl who learned to swim the dog stroke last summer and at the end of the summer she swam across a river 250 yards wide.

The instructors first aim should be to teach the beginner to swim. The rest can easily follow;. The beginner who learns the dog stroke can easily acquire the crawd stroke, which is the stroke used by nearly all our modern speed swimmers. Just compare the two strokes. In the crawl, stroke the face is dropped in the water. This makes it necessary to roll so as to breathe. The hands instead of stopping at chest, as in the dog paddle, are brought back to the thigh, and when the arms are thrust forward they go above water instead of under as in the other stroke.

When a beginner has mastered the breast stroke should he desire to use the crawl he must learn all over again. I have met many

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 233 —

people who have been taught the breast stroke who will never swim any other stroke because they have not the patience to practice.

A teacher of swimming should have the confidence of his pupils.

They will learn to swim more readily if the teacher is willing to get into the water and help the pupil when he asks for help. Many small boys whom I have taught to swim have jumped into the water from a 17 foot tower before they could swim. I waited in the water and would help them out of , the pool. I also had three girls jump from the 17 foot tower before they could swim. It is needless to say that children N like this learn to swim in a few lessons.

The intelligent teacher is the teacher who can make the work easy for the beginner to understand. Let the teacher, who is anxious to teach swimming quickly, give the dog paddle a trial.

Position of arms in dog’ paddle stroke. Arm moves forward from breast instead of from thigh as in crawl stroke. Arm is under water alwa3rs in this stroke. In crawl it is carried forward above water.

THE BREAST-STROKE IN SWIMMING.

By HARRY R. ALLEY.

That combination.of movements known as the breaststroke which i& forced upon beginners (as some of our good friends would have us believe) has, of late, been unjustly criticized and the writer feels that some information sustained by statistics, should be offered in its defense.

Let us consider for a moment what a breast-stroke really is; how the movements are combined and what kind of rhythm is used. This is necessary because many of its detractors do not reeogize a true breaststroke. Many direct their criticism against it unjustly, having in mind the commonly called “sailor fashion” stroke namely, where the arms

Digitized by
— 234 —

. ?

and legs move at the same time. In this stroke one does literally “jump through the water” without making much headway.

The properly taught breast-stroke is divided into two parts namely, the preliminary movements on land, and the movements in the water.

The advantages of the breast-stroke are manifold. The land move^ ments, may be taught to large numbers of pupils while they are in a standing position. The pupils stand in an open rank facing the teacher, and as a starting position the arms are raised obliquely fore-upward. The hands are held together with the palms turned slightly outward.

The arm movement is then executed as follows:

Commands: Move the arms sideward until they are in a straight line with the shoulders—one! Bend the arms place the hands in front of the chest (palms together)—two! Straighten the arms obliquely fore-upward—three!	After this is well executed to command, the

movements may be taken in rhythm. This rhythmic movement is divided in the following manner:	The	count	one	is	given	slowly;	the

counts two and three quickly, and then a slight pause is made.

Leg movement. As a starting position the hands are placed on the hips.

Commands:	Stand	still	during	count	one;	Raise	the	left knee

sideward—two!; Straighten the left leg sideward and quickly lower the straightened leg to the other leg—three!;. The same movement is then practiced right.

Combination. Move the arms sideward—one! Place the hands in front of the chest and raise the left knee sideward—two! Straighten the arms obliquely fore-upward; straighten and lower the left leg— three! Then perform the same exercise using the right leg.

Each part and the combination is first taken to command, and then in the prescribed rhythm so that the pupils will have learned the movements thoroughly before they are ready for instruction in the pool.

The instruction for movements in the pool are as follows:

Experience has shown, that where pupils are arranged in squads of four to six (which means mass instruction) a rope on the surface of the water and inflated water wings are all the apparatus that is necessary to teach the breast-stroke successfully.

The wings are placed around the chest under the arms of the pupils, they grasp the rope and hold their bodies in a straight line just under the surface of the water.

The “kick” is first taught by raising both knees sideward, keeping the feet together, at the count—two.

At three, the legs are straightened sideward forcibly and quickly brought together perfectly straight, driving the water from between them.

NOTE.—The entire effectiveness of this stroke depends upon the drive which is obtained from this kick. The kick must be powerful, smooth, and just fast enough to catch the resistance of the water It may be likened to a whip-like movement.

As soon as a good kick is acquired the pupils lie with their chests,

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 235 —

upon the rope and straighten their arms out in front of them. The arm movement is now praciticed slowly and rhythmically and then it is combined with the leg movement as described in the preliminary land movements, both legs working at the same time. When a well timed stroke is obtained the pupils are allowed to swim from place supported by the water wings. After some practice under the supervision of the teacher the wings may be discarded, though it must not be done before good form is acquired.

Our friend who advocates the dog paddle and crawl-stroke claims that beginners must think of several movements at once, when learning the breast-stroke and that it is impossible to do this. Experience in school work would convince him of the contrary, for the land movements are taught, or may be taught, in the gymnastic lessons of pupils in the fourth and fifth school-grades and where it was undertaken intelligently the co-ordination thus gained, overcomes this difficulty by the time the children go to the swimming pool for instruction.

The statement that the breast-stroke has retarded swimming in this country is absurd. We may not have developed as many speed swimmers by this method, but to be able to swim at high speed is not what the great majority need. One must never forget that all the other, strokes like the side, side over-arm and trudgeon are founded upon the elementary breast-stroke, consequently this stroke should be learned first. That is why all, old, experienced teachers of swimming insist upon the novice perfecting this fundamental stroke before attempting the other strokes. The advocate of the dog paddle stroke admits that it will not keep the swimmer up very long because the constant effort which is necessary quickly tires him. It seems obvious then; that the rescue of such a swimmer should this become necessary would be very uncertain. The statement that the crawl-stroke may be easily learned from the dog stroke must be proved by facts and figures. They claim it may be learned in two twenty minute lessons by dividing it into three piarts (1) the position of the body, and the arm motion; (2) the leg motion; and (3) breathing.

The first two parts it is claimed may be done easily, though that is yet to be proved. We are positive that the last cannot be learned in two lessons, nay, ten lessons. How many “crawl” swimmers except the very few experts who participate in races have learned the proper method of breathing? Very few. It requires a co-ordination which is much more difficult to acquire than the breast-stroke. The turning of the head toward the proper arm, the exhalation under water and the inhalation at the instant in which the mouth is above the surface of the water requires months of practice, as we are sure our friends, the advocates of the crawl-stroke for beginners, will admit. Therefore, if this is not easily learned of what does it avail the beginner to learn the movements if he cannot breathe? He will soon tire and go down in short order.

The relative advantage of the position of the body in the crawl-stroke over that of the breast-stroke seems, at first glance, to be great, liut a little study will bring forth the fact that there is not much differ-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 236 —

ence after all. It has been claimed by some that the position of the body in the breast-stroke requires it to pass through a hole in the water three times its size. This is not true. The sweep of the arms in the first movement helps hold the body on the surface of the water until the legs are drawn up for the next drive.

On the third movement the arms are extended forward and the legs are forced together making the body assume a straight line after the drive from the kick. This position is maintained while the body moves forward in the water, thereby giving the swimmer a momentary rest. We admit freely that the breast stroke is not used for speed, but it is used for endurance by practically all great swimmers. How many novices have the opportunity to become speed swimmers or racing experts when the great number of beginners is considered? The breast-stroke when taught by teachers who know how to teach and when properly practiced will unquestionably keep the swimmer up longer than any other stroke. The greatest reason for this is because of the momentary rest mentioned above. This acts upon the same principle as the heart, which rests between each beat enabling it to perform its work for years. The position of the body during the breast-stroke also enables the swimmer to breathe without difficulty.

The claim is also advanced that no headway can be gained by the use of the breast-stroke. What of Captain Webb’s performance who swam the English channel using the breast-stroke? On August thirtieth of this year a young Philadelphia boy who had learned this season swam the length of a seventy foot pool in six breast-strokes, a performance, it seems to us, that disproves the claim just mentioned. That the stroke is awkward and ungraceful need not be discussed because if it has been taught and learned properly it is as smooth and graceful as any other stroke. In passing we must not forget that the back stroke, which is based upon the same principle as the breaststroke, is employed by all powerful swimmers when saving the lives of drowning persons.

The statement that the breast-stroke has a negative or no hygienic value, has been made without study or thought. The position of the broad surface of the chest upon the water insures a symetrical development of the lungs because the pressure is equal upon both. The shoulders being held straight and also the position of the head, insure an erect posture. Nay more, it has been claimed by some anthropologists that man’s erect posture was brought about through being compelled to swim streams and lakes during the first migrations. The sweep of the arms in the breast-stroke insures a good development of the muscles of the shoulder-girdle and the back, while the movements of the legs employ all the muscles so that nothing can compare with this stroke as an exercise for the whole body.

We are told by physiologists and by hygienists that muscular effort with short periods of rest is much more beneficial than muscular effort under a continuous strain. While' the “crawl” is the fastest known stroke for short distances, it subjects the swimmer to too great a strain for long distances. Comparatively all the work is done by

Digitized by CjOOQle
237

the arms while the legs that possess the largest and strongest muscles of the body are used mostly as a rudder.

Our advocate of the “dog paddle” and “crawl stroke,” makes the assertion that persons who have learned to use the breast-stroke lack the patience to practice the crawl stroke. That in itself serves to prove that the crawl stroke is not easy to master, either for breast-stroke or “dog paddle” swimmers.

The idea that the “dog paddle” is a natural method of swimming may at first seem true, but is the human body fashioned after the dog? Why may we not use the natural method of some water animal? The method used by a frog would seem natural. He seems to handle himself very well in the water and employes the same kick that is used in the breast-stroke.

It may be advisable to show by figures just what may be done with the breast-stroke. During the last two years the pupils in the fourth grade of the Philadelphia Public Schools have had the preliminary land movements of the breast-stroke included in their gymnastic lessons.

During the summer of 1911 six swimming centres were established in conveniently located public baths in which the pupils named above received their instruction in the water. Two teachers were employed for each centre; a man to teach the boys and a woman to teach the girls. Each teacher worked sixteen hours per week giving during this time sixty-four to eighty pupils two half hour lessons. The season was divided into two terms of five weeks each. Out of eight hundred pupils who attended an average of eight lessons there were seven hundred who learned to swim the breast-stroke. The significant result was, that there were four hundred and twelve girls to two hundred and eighty-eight boys. Of this number, one hundred swam continuously for fifteen minutes. These pupils did not know anything about swimming before they began taking lessons and some of them had never been in the water before.

The number of centres was increased to ten during the season just past. The same methods of organization and instruction were employed with the following result. Out of thirteen hundred who attended eight lessons, eleven hundred and seventy learned to swim the breast-stroke. Two hundred swam continuously for twenty minutes.

The record of the girls in one centre is rather remarkable. Ninety-six girls attended eight half hour lessons, ninety of them learned to swim the length of the pool (160 ft.) using a correct breast-stroke, twenty-eight of these swam continuously for twenty-five minutes while several swam from forty-five minutes to an hour, which would approximate about a mile and a half in distance. A number of these girls had never been in the water before and none could swim when they began taking lessons. These few facts, it seems to us, present an unanswerable argument in favor of the breast-stroke, when taught properly, as the stroke which should be taught to beginners.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.
— 238 —

HEATING A SWIMMING POOL/

By C. TERAN.

A Swimming pool is generally a luxury, not a necessity. For this reason not many are built, and a description of the system installed for Mr, Herbert Coppell at Tenafly, N. J., may prove of interest.

It is housed in a building of one story, and includes the pool room, two dressing rooms, boiler and coal rooms, all on the ground level. The pool is sunk below grade, is built of concrete, waterproof and lined with English size enameled brick. It is 38 ft. long, 15*/^ ft. wide and 6 ft. mean depth below water level. The cubical contents arc, therefore, 3,534 cu. ft.

The heating plant was designed to heat this volume of water in 10 hours., or at the rate of 353 cu. ft. an hour. Ten hours is a convenient length of time for heating the water, because the required apparatus is not specially large. If the apparatus was much smaller it would, of course, require a longer time to heat the water, and this time added to that necessary to empty and clean the pool would make the period of time which the pool would be out of commission- too long. The time required to empty and clean this pool is 4 to 5 hours.

The installation includes two cast-iron sectional boilers, a Berryman service heater and a filter. The water is reduced to 30 lb. pressure on entering the building. It is then heated in the Berryman heater by steam generated in the boilers, and it is then filtered and discharged into the pool. For filling a main inlet is used; this enters the pool at the deep end near the bottom; there is also a nozzle above the waterline which is used to. produce a spray over the pool.

On account of the proximity of the walls of the pool to the outside ground a loss of heat in the water was anticipated and provision made to replace the loss. Careful consideration was given to the various methods that could be used to accomplish this purpose, and injecting water heated to a high temperature into the filled pool was decided upon. The reason for using a high temperature is that the water is not taken from the pool to be reheated, as this would necessitate a circulating pump, but fresh water is used, and by heating it to a high temperature a minimum quantity of water is required and less coal burned. Steam was not considered a good medium, because it imparts a peculiar odor to the water, due perhaps to the presence of oil in the boiler. The water is injected at four points on each side of the pool near the bottom, through nozzles passing through the brick lining and flush with it. This arrangement gives a good distribution, and is neat in appearance. It is found that during the winter months the water loses 2 to 3° F. in 24 hours.

In filling the pool the water is heated to 75° F., which, on account of heat losses in transit, etc., gives an ultimate temperature of 70° F. The water injected to make up the heat loss is heated to 180° F.

♦Presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, New York, January 23-25, 1912.

Digitized by V^ooQle
Digitized by

O

o

rj

■mmMMmmmmmmvzmmmma

Section through Boiler Room

>n through Boiler Roo bowing Water Pipes

Longitudinal Section

*o

CO

CO

ARRANGEMENT FOR HEATING A SWIMMING POOL AT TENAFLY* N. J.
— 240 —

The large boiler is used to heat the water when the pool is being

tilled. This was computed as follows:

Cubical contents of pool............................:.... 3534 cu. ft.

Cubic feet oi water to be heated per hour ................ 353 cu. ft.

Pounds of water to be heated per hour....................... 353X62.4=22027

Rise of temperature of t he water from 40 to 75=35°.......

Heat units transmitted to water per hour, 22062X35 ...... 771,000	B. T.	U.

Coal necessary to be burned per hour 771,0u0-i-8000....... 06 ibs.

Grate area 06^-8 ......................................... 12 sq. ft.

A boiler having a grate 40 in. wide by 48 in. long was installed. The other boiler shown is used to heat the building and to heat the water injected into the pool to make up the daily loss of heat; by this arrangement, the necessity of keeping a tire in the large boiler is 'avoided. As there was no sure method of perdetermining the loss of heat of the water in the pool, in selecting this boiler liberal allowance was made for this purpose above what is required to heat the building. The amount of direct radiation in the building is 400 sq. ft., all behind screens; the boiler is rated at 1,000 sq. ft., and has a grate 21 x 27 in., or about 4 sq. ft.

The service heater was specified of proper size to heat 2,800 gals, of water per hour from 40 to 80° F. with low pressure steam, and it was left to the manufactures who furnished it to design the proper size heater for this duty. The filter was suecified in a similar manner. No automatic temperature control was installed, and none has been found necessary. An even temperature of the water is attained by maintaining a steady fire and regulating the flow of water by hand.

As a matter of precaution against a leaky pool the water pipes were installed so that they do not pass through the waterproofing of the wall of the pool below ehe waterline. This was accomplished by installing the pipes horizontally under the floor of the pool room and dropping branches to the proper depth in the pool between the watr-proofing and the brick lining. All concealed water pipes are brass; other pipes are galvanized iron.

The pool, which may be considered an experiment, has been so satisfactory that Mr. Coppell has ordered built a much larger pool, 44 ft. long by 26 ft. wide, with the addition to his house and the equipment for the new pool has been designed on the same principles as the one described.—Heating Magazine.

—Energy of the Body. The working energy of the body is something enormous. The muscles of the jaw can exert a force of five hundred and thirty-four pounds. The heart is a most remarkable worker, although its work is not, as often stated, continuous. As a matter of fact, the periods of work, and the heart, as a whole, works no longer than a man who labors nine hours a day. The total work of the heart is not less than 150 foot tons a day. This means work equal to lifting 150 tons one foot, or one ton 150 feet. A day's work for a laboring man is 300 foot tons. The muscles by which the body is supplied with air, the respiratory muscles, do a work of twenty foot tons a day. ft is estimated that the human body, as a whole, performs in a single day labor equal to 3,600 foot, tons—that is, the work of twelve laboring men.—-“Health.”—London.

Digitized by

Google
— 241 —

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by EMIL HATH, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

The leg-swing vault right over buck. (Die Spreize recht6.) .This vault resembles the straddle vault somewhat. Both legs, however, do not straddle the apparatus. The extended right leg is swung over the apparatus, the hands are momentarily raised, and at the same time the body is carried to the left by the direction of the jump and the thrust against the buck. The left leg as well as the trunk remain in the vertical position. The legs are closed as the body approaches the left side of the buck in a cross position sideways right, the left arm is in the side position, but the right hand is replaced as the gymnast a-lights in the squat stand.

The leg-swing mount and dismount (Spreitz- auf- und absitzen) which occur so frequently upon the horse and buck, but are also possible on other apparatus, are derived from the vault. When a. legT swing mount into a position occurs under a hand this should be stated; likewise if a turn is added; whether the leg-swing is outward, away from the body, or inward, toward the body, and forward or backward. Sometimes it is also necessary to name the part of the apparatus upon which the position is to be assumed. When a turn is added to the leg-swing mount or dismount it is termed a turn-mount or turn-dis-mount (Schrauben- auf- und absitzen). The direction forward or backward, the degree of the turn, as well as the terminating position must be indicated.

The stride-vault over the side horse. (Thief vault.) (Diebsprung:)

The vault begins with a running start from a side-stand frontways and requires a single take-off, either left or right. As the body leaves the floor from the take-off, which is about three (or more) feet distant from the horse, the pendant leg is forcibly swung over the horse and between the pommels. The take-off leg is bent, brought to the other leg as it begins to pass over the apparatus, and extended. As the body is carried over the horse the hands momentarily grasp the pommels, the legs are in the forward position, and the trunk slightly inclined backward. A push against the pommels adds to the momentum of the jump and brings the body into the squat stand rear-ways with the arms in the side position. It is only executed on the side horse.

The stride-vault mount leads to seats or to the support rearways on the horse. It can not be used as a dismount.

The scissor-vault over the buck. (Scheersprung.)

The take-off and support are the same as in the straddle-vault, but before the body passes over the apparatus the legs are crossed (in the scissor vault right the right leg crosses in rear) so that the gymnast clears the buck with crossed legs. Before alighting in fhe, squat-stand with arms in the side position the legs are again uncrossed and •closed. The body does not turn.

The scissor-vault mount. (Scheeraufsitzen) necessitates ft ty2 turn (right when right leg crosses behind) as the body is lowered .to. a position upon the apparatus.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 242 —

The scissor-vault dismount. (Seheerabsitzen.)

The body is swung to a position above the apparatus from which the iegs are crossed and again uncrossed (as in the scissor vault) as it clears the apparatus. The terminating position is the same as from the vault. There is no turn of the body.

The straddle-scissor vault mount. (Graetsch-Scheeraufsitzen.)

It is chiefly executed on the buck and long horse and consists of a combination of the two activities named. After straddling the apparatus with regrasping in rear of body the legs are forcibly swung forward and crossed. A 1/2 turn follows and the body is then lowered to the riding seat. During the straddle and scissor movement the body remains clear of the apparatus. It is executed as a vault if it leads to a stand rearwavs at the place where the take-off occurred.

Sheep-vault over the side-horse. (Schafsprung.)

( From a double take-off with support on the pommels the body is powerfully propelled over the apparatus. The support is momentary, and the body is fully extended with the exception of the knees which are flexed so as to raise the feet backward and upward. The arms are swung sideward, and the head and chest well raised both during flight after clearing the horse and later in the squat-stand.

The squat-vault over the side-horse. (Hocke.)

It resembles the sheep-vault excepting that the hip’s are also flexed so as to raise the knees forward and upward. After passing over the apparatus the body may (1) drop to the squat-stand with arms in the side position from the position of flight, or (2) a vigorous extension of knee and hip joints may occur so that the body will be perfectly straight in the position of flight after it clears the apparatus and before it alights in the squat-stand. (3) It may further be executed by retaining the grip on the pommels long enough to extend the legs forward and then alight. The .last form is generally used by the ladies.

The giant squat-vault is executed over the long-horse by taking momentary support upon the near end (croup.) getting a vigorous push from the point of support and clearing the entire horse in the position of flight, i. e. with knees raised forward and arms sideward.

The squat-vault mount (Vor- oder Rueckhocken in den Sitz) resembles the vault but ends in a position upon the apparatus. It may also be executed left or right forward and backward.

The squat-vault dismount (Hocke in den Stand) consists of the vault frqm a position on the apparatus.

The stoop-vault. (Buecke.)

This is a squat-vault with straight knees, i. e. the hips only are bent. The body straightens immediately after clearing the apparatus and alights in the squat-stand. It is not used as a mount, but occurs frequently and on many apparatus as a dismount.

The squat-straddle-vault over the side-horse. The wolf-vault. (Wolfssprung; Hockgraetsche.)

This vault consists of a squatting movement with one leg, and a straddling movement with the other. It is named according to the leg which straddles. In other respects it resembles the vaults from which it is derived. In execution left the left hand releases its grip first,

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 243 —

i. e. as the body clears the apparatus; the legs are then extended and dosed, the right hand, thrusting against the pommel, assists in bringing the body again to the vertical and it then alights as in the squat-vault. It is seldom used as a mount or dismount.

The long-vault. (Hechtsprung; Laengensprung.)

It requires a vigorous running start and a double take-off which propels the thoroughly extended body entirely over the apparatus. The gymnast alights upon his hands on the mat and immediately executes a roll forward into the stand. It is also performed as a leap upon the shoulders of a gymnast standing where he may catch the vaulter. The one assisting stands from 2 to 4 feet away from the apparatus and then steps back as the gymnast alights with support on his shoulders to enable the vaulter to descend to a squat-stand without previously bending hips or knees. Sometimes a hand-jump is executed from the apparatus onto the mat or shoulders.	:•

The long-vault mount. Laengensprung in den ...............) .

It requires a support upon the apparatus so that the body may be lowered to some position upon it. It is usually executed upon the long-horse or buck. As a dismount it is only used by expert gymnasts, on the horizontal bar and is extremely dangerous.

Combinations of the long-vault with others lead to quite a number of exercises, particularly on the long-horse. The following are the most popular and require but a momentary support upon the far end. (neck) of the horse:—

Long-straddle vault (Laengsgraetsche.)

Long-squat vault (Laengshocke.)

Long-stoop vault (Laengsbuecke.)

Long-scissor vault (Laengsscheersprung.)	.

Fencers’ vaults. Fencers’ vaults are characterized by approach- . ing the apparatus obliquely, by taking off from one foot, and by supporting on one arm only. These vaults (front,, rear, and flank) will1 be described as occurring over the long horse. They may be executed from a stand and a single take-off, one foot being placed backward, and from three to five or an indefinite number of steps start. The starting position is from an oblique stand either close to the horse or on a line forming an acute angle with the long horse.

Front-vault left over long-horse. With a take-off from the right foot on the left side of the horse and with; support on the right arm the body rises to the horizontal, assisted by a vigorous swing of ihei left leg which is immediately joined bv the right. As the body rigeso a y2 turn right about the length axis is'executed, so that the ^lightly/; arched body will be. over The horse .with rits front surface towards it, ., and the left side leading. The left arm' also assists with a vigorous swing upward and i&. lowered to the side position as the gymnasts a-lights in the squat-stand. The right hand remains on the horse. The legs are together and the toes pointed during flight.

Rear-vault left over the 1 png-horse,. With a take-off from the right foot on the right side of the horse and support on-the left arm the left leg and right arm are forcibly swung obliquely fore-upward.

Digitized by Google
— 244 —

As the body rises, the right leg follows, bringing the extended legs together and flexing the hips, so that the feet will be raised head high. The left hand is raised and the right hand takes the support as the body clears the apparatus. The hips are vigorously extended on descending in the squat-stand with the right hand on the horse and the left arm sideward.

Flank-vault left over the horse. This vault is similar to the front vault excepting that there is but a quarter turn right executed about the length axis so that the right side will be turned toward the apparatus. The left side leads and the legs are extended and together, the take-off foot following and closing to the left immediately. A vigorous thrust against the horse brings the body again in the vertical so that it may alight in the squat-stand rearways with both arms in the side position.

The mounts and dismounts of the fencers5 vaults, the latter occurring mainly from the parallel bars, are similar to those of the regular vaults.

Vaults are easiest executed upon such apparatus as are particularly * adapted to the activities composing the vault and progress in difficulty of execution by performing them upon other less suitable apparatus. There is a further progression obtained by adding turns to the vaults. These may occur after or before clearing the apparatus. When occurring before clearing the apparatus they are best designated as ...... vault sideward or backward.	(To	be	continued.)

—From a study of these cases and effects of exercise upon them, I am led to believe that regular progressive exercise of the fundamental muscles during the period of growth and development tend to produce a more staple and more thoroughly organized central and sym-- pathetic nervous system, in instances where deviations from the normal, such as these, are present.—Dr. Everett C. Beach in the “Southern California Practitioner.”	.	,

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information. ,

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa«

.: T.r.. -	.	I	*	<	•'

Digitized by

Google
— 245 —

AAlND ftND BODY ^ Pvbhshed Month*.

m\u uuu I. freidenker publishing co.

Price, 91.00 per Year. Foreign 91.25.	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.

^9" Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W is 'Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—SWIMMING has become very popular during the last few years. The impetus given this splendid exercise by the building of pools in connection with gymnasiums, by the pools in public playgrounds, by the many lake and seashore resorts, and finally by the increasing number of boys’ and girls’ bamps, naturally, has created a great demand for teachers of swimming. Men and women who happened to be good swimmers were engaged as teachers, and soon the country was full of systems and Styles. A cursery glance at the sporting pages of any daily paper, or better still at the illustrated Sunday edition showed us masters in this art who were as dogmatic in their public statements as it is customary for such people to be in this great free country of ours. We recall the statement of one gentleman on the physiological value of the breast-stroke which showed plainly that he did not know what a breast-stroke was. In this issue we print two articles which on account of their statements should be of more than ordinary interest to our readers. Perhaps others will be stimulated to give us the results of their experience and so help clear the atmosphere.

Odds and Ends from the Notebook of a Physical Director.

By GEORGE W. SAAM, Fort Worth, Texas.

Of all the gifts of human nature next to those of a good circulation and a good digestion, comes the gift of good humor. Any instructor imbued with the latter, will have lost an afternoon if he has allowed it to pass without laughing on the gymnasium floor. There are a few places in the world that one associates ;with happiness, and to the writer, one of these is the gymnasium. Kecreation to others is recreation to us, and a mental refreshment is essential to one’s well-being, and when earned out under the high ceiling in well-lighted and ventilated room, . it gives the best results as regards health and pleasure, inasmuch as it makes for the substance of health and Lo the binding of friendships of those working under your command. It is one of the pleasures of life to have a hobby of some sort, and anything relating to' the physical welfare of the other man is the best

hobby. '\	J •

A physical director’s loye of humor furnishes a healthy element to a class, since, ^Ibose who lose the fun of life, lose half the good of it.” There is an immense amount of fun to be gotten,out of the

Digitized by Google
— 246 —

teaching profession, for curious things happen nearly every day. If you} want to enjoy the fun of the work, you must be gifted with a mind that can see amusement even when it is hidden from eyes not especially keen. If one be of the right sort in this matter, one will, on numerous occasions, see fun and enjoyments in incidents which the-ordinary teacher or the extraordinary pupil would easily overlook. There is no individual on the floor who has such favorable opportunities for seeing the humor of the class as the director.

It has been noticeable that great instructors of the present day have generally been men full of exhuberant life, jovial and humerous above the average participants. One can search far among a lot of our number ere one comes across many who have the same appreciation of fun and enjoyment as the man facing the class, if he refuses to be encased by his own armor of dignity.

A physical director’s life, like married life, is largely what one ipakes it. He must be on the floor night and day, and deal with the man who cheers today, and is equally ready to jeer tomorrow. He must turn a deaf ear, however, to both flattery and unfavorable criticism, and work in the spirit of pure delight endeavoring to communicate that spirit to all who take part. A physical director should put his profession above feeling, and make his work independent of it,, and have no time or business to cultivate emotional graces.

Gften-times, unexpected problems relating to the floor bob up,, and more than likely, a trifler will indulge in a levity. He will frequently find it necessary to reproach with optical severity. This we mu$t expect. “If there were not some of that sort, there would not be some of all sorts” meaning, I suppose, that it takes a great many people to make a crowd.

Those taking part in actual gymnasium work, especially the boys,, are mentally not as steady as some would have us believe. All have,, no ^ doubt, met a great many who are as sharp as a dart* and keen and alert for any opportunity to ridicule.

The instructor must pay for the quality of being a martyr to nerves as brittle as porcelain. Often he will get rubbed against the grain. There is no source of strength in teaching at such times as valuable as calmness. This will enable one to stand on the defense and not on the fence. Some directors have no sense of the fitness of things, and are peevish under harmless chaff. Any class can do with such as it likes, treating them like a wheelbarrow, which goes wherever it is pushed. One can sustain one’s dignity even without appearing with a stiffness that would make six feet of pipe envious.

Instructors are often given the opportunity of quaint and naive talks with aspiring novices who imagine they are cut out for the work,, and who anticipate a road of roses. There was a time when young gymnasts and stunt artists took up the work, but time and the advancement of general education, has proven the need of a man, not o^jily of ability, but of character, a drained mind and body.

^ ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 247 —

SPECIAL HYGIENE FOR ADOLESCENTS.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D.

The medieval era was supplanted by the era of humanism and reformation in the latter half of the fifteenth and the first half of the sixteenth century. One of the prime factors in this evolution was the invention of typography by Johann Gutenberg. The castles of the ruling knights fell with the invention of gunpowder; the monasteries of the monks diminished with the establishment of the art of printing. Columbus discovered this continent; Kopernikus changed man’s general view of the world. Italy, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany and England had men to promote and foster the new era. Giovanni Boccacio, Dr. Hieroymus Mercurialis, Dr. Francois Kabelais, Michael de Montaigue, Juan Luis Vives, Ulrich von Hutten, Ulrich Zwingli and Martin Luther; Thomas Moru, Frank Bacon and later Dr. John Locke were men who laid the cornerstone for humanism. Education of man for his own happiness and use became the main principles. True philanthropy and love and friendship for man evolved naturally. After the emancipating work of free humanity from the enslavement of the mind had been well on its way for some years, it was especially Drs. John Locke and Francis Fuller in England and Jean Jacques Eosseau in France who did pioneer work for our new ideas in education. But while these men were writing Johann Bernhard Basedow and Christoph Gotthilf Salzmann acted. Basedow established the “first great normal school for humanity” in Dessau, Germany. Salzmann who was a teacher in Basedow’s philanthropin, established a similar institute at Schnepfenthal near Gotha. His principle was “heaven on earth.” Guths-Muths, “the arch- and grandfather of gymnastics” was a teacher at the Salzmann Insitute for fifty years. According to these men, children should be taught in a playful, pleasant, natural manner, instead of in the old strenuous method of teaching and learning. The aim of these pedagogues was to pave the way for health, resistance, agility and cheerfulness by mental, physical and moral education.

Quickly passing on in history through the eighteenth and nineteenth up to the present century we find the names of Kant, Hegel, Jean Paul, Dr. Plamann, J. H. Pestalozzi, Jahn, Goethe, Schiller, Fichte, Arndt, Spiess, Spencer, Huxley, Herbart, Horace Mann, Col.

F.	Parker, Alfred Maul etc., all of whom contributed to the establishment of an ample and ideal education of man.

Progress, evolution, in educational aims and methods, are as inevitable as the evolution in the arts, in economy, in politics etc. The three E.s have long ago been supplemented by many branches of education. The question is not can we read, write and reckon, the question of today is, what can we do. This implies physical and mental ability. Also, what are we. This pertains to one’s character, a person’s moral qualifications. Education, therefore, is threefold viz. physical, mental and moral. The last two are dependent on the first. Our first efforts must, therefore, be along the lines of physical education. Through it, and by it, we make use of an indispensable
— 248 —

factor, to attain the other two and elevate them to the highest possible summit. Physical exercise is fundamental to intellectual and moral education. It must, therefore, precede these and, after school-age is reached, go hand in hand, side by side, with the development of mental faculties. The last of the three factors entering into the education of man, (moral education,) must precede intellectual schooling and must begin in infancy.

A great deal has been done to develop the brain, much h^s been done to develop the body, something has been done to develop moral propensities and strength of character, but, as yet, very little has been done for the special hygiene of man concerning the sex. Parents who are ignorant of this subject should be enlightened; girls and boys should be taught matters concerning this branch of personal hygiene. As this is considered a delicate subject to handle, teachers, sociologists, etc. have been somewhat reluctant in taking it up. They have been in a quandery as to the method that should be employed. Some advocate special lectures by women to girls, and by men to boys. Others believe that teachers should not be the persons to teach sex hygiene, but that special lectures should be arranged by school physicians for adolescents. Others again believe that this is a matter that does not concern the school, and that it is a matter concerning home-education. There are some advocates of handling the subject from a biologic point of view, others again believe it best to go right ahead and “take the bull by the horns.” There can really be no doubt that this special human hygiene is a matter that concerns the home and the school as well. As very little has been done by school authorities, societies have been organized in various cities for the, enlightenment of the people on this subject. Dne of these is the “American Society of Sanitary and Moral Prophylaxis of IjTew York,” with Dr. Prince A. Morrow as its president. This organization bas^ published the following pamphlets:	“The	young Man’s Problem,” “For

Teachers,” “The Relation of Social Diseases with Marriage and their Prophylaxis,” “The Boy Problem.” The following extracts, of the last named pamphlet are of special interest:	.

“At the present day, with the growing complexity of our modern social life, and with the growth of the socialistic sentiment which looks upon the hqalth of children as the most valuable asset to the State, many duties and responsibilities	were	formerly	thought

to. come exclusively within the province of parents have been relegated to the educator. The trend of our /modern;educational system,is in, the direction of training the body as. well as the mind. The importance of school hygiene is more and more impressing itself upon the - attention of all thinking people. v This, comes from the recognition of the fact that the physical underlies the mental, and that mental efficiency is largely conditioned upon bodily soupeiness and health.”

; “The State, through its educational svsteip, has usurped the function of parents by Concerning itself ‘'wifcfy the correction of defects of sight, hearing, breath mg, as well as the organs concerned in the .ir^Sr tication of food. If these physical defects interfere with the intellec-

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 240 —

iual capacity of the pupils, disorders of the reproductive system are, in many cases at least, no less active causes of backwardness of children. The important relation of the sex function to mental and physical development cannot be too strongly emphasized, and the effects upon the mind are often more marked than upon the body. Boys who suffer from sexual disorders are apt to be restless, dull, or listless, with an inability to concentrate their minds upon their studies. Memory is impaired, and their capacity for mental work is diminished. There is no other physical cause which has such a pronounced effect upon the morale of the individual as sexual disorders/’

As to who shall teach the child the pamphlet tells rs that this should primarily be done by the mother. Although “the work is ■especially difficult, as it deals with the individual in that critical period which attends the awakening of sex.” The teaching of a child should begin from a biologic point of view and nature study is perhaps the best. “The first fact to be impressed is the law of the propagation of life.” Nature studies of the propagation of plants and animals would, therefore, be a good start. “That life is transmitted through seeds or eggs which contain the germinal principle, but which must be fertilized in order to create life.” This introduction may be individual or in groups. They may read some quack literature that is ■only partly true and it is much better “if boys will be talking let them have sound ideas to serve as a basis for their mutual enlightenment. It is simply a question of clearing away the rubbish of error and substituting sound, sanative and wholesome knowledge; in other words, expelling the evil by the good.”

Physicians may be called upon for special lectures on this subject. Boys and girls should be taught separately. Women often show more tact in presenting this subject than men. ; But there is none who can do more for sexual hygiene than the teacher of physical education. , These teachers come in closer contact with the pupils. They are looked upon by boys and girls as their guides to health. The social intercourse between pupils and teachers is one of friendship, respect, and trust. It. is, therefore, natural that the teacher of bodily education should do and does much in this line of hygiene. An appeal based upon bodily development as a motive for purity should have a certain strong and even compelling force with boys among whom an admiration for physical development, strength, and vigor is almost universal.” But it is not only by actual periodical chance teaching that the teacher of physical education does good; “athletics are to be recommended as possessing a possible prophylactic value against the indulgence of sensual propensities.” Martin Luther says:	“It	has	been

well thought and arranged by the ancients, that people exercise and do something honorable and useful, so that they may not be lead into debauchery, impurity, unchasticy, unreasonable eating, drinking and gambling.

“I, therefore, like these two exercises and pastimes best of all, namely music and tournaments with fencing, wrestling etc. of which the first expels the anxiety of the heart and banishes melancholic
250 —

thoughts; the other develops fine, skillful extremities on the body, and maintains it in health by jumping.”

Dr. Henry T. By ford in “Manual of Gynecology” says: “The foundation of the invalidism and unfruitfulness of American womanhood is laid in the first two decades of life. The American girl's habits are too sedentary and her activities too intellectual and emotional. The remedy lies in the reversal of these conditions.

More out-of-doors exercise, more to eat, more sleep, less study, less music, less sewing, less reading, are indicated during the first decade. During the second decade a longer and easier course of instruction, with fewer hours of study and more hours of exercise, such as walking, horseback riding, astride, moderate bicycling, gymnastics, games and housework should be the custom. It is better, physically, mentally, and morally, for a girl to complete her education at twenty-one than at eighteen, taking twice the time for her higher studies and gaining twice the time for exercise and recreation, thus establishing instead of ruining her health.”

Again let me quote from “The Boy Problem:”

“The mind, as well as the body is engaged, and participates in. the benefit. Psychologists tell us that the influence of bodily training upon the mind is scarcely less marked than upon the body, since the centres of motion are localized in the brain, and all definitely directed movements affect the brain and mental development. ‘Such bodily exercises as gymnastics, fencing, swimming, riding, dancing, skating, are much more exercises of the central nervous system, of the brain and spinal marrow, than of the muscles.' Besides, athletic sports bring the individual into contact with his fellows, instead of permitting solitude and morbid self-concentration. The emancipation of the mind from the obsession of sensual thoughts cannot be effected by negative resistance, but only by resolutely turning one’s attention to something else, and thus replace the sensual appeal by some form of physical or intellectual activity. This is especially true when the bodily desires force themselves upon the attention.

Cleanliness is also a valuable prophylactic measure. In many cases it is necessary to remove secretions, the retention of which would otherwise prove a cause of local irritation. As explained before, such local irritation is a common cause of the initiation of bad habits.”

From a physiologic point of view sex hygiene will preserve ene and nutrition.

f a demand is prematurely made upon this nutritive energy to supply a waste from the abnormal secretion and loss of seminal fluid, the general nutrition is impaired and the body does not normally develop into a man.”

And “arduous physical and mental labor is best performed when there is no demand made upon the generative system.*? But, “if the director of gymnastics is to instruct how to live according to the laws of health, he must know what those laws are in order to explain them intelligently.”

“Who shall teach the teachers is largely a pedagogic problem.

Digitized by

Google
— 251 —

There is no doubt an urgent need for the organization of a course of special training teachers for this work. In my opinion no better solution of the problem could be found than the establishment in schools of pedagogy of a special course of instruction in the difficult art of teaching a delicate subject.

So far as regards the introduction of this education in schools it may be said that the principals of certain private schools have solved the problem of educating their boys in the hygiene of sex simply by instructing them in a knowledge of this function as they do of other functions of the body in the course on elementary hygiene. As a result of this innovation they declare that this teaching is not only simple and natural, and received in the proper spirit by the boys, hut constitutes in some respects the most satisfactory and successful feature of their school system.”

Some of the literature on the subject of this special hygiene, at our disposal, is of the highest type and will greatly aid in the propaganda. Dr. Stanley Hall’s “Adolescence” is widely known. “The Renewal of'Life.*’ by Margaret Morley and “Training the Young in the Law« of Sex," by Rev. Hon. E. Littleton, are hooks that should he read by all who are interested in the subject.

Other literature of value on this subject is:

“The Boy Problem, A Study in Social Pedagogy,” by M. B. Pur-hush; “From Youth into Manhood,” by W. S. Hall, M. D.; “Reproduction and Sexual Hygiene,” by W. S. Hall, M. D.; “Woman and Womanhood,” by Caleb W. Saleeby; “Woman’s Life, The Four Epochs of,” by Anna M. Galbraith, M. D.; “Confidential Chats with Boys” and “Confidential Chats with Girls,” by William Lee Howard; “Sex and Society. Studies in the Social Psychology of Sex,” by Wm. T. Thomas; “Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene,” by Wm. Lee Howard; “Woman and Womanhood,” by C. W. Saleeby.

A GILLIWEE PICNIC.

A gymnastic action story by Rachel N. Revell, Des Moines, la.

One afternoon a Gilliwee Band Was walking through a foreign land.

(Insist on good positions of head and shoulders while walking. If the head is up and back the shoulders will generally assume a good position.)

For Gilliwees seldom idle stand When there’s a chance for fun at hand.

So bending freely to and fro With hippity hop the Gilliwees go.

(Bend the body freely from side to side while skipping.)

When to an orchard came the elves They then began to help themselves.

The rosy apples, large and round,

Were put in baskets on the ground.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 252 —

(Rise on toes, raise the arms forward upward and balance; lower the heels; bend forward downward. Position. Take one step and repeat.)

But finding water near at hand Away the happy Gilliwees ran.

This brings a smile to every face For Gilliwees love to run and race.

(Have the children keep their heads up and back, and lift their heels high.)

And in the boat with mirth and fun,

The oars all move as if Twere one.

(Arms in thrust position, lunge obliquely forward left, trunk downward bend, arms downward straighten, touching the floor; weight on the left leg. Trunk upward raise, arms in thrust position, straighten left leg and bend the right leg, changing the weight to the right leg. Repeat two or three times, then take the same exercise, beginning right.)

The Gilliwees are not hard to please And soon are resting at their ease.

With breaths of air so fresh and sweet Their little row is quite complete.

(Raise arms sideward upward taking a deep breath. Lower arms sideward downward breathing out, emptying the lungs thoroughly. Repeat several times taking a step after each breath.)

As through the forest then they go Their knees and toes are raised just so.

For as they walk along intent Their minds on other things are bent.

(Alternate raising of the knees to right angles with the body, the toes extended downward.)

When running softly on their toes They hear the water as it flows.

Or listen to the rustling trees Or watch the lazy bumble bees.

(Run lightly on the toes, lifting the heels high.)

Now twilight bids them cease to roam And calls them to their happy home.

With all the speed that they can find Away to favorite haunts they wind.

(Wind in and out in a serpentine movement, or inward in a circle making it smaller and smaller, then unwinding.)

This active game may be played with or without music.

—Home for Mental Defectives.—A new city home for mental defectives, Denver, was opened for the reception of patients, July 21. The present capacity of the institution is eighty. The first patients admitted were sixteen children, wards of the state, who had been inmates of a private hospital in Pueblo.—Journ. A. M. A.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 253 —

FIELD-DAY MASS EXERCISES FOR 5, 6, 7, AND 8th GRADES.

Arranged by

Anton Leibold, Supervisor Physical Training, Public Schools, Columbus, Ohio.

Arrangement of Pupils : First file from right, boys, next file girls, etc.

Music 4—4 time, “Lincoln Centennial,” E. T. Paul, Publishers, New York.

Introduction 24 counts.

PART I.

Counts.

1.	Mark time four counts raising arms forward overhead

the first count........................................ 1-4

March forward four counts, lower arms to outward (sideward) position	on	the	fifth	count.................. 5-8

Mark time four counts, raising arms overhead on the

ninth count .......................................... 9-12

March backward four counts lowering arms on the thirteenth count.............................................13-16

Repeat from............................. ............... 1-16

2.	Stride forward left	and	raise arms	forward overhead...	1-4

Bend left knee and circle arms inward to upward position,

(4-4 circle)......................... ............... 5-8

Straighten left knee and circle arms inward to upward

position.............................................. 9-12

Starting position........................................13-16

Repeat, but stride forward right and bend right knee .... 1-16

3.	Stride sideward left and	raise	arms	outward .............. 1-4

Bend left knee and circle arms downward to outward position (4-4 circle) ....................................   5-8

Straighten left knee and circle arms downward to outward

position .............................................. 9-1	2

Starting position........................................13-16

Repeat, but stride	sideward	right and bend right knee... 1-16

4.	Stride backward left and	raise arms	forward overhead....	1-4

Bend left knee and circle arms outward to upward position,.

(4-4 circle)........................................... 5-8

Straighten left knee and circle arms-outward to upward

position.............................................. 9-12

Starting position...................................  -.13-16

Repeat, but stride backward right and bend right knee... 1-16

•	Pause................................................... 1-16

128

PART IT.

1. March sideward left two steps four counts, raise arms

outward on the first count............................   1-4

Left-about face while marking time, arms raised overhead

on the fifth count...................................... 5-8

March sideward left two steps four counts, arms lowered

in outward (sideward) position......................... 9-12

Left-about face while marking time, arms down on count

thirteen................................................13-1	6

Repeat, but begin to the right and right about face........ 1-16

Digitized by Google
— 254 —

2.	Boys : Arms to thrust; Girls: Hands on hip, and stride

backward left.................................... 1-2

Bend trunk forward arms outward...................... 3-4

Straighten trunk, boys arms to thrust and girls hands on

hips............................................. 5-6

Starting position.................................... 7-8

Repeat, but stride right............................. 9-16

Repeat from............................................  1-16

3.	Boys : Arms to thrust; Girls : Hands on hips, and stride

sideward left.................................... 1-2

Bend trunk backward arms upward...................... 3-4

Straighten trunk, boys arms to thrust and girls hands on

hips............................................. 5—6

Starting position.................................... 7-8

Repeat but stride right................................  9-16

Repeat from.......................................... 1-16

4.	Boys: Arms to thrust; Girls: Hands on hips, and stride

forward left..................................... 1-2

Bend trunk sideward left and arms outward................ 3-4

Straighten trunk, boys arms to thrust and girls hand on

hips............................................. 5-6

Starting position.................................... 7-8

Repeat, but stride right and bend trunk right........9-16

Repeat from.....................:........................1-16

Repeat Part II..........................................1-128

Pause........................,.........................  1—16

-----272

PART III.

1.	Repeat “March” from Part 1...........................1-32

2.	Touchstep forward left and raise arms forward overhead..	1-4

Lunge forward left and circle arms inward to upward position (4-4 circle).............................. 5-8

Touchstep forward left and circle arms inward to upward

position......................................... 9-12

Starting position....................................13-16

Repeat, but exercise right leg ........................  1—16

3.	Touchstep sideward left and raise arms outward....... 1—4

Lunge sideward left and circle arms downward to outward position, (4-4 circle)...................... 5—8

Touchstep sideward left and circle arm downward to outward position................................... 9-12

Starting position.....................................  13-16

Repeat, but exercise right leg....................... 1-16

4.	Touchstep backward left and raise arms forward overhead	1—4

Lunge backward left and circle arms outward to upward

position (4-4 circle)............................ 5-8

Touchstep backward left and circle arms outward to upward position................................... 9-12

Starting position.......................................J3-16

Repeat, but exercise right leg....................... 1-16

528

Digitized by Google
— 255 —

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

—Pleasure in Physical Education. To make physical education popular among all classes and all ages it is necessary that it combine work with pleasure. Physical training, as taught in most of the schools and gymnasia, in this and in other countries, is nothing but an additional burden for the pupil. The time allotted for it is consumed in administering a series of well-arranged lessons, which require close attention on the part of the pupils. The consequence is that the gymnasium hours are, at times, regarded with even less favor than is any other hour for certain other studies.

This is not because the child does not like gymnastic or athletic work, but because of the almost total absence of the element of pleasure from the programme, and because the strict adherence to so-called educational rules is not to the taste of the pupil, as e. g., a child may be fond of music, but dislike taking lessons.

Music and physical training cannot, however, be judged by the same standard. The latter possesses the happy characteristic of being practiced without much preparatory education, while the former involves a great deal of practice.

In gymnastic work it is not necessary to master a certain degree of technique in order to perform at all. Even a class of beginners is well capable of going through a large amount of physical exercise, and and of deriving a great amount of benefit from it. The fault seems to be with the teachers of physical education, who teach their pupils in gymnastics as they would teach a pupil in the mastering of a musical instrument, impressing them with a lot of little insignificant details, of very little practical value, and making them disgusted with the subject proper, and what we want is wholesome exercise that builds up and perfects the body, but no monotonous drills. If we are unable to interest the pupil, our cause is lost. We have but one way to create interest, and that is by combining actual pleasure with the hardship of the work.

Professor K. Moeller, in an address to an educational society recently, expressed this sentiment as follows;—

“We live in an age of hyper-culture. There is no lack of instructions as to how we should live properly but we are far from living according to Nature’s ways. In our efforts we must not overlook that most important element, pleasure. For the pleasure derived from them we take up such exercises as bicycling, swimming, etc.

“Only when combined with pleasure physical exercises are performed with vigor. In a great many places physical training is made one of the ingredients of the school curriculum, and is thereby robbed of the glamour with which the natural instinct for physical exercises are performed with vigor. Whenever possible it should be undertaken in the open-air and the arrangement of lessons should be such as to favor the development of the general vitality (the lungs and the heart) in preference to the building up a powerful muscular system.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 256 —

“Running games and contests must have a prominent place ii* physical training, since these seem to meet these requirements more-than a monotonous, strictly scientific gymnastic lesson."—From “Health."—London.

—Are Di seases Increasing? There can be no question that tho prevalence of certain diseases has increased during the last half-century. Conspicuous among these are diabetes and nervous diseases, these being due largely to the mental stress of a harder struggle for existence.

The increased consumption of alcohol and the free use of narcotics are also responsible for many morbid conditions unknown to our hardier forebears. But, in comparing the present prevalence of diseases with that of the past, there are several factors for which due allowance is often not made.

One of these factors responsible is that our forefathers died, as a rule, at a considerably younger age than their descendents; if they did not perish by the sword, they were mowed down from time to time by the plague or various devasting epidemics. In this way they escaped many of the diseases, not only of old age, but of advanced middle life. Again, it must not be forgotten that each generation represented, to a much larger extent than is now the case the survival of the fittest. Many of the weaklings died in childhood.

The triumph of the modern hygiene is that* it has preserved a large proportion of these lives; on this we may fairly pride ourselves from the humanitarian point of view; but we must not forget that it has the serious drawback of lowering the general standard of health and of sapping the vigor of the race.

Another factor that must be taken into account in estimating the prevalence of disease is our vastly greater power of recognizing its presence, whatever the form.	;

What, then, is the cause of the multiplication of disease?

Is this multiplicity merely apparent, being due, first, to the progress of the natural sciences, and, next, to the new knowledge we have obtained with reference to pathology?

While the fact of this new knowledge is indisputable, this later hypothesis is insufficient to explain the absolute silence maintained by the most distinguished physicians of past years with reference to a great many of the diseases of our epoch. While biological science has made immense strides in recent years, we cannot deny to the physicians of ancient times a profound spirit of observation. Yet we look in vain for the least mention of diseases such as locomotor ataxia, progressive muscular atrophy, Parkinson's disease, Basedow's disease, general paralysis of the insane, and the different sort of cerebrospinal scleroses, all of which are frequent today.

It is, however, bv no means safe to infer, because no mention is 1o be found in old writers of diseases of obscure and perplexing symptomatology, that they did not exist. They undoubtedly existed but were not recognized.

Where progress has been made, is in the prevention of acute in-
— 257 —

fectious and preventable diseases, so that the average age at death has been greatly extended.

We can prevent to a great extent the diseases incident to middle -and advanced life. What is needed, is to teach the people how to live, .and by judicious early treatment arrest disease at its inception.—The Am. Journal of Clinical Medicine.

—The Blood. Blood is made from the food we eat, and purified by the air we breathe. It naturally follows that to eat good, wholesome food and breathe pure air would insure pure blood. There is another ■element, however, that enters in, and that is the casting out of waste material that renders the blood impure. This often is performed by the bowels, the kidneys, the skin, and the lungs. If, then, we would Lave pure blood, we must see that these organs are kept active. Breathe pure air night and day, being careful to have no clothing which in the least interferes with deep breathing. Eat simple food, use moderate •quantity at regular times, and absolutely nothing between times. Keep the skin active by bathing often, the kidneys active by drinking freely •of pure water, and the bowels active by right food and exercise.

—“Health.”—London.

—Open-Air Schools. Within recent years we have seen a few •open-air schools for children, says Dr. Olsen, in Life and Health, a very important step in the right direction, and one which is bound to bring splendid results; but, like our tuberculosis dispensaries and sanatoria, these open-air schools will have to be multiplied many fold before they will be able to accomodate all the children who require such advantages. As we have already stated, of all individuals children are most susceptible, a nd this is particularly true of the children of tubercular parents.

A properly conducted open-air school is in reality a special sanatorium for children. The children- should be divided into three grades: First, those of tuberculous parentage, children who are perhaps frail, feeble and delicate, and yet who manifest no positive signs of tuberculous disease; second, children who have already contracted consumption, but are still in the incipient stage, and for whom there are ample hopes of recovery; and, third, children in whom the disease has become deep-seated. The last-named class should not be allowed to associate with either the first or the second class.—From “Hvgiene and the Child”

—Sex Hygiene and the Prevention of Sexual Diseases. The State Department of Health has taken the first step in the inauguration of a state-wide campaign of education among women and girls in the important subject of sexual hygiene and the prevention of the disastrous diseases so frequently incident to sexual life. This educational work will be done by means of lectures, circulars, exhibits, etc., and will be carried on in co-operation with women’s organizations, such as women’s clubs, the W. C. T. U., State associations of women’s clubs, the Y. W.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 258 —

C.	A. and women church workers. It is also proposed to reach girls, working in industrial establishments.

In view of the increasing prevalence of cancer in this State and the fact that cancer so often attacks one or more of the sexual organs-of the female, it is proposed to include in the educational campaign some lectures dwelling upon the early diagnosis, means of prevention and necessity for early skilled treatment of cancer. In this particular phase of the subject the Department of Health will have the co-operation of the Xew York State Cancer Laboratory.—Monthly Bulletin Xew York State Department of Health.

—In considering the subject of properly regulated exercise in pulmonary tuberculosis, we must bear in mind that we are not dealing with the body in health, but with the body affected by disease. Exercise which in health would help to build up the normal body and ta increase resistance to disease, might, in this illness, when injudiciously carried out lead to much harm, weakening the resisting powers and hastening the progress of the disease. When judiciously regulated,, however, after the acute manifestations have passed, exercise may bo of inestimable benefit in helping the body to regain, once more, its normal functions and capacity for work.

To sum up, exercise when properly regulated and systematically graded is an important factor in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis. Through it the patient is in many cases returned to home and family with lessened chances of future relapse. At the same time part of his earning capacity is restored and he is consequently financially less dependent upon others, relieving him of much worry, expense and hardship.—Drs. Lawrason Brown and F. H. Heise, in the Journal of the Outdoor Life.

—Training the Baby. The moral training of a child from birth, to-its first birthday is largely synonymous with its physical training. UA healthy mind in a healthy body” applies as truly to the mite in the-craddle as to those of larger growth, and on this strong foundation will the wise mother begin her moral building.

To keep the baby happy, harmonious and healthy, to prepare hk*j for a robust childhood, is the work which confronts every mother at the beginning of each little life. How shall she do this and achieve the best results?

That “babies are not alike” is the excuse of nine out of ten of the mothers who have unhappy and mismanaged infants. Quite true, they are not. For this very reason it follows that mothers should bestow all love and tenderness, remembering that this includes strict adherence to health habits, in order that the less fortunate little life beginners should speedily be transformed into happy babies. Can this change be brought about? Certainly it can!

First—Mothers should cultivate control. Clear the mind of fear and apprehension. Make an earnest resolution to love and trust more the Giver of every good and perfect gift. The mental attitude and its influence are becoming more and more apparent to alt thinking

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 259 —

people and their effect upon very little children is being recognized and appreciated.

Second—Commence from birth and follow carefully the course prescribed for each individual infant as to diet, bathing, airing and every other physical attention. Maintain regularity. Keep to the feeding and slumber hours especially. Love him and pet him to your heart's desire, but when it is time to be put in his bed, put him there. If he cries a few times, or many times, he will finally establish a habit infinitely to his well-being.

Third—As the days pass and consciousness and intelligence develop, teach him the rights of others in respect to attention and possessions. Give to him his own little belongings, with a place set aside for them, thus distinguishing between thine and mine. Teach him not to demand all just because he is the tiniest member of the household. So trained he will almost unconsciously become unselfish and responsible, the best foundation for future moral growth.—From “Hygiene and the Child.”

—“The civilized man has built a coach, but he has lost his feet. He is supported on crutches, but lacks so much support of muscles.”

—Ralph Waldo Emerson on Self-Reliance.

—“Sport is the bloom and glow of a perfect health."—Emerson, on Herosism.

—The Growth of the Playground Movement. It was not so long ago that the idea began to germinate that children in congested districts might be saved by the playground. Some few people had the idea hard. Others received it with becoming suspicion. Xow the playground wave has swept cities, large and small, east and west, north and south, in its wake. Beginning as private philanthrophies, the playgrounds are becoming, in many cities, as much municipal affairs as the schools. We now know that the playground is a good thing, not only for the East Side boy, but for the Fifth Avenue boy. Xot only is it working wonders for the young, but it can also work wonders for adults. We are now learning that recreation—re-creation—is a duty which should be binding on all of us during life. It is not a question as to whether one has the time and means to take recreation. He has not the time and means not to take it, for proper recreation is a preserver of time and means and health and an augmenter of efficiency.

—Life and Health.

—$10,000 for Babies. The Cleveland city council has set a pace which other cities ought to try to follow. It has recently voted $10,000 for baby saving in the densely populated districts. Four new dispensaries have been opened for infant * welfare work, with trained nurses and physicians.—“Hygiene and the Child.”

—“Physical exercise is of value in the prevention of tuberculosis first, because it accelerates the blood current, bringing increased nutrition to the whole body; secondly, because it increases the general health and vigor and thus presents a greater fighting force against our

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 260 —

common enemy, disease; and lastly, because exercise develops the body and tends to eradicate the physical defects which accompany poor physiques and which pre-dispose to the development of tuberculosis. Dr. Hy. M. Friedman, in "Journal of the Outdoor Life.” July ’12.

—School-Children’s Teeth. About sixty per cent, of the children so far examined in the New York schools have been found to have defective teeth. The establishment of a free dental clinic and of a regular system for the inspection of pupils’ teeth is being agitated as a result of this investigation.—'"'Hygiene and the Child.”

—Division of Cold Storage. All retail establishments throughout the State of New York, selling cold storage food, have been officially inspected and have been notified that they must display in their establishments a sign bearing the words "Cold Storage” whenever they offer for sale any poultry, fish or eggs which have been kept in cold storage. The work of inspection will be continued, and retailers failing to comply with the law will be prosecuted as the law provides. —"Monthly Bulletin, N. Y. State Department of Health.”

"The first wealth is health.”—Emerson.

—Swimmers’ Cramp. "Cramp” is a name popularly applied to a painful spasm of a muscle or part of a muscle. Death from drowning, of course, is the result of the individual’s inability to move his limbs properly. It has been suggested that the spasm of the muscle may be due to ischemia produced by the cold water and the exercise. Another enxplanation of many drownings on account of alleged cramps is that the person has what is called water-choke, a reflex spasm of the larynx caused by water accidentally entering between the true and the false vocal cords, interfering with breathing, frightening the person and rendering him unable to call for assistance. As the choking person makes no outcry, it is not noticed by his companions, if he has any, that he is in distress. In case spasm attacks the swimmer’s legs, the suggestion to sit in the water, making a "tub” as it is called, and supporting oneself by the use of the hands, is a good one. In view of the scanty literature on the subject and of the practical importance of the matter, especially as the swimming season is now at hand, we invite experiences or suggestions from our readers with reference to the nature of the affection and its prevention.-^-Journ. A. M. A. July 6, ’12.

—The Provisional Program of the Congress on Hygiene and Demography. The provisional program of the coming International Congress on Hygiene and Demography to convene in Washington this September, recently issued, is a pamphlet of 100 pages, printed in French, English and German, and contains, in addition to the program of papers and addresses, a list of the officers and the committees of the various states and countries. The program in the two divisions of hygiene and demography contains papers by distinguished men from all parts of the world, covering in a most comprehensive way the progress of

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 261 —

these two departments of sanitary science. In the few days in which the congress is to continue, of course it would be impossible for any individual to hear more than a small fraction of the papers, addresses and discussions; but the printed transactions of the congress will constitute a most comprehensive and valuable source of information concerning all aspects of domestic, municipal and national sanitation. Hence these transactions will- be well worth the cost of membership— five dollars. Occurring at the seat of our government, the proceedings of the congress may open the eyes of some of the benighted congressmen who oppose the establishment of a national department of public health. With the eyes of the world focused on this meeting, these men may realize the tremendous importance of national and international health questions and the necessity of establishing adequate administrative machinery for carrying out the measures which sanitary science has determined are absolutely necessary for the improvement and preservation of public health.—Journ. A. M. A.

—Avoidance of Swimmers* Cramp. To the Editor:—Swimmers* cramp (the discussion of which began in The Journal, July 6, p. 53), is a condition well worthy of consideration. As it is the irony of fate to be thus attacked when immediate assistance cannot be obtained, preparedness is our most valuable asset. During the past few years I have had the pleasure of swimming in both the Atlantic and Pacific oceans quite frequently. A few hours* ride across the isthmus will permit one to enjoy both on the same day. My longest swim has been from Corozal to Balboa, a trifle over two miles. On several occasions in my earlier experience I have been embarrassed by the occurrence of severe “cramps** affecting the flexor group of muscles of one or both lower extremities. This usually developed after a strenuous effort continued for some time against a strong current or a heavy sea, the water being moderately warm.

I have found that the safest and most comfortable way to enjoy oneself in the water is to acquire the confidence which is given by the ability to float, and the knowledge that whenever exhausted one can .slip over on the back and rest, or in case of “cramp** permit the circulation to return to normal and the tonic spasm of the muscles to subside, which usually occurs within a few minutes. Then, until confidence is fully restored, one may swim leisurely along on the back. This' is far superior to the “tub** position, which does not permit the complete relaxation of all the limbs. Because of greater specific gravity, salt water is much more buoyant than fresh water.

Symmetrical swimming, if I may coin the term, whether it be the Australian crawl or one of the other overhand or under-water strokes, has much to recommend it, as it distributes the exercise equally and avoids overuse of any one extremity. By this term I mean the alternate use of one arm and one leg, which produces a rhythnv somewhat similar to that of the pacer, but of slower cadence. This is not necessarily a rapid method of water locomotion, but in my opinion it borders closely on the natural movement of the arms and legs when the pedestrian is swinging along at his natural gait,and under favorable condi-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 262 —

tions might be continued for long distances in water without causing excessive fatigue.

Mouth-breathing I find obviates to a great extent the tendency to water-choke, or reflex spasm of the larynx. For instance, during inspiration through the mouth, should an especially vicious whitecap strike the posterior pharyngeal wall, a forced expiratory blast relieves the situation and by rapidly turning the head aside the inspiration can be completed, whereas water inadvertently drawn through the anterior and posterior nares cannot be so readily disposed of and is more frequently aspirated into the larynx. Digestion should be well advanced after a full meal before one enters the water, sav an hour or two, so fhat the blood from the splanchnic area may be spared for surface warmth of the body. E. B. Gleason of Philadelphia is of the opinion that many cases of drowning probably follow a severe aural vertigo from suddenly increased interlabyrinthine pressure caused by severe buffeting in the surf. He recommends that patients with ear diseases tampon the external auditory canal during bathing, with petrolatum-covered cotton.	Charles M. Strotz, M. D., Paraiso, C. Z.

—Journ. A. M. A. Aug. 3, 1912.

—Unite to Teach Sex Hygiene.—The American Federation of Sex Hygiene was incorporated with the Secretary of State of New York, on July 1, to operate throughout the country. Its purpose is the voluntary education of the public in the physiology and hygiene of sex, including the study and application of every means, educational, sanitary, moral and legislative, for the prevention of vice and its diseases. The principle office of the corporation will he located in New York City.—Journ. A. M. A.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

The fall semester of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis, Inch, began Sept. 16. with 66 students enrolled. This is an increase of 20 over last year. 32 of the students are men and 34 women. Following is a list of the * students:

Seniors:—Alfred G. Almassv, George Altmann. Flora M. Bush, Susan Denny. Sophie Eid, Arlington Evans. Jennie Gahl, Mable Gipe, Wm. S. Hansen. Alex A. Harwich, Eugene L. Heck. Elsa K. Hein, Gustav Heine-tnann, Eugene Hofmeister, Grace P. Holbrook, Lillian A. Hopkins, Geo. AY. Lipps, Lawrence H. Molis. Grover W. Mueller, Bobert Nohr, John Schwarz, Lena Suter, Herwig Toeppen, Irene Wuestefeld, Erna M. YYuest-hotf.

Juniors:—F. Elva Arbuckle, Ceona Bergemann, Lucile Belzer, Paul

S.	Cochran, Marguerite Conger, Walter A. C<rx, Ada B. Crozier. Elmer O. Eichenlaub. Erna Hildegard Fritson, Joseph Henry Foertsch, Max Paul Grueb, Ella Louise Haeseler, Edna Mae Harrigan. Otto Harz, Cecelia Heil-brunn, Carl Hein, Edward Hell, Gertrude Krug, Jessie Langsdorf, Julia Lindenschmidt, Margaret Metzger. Ena Gertrude Naffz, May Paddock, Arthur H. Pfatf, Margery Allen Reynolds, Charlotte Boos. Anna Schmook, Harriet Eva Schrader, Hilda Scliuman, Eugene Seitz, Viola Seitz, Aline Shields, Armin Steelier, Kate B. Steiehmaun. Carl A. Varrelmann.

Elementary Class:—Henry Kaelble, Frank B. Ohm. Otto Steffen, F. H. Wiebesick, Louis A. Zinsmeister, Leopold Zwarg.

The faculty remains substantionally the same as last year, two new

Digitized by y.ooQie
— 263 —

teachers for chemistry. Dr. D. W. Foster and Mr. A. F. Haller, a teacher for voice development, Mrs. Jennie Ormsby, and a teacher for football, Mr. TV. W. Gipe, having- been added.

NOTES FROM NEWARK.

With the opening of this school year, two new gymnasiums were dedicated to the children of Newark, N. J. The men appointed to fill the positions in there gvmnasiums are Mr. J. A. Molloy and Mr. C. M. Baumann. An addition to the high school staff of teachers was made in the acquisition of Miss Eliza Morris. But still the cry goes out from Newark: “More teachers and good ones.” The system is constantly growing. Within a year seven new gymnasiums should be completed and opportuuity given for perhaps ten efficient instructors.

The Newark Physical Education Society has applied for membership in the American Physical Education Society. Heretofore the members have been affiliated with the New York P. E. S., but owing to the rapid increase in membership in Newark, it was thought best to make application in the national association. The convention of the American Physical Education Society will be held in Newark during the spring of 1913. Preparations are being made this a memorable event.

Mr. Carl Anderson, Physical Director of the Central High School, was given leave of absence with pay, to visit and make a report on the Olympic Games at Sweden. Mr. Lewis Field and Mr. Ernst H. Seibert, members of the Newark staff of Physical directors, attended the Harvard Summer School and received diplomas for the four years ’course, while Mr. Lester A. Palmer, another member, successfully completed his third year.

TWENTY FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL.

While the summer school has shown a constant growth from year to year and while it was expected that the anniversary year would be no exception, it was against all expectation to find the registration to sum up to two hundred and twenty-two, which is an increase of thirty-six over last year. Of the total number ninety-five were men and the remainder women. Practically every state of the Union was represented and it is an encouraging fact that the calibre of students is better year after year. There are a great number of college graduates who come for serious work and plan their work toward the coveted diploma, the standard for which is very high. Graduates from all the physical training Normal Schools are among the students, who likewise work for this diploma. To these Harvard University gives full credit for work done in any one of the recognized professional schools, so that they finish in either one or two summer courses. The school is visited by imanv heads of schools who seek teachers as they have an opportunity of seeing possible candidates at work. It is a strenuous course, work beginning at eight in the morning and lasting till six at night, with just one hour out at noon. Dr. Sargent is on duty during all these hours and keeps a critical eye on the various departments, a fact which is an inspiration to the instructors as well as to the students. The weekly social functions with the big final dance served to make the sacrificed vacation delightful in spite of the ardent duties.

BOOK REVIEW.

—CURRENT EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES by John P. Garber, Ph. D. 387 pages. 5 by 8 inches. Published by the J. B. Lippin-cott Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Mailing price, $1.38.

In chapter I Dr. Garber says “There are four things in which the educational and social worlds have taken a vital interest during the last few years. These are (1) educating for life; (2) play, athletics.

Digitized by e.ooQle
— 264 —

and legitimate amusements; (3) public health; and (4) training for citizenship in a republic.” In the current volume Part I, with two chapters, is devoted to Recreation, Play, Athletics, and to the influence that play and physical training have upon mental and moral defectives. The other six parts with eleven additional chapters treat of other vital educational problems. While our readers will be interested mainly in the masterly presentation of the problems of play and recreation in schools and in public, the other parts of the book will be of equal interest to all teachers and to parents who wish to keep abreast of the-great movements that are moulding our educational agencies.

—FACTS FOR THE MARRIED by William Lee Howard, M. D. 161 pages, 5 by 7^/j inches. Published by Edward J. Cole, New York,

N.	Y. Mailing price, $1.10.

In the foreword the author says:

The three carindal principles of complete manhood or womanhood are moral, physical and sex health. Without sex health there can be no surety of moral and physical health. Sex activity, sex control, sex knowledge, is the middle link which holds together the other two factors—moral and physical balance.

This book is written in the form of consultations. Each consultation takes up with husband and wife a different phase of sex relations—health, difficulties, correct habits, dissimilarity of temperament, and a multitude of questions confronting married people, about which there are at present only hazy or wrong ideas.

—THE REORGANIZED PLAYGROUND by Henry S. Curtis is a pamphlet published by the United States Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. which may be had for the asking. Its 18 pages are full of splendid suggestions. The note on page 10 by the article of the department publications about the value of placing school houses in the center of the school grounds shows that the editor has much to learn about the value of space for play purposes, especially of supervised play.

—LIFE'S BEGINNINGS by Winfield S. Hall, M. D. 39 pages, 4% by 7 inches. Published by the Association Press, New York, N. Y. Mailing price, 25 cents. This is one of the study numbers on sex education published by the International Committee of the Young Men’s Christian Association.

—THE SOCIAL EVIL AND METHODS OF TREATMENT by Orrin G. Cocks, M. D. 68 pages, 4y2 by 7 inches is another booklet of the same service published at the same price by the International Committee. These books are very helpful in understanding the great problem confronting teachers and parents, i. e. the sex problem. They are highly recommended. In pamphlet edition both books sell at $7.50 per hundred, carriage charges added.

Digitized by C^ooQle