University of Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27	DECEMBER 1920	No.	293

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mian.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMILRATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as secondrclass matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

“SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SYMBOLISM AND RITUAL OF THE CAMP FIRE IN ADOLESCENT EDUCATION0.

CARROL D. PEARSE

President of the Milwaukee Normal School.

Mr. Chairman and Friends:	I	do	not quite know how I shall meet

Mr. Scott’s expectations this afternoon, because I am not a scientific student of the symbolism of the Camp Fire. I am rather a rank outsider, who, by unfortunate limitations, am as much barred from being a Camp Fire girl as a man born in Germany can be from being president of the United States. The accident of my birth prevents my enjoying that distinction, but I have watched the movement with a very great deal of interest and I have rejoiced, as I think many others have, at the coming into life of the American girl and this beautiful and strengthening influence.

The Greeks worship duty, and in a period following the one in which they had cultivated the physical beauty of their race and their strength and their virility and their grace, for generations, they had the finest lowering of intellectual and artistic beauty that the world has ever seen, so I think it is not beneath the dignity of us who wish well to these *

* Read at the Superintendents' Meeting of the N. E. A., Chicago, /p/p.

Digitized by V.ooQLe
306

girls of ours to seek beauty and to love it and to dignify it, so that that phase of the work of the Camp Fire girls has never repelled me at all, it has never made me feel, although I suppose I am obliged by the exigencies of the situation to be a practical man in the administration of practical affairs. I have rather welcomed it.

I know that the Normal School, in which I have the privilege of working, has believed in the Camp Fire Girls. There have been instructors to give courses preparing Camp Fire guardians, and the girls have been able to choose, to elect, this course as an elective course for a Normal School credit, counting it toward graduation, and we have sent out from the school a good many girls who turned out to be teachers of the usual schoolroom work and who have also qualified to become Camp Fire guardians and leaders, not merely by their interest in the work but by their familiarity with the phases and the methods by which this work is to be carried on. I mention this only incidentally to show you my belief in it. My attitude in the matter might be perhaps a little that of the old-fashioned man. I have rather a liking for finding in the girls I know some little touch of mystery, some little touch of idealism, some little touch of something that is not just common, like a newspaper. And so I have welcomed this in each visitor, that spirit of idealism, which taught the girt to seek beauty as well as taught many other of the fine ideals which we love to see in the girls we love and in the women whom we know.	•

The symbolism is one of the least repellent things. We have symbolism all about. We wear garments, we men, that symbolize the fact that we are men, and women wear garments that symbolize the fact that they are women. We have been doing a lot of things for the Army and a lot of things for the Navy, and I don’t know of any place where there is a more thorough arrangement of symbolism than in the Army and in the Navy. We have symbols upon the sleeve of the lad who has acquired his rating in the Navy, symbols that show whether he is of the first class or the second class, whether he is a chief yeoman or whether he is an officer, whether he has the commission of an ensign or the commission of a lieutenant of the first grade or a lieutenant of the second grade; in the Army, whether he is a corporal or whether he is going to be a corporal the next time he is promoted, whether he is a sergeant or a top sergeant, a lieutenant or a captain, a major or a general and what kind of general he is. This line of symbols shows the rank and shows facts.

And we have live symbols. Now, these symbols to these girls mean interesting things: They mean achievement, they mean accomplishment, they mean a striving after ideals and, while I do not understand the symbolism—I am not wise in the details of symbolism—I know what these things mean to children in general and what they mean to girls, and so I have welcomed this, I have believed in it. I believe that the study of something which is not wholly upon the surface, which requires thought and which represents something that lies back of it, I believe that the person who holds the ideal and works out the plan or the symbol which means something also to those with whom she associates, that it may not mean to every person that she meets upon the street, is worth while.

I have been interested to see the influences that this Camp Fire work has upon the girls, who are in these Camp Fires, the interest that they

Digitized by CjOOQle
307

take, the charm and freedom and initiative which are developed by their ceremonies, by their lessons, and to observe that they work to their ideals, the standards held up to them.

There is perhaps one thing we have noticed in this war that is more striking than anything else, and that is the ability of the American soldier, to respond to conditions, to environment, to necessities, as no other soldier in the world is able to do. The other soldier has been trained, coaxed; he is a skilled workman in his trade, but the American man has brought to his study of the art military a kind of enthusiasm, a consuming idealism, an application to the task in hand, that have made him able to learn in a short time what other men have	taken	years to	acquire, and

have sent him into	the fight not merely qualified	in details	in the tech-

nique of his profession, but with a spiritual power, with the ability to handle himself and to put forth the thing that he is trying to do and which has been the idealising of the intention and the power of initiative that has grown out of the somewhat loose organization of our life, in which everyone has felt that he had his chance, everyone felt that he had his responsibility, everyone felt that he was expected to show something of his own, and so these girls in these Camp Fires, in working out their symbols, in selecting their own names and telling their own stories about their symbols after they have been advised, and explaining the significance which the thing has	to them, are cultivating	a side	of nature	which every

American man and	every American woman	needs	to have.	It is these

little crafts in which the girl bears responsibility and learns to be responsible that are developing the quality of leadership, developing the ability to organize, the ability to work with others either as led or as leaders, that is going to be invaluable to the women of this country who are now in many states full citizens of the state and who are in all the states going to be full citizens within a little while, going to bear their share of the responsibility, and with the privileges that will come to them will come the sense of responsibility which I think in some respects they will bear better and more universally than their brothers, husbands and friends have been bearing them sometimes in the past. So much for that side of it, that organization side, that training in the art of co-operation and organization and leadership that is so vital a part of our American ideal of education.

I am interested to speak of this matter of the Cartip Fire Girls here in this room. Some eight and a half years ago, about 200 feet from where we now stand, I got my first real good look into Camp Fire work. I had been chosen to preside over the deliberations of the National Education Association, which met in Chicago that year, and the general meetings were held in the Auditorium Theater, where the N. E. A. was held this morning.

At the closing session it had been suggested to me that Dr. Gulick, now “gone across” that Dr. Luther H. Gulick had a great new idea for girls, and that it would be worth while for the National Education Association to give Dr. Gulick a hearing, and I wrote to him, being in search of new and worth while things for the program, and his reply to me indicated that what he had was worth while, and I put him on the big closing program for Friday evening. Dr. Ormsby was on the same program, and other strong speakers of the National Education Association.

Digitized by CaOOQle
308

Dr. Gulick’s name was placecfon^the program^and^a short time before the meeting he wrote me saying that he wanted to divide his time with one of his assistants. He said, “I have a young woman who has beem working with me and I want you and these people to hear her”. Well, I didn't know whether the girl that he told about could put anything across in a hall that seated four thousand people, and I didn't want somebody talking that couldn’t make people hear or couldn’t make them understand, couldn’t send home the thing she was talking about, so I wrote to Dr. Gulick and told him my doubts, and he said, “Don’t you have any anxiety about her. I will be responsible for what will happen.” So I divided Dr. Gulick’s time with her and when his time came to talk he came to the front and made his talk for about twelve minutes, and then he said, “I wish to introduce Miss Gerda Sebbelov, who is my assistant,” and the great audience of four thousand people who packed that hall listened to the story of the Camp Fire Girls and the origin of their rites, by one who perhaps had as much to do with its origin and its mysteries and its symbolism as anyone has had.

The story of the girl herself was interesting:	A	student	of a uni-

versity in Russia, suspected as all university students were of revolutionary tendencies, of being politically dangerous, leaving her native country and taking in the University of Copenhagen for the remainder o her education, specializing in anthropology and the study of the craft of the social institutions among us people of the world and then going for a year or two years to Greenland and living among the North Greenland Esquimaux in the very primitive conditions of that country, and then a year after that going with the Platte Indians, of whom I gained something as a little boy, and getting the views of life, their customs and usages and the symbolisms among them, and with this background, this knowledge of the life of primitive people and especially the life of primitive women, coming to the working out of this plan for the girls of America and of the world, and I have been tremendously interested to see from the outside of this Camp Fire work, when one knows the background, the suggestions that can be traced back to the life of the primitive woman. The lives of women in the most primitive society among men and people are very much the same, and while their civilization has been modified and the material things in their lives have been changed, yet after all we go back to the primitive and there is a natural division of labor and there are natural social requirements of men and of women, and it has been most interesting to me to study these and to note these points of the Camp Fire work in the line of the suggestions that I have got.

It is said that the best trained man, the most thorough gentleman, is the man who knows how to comport himself in any society, who can comport himself acceptably in the society which we consider the most select, and who, also, if he should happen to be cast away upon a desert island, would know where to find food and how to prepare it for his use, how to clothe himself and how to provide generally for himself, and perhaps, not quite in the same degree, the ideal for the finest trained woman might be that woman who can comport herself gracefully, graciously, acceptably, in any state or class of society, whether the most carefully trained, the most civilized in its finish, or whether under circum-

i ~

Digitized by CjOOQle
stances which make it desirable for her to exercise those qualities and show those abilities which the primitive woman since the mystic dawn of history has been called upon to exercise.

Now, this has been rather a rambling talk and as I said in the beginning, not at all a scientific discussion or a story of the symbolism of the Camp Fire craft, but a little suggestion from a knowledge of the workings of these symbols and the gerieral idea underlying the organization that has appealed to me, and I should be sorry to see our girls trained, no matter to what efficiency of political or social leadership, I should be sorry to see them trained to whatever efficiency in the household arts and in the arts of the home maker and the homekeeper, I should be sorry to see these things if from any lack of symbolism I saw shattered in the Camp Fire girls the touch of poetry, the touch of reverence, the touch of the little mystery that does not come forth and show from the surface, that the work seems to me to offer in this Camp Fire organization.

“HOW THE CAMP FIRE GIRLS* PROGRAM WORKS IN ACTUAL APPLICATION Tq THE PUBLIC SCHOOL”*

FLORENCE HEINTZ

Assistant Supervisor of Art and in Charge of Camp Fire Girls' Work in the Grand Rapids Public Schools,,

Grand Rapids has for several years had recreation for student girls under the social center department of the Board of Education. With this appropriation every possible girls’ organization and recreation program has been tried out. Now the Camp Fire Girls’ organization with its excellent program for all around development of the girl is being used and is working very successfully.

Grand Rapids is a city of 140,000, with a public school system of 40 schools. There are three large high schools and two junior high schools. Th^re are at present thirty groups of Camp Fire Girls in the twenty schools having junior high grades. All Camp Fires have twenty members, making an organized group of 600 student girls with the Camp Fire law as their aim.

Previous to the decision to use the Camp Fire programme, a club called the Sister Susies lived through one year, ending with a small but successful camp in the summer. At the opening of the fall term the demand for membership was great, for every girl had heard of the activities of the different groups and of the camp. Lack of material, extension programme and spiritual side of the organization made our Sister Susies impossible. It was decided that Camp Fire systematically directed would satisfy the needs. The so thought element of expense has been easily met by understanding and new management.

To open up Camp Fire work in a high school a Guardian is appointed by the principal of school and Camp Fire Director. Then twenty

* Read at the Superintendents* Meeting of the N. E, A.y Chicago, /p/p.

Digitized by Google
310

« girls are selected. Great precaution is taken there, for these 20 girls are to set the standard for all the Camp Fire work there. Either the session room teacher, the principal or physical training teacher chooses the girls. This choice varies as to the opinion of the principal, some choose by character, others by scholarship or merit and still others by need of some outside recreation. As conditions differ, methods must differ. If there ate a good many girls' organizations already, then the girls who need Camp Fire are given the opportunity. This has caused some very interesting Camp Fires among commercial students who otherwise, because of their work, lose some of the joy and beauty of other courses. In some cases, where democracy has been the basis of school organizations and an all-school community club has been the entire source of activity, a single Camp Fire will be started among the merited leaders, usually Juniors. Two months will pass before another will be started. This causes great enthusiasm and of the lasting kind. Camp Fire becomes a thing that any girl may strive for and remains high in the opinion of all. There is a marked effect upon the girl herself. Her school work must be kept up or she must stop Camp Fire activities until her scholarship is raised. She is a better team worker both in classes and outside. Her friendship that heretofore had beert given to one or two chums is given to the group of twenty girls. In the community she is a leader in

recreation for the younger children and community service.

\

In one of the schools there is a large class of foreign speaking mothers studying English after* school. The Camp Fire Girls have two groups of little children entertaining them while the mothers are busy. After a service meeting it is common to have the Camp Fire Girls take work to distribute to her neighbors and family. In this way many workers are reached to aid in community service. All Camp Fire Girls are leaders in one way or another. This requires and so develops leadership, self-reliance, and resourcefulness. Camp Fire Girls do things as well as knowing how to do them, often using their own methods.

We feel that Camp Fire is really wonderful in its adaptability to all departments of education, art, craft, nature study, physical training, and English. Is there a better place than a spread to apply all they learn in domestic science about balanced menus and buying? One of pur favorite schemes is for each girl to bring an apple and a potato and ten cents. Three collect the two collars and buy the food, planning the quantities from the menu given them by the cooking committee. Five cook the meal. The remaining thirteen must play in the gym until all is ready. Enough to eat, no waste, and to have the cooks in the kitchen think well of all is the motto.

The many honors cover nearly all the departments of school work and there has been good co-operation between teacher and Guardian. Girls are given credit in school for work done in Camp Fire, and credit is given in Camp Fire for school work.

The guardians are not all teachers; those who are, teach special subjects as art, physical education or music. Their Camp Fire Girls are very often not their pupils in school, but come from another building or are in other lines of work. A few of the guardians are college seniors who gain experience in working with the girls and receive college credit

Digitized by C^ooQle
311

for their work. They make excellent leaders and put into it great enthusiasm.

All guardians being unacquainted with Camp Fire, it has been necessary to hold a guardians* training class. They meet after school every two' weeks. Here the work is outlined and material assigned and songs and methods taught.

The groups meet once a week after school, meetings lasting usually two hours. They meet in the school, using the rooms needed for the work at	that	meeting. All Camp Flies	have twenty	members, which

is the outside	limit allowed by	National	Headquarters,	and	attendance

averages eighteen per meeting. There are four meetings a month, one is the business meeting where work for the month is planned out and committees appointed, next is the Council Fire, awarding honors for month previous to business meeting. It is desired that the Council Fire be held in the homes as we feel that this is very essential. The third meeting is a health meeting and varies from a hike, skating party, to a talk on hygiene or bandaging. The fourth meeting is a service meeting. All of the 600 Camp Fire Girls belong to the Community Service League and this furnishes us with service material. For the past two months the girls	have	filled two huge	boxes of	playthings for the	childrens’

hospital.	This	month all girls	help the	War Relief.	Next	month all

will make baby layettes for our Baby Clinic. Following that each group chooses its own material and reports the work done.

In a large high school where there are several Camp Fires there remain still many who for one reason or another cannot join. To democratize and bring all girls of the school together, a large girls* meet or get-together is called semi-annually. Here wholesome recreation with a spread for all and stunts by various classes or groups brings all nearer together into a closer sisterhood for the following of the Camp F re Law, “To Seek Beauty, Give Service, Pursue Knowledge, Be Trustworthy, Hold on to Health, Gloiify Work, and Be Happy**.

“THE VALUE OF CRAFTS AND HANDIWORK IN THE EDUCATION OF GIRLS.***

ELIZABETH E. LANGLEY

Lately of Chicago University, and Novo Working as Organizer for the Ameru canization Bureau of the University of the State of New York.

Six years ago there was no such thing as Camp Fire Girls. Today the organization numbers 100,oco members. All indicat ons are that in a short time there will be many more thousands. Now why should there be any Camp Fire? Why should we prophesy a phenomenal growth? What qualities has a Camp Fire Organization, that would seem to justify its existence? One thing that favors growth is that it is happily named. It would be difficult o overestimate the importance of a name. Suppose the Camp, Fire Girls had been named the Sunshine Club or the

* Read at the Superintendents' Meeting of the N. E. A.y Chicago, /p/p.

Digitized by CjOOQle
312

Golden Star, or any other name which, however suggestive of aspiration and service, was yet essentially sentimental in its connotation. But the name Camp Fire at once brings up visions of wholesome and normal activity, of freedom, of adventure, variety.

2.	It responds to the natural gregariousness of youth. Boys and girls in the adolescent period must have societies. Some of these societies, in the case of fraternities and sororities have been felt to have evil influences and every effort has been made to stamp them out but something must take their place. If societies that boys and girls have formed for themselves have proved to do more harm than good, other societies must be given them which are good in their tendencies. Most of the substitutes provided by adults to meet this situation have proved inadequate—the club rooms developed in many public and private schools by well meaning and sincere educators with the hope of furnishing some opportunity for social intercourse and organization. As a substitute, these sororities, have for some reason been only partially successful. They have not met with an enthusiastic response from the very people they hoped to benefit.

One reason why the Camp Fire has succeeded and drawn in its ioo,-ooo volunteer members where the clubs have met only a lukewarm allegiance, is that the Camp Fi e has given a chance for full self expression and has grown from within out and the clubs have been largely Lste ed by benevolent external coddling.

3.	Another reason for the growth of the Camp Fire is its emphasis on the practical application of every theory. There is no statement in its creed that does not demand a concrete expression. In the West Virginia mountains an old man went to a camp of college girls and asked if some girl there could milk because his old woman had sprained her wrist. These girls knew that milking was considered woman’s business in that part of the country and hastened to present an apology. “You see Mr. S.,” said one of the girls, “we go to school, where there aren’t any cows, so we have never had a chance to learn to milk." “Oh,” said Mr. S., with a well bred desire to ease their humiliation, “I see how 'tis, you spend all your time lamin’ to larn and of course you don’t hev time to larn to dew things.’’ Well, that is not the Camp Fire method. They larn to larn, but they also larn to do things! The respiration, the growth of a benevolent impulse is counted of value only when translated into some action.

Sympathy for stranded foreigners is a creditable emotion, but it is the task of the Camp Fire Girl to translate this emotion into action, her feeling becomes constructive when she personally connects the immigrant with helpful agencies such as the church, the school, the library, and the bank.

Domestic economy, conservation, child welfare and patriotism become something more than names when a girl buys a Liberty Bond with her own earnings, when she works in the canning kitchen four hours a week, when she raises three bushels of beans or onions. It is, ir^deed, impossible to over-estimate the value of turning a thought or a feeling into an act.

The Camp Fire rules do something more than demanding concr te expression. They give a list of definite concrete things that wou’d be

Digitized by
313

valuable service in any community. Such a list might be criticised as being unduly rigid, but the very rigidity of the demand prevents a loose and vague feeling of the conditions. To walk, as a health measure, is one thing. To know that you walk ioo miles a month is a very definite thing. You are held to a standard without which you would almost insensibly grow lax.

Another vital and promising element in the Camp Fire movement is its genuine democracy. The dues are so small that anyone can join. The qualifications for eligibility depend on personality and not on pedigree or social position.	,

Another wise provision in this large organization is the small group system. With only 20 around the fire there is real exchange of experience, freedom of comment without shyness or self consciousness and a resultant co-operation. The definite limitation of the group prevents the sort of competition for members that would inevitably arise if groups could be of different sizes, and leads to the development of new groups and thus to the development of the whole organization. In the small group, tlje leader or guardian without being overtaxed, comes into close touch with each member of the group and can helpfully follow out the development of individuals, interpret and’ direct their idiosyncrasies. The work of the world is done in small groups. Inspiration may go from one person to a crowd, but the working out of the inspired plan is accomplished only in the small group. It is a dangerous modern tendency to measure values by size, noise, bulk, rather than by quality. We are learning about the intensive cultivation of gardens. The intensive cultivation of people is of equal significance.

One of the most important elements in the Camp Fire movement is the emphasis on the right, the possibility and the duty of being well. A learned 18th century physician advised his daughter if she wished to be charming to dance and walk languidly, if she had a good appetite to satisfy it in private, if she had neglected health to simulate a delicacy of constitution so that thus she would seem to be an angel rather than a girl. We have changed our definition of angels or we have learned to prize a girl above an angel. The emphasis on health is now nation wide. Women are ashamed to be feeble and sick. Health is a matter of pride and is recognized as a necessary condition to success in the many enterprises open to women. Not merely is health considered desirable, but the Camp Fire Girl is supposed to have an intelligent knowledge of the means of acquiring and maintaining health. She knows about open windows, exercise, food calories, sleep and the other necessities of health. Furthermore she believes in overcoming ill health. She has not the fatalistic attitude of an old man in the West Virginia mountains who sadly recounted his experiences with dyspepsia: “I have tuk 11 boxes of 1 ttle liver pills, 6 bottles of liver syrup, sent a lock of my hair to an in-jun doctor and tuk a teaspoonful of baking sody after every meal. But nothing helps. If it’s laid out for you to hev dyspepsy, you hev it.” The intelligent Camp Fire Girl knows that in all probability it is not laid out for her to have anything. She is, in general, the arbiter of her own health.

To my notion an element largely contributory to the success of the Camp Fire movement is the stress it puts on wholesome pleasure. The

Digitized by t^ooQle
314

chief of these pleasures is the re-discovery of outdoor life. The joys of outdoor life are certainly the best possible antidote to an overstimulated life of movies and motors. The girl who has gone on a hike, who has cooked a beefsteak in the woods, who has slept ufider the stars, has a new world of sensation before her. She has new standards of enjoyments, a new set of appreciations, her mind has been stretched to a new imaginative conception. Professor Reynolds has told me this illuminating story. When the children were little her father took them all in a democrat wagon to spend the night in the woods, that they might see the stars through the trees. The next morning there was a somewhat meager breakfast spread upon a stump and the children stood around in a circle while the father asked the blessing. This particular, practical little girl felt that it was a poor meal to ask a blessing for, and it was not until many years later that she realized that the blessing was ready for the kind of joys and memories secured by a wise father for his children. It was a Charles Lamb sort of blessing for the essentials of life, for the finer things, the essence of which we do not always immediately apprehend. Pleasures such as these are secured for the rich in the highly paid summer camps, but to the Camp Fire Girls they are the inevitable joyous by-p oducts of her regulated activities. The Camp Fire Girl establishes a kind of thrift in happiness. She levies on natural sources of joy. In her pursuit of the outdoor life she has eliminated the demand for expensive equipment, elaborate paraphernalia, the complicated accessories of a popular summer resort. Simplicity and naturalness are the keynotes of her pleasures. Years ago I knew a prominent man who sent all his daughters to college, but who, every summer vacation, took them on camping trips in regions where the most primitive conditions prevailed, as a corrective against an overemphasis of books and ideas.

Another way in which this vital organization is joyously rendering important service is through service in the home. Through Federal legislation and Federal grants, it is hoped the necessity of a knowledge of home responsibilities will be made apparent to every man and woman. But the home-making plans of the Government are not so varied nor so comprehensive as those made by the Camp Fire, and carried out as a part of each day's plan of living. This young generation, through its club code, is bringing to the older members of the family some of the skill in management which the parents themselves missed, for home making is not a subject taught in schools as yet. The Camp Fire members are holding themselves individually responsible for the performance of practical home tasks, the care of children, their instruction, their diet, their entertainment. They learn also how best to wash and iron and scrub and cook and buy and manage. Home budgets of accounts give a business training, and in all ways, it is the laboratory method as against $he theroetical. The Camp Fire Girls are doers of the word.

Outside of these home tasks I put sewing because it runs into the old conception of needlework which, in turn, becomes art. The Camp Fire virl makes her own costume, but the embellishment of that costume, through design and color, reaches into the realm of handicraft. She has iome to her art expression through the utilitarian side. Through the making of a needed article and then through the embellishment of that article. What she has accomplished in that line has been, very truly.
315

her own self-expression unaided by art,study. It.is ofter> primitive, it is always real. This' free spontaneous expression s’Significant and furnishes, often, an important clue to unexplored regions of power.

From the simple decoration of a dress this natural art expression often reaches out into home decoration and fields of general handicrafts. And if normal schools incorporate the. Camp Fire ideal into their teacher training course, I hope they will include an intensive course in design so that guardians may be trained to give the widest ■ possible direction to this latent art sense.

In the Camp Fire movement there is no one element upon which greater stress should be laid than on the training and personality of the guardian. In old times a Sunday School teacher was qualified if she had the good-will and the patience to teach. To the least qualified persons in a community was often entrustjd the teaching of religious truth. And the reason was largely because it was voluntary, unpaid work. The guardians of Camp Fire are voluntary and unpaid workers. But we can accept nothing but the best trained and most efficient workers that are to be found. The guardian should be a wpman of personality, of good breeding, of good education. A woman of imagination and sympathy. This is much to ask of an unpaid worker, but the work of the world is being done in some of the most efficient parts, by the dollar a year worker. The opportunity of doing an effective piece of work in a community is coveted. One of the most inspiring things about the Camp Fire movement is its volunteer character. Any woman with leisure and power might be glad to ally herself with this great spontaneous focce of youth making for righteousness.

A characteristic that makes for usefulness in the Camp Fire organization is its flexibility. It works according to certain fixed fundamental principles; but it is wide in its breadth. It recognizes ability of every sort. Its honors are distributed on a generous scale of equivalents. A school recognizes only ability with books, but the Camp Fire puts its stamp of approval on ability with tools, ability in business, ability in organization, general .character and efficiency. This flexibility is shown not only in meeting individual needs, but in the ease with which the organization turns to any special need or emergency in a community. It is shown also in the adaptability of the Camp Fire groups in allying themselves with other organizations.

They can work at home, in the school, with the child welfare, with the Red Cross, in the temperance movement, in the influenza, and lastly now, in Americanization. In fact what the.Camp Fire movement promises •us is a body of trained enthusiastic young workers in every community, ready to spring forward and meet the needs of that community. No training can be too carefully supervised, no recognition {oo> grateful and •oger for such a new force.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
816

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY FOR HIGH SCrfOOL BOYS.*

GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

If one were asked what is meant by an efficient person, he would reply somewhat after this fashion:	“He	is	a	person who is able to do

the thing required with a minimum of time and effort”. In other words, he would mean that the physically efficient person is one whose health, strength and skill qualify him to do well the work required of him, without detriment to himself. With the High School boy this would mean that he is able to attend school regularly and to perform his work in .classroom, laboratory and shop as well as his duties out of school hours. This he should do without loss of physical wellbeing; on the contrary he should be storing up strength and vigor against the time when he is to go out and take his place in business.

Our problem is to determine and secure the means to produce these effects among high schools boys. It is obvious that among the first things necessary are competent instructors and sufficient time, space and equipment. Even in this day we find Physical Education given, (I had almost said taught) by men who have had little or no training in the selection of physical activities, the method of instruction or the effects of such exercise, the sole qualification often being that the man was a star athlete in some sport. The public in general and many school officials in. particular, it seems, have yet to learn that qualified instructors are as necessary in physical as in mental education.

The minimum time that should be allowed for this branch of school work is 45 minutes daily or its equivalent preferably in 90 minute periods and yet in many of our best school systems less than half this time is allt wed. The gymnasium space required for properly conducting physical work depends somewhat on the size of the class. With a maximum of 50 to a class the gymnasium should be at least $oft.xjoft. In connection with the space necessary one cannot over emphasize the value of an open air space or field on the school premises, even tho a large athletic field is available some distance from the school.

There should be a four fold equipment of such apparatus as is to be used, four pieces of apparatus of one kind being preferable for class work to one piece each of four different kinds of apparatus. There must also be locker and shower rooms conveniently arranged, preferably with showers in a battery or groups which can be turned on or off and regulated by the instructor from a single valve. There should also be a few showers which can be operated individually, tho for class work showers arranged in a group sufficiently large to accomodate the entire class at one time will simplify the taking of the required shower and also save much time. A swimming pool is also desirable but is not absolutely essential. Here too much attention cannot be given to sanitation and safety.

The lockers installed need only be large enough to accomodate the boy's gymnasium suit, forty or fifty larger lockers or sufficient hooks in a room which can be locked being provided for the street clothes of

* Paper read before the American Physical Education Association Contention, Public Schools Section at New York, April 7, 1920.

Digitized by

Google
317

the boys on the^gymnasium floor. The lockers should also be arranged in tiers so that the instructor by operating a single lever can open or lock the lockers of the members of an entire class. A few individual lockers for members of. the various teams are desirable. Having the lockers arranged in such tiers will eliminate the troublesome lock and key which always seems to be out of order or lost. Some schools have had considerable success using dry heat to dry out the clothing in the lockers.

All these things will require greater expenditure of money, but without additional funds for better instructors, more and better equipment and more time any great improvement cannot be expected.

When we stop to consider the means of producing physical efficiency in the schools we find among them the following:

1.	Hygiene, including a study of personal and public hygiene and its application.

2. Physical examination, including especially that of the heart, lungs, special sense organs and certain anthropometric measurements and strength tests.

3.	Exercise, both formal and informal.

The course in hygiene should be given in connection with the work in physical education and made as practical as possible, with illustrations taken from the boys’ own experience. The instruction in physiology and anatomy in this connection should be limited to that which is necessary to explain the basic principles of hygiene. The relation of fresh air, good food, exercise, rest, recreation and similar agencies in their relation to health and the common causes of, and methods of preventing disease should be considered, always in a simple, straightforward way avoiding technicalities whenever possible. Charts, models, sterioptican and other pictures add greatly to the interest and the success of the instructions.

The physical examination is for the double purpose of detecting physical defects so that remedies may be applied and for the purpose of securing a record of certain physical measurements and strength tests, these forming a basis for judging the boy’s progress. In examining the special sense organs it is necessary to examine each boy individually, except, possibly, in the ear tests. All these examinations are general rather than exact and are not supposed to be as accurate as those of the physician.

,In examining the eyes the Snellen vision card is used. The examination of mouth and throat is to detect unhygienic conditions of teeth, mouth and throat. The hearing test is given to an entire class seated in its recitation room, the pupils turning one ear towards the ertaminer, who stands in front of the room and in a low tone gives a column of figures. He then gives a second column, the pupil turning his other ear to the front. A third and forth column are likewise given, the examiner standing in the rear of the room. By comparing the columns ef figures written by the student with his own copy, the examiner cas determine which children have difficulty in hearing the spoken voice. This tost, sting the human voice 1 consider better than that using the watch, ae the tick ef watches varies in pitch and strength and the student Stay be able to catch the sesnd of a watch and* yet he Unable	hear

k$$mm vsicei dhe meet uuporiaatf eesnd t# aaiok, tapecislf	the*
318

schoolroom. In all cases where there are defects of these organs *the parent or guardian is notified and treatment advised.

The general physical inspection covers chiefly postural defects and includes an examination pf the teeth.. For such defects as are within his province, the physical director .prescribes; for others, the boy is instructed to see his physician. The heart is examined with a stethoscope, in questionable cases both before and after exercise,—fifty deep knee bends— and where doubt still exists the boy is excused from physical exercise until examined by the school physician. Lung capacity is taken through the use of the spirometer. The anthropometric measurements we consider most important are age, height, Wight, breadth of shoulders, chest (normal and expanded) waist, hips, depth of chest (normal and expanded) and waist. Of the strength tests the most important are strength of extensors of legs and trunk, shoulder retractors and finger flexors. These records are largely to interest the boy in his physical development, to* enable him to compare himself with the average and with the other boys of his class, also to form a basis for comparison with his record* when examined a year later.

The chief aims of the physical exercise given are:

1.	To develop organic strength, the basis of physical and mental efficiency.

2. To secure good posture, symmetrical development and a fair degr.ee of muscular strength and skill.

3.	To provide an opportunity for every boy to secure at least one, hour of physical exercise daily, and to make such exercise interesting and of greatest value.

4. To develop the habit of exercise and an interest in physical activities, these to serve as a basis for such an interest in later life.

In considering which forms of physical exercise we can use best we may divide them into, the following.	—

.1, Tactics, or . marching qxercises.

2.	F^ee exercises or calisthenics, either without apparatus or with wands, dumbbells, Indian clubs, etc.

3.	^ Exercises on gymnastic apparatus, as-bars, horse, rings, etc.

4.	, Exexcise? of. self-defpnse as boxing, wrestling, etc.

5.	field and track events as runs, jumps and weight events.

6.	. Qut.door sports as swimming, tramping, skating, rowing* etc. •

7,. Plays, and games.of a physical* nature. ,

JS}\ the,above are.valuable Jf arranged according; to the physical and mental ability, of those.taking part.	,.•,*■	• ■

Tpctic$, .ai;e tiipporiant tq enable the teacher’ to more readily move • the jc|ass boot- , They, have^some value in developing good posture while. , walking .and 'because* of the. exercise obtained . thru brisk marching. . If tacjip^arp tfken^in. running, they are of decided value in developing not ©nlvths, .jnpsdcs .of the,.legs Jbut are invaluable,in developing the..heart • anaj[qngsv , Nty exp£rienc$ .with the .effects -of .graded exercise 4ndudtfig* run/iing* jjy tl^ arrpy; hospitals has, convinced, me*,that carefully, administered piping, rr\ay ,b^.. invaluable in strengthening tj\c heart; muscle. *In»-clas^^ryjing.tnay be made, in terming if variety is ► introduced* minting in c<jUr^n	or> of ..fours, ^running gloAg various,.- lines. ai^A'-rhe

snake movement and the spiral: also if the run in the g; "nasium repre-
sents a fun' to a popular point s0me distance away, as to the swimm’ng beach, the rnstrudtor indicating the time when thp runners are supposed to pass certain points, as leaving the school grounds, passing certaip building, entering the park, and finally arriving at the beach. In every gymnastic period, I feel that there should be a few minutes devoted tp '^running as such, or in a running game.	s

The physical benefits’ from free exercises are, that they conteract slight deformities resulting from school work and school jfurnitu e by call ng into action miny muscles Which are otherwise seldom used and whioh are necessary to ’good posture. They increase physical efficiency, by developing co-ordination and economical control of body movements, and if selected according to the student’s strength and ability may help in developing strength of vital organs. It would seem advisable to pay less attention to complex movements, especially of the arms, arid more to simple vigorous exercises of trunk, abdominal and leg muscles and breathing exercises for these are most valuable in developing heart, lungs and digestive organs. Mimetic exercises imitating athletic activities are effective and interesting. If the free exercise period is made short and vigorous with variation from time to time and possibly compet tion between divisions of the class it will be fouhd interesting. Thru clasaf running and calisthenics a maximum of exercise can be given the class in a short time.

Apparatus exercises have been condemned by many as being qnnatural and formal. This is not always so, as in many instances they are very closely related to the activities of our arboreal ancestors and may therefore be considered instinctive or natural. These people certainly climbed trees, balanced and hung on limbs, swung from tree to tree and jumped and vaulted over fallen treesi all actions which are very similar to certain apparatus exercises. The fact that children like these activities may be proof that some of them are clearly instinctive. The deep chest, slim waist and strong limbs which result from these exercises are certainly, valuable'in modern life as are physical control of the body, the ability to react quickly under unusual conditions or emergencies, the courage^ necessary to try some of the exercises and the physical .judgment developed. Among the apparatus exercises most valuable for physical • efficiency are those which require running, jumping or trunk movements, exercises in the hang being possibly next in value. In class work it is. necessary that there be sufficient apparatus to allow each student to have his turn every few minutes. Interest in such exercises may be kept up, by variety,' by occasional competition or exhibition and by giving an exercise noW and then which is just beyond the student and which therefore acts as an incentive to practice. The habit of exercising in the gymnasium* should be developed that this habit may carry over into later, years’:	1	' ''

Exercises' of self-defense such' as wrestling and boxing,, strengthen r, large muscle groups of the body and toughen it to physical .blows.. Quick reaction to the situation is very'necessary fpr onef.becomes painfully, awanp,, of his lack of skill ifj he is pn}y a little bit slow, §elf confidence and,,, an‘appreciation of one’s'ability is developed when one learns to remain" «ool under trying circumstances and to meet a man at his own game. It-is not the ^{essional wrestler, or the prize fighter that we wish to-
320

develop, rather we wish to reach large numbers of young men and to develop manliness and respect for physical prowess. It is well to limit such exercises to class work or to carefully supervise bouts so as to prevent any great animosity or “soreness” between the combatants.

Out door sports bring into action large muscle masses, thereby influencing the vital organs, the outdoor air also acting as a tonic. The change of scene is restful and the social man is catered to as one usually has companions when tramping, swimming, skating, golfing, playing tennis or taking part in like sports. Here is a field that allows for considerable expansion in the high schools. It is valuable not only for its immediate benefits, but also because it develops an interest in sports out of doors which may be valuable in later years in combating the evils of sedentary business life. These activities are of a nature that can be enjoyed in middle life, tho as a rule it is necessary that interest in such sports be created in earlier years. Wherever possible it is well for the instructor $o arrange to take his classes on hikes and swimming parties and also to encourage and arrange contests in tennis and similar sports. This tnay often be done during the regular physical training period, if such period is sufficiently long.

Field and track athletics are important, many being exercises of speed and endurance which increase general organic strength. They develop a surplus of energy, which is invaluable in emergencies and produce skill, grit, self confidence and an appreciation and realization of the value 4Qf a clean and wholesome life. With the class divided into squads many of these events can be successfully carried on in the gymnasium, as sprints, relay and potato races, broad and high jumps and shot put. Here again contests between individuals, squads or classes as well as between schools will prove of distinct value in increasing interest and producing better results.

The problem of athletics in our secondary schools and colleges is to provide general physical exercise and to supply recreation to the mass cf students. Dr. Sargent said “What our American students of today should strive for is neither to be victorious athletes, prize gymnasts or champion strong men, but to have some of the strength of the strong tnan, some of the alertness and endurance of the athlete and some of Ae grace of the gymnast all combined with the poise and dignity of a

![entleman”. The aim is therefore not for more intensive athletics but or more extensive participation, a reasonable all round development of S larger percentage of students rather than an abnormal and one sided development of a few. What our schools have done largely, is to develop a few specialists or men who are over trained, the physical damage dpne in many instances, tho possibly exaggerated being great. The danger is especially great in our high schools, the dilated hearts resulting from tong distance running, excessive football and basketball sometimes preventing the youth from participation in college athletics. Great care should be taken in arranging basketball tournaments that the same team Will not be required to play two or three hard games in a single day. Its has so frequently been the case.

The great need in all schools is participation of more students 'm tnore kinds of athletics, more all round activity rather than specialization. I he Athletic Badge tests as arranged by the Playground Associiu

Digitized by C^ooQLe
321

tion of America for younger boys are valuable in this matter as are also group # contests in which entire classes or groups compete. The features which specially commend the badge tests are that they are standardized, there being three distinct tests for boys, the first which should be reached by boys of about io, the second by boys of 13 or 14, the third by boys of about 16. Each test consists of three events, a strength event, as pull-up or chinning, a skill event as a broad or high jump and a speed event as a dash. Every contestant in order to qualify in a test must reach the standard in each event of that test. The result is that he must possess to a fair degree the qualities required in each of the events rather than being exceptionally proficient in one type of athletics as is often true of the American athlete who specializes in one as the sprinter who develops speed, the distance runner endurance and the field man strength or skill, largely to the neglect of the other qualities necessary to a balanced physical development.

A method of squad or class competition which can be used to good advantage in any type of school from the small rural school to the large ciiy school is as follows:

All boys in the class take part in each of the events of the tests. The class being divided into two or more teams of as equal ability as possible. These compete against one another, the average of the team deciding the winner of the event. In these contests we may use events of the various types, speed, skill and strength. Some of the advantages of this type of contest are; all are obliged to take part, unless physically unable and therefore all derive benefit from the activities; every boy helps his team and though he himself, may possess little ability he is spurred on to work for his team, for he knows that his little helps. The credit to the best athlete is not lessened but rather increased because he works not only for himself but also for his team. Defeat is also taken more easily because again it is the team that loses, not the individual. Large numbers of competitors can be easily handled in these contests. The spectacular features and the enthusiasm and interest are increased rather than lessened; the contests are closer and more ‘uncertain as to the winner to the last.

The events used at Technical High School Springfield, Mass., for the efficiency tests for which bronze, silver and gold buttons respectively are awarded are:	Potato race (eight potatoes six feet apart) — 38, 37, 36

seconds. This event requiring speed and some skill and endurance. Standing broad jump—7' 10", 8' 2", 8' 6". Requiring skill and strength, chiefly of the legs, and pull-up or Chinning, 10, 13, 16 times requiring strength of the arms. These events were chosen because they require a minimum of time, space and apparatus and can therefore be easily practiced out of school and easily and quickly used in the gymnasium. Other good events are:	Running 50 to 250 yds.; Jumping, running high or

broad, standing high, triple standing jump and hop, step ‘ and jump: Strength events—rope climb, 12 lb. shot put and over head; basketball far throw. As an award in such tests an athletic efficiency pirt or buttoa or even the school athletic letter may be used. If the instructor wishes to go into more detail, he may arrange his events on the point scale requiring a minimum number of points in each event to qualify in a
322

test, as in the American Gymnastic Union, quintuple contests or pentathlon.

Play and games are as necessary for the organic development of the child as formal education is to developing his natural and inherent mental and moral powers. Play is activity for its own sake and yet, thru it habits of work may be developed thru interest in and liking for the activity. This interest may be carried over into what we call work, the chief difference between play and work being possibly in the attitude. Play is really nature’s method of teaching the child to work. Another of education’s aims is to develop a joy of work and the joy of activity in games may carry over in later life. The connection between play and work may be made clearer remembering that all the nobler employments of man give pleasure and are often done because of a liking for then. The genius is usually the man who finc^s so much pleasure in his work that he devotes an unusually large part of his time to it and is able to do so because the application altho intense does not require a large percentage of his energies. In athletic sports and games we see the boy devoting all his skill and strength toward the winning of the game. Such application surely makes for physical strength and efficiency and may well carry over into other activities as may also the joy attending the physical exercise. Here again the physical director should break away from the old idea'that considers him valuable principally as the coach of a winning team in each of the major sports and should arrange for at least two sports during each season, possibly football and socce in the fall, basketball and indoor base ball, indoor track or gymnastics in the winter, and baseball and outdoor track in the spring. In these sports he should also avoid limiting himself to interschool contests, but in addition, should arrange inter-class games, for, although the latter may not be as closely contested or scientifically played, the benefits will reach a much larger number than in the inter-school games. It is also advisable to limit the number of games played by teams representing the school, as is the#case in Springfield, Mass., allowing in football and soccer 5 or 6 games, basketball and baseball 8 or io games, indoor and outdoor track two meets each. Games played in the gymnasium will be found very valuable if carefully selected and supervised, especially as the boy is extremely active emotionally and therefore enjoys the game and plays it hard. Games adapted to class work in which each player is quite active are most valuable, i. e. running relay races, tag games, dodge ball, volley ball, battle ball, captain ball, cage ball, etc.

In what ways shall we know that we have succeeded or failed in securing physical efficiency? We shall know in a general way by the boy’s appearance, by his weight and color and his general health, meaning by the latter not merely the absence of disease and deformity but that vigor, exhilaration and feeling of well being which is supposed to be characteristic of youth but which is unfortunately often absent. We shall notice that he shows joy and satisfaction in physical activity. His presence on or absence from the school and class teams and his performances will serve as a criterion in judging his physical efficiency, the figures showing his records in field, track and other events which can be expressed in figures being especially valuable. His physical examina-
823

tion card, with its data on heart, lungs, special sense organs, posture, physical measurements and strength of various muscle groups will prove ▼ery valuable in this connection.

The necessity for recreation and activities of a physical nature is shown by the physical degeneracy indicated by the small precentage of men fit for military service, only about 33 1-3% of the men examined in the recent draft being found really fit for military service, all these men being at an age when they should be at their best physically, just after their high school years. The high school period is a critical one, physically for during this time there is a great increase in size, affecting especially the heart and lungs. These organs should be stimulated to their maximum development thru proper exercise. It is practically a case of now or never as regards their strength and vigor.

In modern business “efficiency” is the watchword at all times. The movement for efficiency has become widespread and has resulted in equipping the industries with better machinery, better sanitary conditions, shorter hours of work, periods of rest and recreation and the like. If we wish to have men enter business with a maximum physical efficiency we must have them in good physical condition as a result of their high school life, rather than have them degenerate during this period; also this period is the most advantageous time to lay the basis for future physical efficiency.

When we look over the pages of history we find men strong in both mind and body are those who lead in service to humanity, among our own people Washington, Lincoln and Roosevelt standing out as shining lights. This fact coupled with a realization of our duty and great privilege in laying the foundation for men physically fit to do great things for our country should inspire us to still greater effort toward physical efficiency in our high school boys.

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY IN GIRLS HIGH SCHOOLS*

BY JESSIE I. WHITHAM, CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL, DETROIT, MICH.

Physical efficiency as I understand it, is physical fitness. To be physically fit, a child should have as nearly perfect physical and mental development as he is capable of under his present living conditions.

My paper being fourth on the list, I am not going to take time to speak of physical efficiency in general or of the value of it. This has been done very ably by my predecessors. My part deals with physical efficiency of high school girls, a subject in which I am vitally interested, and while I seldom make speeches or prepare papers, I am very glad to have an opportunity to say something on this topic.

The first and most important requirement for physical efficiency in any grade in the public school is health. Health requires four things.

1.	A health examination with the removal of defects which can be remedied.

* Paper read before the American Physical Education Association Convetr Hon Public Schools Section at New York, April 7, 1920.

Digitized by Google
324

2.	Good sanitation.

3.	Instruction in personal hygiene.

4.	Directed physical activities.

The elementary schools in many large cities are provided with medical examiners, school nurses and dentists and the children who suffer from diseased tonsils and adenoids, decayed teeth, defective vision, etc., which keep them from normal mental and physical development, may be examined and benefited. In many of these city schools, however, it has not been deemed necessary to extend these examinations as a protection against disease and injury into the high schools.

When a child enters high school, his health seems to be, so far as the school is concerned, left with the physical director. I believe that a more rigid examination should be made in the case of a high school girl than was necessary in the grades. There should certainly be a careful examination of the heart and lungs, and exercises should be limited or increased as the case may be.

There is an experiment being tried in one or two of the elementary schools of Detroit, whereby the child upon entering, is given a thorough medical examination and all remedial defects corrected. He is also given a physical examination to determine the growth in height, weight, and bodily strength. This gives his parents and his teacher an idea of his physical condition. Records are kept from year to year and the development noted. If these examinations prove practical they will be carried on through the high schools. This is certainly a step in the right direction.

Good sanitation in the home and school is another very important factor in the physical welfare of the child.

Health instruction should include a knowledge of the body and the practical problems which concern health, i. e. diet, bathing, care of the teeth, care of the eyes, sleep and exercise. They should know about the general conditions related to health, such as ventilation, food, water supply, dust, posture, room temperature, etc.

I believe that we physical directors fall far short in the vital things in our profession if we do not in some way or other bring about a movement that will give to the girls and boys a knowledge of themselves and their bodily needs that are so necessary for their all round development.

Many states in the Union are making physical education compulsory for all children. They are providing for teachers’ salaries and gymnasiums in which to work, but are they making arrangements for the necessary medical attention, a place in their curriculum for a course in Personal Hygiene and Sanitation, out-of-door play grounds, well filtered swimming pools and adequate showers? Are they making arrangements for well ventilated dressing rooms with plenty of locker space and last, but very important, are they providing for a free towel supply? Every one of which is essential to the successful work of the physical director.

You have all no doubt, thought more or less of the sanitary and hygienic conditions of the school in which you teach. Did it ever occur to you that the physical education department was in some ways the most unsanitary part of it all? When we think of the home supply of towels, the poorly ventilated swimming pool with poor filtration or none at all, the locker rooms that were constructed for no other reason

Digitized by CjOOQle
325

' than to use up dark corners, and the over crowded dressing rooms, we wonder if the time will ever come when work can be presented in an ideal way. I teach in one of the best equipped high schools in the Middle West and yet things are anything but ideal. If we could prevail upon the School Boards to give the Physical Directors an opportunity to plan the gymnasium and accessories instead of leaving it solely to architects, the equipment would much better meet our needs, I am sure.

I do not believe that it would be digressing too much from my subject to speak of high school lunch rooms at this point. The lunch room should not be merely a place to eat, as is the case in many schools where they are tucked away in the basement or attic. It should be one of the brightest and most attractive spots in the whole school. building and should be large enough to accommodate all without crowding and should be so arranged that quick service is possible. The food should be carefully supervised by an experienced dietician or by the department of home economics. There should be a variety of good wholesome food and many changes from day to day. The pupils’ schedules should allow plenty of time to eat and the lunch room should be one of the pleasure spots of the school.

The physical education department stands for high ideals and the training of good habits, but do we carry out these ideals if the above conditions are allowed to exist? Nothing but carelessness can grow out of the use of soiled towels, lack of dressroom space where three and four girls are obliged to dress together, lack of proper locker space and the use of over crowded lunch rooms. We are working for physical efficiency, but should we sacrifice the finer things in a girl’s life and the formation of good habits in so doing?

We will now go on to physical efficiency tests or activities which bring about physical efficiency.

Physical efficiency tests are a means of measuring the development so that the individual may see for himself whether or not he meets the requirements laid down for persons of his age or class. If he succeeds, he will become interested and increase his capacity. If he falls short, he will no doubt try to overcome his inefficiency.

These tests are being tried in many ‘of the elementary schools of the country and extended into the high schools, and the girls of certain grades and classes are being tested as to strength, speed, accuracy, agility, coordination and endurance. In the elementary schools the events are more or less limited on account of lack of apparatus and equipment.

In the Detroit schools there has been for a several years a pentathlon efficiency test for girls. These tests are for the stronger girls and are more or less severe for large numbers. Before any girl in the eighth or ninth grade may enter she must be able to meet the following requirements.

1.	Deep knee bending, for endurance 30 times.

2.	Fifty yard dash, for speed 8 seconds.

3.	Broad jump, for agility 5 ft. 10 in.

4.	Basket ball throw overhead, for strength 30 ft.

j. Dash and throw, for speed and accuracy 19 sec.

She must in addition to this have won 50 points in stunts for agility.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
Gold, silver. and bronze medals are awarded to the winners of a given number of points.

A movement is on foot in the State of Michigan to fix certain efficiency tests for all grades in the public schools from the primary grade up. through the high schools. A committee is at work at the present time. These tests must be such as may be done anywhere without expensive apparatus and must test for speed, strength/ agility, co-ordination and accuracy. These will no doubt follow closely those recently adopted by the army.

The exercises used for these tests should be worked up gradually by the girls so that large numbers may compete. The test for one age or grade should be a fair one for at least 75% of the whole grade, not for just a few. A smaller number may compete even without much preparation and with little effort, but others may take much longer to accomplish the same results and the remainder may never reach the goal. These tests should be low enough, however, to encourage all.

There are many activities for girls in the high schools which may be used for measuring efficiency. Some of these which I think are very valuable are as follows:

Activities for endurance—running, swimming, long hikes, team games.

Activities for strength—rope climbing, hand travelling, chinning, slow sinking.

Activities for speed—dashes, relay races, obstacle relay races, etc.

Activities for accuracy and co-ordination—all kinds of vaulting, jumping, diving, dancing, formal gymnastics and tactics.

Activities for agility—high jumping (not compulsory) standing broad jump, vaulting, hurdling for form. ,

These exercises cannot be distinctly classified, as their values in many cases overlap, but they all tend toward one great end, physical development.

I should like to speak about a few of these exercises in particular.

Running is one of the most valuable exercises as it requires no apparatus and may be done at any time either in or out of doors. I do not mean running races, but running for endurance. This running is done with a slow even pace, a long stride with feet close to the floor in the runner's own cadence. The distance should be increased from day to day until the individual is able to run many times around the gymnasium and for several minutes without fatigue. After this is accomplished then speed may be added without injury. In the Detroit schools one of the requirements that have been 'decided upon is a short run every day.

Every girl who is able to do active work in the gymnasium can run and in time can accomplish a slow graceful, easy stride which may be of value to her during her future life.

Swimming is probably as valuable an asset to an individual as any form of exercise. It is not only exhilarating and enjoyable to most girls, but from the standpoint of exercise and physiological and hygienic benefits derived, is very good. Girls should be encouraged to swim distances instead of playing in the water. It is a good plan to have .them count lengths that they swim during the lesson, not consecutively at first* If ft record is kept of the lengths they swim, they will try to increase their
327

distances from time to time and shortly will be swimming consecutive lengths and many of them. This may be made a test for endurance and competitions held between classes. A time limit should be set, however, for fear of overtaxing. Middle distance swimming is much better for girls than long distance or sprints.

Diving is a good exercise for girls from the standpoint of courage, co-ordination and accuracy. Girls should be encouraged to pass the Red Cross Life Saving Test so that in case of an accident, they may be able to save their own lives, or perhaps the lives of others.

So called intrepretative dancing for girls who care for it is excellent. It is not only a splendid form of exercise, but combined with music from the classics, appeals to the emotions and develops the aesthetic and dramatic side of a girl’s nature. There is a buoyancy and joyous abandonment that does not come with other forms of physical exercise.

Team games aitd sports for large numbers are excellent for developing not only the physical side, but also the mental and moral side. Intermural competitive games, such as basket ball, tennis, base ball, volley ball and field hockey provide enough competition to make the games popular and interesting and provide for a large number of competitors.

Basket Ball has proved, as every one will say, to be one of the mos\ popular sports for girls, and because of their love for it, I wish that every girl could learn the game. They all want to play basket ball, but with the short period of time with the gymnasium full of all kinds of girls clamoring to play, it is the same old story, “the survival of the fittest”. We must have the best girls that the class affords for our competitive contests, consequently we take the strongest ones who probably need it the least. A photographer once told me that athletics had made a splendid new type of woman. He said that the basket ball girls who came for pictures were very different from the other types. He spoke of their bright capable faces and strong vigorous bodies.

Other activities as rope climbing, high jumping, dashes, heavy apparatus, etc., are valuable from many standpoints but cannot be participated in by the masses to any degree of proficiency, and for these', the lighter forms of exercise must be substituted.

We have now come to the last topic. How do we know if we are progressing? This is probably one of the hardest problems to solve, and until some national or local classification is made whereby we can measure the efficiency in points, I do not know exactly how this question can be answered. However, for my own needs, I have been working on a system of efficiency points for some time and have had a chart made for the purpose of counting the points so that each girl may know just where she stands. I have brought the system of points and the chart along with me and shall use the remainder of the time talking about these.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
328

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From “Koerper und Geist" Leipzig, Vol. 29, No, j. Compulsory Afternoon for Play and a Day for Tramping.

The following proclamation gives unusual satisfaction.

Berlin, March 29, 1920. From the Minister of Science, Art and National Education to the Provincial School Council and School Administrators: #

At a large number of educational institutions of all kinds, provisions have been made, that in addition to the regular physical training period there is one afternoon prescribed each week during which there are no school lessons or assignments. Instead, the students take part in specified healthful physical activities such as games, hiking, swimming, rowing or winter sports.

I hereby order that beginning April 1, 1920, in all public elementary, secondary and normal schools and all higher education institutions for men and women, the above plan be put into effect in as far as circumstances permit, beginning with the fourth grade. The nature of the activities will be governed largely by the season of the year and the weather.

Also, where conditions do not prohibit, there is to be provided on an average of once every four weeks a whole day for physical training in the nature of a hike. This tramp should arouse a sense of joy and pleasure in the activity, develop perception thru eye and ear and produce an appreciation of nature and of country and also develop sociability and impart endurance.

It is necessary to provide for a rest period to guard against fatigue, and for finding one’s way in the country. The making of simple sketches and the teaching of geography and geology can be used in this connection. The habit of following hygienic rules should be developed in the youth, especially in regard to refraining from the use of alcohol and tobacco. Proper footwear calls for special attention. On account of the difference in endurance among the boys and girls, it is advisable for each class to go as a unit.

In order to preserve uniformity and definite alignment, the class should be divided into squads, each with a student leader.

I feel sure that all the teachers will concern themselves not only with the mental and moral training of the pupils entrusted to their care, but also with their physical development, and each assist in this way to increase the public health and strength. The regular teachers are especially instructed to assist the physical training teachers. Public funds for this purpose are not available at this time.

On February 1, 1920 a report covering the plans and experiences of this movement will be made.

Digitized by CaOOQle
329

The necessary blanks for reports for the leaders in the higher educational institutions as for the district school inspectors are inclosed. In addition this order is to be printed in the official school publications.

„	(Signed)	Haenisch.

We trust that the necessary provisions (Playgrounds and directors) to carry out this order will soon be provided.

From the journal of Scientific Physical Trainings Birmingham, England.—

(Translation from the Swedish of Dr. Nils Silfoerskroeld.)

It is an astounding fact that twice as much time is given to the practice of fencing as to gymnastics at the Gymnastic Central Institute.— As the high status of their sport is often energetically defended by the fiery champions of the sword, I shall try here to criticise it fully and with an unbiassed mind. As regards actual strength, therefore fencing is of small account and is rather an exercise in precision.—The long extensive daily practice required for this result cannot be had in school. Experience also shows that few branches of athletics have so few voluntary followers, at least in Sweden, as fencing.—It is understandable that enthusiasts of the elegant art of fencing wish in future to make a place of honor for it in the physical education of the High Schools. There is so much history—such as it has been—coupled with the sword and its users that fencing has been an integral part of the education of the upper classes in former times. Our age, however, has higher ideals, and no longer looks on war as a field of honor.”—Vol. XI. No. JJ.

We understand that the Sheffield Education Committee has opened a one-year course for the physical training of men intending to take posts as organizers and teachers in secondary and continuation schools. Thirty men are at present in session there. Dunfermline College has a similar course, where eighteen ex-service officers and men are at work.” —Vol. XI, No. 3f.

Extract from “The Lancet"—

Recreation a Necessity—During the war many valuable lessons were learned by everybody, and especially has this been the case with regard to our methods of physical training. Up north in the Grand Fleet the spectre we had to consider seriously was the possible onset of a depression due to’ the incessant nervous strain and ghastly monotony. The lesson learnt was that recreation, and more recreation, of a simple and attractive nature for all on board was wanted. It was always possible to keep the io per cent who excelled at games amused and energetic. Surgeon-Commander Bell said in conclusion:—

“The country urgently needs a more comprehensive and a better organized system of physical education, and, gentlemen, it is up to the medical profession to see that it get it. A central conrolling body of this huge branch of preventive medicine is needed to-day. We have now a Ministry of Health. Could not this or another Government body be approached by a strong appeal from the medical profession of Great Britain for: (i) The formation of a National Council of Physical Education to study and elaborate the lines our national system of phy-
380

sical education should take: (2) The formation of a British Physical Educational Association on some such lines as our present British Medical Association, to. control all members practicing physical education in Great Britain; (3) The formation of a Central Gymnastic Institute where teachers of physical education could be educated on such lines as would be directed by the national council, and obtain the certificate of the association mentioned above?”—Pol. XII. No. 35.

G

YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

D

TWO NEW GAMES.

BY MARGARET MCCARTHY, PUBLIC SCHOOL 23, RICHMOND BOROUGH, NEW YORK CITY AND NILS W. BERGQUIST, RICHMOND BOROUGH, NEW YORK CITY.

To invent a game to-day that does not contain many elements of already existing games is practically impossible.

A game may however be considered new as far as the relation of these elements to each other and to the fundamental principles of the games is concerned.

Game No. I was invented by Miss Margaret McCarthy.

On the basis of the principles of this game, I have developed game No. 2.

This latter game, as will be seen, is more complex and therefore requires a considerably higher degree of organization.

Advantages common to both games are:	that a comparatively large

number of players are practically kept active all the time and that the games may be played in a very small ,space, an area not larger than the floor space of the average classroom.

The games are related to each other very much the same way as for instance end ball and Captain ball; i. e., knowledge of the easier game simplifies the learning of the more complex.

In fact, I believe that as far as these particular games are concerne ’ it is wasted energy to teach the latter game before being well acquainted with the former. This at least is our experience.

These games have been tested for the past six months in schools under my supervision.

These tests have proved to our satisfaction that game No. I is suitable from 6th school year and up; also in Hgh School, at least as an introduction to the other game.

Game No. 2 is suitable for 8th year pupils in Grammar School and fdl through High School.

Material needed for either game is a basket ball or volley ball.

GAME NO. I. CATCH AND GUARD BALL.

Players—20 or more consisting of two teams; one team acting as guarda.

The teams are arranged in concentric circles facing center. .The catchers stand in the outer circle; the guards in the inner circle. The place of each player should be designated by a chalk mark on the floor. There should be

Digitized by Google
331

at least 3 feet between each catcher and guard. There should be at least “whole arm distance” between players on the same team. One guard and one catcher stand in the center of the circle.

Game—The game is started by a toss up of the ball by the referee. The ball is tossed up between the center catcher and center guard. If the tossed up ball s caught by the center catcher, he immediately throws it to anyone of his own catchers, who if catching it, scores one point for their side.

If the tossed up ball is caught by the center guard, he immediately runs out of the circle to one of the spots marked at certain distance at various intervals around the circle and throws the ball in to one of his own team. As the guard runs out, the catchers and guards nearest “about face” to receive the |Mi or guard it. If a guard receives the ball from the center guard, it scores 1 point. If the catchers receive the ball thrown by a guard, they return it to the center catcher, as the only ball that scores is one thrown by center guard or center catcher and caught by guard or catcher.

O * C«tcKt rs

© sTH row lTt<* Pl*ccs

. If in any case, a thrown ball falls outside of the circle both centermen run for it. When a center guard gets it, he throws it in from place where he caught it, the center catcher guarding the throw. When a center catcher gets the outside ball, he takes it to the center, and puts it into play guarded by the center guard.

* When two points have been scored by either side, the guard and catcher to the right of where the center guard and center catcher stood in the circle become centers and remain there until 2 points are again scored by either side. The game continues until all have played center.

Scoring—One point for each ball caught on fly when thrown by own centerman.

One point to the opponent for each foul.

Digitized by CjOOQle
332

Note—If there is only one score keeper, it will aid greatly if the player will call the letter of his team as he catches the ball from his centerman.

Fouls—i. Leaving place in circle.

2. Rough play.

GAME NO. 2. CENTER PUNCH BALL.

Court—Four concentric circles, respectively two, three, five and eighteen feet in diameter. The inner circle (A) is called gbal circle. The next one (B) is puncher's circle. The space between the second and third circles (CX is neutral ground. The space between the third and fourth circles (D) is divided radially in equal spaces, guard boxcs> one box less than number of players in each team. Six feet or more behind the outer circle, diametrically opposite each other and at right angles to a real or imaginary radius are drawn

I

A • Go#\ Circle

6 » Pwwchtr 'a Circle

C » Ntl/ I r4 I Gro**d 0 * Out r i 8• * c s

£ » Goel Tlnwtr'l MjtK

two lines (E), two feet long, one on either side. Those are goal thrower's mark. The distance of these lines from the circle depends upon the skill of the players.

Teams—The players, 30 or more, are divided in two teams: Catchers and guards.

Catcher number one takes his place in the puncher's circle as puncher. The other catchers place themselves behind the outer circle in rotation of numbers from left to right, one each in spaces between imaginary extension

of the radii.

Guard number one places himself anywhere behind the outer circle to act as goal thrower. The other guards stand one in each box in front of corresponding number of the catcher.

Digitized by CaOOQle
388

Object of the dame.—The puncher to catch the ball thrown by catcher; the goal thrower to make a goal from the goal mark.

Rules,—Puncher must remain inside of puncher's circle, goal circle being part of that circle. Neither puncher nor guards can step into the neutral ground.

Guards must not overstep boundaries of guard boxes.

Catchers and goal thrower must remain outside of big circle.

Ball is served by the puncher at the beginning of the game, at change of sides and after each foul throw, even if no score is made.

Game.—The game is played in innings, either a set number for each game or, if possible, as many innings as there are players.	f

An inning is completed when the puncher has served three times or, in case of many players, twice or even once.

* That team wins which at the end of the last inning has the greatest total score.

Teams change places after each strike out, thus:	Catchers	and	guards

change places i. e. catchers become guards and guards become catchers; guard number two takes his place as goal thrower; puncher occupies the box left vacant by guard number two, and former goal thrower becomes puncher.

At the beginning of the game the players toss for catchers side.

The game is started by the puncher serving (punching) the ball out. A catcher tries to secure the ball and, if successful, throws it across the circles to a catcher on the opposite side. When some catcher there secures the ball from such a throw, he calls:	“over”. After that the ball may be thrown to

the puncher who, if catching the ball on the fly holds it and scores three points for his team. If the ball is caught by the puncher before it has been across, he does not score but throws it out again. If the ball is caught by the puncher in any other way except on the fly, or if caught while being thrown by a guard or goal thrower, it is thrown out so that it may be returned and caught from a catcher.

The object of the goal thrower and guards is to prevent the ball from reaching the catchers or puncher.

• Any time the goal thrower catches the ball, no matter from which team, he instantly calls the number of a guard and immediately throws the ball to that guard, the nearest catchers trying to prevent it. If the assigned guard catches the ball on the fly, the goal thrower is allowed one free throw for the goal circle from either goal mark. If the ball drops (not rolls) inside of the goal circle the guards score two points. If the guard assigned by the goal thrower catches the ball in any other way except on the fly, or if the ball is caught by another guard it does not count but an attempt is made to again get it to the goal thrower, who must call another guard to catch the ball. The goal thrower, must as far as possible avoid calling the same number twice during the same serve. When a guard has the ball, the goal thrower, who is allowed to run all around the circle, claps his hands to make known his place, so that the guard may know where to throw the ball.

Fouls.—Puncher or guards stepping outside of their respective boundaries.

Catchers or goal thrower stepping inside of circles.

Goal thrower not calling guard number quickly; holding the ball; running with ball; handing the ball instead of throwing it. Snatching or batting the ball from another player, shouldering, tripping or unneessary roughness.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Score.—Catchers score three points when puncher catches ball according to rules.

Guards score two points when goal thrower makes goal.

Catchers score two points when guards foul.

When catchers foul, goal thrower is allowed one free throw, foul throw, for the goal, and guards score one point if goal is made.

SAMPLE SCORE. SIX SERVE INNINGS

INNINGS		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	TOTAL
TEMPORARY  SCORE		3+2+1  +2+0							
TEAMS	A	8							
	B	2							
TEMPORARY  SCORE		2							

“A” serves first and scores 3 points which score is placed in space below first inning opposite “temporary score.”

Second score 2 points, is made by “B”. This score is placed in “BV* temporary score.

“A” scores again, making 2 points. This score is added to “AV* previous score.

Teams Change.

“A” scores 1 point on a “B” foul. This is added to “A’s” previous score. “A” scores 2 points in the regular way, which is added to “A's” previous score. After the third serve “B” fouls. “A” takes the foul throw but misses the goal, scoring “O”.

Thus in a six serve inning six different temporary scores are recorded. These added and placed opposite the respective teams indicate the total score made by each team in that inning.

In the above scoring this will read:

First inning A. temporary score: 32120 —8 First Inning B. temporary score: 2	—2

As will be seen by this the chances of scoring are equal, whether serving or not, only that the servers individual score counts higher than the opposite side.

PLAN OF INFORMAL GYMNASTICS.

For First and Second Grades With Outline for. November.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRAMAN, QUEENS VILLAGE, NEW YORK.

(Editor’s Note: The November outline given herewith was delayed in the mails and did not reach the printer until after the November number was on the press. This is to be regretted but no doubt whose who are

Digitized by CjOOQle
335

■naking use of Mrs. Braman’s outlines will find the November suggestions usable even at this late date. The December material is also delayed as it has not yet reached us.)	,

In the September-October number of this magazine the method used in developing Informal gymnastics for first and second grades was suggested, and some work in Hygiene mapped out for children under eight.

The Primary grade Relief Drills are similar in effect, but the contents and treatment are entirely different; we try to break away from all formality, from educational gymnastics, from response commands. In our Story Gymnastics we have in mind a modified Day’s Order, and as we tell the story the class suggests and acts out the various parts, the teacher simply helping out as one of the pupils. When the teacher says “Are there rain clouds?” the children are taking a head backward bend, and at “Are there rain drops” up go the arms; the muscles are held in static contraction, and a postural exercise is being held with no tension; then we run or walk or skip to the scene of activity which completes the introductory part of the lesson plan.

As the story progresses we use all the large groups of muscles vigorously, getting in the maximum amount of hygienic effects. Then we walk or march back home, and having been very strenuous, we breathe.

Engineering a Story Play in such a way that the children do he work themselves, requires all the teacher’s ingenuity, and she must be a child with children. We try to refrain from correcting the individual child; we praise those who are in step, who are alert, have good posture, are keeping the rhythm, etc., and the others imitate without the humiliation of criticism which often prevents any further benefit from that lesson, and leaves the child self-conscious and hesitant about the work to come.

The teacher so wants to “set the child right” that she corrects him, but this development must come from within outward, and his mind through the muscles receives the natural training; we used to think of this breaking up of the program as useful only because of its physical and physiological results, but no one who has taken advantage of a plan worked out in logical sequence and progression can fail to realize the gain in concentration, alertness, accuracy, inhibition, retentiveness, clear mental images, and skill in all the work of the grade.

WTe not only train the motor dullards through the muscular sense to be more expert in all those exercises where grace, speed and strength count, but through these very activities the mind is made more able to grasp all the other subjects in the curriculum - more definitely. Why not? It is surely nature’s way; it is the history of the progress of the race that since we have become so civilized our little people take small , part in preparing food, shelter, clothes, and we must needs resort to artificial exercises tq keep them vigorous and sound. And we try to find exercises that are natural, for they will then fill the needs of body and brain.

The Physical Training is correlated to all the other subjects; to the season, to the festivals, to the occupations and amusements. In November we start work that may work in with our Xmas program; from

Digitized by v^ooQle
336

the Michigan Syllabus wc may use Shifty Shadow, using one stanza each week, and continue with ‘‘Chimes of Dunkirk” singing a jingle to it, “Come Children skip and play,” etc.

The Story Gymnastic for both grades treats of the Pilgrims, and is acted out according to the stories and reading taken up in class. In the Second grade wc make the Windmills of Holland, Load Baggage, Build Log Houses, Plant Corn, etc. The Landing of the* Pilgrims in America. I think the children in the lower grades could get into the spirit of the Mayflower Celebration.

The games suggested in the November outline are mostly planned for indoor use, as this month discourages outdoor Physical Training for the little children.

The Rhymthic work and the Imaginary plays all work to the great time of the child year, - Christmas.

In preparing for the Folk Dances to be used later we start the Polka rhythm, humming it during Mimetic exercises. The “Children’s Polka” and “Little Sister” are both very tuneful and well accented (may I say “Catchy”?) In the second grade as well as the first the children may pat out the rhythms on the desk, with the hands flat. The teacher starts Left, Right, Left, Right, Pause, Right, Left, Right, Left, Pause, etc., until the children can automatically start on the first count of each measure, alternating the Right or Left. Later the Step, Heel, Step, Hop can be tried. This will be found a very enjoyable way of teaching the technical step, and I think all teachers find the dancing of it difficult at first. Using the hands will more quickly establish the brain channels and with less wear and tear, and it is so difficult to keep the teaching of a folk dance informal, - purely recreative and not to descend to the level of new work.

For breathing exercises the children enjoy Blowing Milk Weed, and pretend to blow up bags and bang them.

For postural exercises “I’m Very, Very Tall” and “The Little Leaves” both from Crawford’s Dramatic Games and Dances, are hccellent. These little song games have a very beautiful effect upon the morals of the class; they seem to give a 'mental poise.

I hope the teachers who try out this plan will go through November as one of the children, romping their way to health, happiness and efficiency.

SUGGESTED OUTLINE OF MONTH’S WORK IN INFORMAL GYMNASTICS FIRST GRADE.

NOVEMBER—SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS.

FIRST PERIOD.

Teach Girl’s Curtsy - Boys bow - Good Morning to you - may be sung in connection with the bows.

To 4-4 time - Marching; - skipping and hopping - alternating with marching.

Breathing - Smelling a flower. Reach up and gather a red rambler!

Take a deep breath! Out! (Children select the flower - and smile!)

Marching Song - Hey Diddle Diddle - from Crawford’s Dramatic Games.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
337

SECOND PERIOD.

Work out a Thanksgiving story.

Travel to Holland.

Boat to America.

Games on Ship Board.

Landing.

Log House.

Chop wood.

Build.

Planting corn and potatoes. - To be worked out in co-relation with loading and stories.	't

THIRD r ERIOD.

Games.

Jolly is the Miller - Bird Catcher - Review Games of Sept, and Oct. End with short run - if indoors vault seats - Breathing exercise.

FOURTH PERIOD.

Start Chimes of Dunkirk - Words and music in Sperling's Playground Book.

Imaginary plays -

The Making of Toys - Rhythmically done - Let the children hum or

«ng.

Sawing-----chopping — painting — sewing--------glueing----hammer-

ing - -

Packing toys — wrapping toys-------piling toys on shelves — stack-

sag on floor -

Use all the larger groups of muscles.

Use waltz time - march time - polka time -

HYGIENE.

Washing, for the health Discuss - clean hands face ears neck

Shape of nails

Use of orange stick and brush Food - Water - Air.

Marching Song (Marching and skipping.)

Let the Feet go Tramp, Tramp, Tramp.

Breathing.

Mimetic exercise.

Shifty Shadows.

Imaginary plays, i verse each week.

Gymnastic.

COUNTRIES.

I.	Make the windmills in Holland. Two children stand back to Wck with their arms held diagonally up at side, left arm at side. A# Ibcy bring their right arm to side the left arm goes up. This move-fcMt is continued together. Children are all divided into couples for this.

Digitized by
338

2.	Venetians poling gondolas. Bring arms forward and back on the right side as if pushing gondola. Repeat on left-side.

3.	Scotchman playing bag pipes. Walk around taking deep breath* and playing some tune.

4.	Swiss climbing the mountains. Walk around with high step, using mountain stick to help them.

5.	Japanese walking in short quick steps.

6.	Breathing.

PLAYGROUND GAMES.

“Farmer is Coming/* “Crossing Brook/* “Vis a Vis/* “Puck Dance/’ “Jack be Nimble,*’ “Kittie White,’* “Red Rover/* “Midnight/* Ball -beanbag games.

FOLK DANCE.

Danish Dance of Greeting.

Rhythms.

Little Jack Horner.

Review Shifty Shadow.

Gallops to Music

Step, heel, step, accenting first step of every three, to polka time.

HYGIENE.

Daily morning inspection.

Individual Health Charts.

Talk on Food; school lunches.	,

Teeth, Water.

Effect of exercise on appetite, sleep, warmth.

SEX DIFFERENCES IN ATHLETICS.

BY WM. A. STECHER.

FIELD DAYS.

Public Elementary Schools. Philadelphia 1907—-I9’2&'‘

For competition the Schools are divided into 3 classes:	aod>	C.

A schools have no pupils beyond the 6th grade.

B schools with eight grades have less than 13 grammar, divisions, aiul C schools have more than 13 grammar div siorisi' ' f The pupils are divided into Juniors and Seniors:^H must1 be tindfet*/* 16 years of age.	*	"	.	’	'*	’

In // schools pupils under 4 feet id inches are/Jubi6ts.‘ '* '	’’	5'"^'

In B and C schools pupils under 5 feet and 1 inch are Juniors.

Teams are composed of ten pupils.

Digitized by CjOOQle
339

Best Team Perform a nces.	, Best Individual	Performances-.

I SHUTTLE RELAY RACE. IOOO YARDS.

Time in minutes, seconds and tenths.

Seniors	Boys	Girls	D fference in favor			
			of boys	No individual records		
Class A	2'. 23	*' 33 -3"	6.8%			
Gass B	*'•4	2'. 27.6"	16.0			
Class C Juniors	2'. 6.9"	2'. 28.3"	11 5			
Class A	2' .24	2*. 42"	11.6			
Class B	2'. 17.5"	2'. 28.8"	7.6			
Gass C	2'. 18"	2\. 28.9"	6.7			
		Average	10%			
	11 BASKETBALL		EARTH ROW	Boys	Girls	Difference
						in favor of
	*					boys
Seniors	Distance	in feet and tenths				
Class A	39.6 feet	30.4 -	23-3%	48 feet 40 feet		16.7%
Class B	41 1	35-5	*5-7	54	48	11.2
Class C Juniors	42.9	34 5	I9.6	54	43	20.4
Class A	JO. 1	26.0	^6	37	36	2.6
Gass B	35-6	31.0	12.9	54	41	24.1
Class C	37-4	32.0	11.8	47	39	17.0
Average			16.1%		Average	iS-3%
		III STANDING BROAD JUMP				
Seniors	Distance	in feet and hundredths				
Class A	7.06 feet	6.26 feet	11.2%	8.6	feet 7.5 feet	12.8%
Class B	7.84	6.54	16.5	8.9	7 9	11 3
Gass C Juniors	8.15	7.12	12.7	9.0	7-7	MS
Class A	6.72	6.03	10.3	7-4	6.7	9 5
Class B	7.26	6.54	9 9	79	7-5	5 1
Class C	7.40	6.50	12.2	8-5	7-4	13.0
		Average	12.1%		Averag	e 11.0 %

MICHIGAN PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TESTS * *

*	fLOYD A. ROWE,

Director Division oj Physical Education Department oj Public Instruction.

A	*	,	"	—r	— ----T- ' ^

%	f	If

At the. meeting of the'Council of Physical Education it was decided , to adopt Physical1 Eflfitiency Tests for use throughout the state, the. ob-..,,* ject_beingJ .tQ^.plaxe-.oi;.furnish	uniform standard -of m ensure mertr by

which to measure the'accomplishments of Physical Education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
340

Boys* Tests begin with fifth grade through high school.

Girls’ Tests begin with fifth grade through eighth grade.

Number competing to be included in state competition 90% of pupils enrolled on May *st. Competition to take place May 1st to 10th. Results to be compiled and forwarded to Department of Public Instruction not later than May 24th.

clothing—Shoes—No spikes—tennis shoes only.

Regular gymnasium costume allowed.

management—Competition to be under management of local school authorities with aid from teachers of Physical Education.

check—State Department reserves the right to check the leading systems; to select any grade at random and test; if results of test fall more than 5% below score of the entire system records of the system to be disallowed.

reward—School system—State wide publication of systems which turn in four highest records. Suitable cup and banner for first, two.

BOYS’ TEST.

Events

C! in

50 yd. dash Below 10th Grade

ico yd. dash 10th Grade U above

Run Broad Jump

Base Ball

Throw

Fur Distance

•High Horizontal Bar

Sac directions

Rec

ord

Pts

1 C/5			TJ	T3  rt  O  u  CQ	J £ *-5 2  jc g H	n «  O CQ —		
Point:	Chin		100 y Dash	Run  Jump	-c <u  0 0  so c  25 2	-e 2 ,5P c EC N

,, IOOO	2S	5:2	IO	*3	200	IO	
985	24	5*3	IO-.I	21	*9 5	9	
j 97°	23	5:4	10:2	19	190	8	
i 955	22	6:0	10:3	17	185		
1 94°	21	6:1	10:4	16-6	180	7	1
1 925	20	6:2	11	16	175		
| 9:0	19	6:3	11 I	15-6	170	6	
It 895	18	6:4	11:2	*5	165		
880	i?	7:0	11:3	14-6	160	5	t
1 865	16	7:1	11:4	14			
I 850	15	7 a	12:0	13-6	150	4	
8-85	14	7:3	12:2	13	H s		
! 755	13	7=4.	12:4	12-6	140	3	I
665	12	8:0	13:0	12	135		
;! 570	11	8:2	13:2	11-6	130	2	
ii 480	10	8:4	13*4	11	120		
i, 39°	9	9:0	14:0	16-8	no	1	4
280	8	9:2	14:2	10-4	16#		
' 170	7	9:4	14 4	10-	90		
145	6	10:0	15:0	9-8	8#		
!l	5	10:2	15:2	9 4	7®		
9°	4	10:4	*54	9	6+		
70	3	11 0	16 :•	8-1	5Q	•	
5°	2	11:2	16:2	8-4	4®		f
40	1	11:4	16 4	8	J2—		

•Palse rate • ucerury t 9t« diructior.t

Digitized by Google
341

Individual—Suitable prizes will be awarded the four individuals (both boys and girls) scoring the highest in the state tests. Individual records subject to check.

Regarding the pulse rate of recovery test it might be well to say that this test was included as an index to physical condition. No method of awarding points has been worked out and you are asked to study the results of this test with the thought in mind of evolving a method of awarding points as in the other events.

The test* itself was included rather than an endurance test involving any large groijp of muscles as any such test puts a severe strain upon the heart. This was felt to be wrong. The pulse rate of recovery test will however act as an index to an endurance and if a system can be found by which points can be awarded a long step forward will have been made.

Reports to be in average totals and by grades. Individual records to be submitted on cards showing score made in each event.

GIRLS’ TEST.

Events

Rec

ord

Pts

Basketball

Distance

Throw

One Hand Free Style

Dash and Throw

Fifty Yard Dash

Standing Broad Jump

Pulse Rate of Rcvry

]  CO  C  £	Basketball  Throw	Dash  and Throw		Standing  Broad  Jump	Pulse Rate of Recovery
lOOO	80	16-		7-8	
990	72	16-2		7-6	
980	64	16-4	6	7-4	
970	56	17		7-1	
960	48	17-2	6-1	7	
950	4*	17-4		6-10	
940	38	18-1	6-2	6-8	1
S3°	37	18-2		6-7	
920	36	18-3	6-3	6-6	
yio	35	18-4		6-5	
860	.34	l9	6-i	6-4	>
800	33	19-1	7	6-2	
730	32	19-2	7-i	6	
65c	30	19-4	7-2	5-10	
j 60	28	%o	7-3	5-8	3
4(0	26	20-1	7-4	5-6	
370	24	20-2	8	54	4
290	22	20-3	8-1	5-*	
220	20	20-4	8-2	5	
160	l9	21	8-3	4-10	
no	18	21-1	8-4	4-8	
70	17	2l-2	9	4-6	
40	16	21-3	9-1	4-4	
20	1S	21-4	9-2	4-2	
IO	H	22	9-3	4	

t

Digitized by v^ooQie
342

!

REPORT FROM

City. 1...........

dumber children enrolled................Number	competing

. Grade	Average	score	Boys	  Girls

. Grade	Average	score	Boys	  Girls

. Grade	Average	score	Boys	  Girls

Total average of system (add all average scores and

divide by number of grades)	$

PULSE RATE TEST FOR PHYSICAL FITNESS.

I. Find the Normal Pulse Rate.

I. Run in Place for 15 Seconds.

III.	Find how Soon Pulse Recovers Normal Rate.

Time to Recover	Grade	Degree of Fitness	Physical Habits or Type.
yi Minute 		....A ....		Fine 			Athletic
1 Minute 		...B ....		Good 			Active
2 Minutes			....C				Moderate
3 Minutes		...D ...		Poor			Sedentary
Pulse slower after run. .	. ..E			Very Poor .		Invalid

If pulse is irregular after the run, drop one grade down the scale.

MEANING OF THE TEST.

No single test of physical fitness can be infallible. This is one of the best for age 13—16 and above. Any healthy child should pass high. Any one can do it; only a watch needed. It is based on the following facts:

A strong, regular pulse and prompt recovery to normal rate after an exercise usually goes with first class physical condition; slow recovery indicates lack of training in exercise. When the pulse slows down after exercise irregularly, or when it is slower after exercise than normal, general weakness or some disorder is to be suspected. The following .directions must be followed exactly.

HOW TO MAKE THE TEST.

The person to be tested must be well; it should be made just after a quiet period such as a school session of ah hour or more, because the pulse is quickened by exercise and the normal rate cannot be found. For the same reason it cannot well be made just after a meal or a bath or during any considerable excitement.

To Find the Normal Pulse Rate.

While the subject is standing quietly, count the pulse for one minute, using the second hand of a watch; be exact. Repeat until the same result is found three times in succession. This repetition is to make mure ©f accurate counting and sure of quiet condition of the subject.- If pulse shows marked irregularity or is faster than one hundred eight per minute, do not give the running test without advice from a physician.

Digitized by

Google
343

Running in Place.

This is done to quicken the pulse, and must be done at the rate of threfe steps per second,' 45 steps in all, lifting each foot to half the height of the'opposVte knee. The^ examiner can easily say “faster”,.“feet higher”, or any other "correction'needed while the subject runs. Notice carefully the time of stopping:

To Find the Time of Recovery.

Beginning exactly yi mihute after stopping the run, count the pulse for 20- seconds. Write down the result. Multiply later by 3 to give rate per minute.	f

Beginning exactly 1 minute after the run stopped, count it again.

Beginning exactly 2 minutes after the run stopped, count it again.

If the pulse is not yet at normal rate, repeat at intervals of 1 minute until normal rate returns.

Find the subject’s rating in the table above.

Differences of 2—4 beats per minute may be disregarded.

If a slower rate is found after the run, in a case where the subject is strong and well, repeat the test from the beginning, as it is likely that the rate found before exercise was for some reason too high and the normal is what is found afterwards.

DASH AND THROW.

Preparation:

At a distance of thirty feet from the starting line and parallel to it, stretch a cord seven feet from the ground. Both starting line and cord should be well away from any wall, backstop or other object, so that neither the contestant nor the ball shall touch any obstruction during the run. Use basketball or newcomb ball.

Form:

When the whistle blows the player shall run down and throw the ball over the cord, catch it before it touches the ground and return to the starting line. Three such trips are made. The finish is at the starting line. When returning to the starting line after the first and second trips, it is not necessary to run across the line, but the line must be touched with one foot. After the third trip when the runner is finishing, she must cross the line ^nd should do so at top speed. If the ball is not caught when it is first thrown over the cord, the runner must get the ball and repeat the throw until she shall have made a fair throw and a fair catch. It is permissable to throw the ball over the cord on the trip back to the line.

It shall be considered a fair throw if the ball goes over the cord in either direction whether it touches the cord or not.

It shall be considered a fair catch when a ball is secured and held before it touches the floor.

Fouls:

Starting before the signal is given.

Failing to make a fair throw or a fair catch.

Touching any post or wall, etc.

Failing to .touch the starting line with one foot after the first and SMond trips to the cord, or failing to completely cross the line at the finish*

Digitized by
m

344

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

I 1"'	........ ■	■	■■—	■	——■ —

SURPRISING CALORIC VALUE OF DAINTIES EATEN BETWEEN MEALS.—Now

that the war is over, many of the restrictipns imposed by governmental mandate, the exigencies of commerce, or a patriotic conscience need no longer apply to the behavior of our population. “Sugar and spice and everything nice” may once again be included in the diet of American homes. We may at length return to the consumption of those dietary luxuries that have attained great popularity in the United States. Candy is no longer tabued, nor is purchase restricted by a food administration. Strangely enough, the enforcement of prohibition has apparently increased the use of candy, as it has augmented the consumption of the sugar-containing temperance beverages. The calorific potency of alcohol is likely to be replaced by the fuel value of “sweets” eaten here and there between meals.

It is commonly believed that these “extra foods” consumed apart from our regular meals on the most varied occasions, frequently several times a day, play a relatively insignificant role in the total value of our food fuel. Not long ago, however, Benedict* called attention to the true value which ice cream, soda water and various comparable popular American extra foods really represent in terms of calories, the standard units of food energy. Some of the commonly served portions eaten in haphazard fashion on the spur of the moment may be equivalent to as much as 500 calories, while ioo-calory portions are anything but unusual. Ia a more recent contribution,** the same investigators have brought further actual evidence of the unexpected food value of many of the items innocently consumed without thought of possible nourishment therein by thousands every day. Prior to the recent inflation of prices, from J# to 60 calories were frequently obtainable in so-called penny candies; ia some of the cheap nut candies the yield even exceeded 100 calories far the small coin that delights the child.

The eating of “extra food” is by no means confined to children. The adult man and woman who depend on the meal-ti/ne food fuel of from a,000 to 3,000 calorics a day indulge in candy as a pastime or eat aa after-theatre lunch for the sake of sociability not because they feel the aeed of more food nor because they appreciate the magnitude of the diet intake. It will come as a surprise to most persons to learn on reliable authority that a single caramel, a nougatine or a penny's worth of candy aiay furnish sufficient energy to supply the extra heat needed for walking a mile or more. Equally startling will be the news that the ingestioa ©f three seemingly insignificant, medium-sized olives can yield the amoumt

* Benedict Cornelia G., and Benedict, F. G.: Boston M. Id S. J. Iff: >53, 1918. Candy and Calories, editorial J. A. M. A. 72: 1297 {May j) *9*9-

** Benedict, Cornelia G., and Benedict, F. GThe Energy Content 0/ Extra Foods, Boston M. id S. J. 181: 413 (1Oct. 2) 1919-

Digitized by Tooele
345

of heat liberated in a half-mile walk. We are informed** that for a man of average weight to walk from the bottom to the top of Washington Monument would require an extra heat production of 80 calories. The energy expended in this not inconsiderable effort may be completely replaced by the consumption of less than half a doughnut, six walnuts, five large olives or four pretzels. Perhaps we shall learn from such facts how futile a “constitutional” walk is in any attempt to combat the accumulating energy from undue eating between meals. Or possibly, on the other hand, the doughnut will gain a repute as a standby in times of muscular stress and thus retain in peace the unique favor that it won through the efforts of'the Salvation Army in the days of military stress. Editorial in “The Journal of The Am. Med. Assn9*.

campaign against/child labor.—How hundreds of communities throughout the country have organized against child labor and illiteracy is told in a bulletin “Every Child in School” just issued by the Children's Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor. This bulletin describes the methods and results of the “Back-to-School” and “Stay-in-School” campaigns carried on last year by forty-four states and the District of Columbia under the auspices of the Children's Bureau and the Council of National Defense. A large proportion of these states have continued their efforts to stamp out child labor. As a result school time has been prolonged in many communities for boys and girls who might otherwise have had their education cut short. The “Back-in-School” and “Stay-in-School” campaigns have shown that in many places school attendance and child labor laws are not enforced. Many children of school age are in factories because there was not a sufficient number of attendance officers and factory inspectors to keep them in school and out of industry. In a single district an inspector reported 1,700 children as not having had a day of schooling. In many rural districts the children attend school only about half the time, and the hours for rural schools are very short. It is conditions such as these, the bulletin points out, that make the United States eighth instead of first on the list of civilized countries with regard to the proportion of literacy among its citizens.

on teaching hygiene.—No greater service can be rendered the college youth than requiring him to devote some time to the conscientious study of both personal and public hygiene. This is so universally accepted by academicians that it would be but useless repetition to present arguments in its behalf. That universities regard hygiene1 as an essential subject is demonstrated by a perusal of their catalogues. A criticism called forth by the average course in hygiene, however, is the half heartedness or laxness with which it is conducted. Hygiene, both personal and public, can be made one of the most interesting subjects in the college curriculum. Is it not true that people are fundamentally interested in health? It has been stated that matters relative to health and physical well-being make up the bulk of the laity's conversation. If this is true why not by education substitute facts for the world of harmful misstatements and prevalent superstition?—John Sundwall, Pub. Health Rep^ Nov. 7, /p/p.

Digitized by Tooele
346

universal military trainino.—The Wadsworth army bill, having been reported from committee, now approaches final consideration and action by the senate. Great interest has developed in the universal training feature of this bill, on which we commented recently.^ Physicians are interested in this feature from two points of view: first, as it concerns the creation of an active medical reserve corps, and second, in its relatioh to the physical development of the young men of the nation. If we are to give actual field training to all of the young men of our country in future years, it will be necessary that they be physically examined before going into active training, that their health be guarded during the period of training, and that they receive periodic examination during subsequent years, so as to determine their fitness for service if need demands. At the same time as these young men are t.ained, it will be necessary to train the medical reserve officers who are to take care of them under military conditions. From the general point of view, the matter is one that affects the h alth of the entire nation. In the first place, physical examination of these young men will disclose certain defects which may be corrected, thus prolonging their lives. The period of physical training in the field will bring about increased physical stamina, which will mean a better type of man. Those who saw the results of military training on the physical condition of our selective service army need no argument as to the beneficial effects of such training. Increased stature, more erect carriage, greater muscular ability and elimination of superfluous adipose tissue were distinguishing signs of those who had had even brief periods of such training.—Current Comment:	The	Journal

of the Am. Med. Assn., Febr. y, 1920.

Why not advocate “Universal Physical Training” if a better physique is he main result of the training our young men got in the army? —Ed. M. & B.

teaching health in the schools.—The period of childhood is undoubtedly the best period in life in which to teach the principles of healthy living. It is necessary, however, to arouse the interest of children in healthy living in order to enable them to form good habits relating to health. Since children like to wear badges and belong to clubs, it has been possible to arouse their interest in good health through the organization of health leagues, and the Modern Health Crusade movement. Group competition based upon weight and height, should be employed to stimulate interest. Health pictures and posters should be employed. Mothers should be kept regularly informed regarding the health progress of their children. The teaching of health should be a part of the tegular curriculum and should not be confused with physiology or physical training. Medical inspection and school nursing should be extensively introduced. The medical examination should be thorough and regular, and should determine the facts regarding the nutrition of the children, as well as the ordinary physical defects. The child should receive a thorough medical examination at least once a year.—L. Emmett Holt, M. D. American City, Dec., 1919*

Digitized by CjOOQle
347

IH	—— —    II

N OTES AND COMMENT^

ii -	■■■-	'	i > i ,	i	—	-ii

Chicago Public Schools are to have a Public “Schools Athletic League” similar to the one in New York. Im. Edw. C. Delaporte, formerly a teacher of Physical Training in Lane Technical High School has been appointed as Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education in charge of Athletics. Congratulations tg Mr. Delaporte and best wishes for his success with the P. S. A. L.

Mr. Paul Krimmel of Syracuse High School has recently been appointed “Supervisor of Physical Education” for the elementary and high schools. We extend our. heartiest congratulations and wish you success Keep us posted on some of the new things you will introduce in the schools especially in the line of athletics.

NOTES FROM THE SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL, LA CROSSE, WIS*

Our school has just entered upon a very promising year with an enrollment of forty-two freshman men and fifty-four freshman women, while the senior enrollment consists of twenty-four men and thirty-eight women.

The new gymnasium was used for the first time last Junfc for the annual physical education demonstration. It was used also for the summer session and now all physical education classes are being held there.

One of the splendid features of the new building is its natatorium. The students are to have charge of swimming classes from the model school.

Fall athletics are well under way. The girls of the school have formed tennis, hockey, and hiking clubs fo; this autumn and the winter will bring it usual skating and skiing organizations.

Faye Bennett, Reporter.

THE NEW JERSEY PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

BY F. W. MARONEY, M. D. 'SECRETARY).

The Second Annual Convention of the New Jersey Physical Education Association will be held Friday and Saturday, December ioth and nth 1920, in Atlantic City.

At a meeting of the Officers and Council, held September 25th, in Newark, it was voted to invite physical training teachers and all others interested in this phase 9f health education to the Convention.

The program will include addresses by well known educators, and papers by representative physical training leaders.

Digitized by Google
348

As a unique feature of our Convention, there will be a morning session for the delegates to take part in as pupils. The teachers who will conduct these short exercise periods will present material which is practical, and we urge all teachers to take part and make this part of our program worth while.

We cordially invite School Superintendents, Principals, Head Masters* Directors, Medical Inspectors, Members of Boards of Education and Teachers to attend this varied program. The work will be essentially practical in nature and will demonstrate the many phases of Physical Training through visual instruction.

PROGRAM

FRIDAY MORNING.

School visitation.

FRIDAY NOON.

Luncheon in the Atlantic City High School gymnasium.

FRIDAY AFTERNOON.

GENERAL MEETING HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM.

1.	Address of Welcome

Hon. Edward A. Bader, Mayor of Atlantic City.

2.	Physical Training and Athletics in the relation ^o Mental aad

Moral Education.

F. H. Nibecker, Superintendent of Glenn Mills Schools, Pa.

3.	Physical Training and Citizenship.

Superintendent Charles Boyer, Atlantic City.

4.	Physical Training and the State.

Hon. Arthur F. Pierson, New Jersey State Assembly.

5.	The Present Status of Physica Training.

Mr. Carl L. Schrader, Sargent School, Combridge, Mass.

6.	Protecting the Power House.

Cap’t. J. Whitford Riddle, Sup’t. of Schools, Phillipsburg, N. J.

FRIDAY EVENING.

STEEL PIER.

Demonstration of marching tactics, formal gymnastics, apparatus work, games, dancing and recreational activities by the elementary and high school pupils of Atlantic City and surrounding cities, Trenton State Normal School Department of Physical Education, and Y. M. C. A. classes.

SATURDAY MORNING. MORRIS GUARDS ARMORY.

9:30--10:00

10:00—10:20 io:ao—10:40 10:40—11 :oo

Marching Tactics

Mr. Carl L. Schrader, Sargent School, Cambridge Mass. Mimetic Exercises Mr. Ernest Seibert, Newark, N. J.

Esthetic Dancing.

Mrs. Charlotte B. Skarstrom, Union Hill, N. J.

Free Hand Exercises

F. W. Maroney, M. D., State Department of Education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
349	,

11 voo—11:2o Games

Mr. Joseph D. Angola, Newark Normal School, N. J. 11:00—11:40 Ring Exercises

Mr. George Seikel, Newark, N. J.

11140—12:00 Folk Dancing.

Mr. Lester A. Palmer, State Department of Education.

1 a :oo—12:2o Games

R. L. Burnett, M. D., Paterson, N. J.

It is expected that all teachers will report in gymnasium suits and take an active part in these classes. They are for the teachers.

ARE THE SCHOOLS GIVING HEALTH INSTRUCTION?

Fifty-eight per cent of the teachers of the United States are trying to teach their pupils to care for their health, according to statistics recently prepared by the Bureau of Education. Thirty-two per cent of the schools use textbooks or some sort of classroom instruction in health matters; 15 per cent use the Modern Health Crusade of the Anti-Tuberculosis Association, and 19 per cent weigh and measure the children according to the plans suggested by the Bureau of Education and the Child Health Organization of America. In other words, 15.6 per cent of the 760,563 children in the schools reporting were weighed and measured at some time or times during the year. One and nine-tenths per cent of these same schools have medical inspection, and only 29 schools, less than 1 per cent, have nutritional clinics and feeding.

WASHTUB RHYTHMICS.

A teacher of Greek rhythmics in London has given a public demonstration of how such movements may be used in washing clothes and dishes and transform these distasteful tasks into easy and graceful exercises. If we could only get this fad started in America it would do much to settle the servant problem for our girls could then apply physical “culture” in the home instead of seeking it on the stage or on the lawn. A phonograph playing “The Song of the Shirt,” “Rub -a - dub - dub ”or “Louisana Blues” could serve to set the pace.—Independent.

MORE STATES ADOPT PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Virginia, Mississippi, Kentucky, and Georgia have enacted legislation during the past year which more or less effectively initiates Statewide programs of physical education, according to the National Physical Education Service, 309 Homer Building, Washington, D. C.

In Virginia, the legislation is backed by substantial appropriations of $25,000 to the State board of education for physical education and $25,000 to the State board of health for child welfare and school medical inspection. The law authorizes local public authorities to appropriate funds for the health examination and physical education of school children and the employment of school nurses, physicians, and physical directors.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
350

Appointments are to be approved by the health commissioner and the State superintendent of public instruction.

The law requires that all pupils in the public elementary and high schools of the State shall receive such examinations, health instruction, and physical training as shall be prescribed by the State board of education and approved by the State board of health.

Every normal school in the State is required to give an approved course in health examinations and physical education and upon these courses every person graduating must have passed a satisfactory examination.

The State board of education is authorized to establish regulations requiring from each applicant for a State teacher's certificate satisfactory evidence of having covered creditably an approved course in general physical education.

The State board of education is required to appoint a supervisor of physical education, who shall direct a program of hygienic instruction and physical education in the secondary and normal schools of the State. Mr. Guy Throner has been appointed to this position.

The State board of education is instructed to pay to the local schoo trustees employing a physical director an amount not to exceed one-half the annual salary of such employee, and similarly, the State board of health is instructed to pay to the local school trustees employing a nurse or physician an amount not to exceed one-half of the annual salary of such employee.

The laws passed in the other three States follow the general lines of the Virginia law but do not carry the same degree of compulsion in requiring the establishment of physical education by local school committees. Dr. J. W. Carr has been appointed director of physical education in Kentucky, but it is not probable that similar appointments will be made in Mississippi and Georgia in the near future. The Mis-sippi law does not become operative until Federal funds shaji be made available for the assistance of the State in carrying on the work.—School Life.

CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT.

The next convention of the eastern district of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Buffalo, N. Y. in March, the 17th, 18th and 19th, the week preceding the Easter vacation.

Resolution adopted by the National Education Association at its annual meeting at Salt Lake City, July 9, 1920.

As effective health education is essential to the conservation of the child, who is the most important asset of the nation, we favor definite plans for physical training to be carried on regularly in every school of the nation; we endorse the making of good-health practices a part of the daily life of the child; we recommend some such system as the modern health crusade as a part of an effective course of health education; we favor the teaching of social hygiene in all teacher-training institutions and recommend the co-operation of teachers with an organization

Digitized by V.ooQLe
351

#

of parents in the instruction necessary to the inculcation of sound ideas and attitudes in children* and youth. As to the essentials of social hygiene, we favor the establishment by the states^and the nation of definite standards and ideals of physical perfection of children of school age, to be placed before both pupils and parents, and we advise the adoption of a plan of regular reports to parents, of the physical standing of their children, to the end that every American child may build his life on a basis of sound physical health.

A plan for using the Army mental tests in schools has been formulated by a committee of the National Research Council.

These tests have been used for some time on individual' children, but not on larger groups. It is now planned to employ them in handling large groups of children, even whole classrooms, at one time.

R. M. Yerkes is chairman of the committee at work on the problem'. The other members are: M. E. Haggerty, of the University of Minnesota; L. M. Terman, of Stanford University; E. L. Thorndike, of Teachers College, Columbia University; and G. M. Whipple, of the University of Michigan. The General Education Board is furnishing financial support.

In its preliminary work the committee selected some 20 tests for careful trial. This trial was made on 5,000 children. The committee then selected from the tests two series which seemed to be the most satisfactory, and these will now be tried on several thousand more children in order that they may be further perfected before they are finally offered to the teachers of the country for general use.

In its announcement the National Research Council says:

“This carefully worked out program for group tests will make it possibl e and practicable to make wholesale surveys of schools annually, or even semiannually, so that grade classification and individual educational treatmeht can be adjusted with desirable frequency.

“The Army tests on which these new group tests for children are based and which were used with striking success and advantage during the war, were originally devised by a group of psychologists under the auspices of the National Research Council.”

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS* BUREAU

OP THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OP PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union

Digitized by
American College of Physical Education

Offers a thorough two year normal course preparing high school graduates to become Physical Directors and Playground Supervisors. Special course leading to degree of Bachelor of Physical Education.

Large college building with complete equipment, including gymnasium, dormitory for women, auditorium, swimming pool, tennis courts, etc. Next regular term opens September 28, 1920. Students may also enter at the beginning of second semester, February 1 of each year. Summer session of six weeks for Physical Directors and public school teachers, July 1—Aug. 9.

Co educational Accredited Graduate-placing Bureau

Full information, including interesting booklet of views will be mailed free upon request.

American College of Physical Education

Dept. 37	4200	Grand	Boulevard,	Chicago

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 and FEBRUARY 2 Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens’ Christian Associations and Playgrounds A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country. ExceptionaUy fine dormitory for non resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1921 opens JUNE 27 SUMMER CAMP IN WISCONSIN For catalogs address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago.

Bernard Mandl

MANUFACTURER OF

MEN’S, YOUTH’S, BOY’S AND LADIES’

GYMNASIUM CLOTHING

and Dealer in Gymnasium Apparatus, Theatrical Tights, and all kinds of

SPORTING GOODS.

CATALOGS FREE ON APPLICATION.

210-^212 W. Madison St. CHICAGO, ILL.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF. GYMNASTICS

THE SUMMER SCHOOL BY THE SEA.

A New Idea in Summer Schools. Come to our summer session, July 28 to August 80. Work in an airy summer gymnasium. Play tennis, go boating and canoeing for recreation. Take a dip in the cool waters of Long Island Sound. Live in the summer dormitory, built on a high bluff overlooking the Sound. Rest on comfortable piazzas, stroll on the 250 acre farm of the school, which w ill furnish you with fresh milk, eggs and vegetables every day. Write for circular.

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.,Director.	1466 Chapel St., NEW HAVEN,	CONN.