MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26	MARCH,	1919	No.	277

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mian.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGHr M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, 'Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson S'-, Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Bcdy, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

CITIZENSHIP AND ATHLETICS—A CONCRETE EXAMPLE.

By~GLENN F. THISTLETHWAITE, Physical Director Oak Park, H. S.,

Oak Park, 111.

The purpose of all education is to train for citizenship. Physical education has to do with the health, the growth and development of our physical beings. We look after the health and physical development of our bodies, not primarily to make the human a stronger and more powerful animal, but to make him more able to assume his duties in society - to make him a better citizen. Physical education, then, to be education, must train for citizenship. Athletics are usually considered a phase of physical training or physical education. But to be so classified they must be educational and where they are educational they mopt certainly train for citizenship.

Play is considered the most important factor in a child’s educational development, but play may be so conducted as to lead some boys to become liars and sneak thieves. When the child reaches the high school we no longer speak of his play but of his athletics. Likewise then, athletics may train for good or bad citizenship.

Digitized by LaOOQle
2

It is the purpose of this paper to show how athletics may improve our citizenship when directed in the proper way and to do that a concrete illustration will be used. But first it must be remembered that when we speak of the athletics of our high school pupils we mean more than interscholastic contests and games and for that reason we shall think of inter-school or interscholastic athletics and intra-school or intra-mural athletics.

For our concrete example the Oak Park and River Forest Township High School at Oak Park, Illinois, is used, not because it has solved the problem any better than many other schools, but as it is located in a suburb of a large city under large city conditions, and of about the average size, 1400 pupils, it offers a fair illustration.

The after school hours, from the time school closes until the evening dinner hour, forms the most valuable period of the day for practical physical training. Theory and suggestive exercise can be taught during the regular class hours and some corrective work can be done then, but the amount of exercise to be had in two or three periods per week of 45 minutes each, and many of our schools have but one period per week, is entirely insufficient for a growing boy, especially when a part of that time is taken up in teaching personal hygiene, etc. In fact the greatest good derived from physical training during school hours as practiced in the average school, is its recreational value from the regular school work, and from the habits formed in personal hygiene and discipline.

For healthful exercise the time after school must be utilized and any school that does not attach a great deal of importance to its after school program most certainly is not doing its part to help in the present crisis and is missing a vital opportunity in the training of our boys and girls. Very few pupils do any studying from the time school is out until dinner, nor should they. At the close of the school day the pupils are more or less fatigued in nervous energy and recreation and exercise of some enjoyable nature should follow immediately. Get John to play one hour after school and he goes home tired but happy. He enjoys the evening meal, enjoys the quietness of the home and does not find it hard to do the required home study. He has had his excitement for the day and it is not necessary for him to go to the movies or down to the corner to meet the gang.

We have always provided that exercise and supervision for a small per cent of our boys in the form of interscholastic athletics. The daily practice usually goes far beyond the point of recreation and often becomes a tiresome grind, but even so it makes strong, healthy bodies, and has a disciplinary training that offsets any criticism that may be made against it.

Our interscholastic athletics have most certainly been training for citizenship as well as for emergencies. The fundamental idea of team work is necessary to every business, professional, or institutional enterprise and in our athletics that idea becomes grounded in a boy’s character. Likewise consider the spirit of
3

loyalty. How successful would a corporation be without loyal employes? What kind of schools would we have without loyal teachers? Loyalty is inborn but if not exercised in youth may almost disappear in later life. Loyalty is necessary to citizenship and should be an object of education. In our athletics it is often developed more highly in the rooters than in the players themselves. To get out and pull for the team to win and to suffer with it in defeat develops a school spirit and a school pride.

The criticism directed toward athletics deals with the abuse of the prevailing system. A great deal can be said about foul tactics and questionable methods and during the past there has been much ground for such criticism. Imbued with the desire to win there has been a tendency to adopt the policy that might makes right and anything to win is permissible. But gradually we have been correcting this error by having our boys coached and supervised by men who have been more interested in character building than in winning.

Schools have done little, however, toward eliminating the greatest evil producing agency in our athletics, the spirit of our rooters. The crowd at a high school athletic contest will be composed for the most part of high school students, but there will be a good representation of the best people in the town or community and the high school teachers will be well represented. Such a crowd will see every foul committed by the opposing team and several imaginary ones but will rave when the official penalizes their own team. Fouls committed by the home players are classified as tricks, foxy playing, etc. and are applauded with calls of “That a boy, John”, while the same fouls made by opponents are dirty and are met with furious demands of “Put him out.” Ask your coach to make athletics absolutely clean and you are asking him to be the biggest man in your community, you are asking that his influence counter-act that of the hundreds of partisan rooters that attend the games.

The most important criticism directed toward our inter-scholastic or intercollegiate athletics is that we overdevelop a few and neglect the masses, and it is this mistake that demands immediate remedy. Correct this mistake and the other objectionable features will take care of themselves. When our athletics are meeting the Nation’s demands in such an encouraging way the deplorable feature is that we have produced such a small number of them. While one Hobie Baker is doing such great deeds of valor as an aviator in France, think of the hundreds of others who are being rejected for different branches of the service because of physical defects.

The remedy for this error is intra-school or intra-mural athletics, in fact this is the panacea for all our athletic troubles. This is an old term and a large per cent of our schools claim to have intra-mural sports, but what are they? Usually a few inter-class games, played after the close of the regular seasons or if during the regular seasons, pushed over to one corner of the athletic field or
4

given the gymnasium on Friday afternoon when the varsity is not using it for practice. Such intra-mural athletics may pass as an excuse but nothing more. They do little good and after a game or two the players drop out because of the lack of interest. Enthusiasm cannot be kept up in something that is given little importance in the school. They should be made as much a part of the school as the inter-scholastic athletics so far as the boys are concerned. What is good for the few is good for all. All have an equal right to the use of the school property, the gymnasium and the athletic field and to the teachers' assistance.

To abolish interscholastic athletics in order to promote the mass idea would be a serious mistake. A few colleges have tried the plan but with very questionable success. Love of contest is not enough to get our high school boys to do their best and unless they do their best the interest soon lags, and little good is accomplished. There must not only be a good school spirit but a general athletic spirit in the school. Every boy will want to play football if he is thinking football, and he will not be thinking football unless there is a school team. There must be a standard. Good playing as well as a knowledge of the rules is gained by associating with and observing the players on the regular school team. Then there must be a goal for a boy's work. Practically every boy in a school would give anything to be on the varsity team, yet only the best will go out and try for it. A boy wants to know that there is a chance for him to make the team before going out. But the mediocre boy and even the poorly developed boy, if given an opportunity to compete against boys of his own age, size and experience, jumps at the opportunity. He gets on his class, session, room, or some other team. Unconsciously he develops himself to a place where he has more confidence in his own ability. He gets a taste and at the very next call for varsity candidates he is there. In that way a wealth of material is developed.

We need more school teams so that our athletics may be representative of the different stages in the development of our boys. In place of one team in a given sport there should be at least three, with the division made on the basis of weight and age. In sports like basketball, football and wrestling the weight is the important factor and is generally used as the basis of division, but in track, baseball, and soccer, where the superiority lies in endurance and skill rather than in strength, age is the best basis of division. With the number of school teams multiplied by three the number of boys participating is naturally increased in like ratio. This alone will account for the greater number of boys physically able to engage in competitive games in a small school with less than 100 boys. In larger schools with the school sports designated as heavy weight, lightweight and midget weight, or major, minor and subminor, it becomes an easy matter to organize intra-mural leagues in each division.

Wrestling, gymnastics, tennis, cross country running, and
many other tournaments can be conducted in the same way even though there are no shool teams in those sports.

In a school where there is but one small gymnasium and an athletic field to correspond it is difficult to put through a full intramural program and at the same time keep up the present place in inter-scholastic athletics, but much more can be done than has been done in the past.

The best solution to the problem, if we really mean to attach any importance to our mass athletics, is to decrease the number of inter-school games played and make the respective seasons much shorter. Run off the intra-school leagues first and pick all star teams in each division, which become the school teams. This gives the very best players for the final school team and is an inducement for the boys to do their best in the preliminary games. A condensed schedule can then be played with other schools and if some championship is at stake a final tournament or what is better, a series of elimination games can be played.

Under the public pressure as it has been in the past in regard to athletics it takes a great deal of courage for one individual school to put through the mass idea, and when left to the school classes little has been accomplished in united action. Each one is afraid of injuring his own chances for winning the championship, even though his chances have always been imaginary. High school principals or some one higher in authority in each school who has the interest of all boys at heart must take a hand. The majority of our high schools are members of local athletic leagues. Let the principals of the schools in each league get together and place-a limit on interschool competition and agree on definite dates for the opening of the inter-school seasons and promising that no school will engage in a match game before that date, all with the idea of getting more boys in the game. It will not be expected that everything will go well the first season, the public will not be satisfied, there may be dissension within the ranks of the boys, led by those who have been on the school teams before, and who feel that they are the only and original heroes of the school, and some schools will take advantage of the situation and violate the spirit of the agreement, but perseverance and time will accomplish the results.

In general the idea of mass athletics, as has.just been outlined, is in substance the plan that the Oak Park High School Board has been gradually putting into effect during the last five years. The detail of the system has been left with the physical directors, but the Board has stood sponsor and furnished the protection and inducements for furthering the plan. The path has not been a rosy one. The transition of a school that was saturated with the one team idea into one for every boy in the game has been most difficult. The community had learned to think in terms of national championships. Football was the subject of discussion at the breakfast table, at the club, and even at church, and members of the team could have anything in the town for
6

the asking. For a school board to change the athletic policy and have the time and energy of the coaches devoted to the interests of all the boys to the neglect of the school heroes took courage. In spite of the fact that all football games were won the first season the followers of the team had become such expert critics that they were not satisfied with the small scores and predicted calamity. The next season after winning the first seven games, the team lost three games. The community was disgraced and for the time being the bottom fell out of Oak Park’s reputation. But gradually the public settled down to a new level and began to take a different view of things. By degrees people awoke to the fact that an unusual number of boys were participating in the athletics. Parents began to notice that their own boys in place of merely being the cigarette Smoking rooters, were taking on those signs of robust health and enthusiasm over themselves that they had admired in the eleven boys on the field.

Once the old handicap was removed the teams have improved. The idea of national championships has been entirely forgotten and the school takes just as much pride in fighting for. and winning the prized banner in the local high school league of ten schools. During the school year just finished, out of a possible eight championships in the league, the school won five. All the school teams get less coaching than ever before but the competition for places is much keener and boys are brought to the front that would never have been discovered under the old method.

In working out the system of intra-mural competition the session room is taken as the unit. Unfortunately the session rooms are of unequal size. The three study halls used as session rooms have as many as 60 boys each, while some of the smaller rooms have as few as ten, but by dividing the large rooms into sections, and combining some of the smaller ones, a total of twenty-four units is secured out of the twenty-eight rooms. This basis of division in. a large school has a tremendous advantage over any other, as the boys in the session rooms are thrown together for fifteen minutes each morning,and for four days of the week are in the room together during a forty-five minute study period. The boys become acquainted immediately and a little community starts. Announcements, elections and many affairs that concern only the individual session room are held. There is a certain pride in the room that springs up and as there are about twenty-five boys and a slightly greater number of girls in each unit every team always has a group of rooters. The setesion room teachers naturally assist in promoting this unity of spirit as it assists in room discipline.

At the beginning of each athletic season each room elects managers for the various forms of competition, soccer, basketball, wrestling, track, and baseball, and as most of these sports are divided into classes according to age and weight, there is an opportunity for almost every boy to get on a team. These managers ^ake the room entries for the various- sports, and turn in a list 0f players certified to by the session room teachers. The managers

Digitized by UjOOQle
7

are called together and are organized into a board of control. Schedules are drawn up and each manager is responsible for all announcements being made in his room, and scores of games being given the proper publicity.

Naturally not all units enter teams in each sport. If so, the athletic directors would be swamped. But all boys who want to engage and whose room cannot get up a team are taken care of by a list being compiled of them and the managers allotting them to the various teams entered.

By using a park three squares from the school building, in addition to the athletic field, the school has three fields which can be used for football, soccer and baseball, and by having games follow each other as rapidly as possible a great number of boys are accommodated. Quite recently the president of the school board told the writer that one day last November he visited the various fields when no one suspected his presence and counted over 200 boys engaged in competition. This figure included about eighty-five boys who were practicing for the school teams at that time.

The gymnasium is large enough for two basketball courts, so that eight games can be played each afternoon. In addition the running track affords room for track competition and by utilizing the space under the running track, wrestling and gymnastics are conducted at the same time. Last winter there were forty-five basketball teams in the three leagues, each team playing twice each week. The intra-mural teams have the gymnasium from the close of school at three until five-thirty. The school team then, has the hour from five-thirty to six-thirty. As it has been found impossible to get the time for thrte school teams to practice it has been the policy to enter but one in the inter-scholastic league which follows the old system of starting basketball competition in December and running into March. The three leagues within the school are started about December first and run into the first week of February. All star squads are then chosen to represent the school in an independent schedule with the teams from other high schools, so that for the last month of the season the school is represented by four teams.

No figures have been kept to show the exact number of boys taking part but the number on the various teams in competition during last year runs over one thousands Probably fifty per cent of these are duplicates, so it would seem that about five hundred of the six hundred boys in the school get into some form of organized team play.

But with what results in regard to citizenship? A general deduction is hard to make but a few points stand out very prominently.

It must be remembered^ first, that everybody in the game makes athletics democratic, every boy feels that he is a cog in the machine. At the match games every boy rooter looks upon the contest with a different interest than before. He understands

Digitized by QjOOQle
8

the player’s point of view, he appreciates the finer points of playing, and sympathizes with the players’ feelings. He knows what it is to be out there trying to win and just how it feels to be in a pinch. He feels that he helped make the team and if it is not successful, he is partially to blame. Gradually the rooting at games has taken on a different aspect. When Oak Park was giving all attention to one team the rooters backed the team as a man does his fighting cock. There was a certain contempt for opponents and the natural tendency toward harangue. Now the rooters are always courteous to the visiting team and visiting rooters. Quite recently in one of the games with another school on whose team there was a Negro, in some exciting moment a middle aged man on the Oak Park bleachers called out the usual expression: “Kill the nigger”. He was immediately verbally pounced upon by a bunch of boy rooters with the rejoinder: “Cut out the small town stuff. We don’t do that on this side of the field”.

There has been a very noticeable improvement in individual honesty and sportsmanship. The moral code in athletics has always been a most peculiar one. If a man should try to improve his lie in golf or deliberately call the score wrong in tennis, no one would play with him, but in our highly organized games the referee or umpire is the sole arbitrator and anything that escapes his eyes is considered legitimate by both players and spectators. In the intra-mural games students act as referees but perform little more than the mechanical part of the official’s duties. Decisions are seldom disputed and questions of right or wrong are usually quickly settled by a majority opinion without any appeal to higher authorities. This democratic control makes any boy who would use foul tactics very unpopular and no boy will long stand against the ill-will of his fellows, and as a result, a spirit of good sportsmanship and clean play dominates the whole athletic situation.

It is said that in the European countries at war juvenile crime is greatly on the increase. In Vienna the increase for 1916 was quoted as being 340 per cent greater than the year before. During America’s first year in the great struggle the increase was slightly over 100 per cent. Whether this increase is to continue during the period of reconstruction depends largely on the efforts in our secondary schools and one of the greatest opportunities for correcting conditions lies in the after school program. In these critical times we must forget our old ideas of athletics and bend all our energies to the benefit of the greatest number.

Digitized by Google
9

THE NATION’S NEED OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By WILLARD S. SMALL, Specialist in School Hygiene, U. S. Bureau of,

Education

Evidence of Need:

1.	Thirty-five per cent of the men in the first draft were rejected as physically unfit. Allowing for under-height and special sensory defects, neither of which argues general physical unfitness, not less than twenty-fivfc per cent were rejected for real physical unfitness. (1). That means 2,500,000, between the ages of 21 and 30, were unfit for military service; therefore unfit to render full measure of service in any capacity; therefore unable to get full returns from life in work and happiness. An equal number of women doubtless suffer from disqualifying defects.

2.	Passing of the physical examination is no guarantee of fitness for immediate intensive military training. Only a minority of the men when they arrive at camp were possessed of the strength, endurance, agility, muscular control, and disciplined initiative necessary for the rigors of immediate intensive military training. This minority was made up largely of men who have had thoro and varied athletic experience under competent direction. The majority were lacking in one or more of the requisites. Much time was lost in purely physical training and conditioning.

3.	Very few of these men knew how to take care of themselves. In reply to an inquiry upon this point, one camp officer replied, with humorous exaggeration, that a few of his men were acquainted with the tooth brush. Nearly all the men were physically uneducated; many of them were physical illiterates. And yet in the words of another able camp officer; 'The percentage of men, under my command, who return home safe and sound will depend more upon knowledge of how to take care of themselves than upon any other one factor.”

4.	Approximately 1,000,000 young men each year reach military age. If the war had lasted, each year we should have been handicapped by a like percentage of rejections and of physically unconditioned men. But "military age" is essentially the s^me as economic age. We are economically handicapped.

Address, National Child Lahcr Committee, New York, December 7, 1918.

(1) The Second Report of the Provcst Marshal General contains the following statement:	The physical standards adopted at first at the selective

service were based on these used by the Army under the volunteer system, though different therefrom in some particulars. It was soon seen that these standards were too severe. In time of peace, when the supply of volunteers ordinarily exceeds the demand, a high physical standard may be exacted. When a necessity exists for great numbers, many minor physical defects must perforce be waived, in order to secure the requisite manpower. Under the revised regulations the percentage of rejections was 29.59 per cent. (Note Feb. 1, 1919.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
10

5.	There are about 25,000,000 boys and girls of school age 6 to 18 years, marching along the great highway of youth. Numerous investigations show that at least fifty per cent of these have defects and ailments that impede normal development in greater or less degree; that they live at home and at school, in conditions more or less unhygienic; that they lack the positive physical education - play, athletics, gymnastics, work - necessary to realize their potential man and woman power. A majority of the defects are remediable or preventable; the unhygienic conditions are not ordained of God; the physical education oan be provided.

6.	One State returns 85.87 per cent of its drafted men as physically fit; another State, only 53.33 per cent-a variation of 32.54 per cent. (1). Federal legislation would not entirely eliminate those disparities. Difference of race, social heredity and industrial and economic character are involved. It would tend to equalize such disparities and it would positively improve conditions in all States.

7.	Economic disparities among States are very great. According to the best available statistics, California, for each child between 5 and 18 years of age, has property to the value of $15,000; Mississippi, $2,100. For each 100 children, Nevada has 180 men of 21 years and over; South Carolina has 58. Such disparities can be equalized only by Federal aid.

Character of Legislation Needed.

1.	It should interpret physical education in a broad and true way, as understood by the most competent experts in school administration and in physical education. It must assume physical activity as the basic thing, but conditioned upon and integrally related with wholesome physical environment, individual physical examination and record, medical supervision of schools and school children, development of health habits and instruction in health knowledge, hygienic school management and procedure, and cooperation with all agencies that make for physical upbuilding and the moral growth inevitably incident to sane, wholesome, active physical life.

2.	It must provide for boys and girls alike. From the point of view of racial strength and integrity, the physical upbuilding of women is of equal importance with that Of men - perhaps of greater importance.

3.	It should provide for all children and youth between 6 and 18 years of age inclusive. It should extend its benefits to youth above the compulsory school age by recognition of agencies already organized for doing such work, in the whole or in part; and by extension of the continuation school principle to include and secure a program of physical education for children in industry between 14 and 18 years of age.

4	It should provide for federal aid to enable the States to erect and carry on thoro and effective systems of physical education. This federal aid should be limited to preparation of teachers for skilled service and payment for skilled service.

Digitized by LjOOQle
11

5.	It should provide for studies, investigations and demonstrations for the purpose of developing progressively scientific standards in the field of physical education as interpreted.

6.	It should provide for administration of the law thru the established Fedeial and State Educational agencies and for the co-operation of the Federal Public Health Service with the Federal Bureau of Education in the administration of thpse phases of the law in which the scientific resources of the Public Health Service are necessary. It must guard against duplication of effort and conflict of interest.

7.	It must guarantee the autonomy and initiative of the States. It must be so framed- as to permit latitude of adminis-strative procedure according to the genius and traditions of the several States, and to encourage initiative and flexibility in the development of educational methods and processes. For example the relation of Education authorities and health activities within the States, in regard to administration of health supervision, should not be prescribed. The relation suggested between the Federal bureaus of education and of health might influence the States, but it would be unwarranted interference with State prerogatives to prescribe such a relation.

8.	It should place primary emphasis upon the creation and development of a plan and means for the preparation of teachers for this important educational work. No money should be expended for the payment of service until satisfactory plans have been made for the preparation of teachers.

9.	It should provide safeguards for the proper and effective expenditure of the Federal appropriations, both in the use of funds for public purposes and of provision by the states of adequate supplementary funds and equipment.

Relation/to National Preparedness:

The war has shown clearly that, humanly speaking, the foundations of preparedness for war are identical with the foundation of preparedness for peace. But whereas war is psychologically simple, peace is infinitely complex. It was comparatively easy, for example, for the Provost Marshal General to make a physical classification of drafted men, based upon the degrees of fitness for military service, a classification that, with slight modifications, will be immensely useful in the general physical education of boys and girls. It will not be amiss, therefore, to point out the relation of the proposed national program of physical education to military preparedness.

1.	The program proposed is neither a substitute for military training nor primarily a scheme of premilitary training. It is for both sexes. It is for the strong and the weak. It is a program for producing physically fit men and women by physically educating boys and girls during the period of immaturity; for “unchaining the powers of man for the sake of life itself - its vigor, its beauty, its expression.” The program ends with the eighteenth year, which corresponds in general with the end of the legal school age

Digitized by LaOOQle
12

and with the period of physiological immaturity. Efficient military training cannot be given earlier.

If universal military training should be adopted, this program would insure maximum preparation of a maximum number of young men for military training; if universal military training should not be adopted, it would insure maximum preparation of a maximum number of young «:en and young women for efficient living.

2. More specifically it would prepare for military training in the following ways:

(1)	By classification of boys according to physical status, thru recurrent physical examination during the growth period; and thru early detection and correction of remediable defects.

(2)	By graded training to develop not only physical capacity but also “co-operative discipline”, involving:

(a)	A graded program of exercises, scientifically selected and administered, for all children of school age.

(b)	Corrective gymnastics for special pcstural and muscular defects.

(c)	Intensive physical training for the older boys who are

potentially fit fer military service. Athletics is the most effective instrument. The commander of one of the army training camps writes:	“I have obseiwed that

athletes assimilate discipline quicker than any other class of men. This is due to the fact that their experience in athletics has taught them the necessity for discipline and team work.” Testimony of this kind is almost universal from the training camps.

(3)	By training in health habits, instruction in health knowledge, development of health ideals leading to physical conscience.

(4)	By increasing the physical efficiency of those fit for limited

service only thru:	(a) early detection of defects; (b)

specialized training for such individuals; (c) keeping such individuals out of inappropriate occupations.

What Will It Do For The Nation:

What such a program, wisely administered, will do for military efficiency, it will do equally for efficiency in all civil functions. It will do for girls what it will do for boys. It will raise the positive co-efficient of the physical life of the nation. It will build morality upon the solid foundation of physical soundness and vitality. It will be a powerful influence in Americanization. The democracy of the playground admits of no hyphenism of language; and the morality of the athletic field, fair play and respect for the rules of the game is the very; essence of Americanism.

It will not do the impossible. It will be only one of the social agencies in the immortal conflict between human progress and human retrogression. Good housing, adequate food, and sane regulations of juvenile labor are equally necessary. The enactment and operation of such a law as proposed for physical educa-

Digitized by
13

tion will be a powerful stimulus and support to these other movements.

An editorial in the London hfetion, September 1916, called upon England to make reparation for “The Wasted Years” of her unprivileged youth:

“The war has brought home to most of us a sense of guilt and shame in regard to this dreadful waste of the vigor and the happiness of the race. No self-respecting nation can go back after this war to the state of things which makes the proper development of the body and mind the luxury of a small and privileged class. This reparation at least we will make to the thousands to whom their country has given nothing and from whom she has taken their all. It shall never again be said that it is not until their need for the terrible uses of war that any care is taken of the mass of the youth of the country.”

England, during the labor and agony of war, replied with her new education law in which the “development of the body” is given rightful recognition.

Shall we not in our period of re-adjustment make reparation for our “wasted years?”

ESSENTIALS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN RELATION TO MILITARY TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By'F. E. KLEEBERGER, University of California, Berkeley, Cal.

Physical education can not be dealt with altogether as a subject of instruction as can mathematics, history, etc. Physical education may better be termed a phase of the educational process. It is constantly concerned with methods of procedure and depends for its success upon the methods followed in teaching subjects and in arranging curriculi. Its most apparent vocation is that of keeping people physically vigorous, developing cleverness of muscular co-ordination and correcting the grotesque deformities perpetrated upon human beings during childhood, deformities which can largely be blamed to the use of cramping garments, absurd school furniture, and cruelly long periods of physical inaction at a plastic period of development. Physical education may, however, produce, in addition to the above self-evident values, by-products which may outweigh the former in value. Through its inherent possibilities, under proper guidance, its every phase becomes a source of training in active morality, in discipline, in orderliness of procedure, in cleanliness of mind and body, in social consciousness and in real citizenship.

All the activities of school life and extra-school life influence the child’s physical development one way or the other and therefore have a part to play in his physical education. Proper notions of physical education must thus permeate school procedure, must reach out and guide the use of leisure time and must become factors

Digitized by LaOOQle
in the home life of the entire community. This means that the physical director must be an educator in the truest sense. He must be interested in human'beings and in their preparation for life as a whole. He must not be content to limit his activities to the demands of the school schedule nor be a time server in any sense of the word. His business must take him to the playgrounds, to the boy scout camps, to the girls’ campfire meetings, to the social center and to the homes.

Physical education in any community has to do with the properly co-ordinated development in that community of the child’s school, playground, boy-scout, campfire girl and social activity. Comprehensive development along such lines demands a unity of purpose and administration for physical education, municipal playground systems and boy-scouting and girls’ campfire organizations in the community. This means leadership by an administrator of vision and organizing power, supported by a staff of strong men and women. It is a big work. It is the organization of the things which are the most worth while to the child’s mind in the child’s world, and the utilization of these things to make him most useful to his community and to himself and to prepare him for the real business of life, be it war or peace.

No one will dispute the remarkable educational significance of the boy-scouting and the girls’ campfire organizations and their power to promote ideas of service and active citizenship. Physical education must bring these values into school life, must shake off the fetters of traditional procedure and of former limitations, and must utilize gymnastics, athletics and recreational sports in fulfilling it’s mission in the process of education. It must array itself untiringly against the inquisition of the poor school desk and the multitude of faults of present school hygiene. It must join hands with the playgrounds, boy-scouting, Y. M. C. A., Y.

W.	C. A., girls’ campfire and all other worthy influences allied in promoting healthful and vigorous physical qnd social life.

No municipality is justified in supporting a playground commission in the expenditure of money for playgrounds which are to be placed on land not immediately surrounding its schools, until each and every school is properly provided with play space. Municipal playgrounds are too often a snare and a delusion, serving only a limited group on the assumption that provision is made for the many. The playgrounds placed in immediate contact with a school serve every child in the community and can serve him under expert and constructive direction. Therefore, the playgrounds of a municipality should be developed first about the schools under direction of an enlightened board of education, assisted possibly by the promoting influence of a playground commission. They should preferably be administered through the machinery of the department of physical education of the schools. Such centralization would insure a maximum of values to the com-mun" with a minimum of cost to the taxpayer.

ysical education must meet the demand for universal mili-

Digitized by

Google
15

tary training in the schools. It is logical that it should, for it in greater degree than any other school subject can be consistently organized on a military basis and develop the values of military procedure without emphasizing the bad features of such training.

Military training must not be conceived as an equivalent to physical trqjning. Military training is generally interpreted as gun drill and marching tactics conducted as an end in themselves. The gun drill can well be eliminated from the schools, and the marching tactics made incidental to the business of efficiently conducting athletics for the many rather than the few. Military training in the above limited sense is without content. It soon palls on student and teacher alike and proves a destructive rather than a constructive influence in developing a soldier citizenry.

The disciplinary values of military procedure, the incidental training in marching tactics and the proper familiarity with military commands and the development of a robust, clever body, constitute the military training which should be done in our schools. Such training should be one of the chief aims of the physical education program.

In the light of the above assertions physical education must be reckoned with ‘as of equal importance with other phases of the educational procedure and must be given a definite place in the school curriculum with sufficient time allotment to permit of real and vigorous physical activity. Such activity in turn demands the time necessary for bathing and dressing, viz., not less than forty minutes, preferably one hour.

Physical education of the above type administered for individuals dressed in street clothing and without subsequent bathing is a mere pretense involving an unjustified expenditure of the taxpayers' money for special teachers and may prove an actual menace, in case vigorous work is done, through neglect of hygienic procedure and the inculcation of habits of personal filth.

Regularity in bathing with its associated mental, moral and physical reaction is highly important in the development of self-respect, of attractive personality and of general effectiveness. Its promotion is inherently the business of physical education. Especially is this true since the taking of a bath following vigorous activity doubles the physical comfort and well-being of all concerned.

General Recommendations

Presented in the Order of their Importance

The effectiveness of physical education in a community depends upon the following provisions, briefly:

1.	Provision of sufficient uninterrupted play space properly surfaced. Every school in the system must be a play center, a municipal playground to be used during school hours for specific and constructive play activity and after school for general recreation and athletic competition. Each school must therefore have adjacent to it an open field of from two hundred and fifty to three
IS

hundred feet square and additional areas of varying extent to provide for the apparatus and equipment of a typical municipal playground.

2.	Provision of adequate space and proper facilities for bathing and dressing.

3.	Schedule of work on the basis of not less than forty-minute periods, to come not less than three days each week. Preferably on the basis of one hour periods each day.

4.	Employment of a teaching staff in the school system co-ordinated with the staff of directors on the playgrounds, and sufficient to provide instruction for all children at regular periods throughout the day. These groups should not contain more than fifty children to the group and preferably not more than thirty.

5.	Centralization of control for physical education within the school system and centralization of control of physical education, playgrounds, scouting, campfire, and similar organizations.

6.	Inspection and control of all mechanical features of the school plant bearing on the child’s development, viz., type of furniture and proper use of same, ventilation, heating and lighting, toilet arrangements, drinking fountains, surfacing of grounds, and condition of athletic equipment.

7.	Careful supervision of all physical factors which may influence the child’s moral, physical, and to a great extent mental progress, viz., general, health and development, freedom from incipient infections—common colds included, personal habits of cleanliness, types and condition of clothing, postural habits, etc.

8.	Construction of adequate gymnasia and, if possible, swimming pools.

9.	Provision of extensive equipment for development and corrective exercises.

WHAT THE WAR SHOULD DO FOR OUR METHODS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

Let us restate the question and see what the war has done for new methods in physical education.

The quaint arrangements of free gymnastics that have been widely advertised as serving the purpose of rejuvenating the race are certainly neither new nor method, and no one except their promoters need to take them seriously.

Military training as a part of physical education is not a new method It has been tried here as well as in other countries before this and has as usual lapsed into oblivion after a short shift.

It is significant that the most successful attempt at military training in high schools, that of Maj. Steever, had to adopt a physical training method, namely that of competitive games and sports in order to perpetuate itself.

It also has incorporated into it as an important part physical education as such.
17

Yet will military training have an important influence on physical education methods and it ought to have this influence, namely that of better discipline.

So many hundred thousand of the men of the country have experienced the benefits of discipline on themselves that they must needs see to it that its influence will be secured to the oncoming youth.

While so far, no new methods have been evolved and presented as a consequence of the war, old and well tried ones have been newly demonstrated and affirmed.

Among such the various forms of "setting up drills” must first be mentioned. The regular armies had recognized their value for sometime.

New for the army at least has been the use of physical training methods for fitting for service men with defects amenable to treatment by exercise. Here must be mentioned the work for flat feet and posture done by the Orthopedic Department of the Army Medical Corps.

What is most important to us as educators is the fact that the greater part of the success of this undertaking rested on the educational features of the methods employed.

The successful use of exercise for remedying circulatory disturbances, i. e. those of the heart and blood bessels and thus turning physically unfit into able men is likewise highly gratifying to physical educators. So much the more so as the conclusion is warranted that if these methods were successful with young adults they will be much more successful if employed with individuals still in the formative period, that is children and youth.

Greater attention to this part of physical education is one of the tasks imposed upon the physical educators of the country by this experience.

Last but not least is the great role that physical education methods have played in furnishing recreation to the army and to War Camp Communities. The lessons learned will and must have a lasting influence upon physical education in thte community in general and in the school community in special.

They must be awakened to the fact that two million of men have become used to physical training forms of recreation in their war life and that the responsibility for providing this wholesome form of recreation will now fall upon the communities in which our soldiers will live.

The educational forces of the country must take a hand in this provision.

If the experiences of the war have furnished us no new methods new importance to physical education in all its aspects is gained from the consideration of the facts the draft has put so stikingly before us. Let us look at some of them.

First of all thirty per cent of the drafted men were rejected for physical unfitness.

Digitized by CjOOQle
18

What does this mean?

It means that one-third of the men in the prime of life are physically unfit for war.

How much greater will the percentage of unfitness be with advancing age?

If one-third of the men are physically unfit for the special business of life which war is, what greater ratio is physically unfit for the several specific businesses of life?

Undoubtedly it will be found to be greater still. No consolation is contained in the fact that other peoples may possibly be worse off than ourselves. The question with us is, have we done our duty by the individual and by the nation if we allow such a condition to exist?

Certainly not.

Our duty is plain. This matter must be mended.

How?

Before we can answer, this question we must know the causes of physical unfitness. The present report of the Provost Marshall General may not enable us to answer satisfactorily. A later report may fasten the physical unfitness on special defects and causes. Nevertheless, the report points lessons which we as physical educators must heed.

In the first place the percentage of physical unfitness in the several states is instructive. Pennsylvania heads the list with 46.67, Connecticut is a close second with 46.30, Vermont marches next with 43.82. Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts are all high.

And now who are the best in this column?

South Dakota with 14.13 leads the list here, Nebraska being second with 20.15.

It is fairly difficult to interpret the meaning of this. Industrial States such as Pennsylvania and Connecticut might be expected to make a bad showing but what of New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine? What significance attaches to stock in this matter? The New England stock does certainly not make good its fame for physical sturdiness.

Immigration which is held responsible for so many of the ailments of our body politic does not seem to have contributed to this deplorable state of affairs for we find states with a high percentage of immigration making a very good showing as for instance South Dakota with over fifty per cent immigration, while on the other hand states with practically no immigration show up badly, as North Carolina with less than one per cent has 29.78 unfit.

The fact that the middle West states make a good showing might justify the conclusion that racial differences in the immigration play some role.

The report has practically exploded the theory of the nefarious influence of city life and of the unmitigated benefit of country life, for here is New York State with a large urban population having thirty per cent of unfit while New York City shows a per-

Digitized by VaOOQie
19

centage of 27.85. Philadelphia shows a percentage of 31.07, as against the State of Pennsylvania 46.67.

It is quite evident then that if physical education is to remedy any of these defects in physical fitness its endeavors must not be restricted to the large city but must extend to the country district as well.

A beginning with physical education in rural districts had been made in New York. Short sightedness has curtailed it before it could prove its efficiency but enough remains to show its value, in due season. Extension of physical education into all the rural schools of the land is one of the urgent and important demands of the hour.

The percentages of cities that have had physical education for a sufficient number of years to have influenced the physique of men of draft age are very encouraging, yet not such as to warrant the conclusion that physical exercise will prevent, and cure physical unfitness to a marked degree. Such places are Cincinnati, 27.96, Chicago, 21.24, St. Louis, 25.77.

The matter becomes still more confusing when we find that the differences in the several draft districts of a city are enormous. We have for instance the best district in Philadelphia 16.24, the worst 57.4, in Pittsburgh the best 7.6, the worst 36.

It is quite evident then that neither nativity, industrial conditions, city or country life, presence or absence of physical education in the narrower sense has influenced the physical unfitness to any great degree.

What are then the influences probably responsible for physical unfitness?

Undoubtedly hygienic conditions are the deciding factor. Knowledge of the laws of health and obedience to them are the key note. Obedience to the laws of health presupposes good will to obey and the means to carry them out. The latter are largely a matter of economic conditions. To supply the knowledge of the laws of health is the mission of education. More than ever before must the schools of our land devote themselves to the teaching of hygiene. It is the special function of physical education to be active in this field.

While we may have to await further reports to fasten physical unfitness upon special defects we have at least one at hand, to connect physical unfitness with lack of education, I refer to that physical unfitness which is brought about by venereal disease.

According to the statement of the Surgeon General venereal disease constituted the greatest cause of physical disability in the army. Looking at the distribution of venereal disease among the draftees we find that the following states, namely Oklahoma, Texas, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, Alabama and Florida furnish the greatest percentage, Oklahoma having 4.50 percent and Florida 8.90 per cent. This is clearly a reflection on the educational efficiency of these communities for even wicked New York with 1.82 per cent shows up well. But once more the western and middle western states make practically the best showing.

Digitized by

Google
20

That the matter is one of education is testified to by the movement set on foot by the United States Health Service to have sex education made a part of the curriculum in high schools. In the conferences so far held biology, English and physical education have been specially charged with giving such instruction.

War activities have, however, opened other vistas into the possible causes of physical unfitness.

When the children’s department a year ago gave out the slogan to save a million children, the efforts were mainly directed to the children under school age. Once more we shall have to await detailed reports before drawing definite and final conclusions. Having measured and weighed children in one of the districts of our town I was struck, however, by the fact that in this particular district practically every child’s weight and measure was under the standard.

It is strange that with regard to human beings we are largely without reliable data as to what such a phenomenon may possibly mean for in the human being it will take some twenty years to await the end of physical development and see what effect such undersize and underweight has had on physical development. We are much more fortunately situated when it comes to observation on animals. The period of observation is here comparatively short and allows of final conclusions being drawn.

Let me tell you a personal experience in this matter. Being, besides other things, a farmer, the war brought the necessity of raising as much live stock as possible both as a patriotic duty and as a possible good investment. The necessity having arisen somewhat suddenly and unforeseen, provision for having a sufficient amount of feed on our own farm had not been made. Feed was extremely high priced. The man in charge of the farm undertook to raise quite a few pigs but wishing to save on the feed bill and thinking that little pigs needed but little feed he stunted every one of them. When next he was confronted several months later by the fact that his pigs were undersized he tried by forced feeding without regard to the cost to make up what he had lost, but all in vain. The neglect could not be made good. Instead of having sizable hogs we had only little pigs.

Worse than this we find that the herd so raised is peculiarly prone to tuberculosis which up to the present time had not been noticed in our herd for years.

It is well to recall in this connection that children two years of age have reached rather more than one-half of their height growth.

Now then, is the conclusion not warranted that if a considerable number of children in any community, for reasons of sanitary, hygienic and dietary neglect are stunted and undersized that later on the defect can not be made good by any endeavor whatever?

It is my firm conviction that such is the case and the situation must be grasped by educators in its full significance for their calling and the institutions represented by them.

Digitized by UjOOQle
21

We are charged with education. Go back to the original meaning of the word educere, to guide outward, to bring out, develop! What?

You can only bring out what is within. Unless there be inherent in the little child that enters school certain physical, mental and moral germs able of development the work of the school would seem to be to a large extent in vain. Time, money and effort would be wasted. Are we not perhaps increasing our budgets in all three respects unduly without getting proper returns for them?

Are not a good many of the failures that are laid up against educational agencies due to the fact that the community does not furnish us material which can be developed and educated to a high degree of fitness. If that be so there comes to the school in general and physical education in special the duty to extend the influence of the school backward so to speak into the first years of life of the future school child.

Physical education in its widest sense must look after the children under school age, in order to have children to make something out of with the now improved methods of physical education.

A first step towards bringing the matter of physical development home to the person most interested in it, namely, the child itself, has been taken by the Committee on Child Welfare of the American Physical Education Association who have put out a scheme for growth and weight measurements to be taken at regular stated intervals all through the school life of the child. This purposes to bring home to the child, to the parents, to the educational agencies the fact that the child is or is not developing physically. If it is not developing physically, why is it not? What about its nutrition, its work, its rest? If it is developing, if it devotes a great deal of energy to growth, what must be the conditions of nutrition, work and rest to take care of this special expenditure of force. It is stated that it takes about six times as many calories of food stuffs to build on a new pound of tissue as it takes to maintain it.

The management then of children as based upon the growth phenomenon is an important matter which is as yet little understood and what knowledge we have is not applied. Here is a new method of making physical education visible, tangible. One school principal who has introduced the measure in his school writes me, “This is the longest step forward in practical hygiene that has been made. I told our boys and girls that most of our talk about hygiene went in one ear and out the other because there was nothing between to stop it. That we were going to try to put something in between, namely a motive to get them interested in their own health and growth.”

This is indeed what we wish, to visualize physical development and thereby motivate physical education.

Now look once more over all the facts the draft has brought to our mind and realize for a moment that these facts relate only

Digitized by U^ooQle
22

to one half of our population, the males. What about the females? What do we know about their physical efficiency for the various tasks that life imposes upon them. Here is a great gap. Physical education must concern itself with establishing what physical fitness in the adult female signifies, what its ideal is and then go to work and evolve methods to bring about such physical fitness. This at once doubles the field for our endeavors.

The field is wide, the harvest to be gotten boundless. Let us hope that physical education will find every worker ready to enter the field, to sow the seed and to finally reap the harvest for the good of the coming generation.

UTILIZING WASTE SPACE

A recent editorial in the New York Times calls attention to a new type of recreation center that is developing in the.city of New York as a result of the threatened prohibition.

Under the auspices of the Lenox Hill Settlement, the United Community Club is now installed at 404 East Sixty-fourth street in the premises lately occupied by the Suburban Cafe, which was one of the best-patronized saloons in the neighborhood. The movement of taking over abandoned saloons and turning them into clubs for men and boys has been started and financed by a gentleman who prefers to have his name not mentioned. The work is under the direction and control of Miss Rosalie Manning, head-worker of the settlement.

This club is the third of the kind to be started in a week. The aim of this work is not to do away with the gang spirit, but to establish gathering places where the gang spirit may be led and directed. The rooms have been changed but little since they were barrooms. The bar is in evidence as before, and in the backroom are pool and billiard tables.

The boys’ club at 321 East Seventy-first street was, up to three weeks ago, the Little Bohemian Cafe and the scene of many disorders. Any night now seventy or more boys between the ages of 10 and 21 may be seen there playing pool, billiards, checkers and other games, and boxing and wrestling. The recreational games and sports are under the direction of A. W. Hendrian, physical director.

E. F. Hanaburgh, organizer and director of all the clubs, said that money had been supplied for a great number of other meeting rooms, and that just as soon as other saloons are abandoned, for the unidentified philanthropist has stipulated that only barrooms shall be used, more new clubs would be organized throughout the district.

Digitized by

Google
23

WHAT IS THE RELATION OF WAGES TO PUBLIC

HEALTH?

By ARTHUR E. HOLDER, Representative of Labor on the Federal Board

of Vocational Education.

The health of the child is the strength of the nation. The power of a country, the happiness and security of a people, rests on the broad base of public health. The first duty of man should be to preserve his health. The first and most patriotic duty of a statesman should be to care for the health of the people.

►» What is the relation of wages to public health? It is not possible to adequately cover this question in a short paper. The subject can be only roughly sketched. There is no problem more vital. The term “wages” is applied to the incomes of working people and their families constitute the majority of all countries. It is safe to say that in the United States the ratio is easily 9 to 1 if we include, as we should, agriculturists and such workers whose incomes are rated as salaries. It follows as a matter of course that whatever affects a proportion so large, automatically affects the relation of the whole. Therefore wages and health are reciprocally related, each affecting the other. The higher the wage, the better the health of the wage workers, may be accepted as axiomatic. The better the health of the wage workers, the better the health of the public. Improvement in public health means increased total production and prosperity, greater safety, more happiness. The reasoning is easy.

Th is leads us to other questions, vital parts of the original. First, are wages sufficient to keep the wage earner in good health? Second, is the public health maintained satisfactorily?

The flourishing existence of many large sick and beneficial societies, like the Odd Fellows, Foresters, Knights of Pythias, Knights of Columbus, Workmen’s Circles, trade unions, Masonic and other fraternities merit a negative conclusion. Some assert that the very existence of such organizations is equivalent to an indictment of our present wage system and our lack of system in caring for public health. If statistical information is helpful to a clearer light, consider the following facts: In 1910 over 38,000,000 persons were engaged in gainful occupations. “Manufacturing and mechanical” absorbed 10,808,000. I select this, the largest group of wage earners, for my illustration, and find on analysis of census bureau reports that our industrial progress is unbalanced.

The Wage Earner’s Small Share of What He Creates.

In 1850 the value of our average annual per capita product in manufactures was $1,064. Sixty years later, in 1910, the average per capita production had increased to $3,125. Wages paid employees of manufacturers averaged $247 in 1850. In 1910 wages had risen to $518, an increase of only 109 per cent as compared to 193 per cent increase in average production. Carrying this analysis farther, we find that in 1850 the wage earner obtained 23 1-4 cents

Digitized by UaOOQle
24

of every dollar’s worth of value he created. In 1910 this proportion of product had shrunken so the wage earner got only 16 1-2 cents on each dollar’s worth of goods he produced. This is the base or foundation of the question, "What is the relation of wages to public health?”

The next view reveals the first effect, which we may identify as “instability of industry,” or “depression in business,” more commonly known as “panics.” This brings us to a debatable inquiry, "What causes panics?” High tariffs, low tariffs, gold standards, silver standards, good crops, poor crops, or spots on the sun? All of these and many more excuses have been given and explanations elaborately made by highly gifted scientific men. Unfortunately but few have seen the truth or grasped the facts that panics are brought about more by inequitable distribution of wealth than any other cause. Formerly when the laborer got 23 cents in wages for each dollar of his product, panics occurred about once in twenty years, as witness 1837, 1857, 1877. Since real wages shrunk to 16 cents on the dollar, panics roll around more frequently as the record shows—1884, 1894, 1907, 1914.

What has business activity or panics to do with public health? No other factor in modem life is so powerful, nothing influences our individual health more than severe changes in our economic life. During busy periods men work at high speed and high tension from early in morning until late at night. They are literally rushed to death. During panicky periods the workers and employers spend a large part of their energy and vitality fretting their lives away for fear their jobs or business will suddenly cease and leave them economically stranded.

This answers the question, and explains in concrete form the relation of wages to public health.

All medical men agree on three prescriptions for many human ills: First, “do not worry;” second, “take a rest;” third, “go away for a change.” The first seems humanly impossible to avoid, the last are too expensive to indulge in by that great army of the public that work for wages. Hence small ills grow intb great chronic afflictions—you physicians know the balance of the human story too well for further reminders.

This brings our query to the relation of working hours of wage earners to public health, and is answered by recalling your attention to the tenacity of the workers for eight hours or a shorter working day.

The Eight-Hour Day Adds Years Of Life To Workers.

Wage workers find this the most effectual way to more equitably distribute social wealth and the greatest preventive of disease. Since the union cigarmakers adopted the eight-hour day in 1886, from twelve to fifteen years have been added to the average life of cigarmakers. The printers have added ten years to their life since they abandoned the 10-, 11-, and 12-hour day. Similar experiences have been proportionately recorded by miners, machinists, bricklayers, needle workers, carpenters, metal polishers,

Digitized by

Google
26

and thousands of other organized wage earners. Our trade union vital statistics also show that many years of life have been added to the lives of such wage* earners who have shortened their work day and increased their wages. Every improvement in group health thus briefly described correspondingly improves the public health.

The greatest of teachers reminded us that “man shall not live by bread alone.” Of course this means all men. We may lay too much stress on the bread-and-butter aspect of the worker’s life, but it should not be forgotten that the wage earner, his wife, and children have a spiritual hunger. If time and means will not allow a satisfaction for this hunger, it means that essential joy is crowded out of the workers’ lives, thus leaving them subject to nervous ills. Organized wage earners have been righteously jealous of their health. They have been instrumental in securing many Federal and state laws for the protection of life and conservation of health. They never urged such legislation as a special favor for themselves, but always for the common good. They have had more struggles with corporations for health and safety conditions of work than they have for wages.

The workers realize with the deepest significance that health is their capital, their chief asset. To lose their health is to lose their power to earn. To kqep health or improve health means increasing the power to produce. Wages depend in the last analysis on quantitative production—the greater the production, the greater opportunity is afforded for workers to raise their wage scale.

The Fruits of Organized Labor.

The increase and power of organization of workers insures, first, improved health; second, increased production; third, fewer accidents; fourth, shorter hours for fathers and mothers; fifth, higher wages; sixth, better education and health of children; seventh, higher-grade citizens; eighth, employment of a better grade of certified physicians; ninth, fewer patent medicines, drugs, nostrums, quacks, and whisky.

Let me relate just one illustration from many, gathered during a very busy life. A wealthy mine owner of West Virginia admitted to me in June of this year that, after fighting organizations of his miners for many years, he finally changed his attitude in 1912, and this was the result: Before organization in his field the highest average production was 5.4 tons per man per day of ten hours. Since organization the average output had risen to 9.2 tons per man per day of nine hours. Fifty per cent less accidents had happened, no stoppages had occurred, no illicit drunkenness re-

Eorted, less sickness, 50 per cent less labor turn-over, more school ouses, finer social conditions, happier neighborhood, a more contented and prosperous boss.

Lack of Vital Statistics.

If it were possible to secure complete and accurate statistics of men, women, and children in this country whose health is impaired and whose lives are materially shortened by employment

Digitized by VjOOQle
26

under conditions which were preventable by the exercise of intelligence and comparatively small cost, the totals revealed would be far more appalling than the losses during the present war. The losses and sufferings due to preventable ill health tax the imagination. A large part of the country population, and the city population as well, suffer from unnecessary ill health. Good health is an important factor in the production of wealth, let alone the satisfaction of good health to the individual in his life as a consumer. The need of knowledge along health lines is widely attested. Nowhere does ignorance exact heavier penalties.

It has been calculated that out of our normal industrial army of over 38,000,000 workers there are at all times about 3,000,000 incapacitated for full service, and it is further calculated that of this 3,000,000 one-third are from absolutely preventable causes and about one-third more through causes probably controllable.

The Yearly Toll of Preventable Disease.

One million five hundred thousand persons die in the United States every year, many of the deaths being premature. It is estimated, no doubt too conservatively, that for every death there are two additional persons sick—a total of 3,000,000 sick. Some eminent authorities estimate the economic losses each year in the United States due to sickness range from $1,500,000,000 to $2,000,-000,000. The greater part of such sicknesses preventable. There is no more profitable undertaking than the promotion of health, and no form of knowledge more urgently needed in curricula than effective hygienic science. Tuberculosis might be made as rare as smallpox, but, on the other hand, the death rate is high from the disease, being 183.6 per 100,000 in 1907. Five hundred thousand persons in the United States are suffering from tuberculosis. One-seventh of all deaths are due to it. The economic loss in the United States in 1909 from tuberculosis is estimated at almost 50 per cent above the value of the wheat crop of the country.

In 1908 there were 35,000 deaths from typhoid fever and 350,-000 cases in the United States. Better local sanitation would have prevented 75 per cent of the cases, while sanitation for the country at large would have prevented most of the remaining cases. Whole families in the country are often almost exterminated by typhoid fever developed from infected wells and unsanitary surroundings.

Typhoid has been nearly eliminated in communities where intelligent precautions have been taken. The results of education appear at once in decrease of the death rate from this disease. About 80 per cent of the cases of typhoid develop from drinking impure water, a cause easily removed by simple scientific methods.

Pneumonia causes a high death rate—in some cities one-sixth of the number of deaths. Methods of prevention, similar to those for tuberculosis, are well established and would prevent the majority of cases if intelligently employed.

E. E. Rittenhouse, president of the Provident Savings Society of New York, asserts that annually in the United States human

Digitized by UaOOQle
27

lives equaling the population of the state of North Dakota are sacrificed through ignorance and neglect of reasonable and known preventive measures, and that preventable disease and accident yearly destroy more lives than have been lost in all the country’s wars since the declaration of independence.

Economic Waste of Life And Time By Industrial Accidents.

Fearful losses of life and economic waste result yearly from industrial accidents. Unfortunately we are still in the dark as to the number of industrial accidents, notwithstanding continuous demands by labor and forward-looking employers for definite data from state and Federal authorities. The only acciyate data on hand is confined to mining and transportation. For the five-year period ending December, 19^17, a total of 16,526 workmen were killed and over 49,000 injured in our mines and quarries. For the five-year period ending December 31, 1917, the railroads of the United States killed 48,801 and injured 931,764. Of the killed and injured more than seven out of eight were railroad employees. It must be remembered that men who work in mines and quarries and on our railroads are picked men. Invariably they are the strongest types.

The extreme prevalence of accidents as shown suggests the need of better knowledge of dangerous employments and risky situations. Not a day passes without its toll of avoidable mishaps, entailing pain, expense, household sorrow, permanent injury, public loss. Similar accidents are continually being repeated, but adequate warning is too rarely given. Individuals ieam by experience of the most expensive kind. Mere prohibitions as usually given are not effective. Were a manual of accidents prepared in the spirit of science and widely distributed, tens of thousands of accidents, with their incidental expense, would be avoided every year.

Hundreds of typical accident situations could be demonstrated in laboratories and lecture rooms, and thus an effective experience be had without the wasteful, needless experience of real accident. It is questionable if people need to learn nearly so much by experience. The purpose of education is to substitute learning by understanding in place of learning by experience.

We hear much of efficiency experts. I know no field which presents greater opportunities for their efforts than that of scientifically surrounding workers with conditions calculated to keep them in condition fit to perform their best service.

The Problem of Equal Interest to Employer and Employee.

It is too painfully apparent that this problem of health and safety is of equal interest to employer and employee. An injury to one is the concern of all. It is to the interest of all the people of the country to recognize the fact that it is quite as important for men to be kept in the same state of high efficiency as machinery and other forms of property.

Restriction of output is often justified as necessary in order

Digitized by
23

to preserve the health and vigor of the worker, thereby conserving the human resources of the nation. Energy and ability to produce are the workingman’s capital, but it is intangible and is not adequately protected either by statutory law or trade union agreements. Trade unionists know that speeding up beyond definite limits impairs the efficiency of the worker and reduces the total output during his life. From this point of view it is nothing short of robbery to quickly wear out a workingman and impair his capital while only paying him “existence wages.” An industry which uses up the vital energy of a worker in a few years is coining the nation’s life-blood into dividends. No industry has a right to more than that amount of the worker’s energy which can normally be replaced by proper food and rest. It is obviously to the interest of the worker and of society that overdriving and sweating be abolished. The policy of organized labor toward such a consummation is acting for the best interests of all society in a thoroughly praiseworthy manner. Restriction of the output of an individual worker during a given day, week, or year is justified because it increases his total output and allows the worker to become a better citizen and a more desirable member of society. Careful tests should be made by employers and employees in co-operation in order to ascertain the proper amount of time needed to perform a given job. Systematic investigations of this nature would give definite standards or averages for the output of the average worker.

Conservation of Worker’s Health Evokes Scant Enthusiasm.

Great enthusiasm usually accompanies proposals to conserve natural resources, animal life, and food products. This is, of course, perfectly proper. No criticism is heard as long as the output is limited to save material products from utter annihilation, but, when the health of the worker is at stake, there seems to be little sympathy with any limitation less than that which the capacity of a skilled, subsidized “pacemaker” demonstrates.

The charge of malingering is too thoughtless—the cry of “slackers” frequently unfair. Listen, gentlemen and friends of humanity, to this unvarnished report of some workmen’s experiences:

“Officers of the Oakland, Cal., Boiler Makers' Union declare that newspaper sensationalism about strikes and high wages in shipyards is ‘becoming tiresome.' The publicity committee of this union reports:	‘We have made

careful estimates, and find that there are only 70 men out of the 15,000 working in Alameda County shipyards who are drawing $50 a week or over.’

“The average wage paid shipyard workers is $24 a week. The time limit of endurance for a man working with a pneumatic hammer is six months on general work and three months on the shell. After that he has to take a layoff and rest. The average length of time for a man to stay with riveting is three years. Then he must seek other work if he doesn’t break down altogether. We have many riveters in the hospital now suffering from breakdown.

“We know that the Government wants ships, and we have been willing to waive rules that in ordinary times we have found necessary to protect the lives and health of our members.

“We have waived objection to piece work for the duration of the war, we
29

have waived apprentice rules, we have consented to increasing the number of helpers to each mechanic, and we have worked overtime against our wishes in our desire to aid the Government get more tonnage into the war.

“Despite these conditions we are being daily misrepresented by newspapers that howl ‘strike’ when we instruct officers to take up with the Government officials the question of health conditions which will prevent physical collapse of our associates.”

Without undertaking to enumerate all the efforts by the American labor movement to conserve human welfare, I close this recital by recording some of thq many declarations in the labor program for health and safety of the workers and all the people.

The Labor Program for Health and Safety.

1.	Continued agitation for a shorter work clay to a maximum of eight hours for all manual toilers.

2.	Demand for a higher minimum wage for all labor.

3.	Encouragement of out-door exercise.

4.	Formation of fresh air clubs.

5.	Recommendation of temperate habits, including a diminution of the use of intoxicants.

6.	Release from work at least one full day in seven.

7.	Playgrounds for children adjacent to all public schools.

8.	Large, open “breathing spaces” or parks interspersed in all cities.

9.	Total elimination of the sweatshop system.

10.	Rigid inspection and enforcement of law in all mines, mills, factories, and workshops.

11.	Saturday half holiday fifty-two weeks in the year.

12.	Incorporation in trade agreements or in collective bargains governing working conditions of provisions for suitable ventilation, sanitation, and safety devices.

13.	That, wherever possible, the suburban residence idea be strongly favored, coupled with a demand for one-half rates on steam and trolley lines during the usual hours of going to and returning from work.

14.	Further agitation for better rooms and fresh air ventilation in all living apartments.

15.	A positive demand for the passage and enforcement of rigid antichild labor laws in states where they do not now exist.

16.	Abolition of night work by women and minors.

17.	Equal pay for equal work, regardless of sex.

18.	More conferences and better understanding established among employers, workers, and physicians.

19.	Inauguration of community forums, where health conditions can be openly discussed by parents and physicians.

20.	Elimination of Latin and substitution of English in prescriptions. This mystifying practice is un-American and does not help practitioner or patient.

21.	Continuous medical and dental inspection in all public schools at public expense.

Digitized by Google
30

22.	Complete systems of up-to-date physical education in all public schools at public expense, with further provision for free examination of adults by medical faculty of schools.

23.	Concentration of all Federal health agencies into one department, with a secretary at its head, he to be a member of the President’s cabinet.

THERAPEUTIC EXERCISES FOR PATIENTS AT U. S. ARMY GENERAL HOSPITAL NO. 9, LAKEWOOD, N. J.

By GEORGE J. ALTMANN.

The Physical Education Department is one of the branches of the Educational Department under the Division of Reconstruction and has as its chief aim the administering of exercise for curative purposes, the types of patients being cardiac, orthopedic, post-operative and post-infectious.

The personnel of the department includes Sergeant G. J. Altmann, formerly instructor in Normal College N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.; assisted by Sergeant Paul Krimmel, formerly Supervisor of physical education, Syracuse High School; Corporal Morris Kaufman, formerly instructor in DeWitt Clinton High School, New York City; and Corporal William Ritter, of Allentown, Pa.

Because the problem of therapeutic exercise for the heart patient was of a new and peculiar sort not ordinarily met, a special series of exercises adapted for this form of work was developed. This course of study was arranged by Sergeant Altmann and is to be published by the Reconstruction Division of the Surgeon General’s Office and the Federal Board of Vocational Education in a manual entitled “Grade Exercises for Heart Patients”. The work is divided into six grades or courses, the patient being promoted from one grade to the next higher as soon as his physical strength improves so as to enable him to do more difficult exercises for longer periods of time. If a man progresses at what has been found to be an average rate he can complete the work at about the end of 10 weeks. The exercise period ranges from 15 minutes, of mild exercise twice a day for the first grade to an hour in the morning and half an hour in the afternoon of strenuous work for sixth grade. The setting-up exercises in the third grade are supplemented by “hikes” and in the fifth and sixth grades by games as well. Over 500 cardiac cases have thus been treated, a large percentage of whom have been returned to full or limited military duty.

The patients are men sent from overseas or from camps, whose health has broken down under the strain of military life. When those men begin to take the exercise it is necessary to instil confidence in them. They realize the seriousness of the cardiac affection and appear to lose hope of recovery. They therefore hesitate about taking exercise and assume a spirit of hopelessness and resignation. This does not remain the case long, for by the

Digitized by VjOOQle
31

end of the first week there is improvement noticeable even to the men and the spirit is soon changed for the better.

All cases both organic and functional respond favorably, though among the former many are unable to progress as far as the sixth grade but remain stationary at about the fourth, beyond which their condition does not permit of advancement. The functional cases, with few exceptions, are able to complete the six grades and are sent back to the camps and placed in development battalions.

The results have been even better than the most optimistic hoped for at the start. The experience has taught the fallacy of many of the old theories regarding the treatment of such cases. The old laws forced us to handle such men very carefully and to give them only mild exercise, if any at all. It was formerly thought impossible to improve the condition of such men to such a degree that at the end of a few weeks or months they could perform vigorous exercises. This belief has been disproved.

Although the men are taken in groups from 20 to 60, it is necessary to treat them as individual cases since even in a grade there are variations in degree and kind of the different lesions and disorders. The patients are assigned to the exercises and graded by the cardio-vascular staff. The physical exercises are given by one of the staff of physical instructors while a medical officer is present during the exercises. The aim is to work out a system of treatment for cardiac cases in Army hospitals. Great care is used in all examinations which include stethescopic, percussion, blood pressure, pulse rate, metabolic, fatigue and strength. The X-ray «pparatus is also used and has shown that many hearts at first lack tone and then gradually “gather in the slack,” the muscles becoming firmer and the size of the organ becoming slightly smaller. The electrocardiograph, the most efficient of all instruments for cardiac diagnosis, has proved of exceptional value and is used extensively.

In the course of exercise each grade contains exercises for all the larger muscles of the body. The aim is largely to develop general muscular strength which is often a criterion of the condition of the heart muscle. Exercise is practically the only therapeutic measure employed, the usual course of treatment by drugs being dispensed with, the exercises being given twice daily. Attendance at these exercises is compulsory and a careful record is kept. It is understood of course that where conditions necessitate, a man is excused.

Among the orthopedic cases given exercise treatment are men suffering from various defects and deformities resulting from gunshot, shrapnel, accident and similar causes. They are handled in small groups and arranged according to the body part involved— foot, hip, trunk, shoulder, elbow, hand, etc., and acording to the vigor of the exercises to be taken. A system of exercises of both the formal and informal types, among the latter games, hikes, and mild forms of athletics, has been carefully worked out, the men

Digitized by LaOOQle
32

receiving from 15 minutes to one hour daily according to physical condition. This treatment is supplementary to the massage, baking and other treatment given in the wards, and includes general exercise for all of the large muscle groups of the body; especially of the trunk, to aid digestion, assimilation and elimination; exercise of the legs as in running, jumping, and hopping, to improve the circulation, and breathing exercise to increase mobility of chest and lungs and to aerate the blood. Special exercises are given depending upon the part disabled and the character of the injury. These may be assistive, active or resistive. Apparatus calling for active exercise such as pulley weights, stallbars, Indian clubs, etc., are employed and also recreational forms of exercise, such as games, hikes and athletics. The exercises for orthopedic cases were worked out by Sergeant Altmann and Corporal Kaufman. A manual arranged by the former is soon to be published by the Reconstruction Division, Surgeon General’s Office, and the Federal Board of Vocational Education.

Exercise classes have also been arranged for patients recovering from various operations as for hernia, appendicitis, and also for men convalescing from infectious diseases as pneumonia, influenza, etc. The exercises consist of general and special settingup exercises, hikes and games with special attention to the patient’s ailment. This work is also given under the supervision of the medical officers. The number of patients given such exercise to date runs well into the hundreds.

For much of this work in physical education the local Y. M. C. A. has been used, its gymnasium, pool, bowling alleys and other facilities having been generously offered for this work.

The Physical Education Department has also taken charge of the setting-up exercises and the physical recreation as athletics and sports of the Corps men.

A field day was held on the morning of Thanksgiving day and although no records were broken in the ten events, the meet was entered into with much enthusiasm and offered good sport to both the contestants and the large group of spectators. The tug of war and the cage ball game at the close of the meet were particularly exciting.

Judging from the skill and speed shown by the basket ball team early in the season, a splendid record is to be expected in games with teams representing nearby institutions.

Condensed Instructions Regarding Cardio Vascular Graded

Exercises.

1. The instructors attitude toward his patient should at all times be sympathetic and considerate. Only such discipline as is necessary to bring results should be demanded. A heart to heart talk emphasizing kindness, helpfulness and appealing to the men on the basis of improved physical condition is helpful in establishing co-operation between instructor and patient. Allow the men to stop

Digitized by Google
33

during an exercise if marked discomfort results. This will pass after the first few days in each grade. Give grade 1 and 2 exercises very carefully, avoiding snappy movements. Special attention must be given organic cases, many of which fail to progress further than the fourth grade.

2.	Each exercise is to be given both left and right.

Each exercise is to be taken a few times on command, then . in rhythm.

Movements are to be executed accurately and with full range (complete extension, flexion, etc.)

Exercising with the men stimulates them to more vigorous and accurate execution.

There should be a rest period of about 20 seconds after each exercise.

Men showing marked signs of breathlessness, dizziness, or pallor, should be excused. If this occurs two successive days, the Medical officer is to be notified. Attention should be given to objective signs rather than to subjective symptoms. It is advisable to have a Medical officer present when the exercises are being given, especially to groups of beginners.

^	Demonstration.

1.	Demonstrate each new exercise, then take it on command a few times, then in rhythm.

2.	Demonstrations should be counter-like; that is, if the men are to do an exercise to the left, show it to your right.

Command.

Correct execution of an exercise depends largely upon the command. Every command is divided into 2 parts.

1.	The preparatory command explains the movement. Give this in a short, precise manner.

2.	The command of execution is the signal to begin. The character of the command as of the rhythm depends on the character of the movement, i. e.: slow and vigorous, sharp and snappy.

3.	Pause: there is a pause between the 2 parts of the command.

Breathing exercises are taken on command or in a very slow rhythm—not more than 3 or 4 times in succession. Avoid holding the breath during any movement.

Units of Exercise.

Each set of exercises consists of 8 exercises or units, arranged so as to give the greatest benefit. The order of the exercises should be memorized and should not be changed.

*.	Arm, foot, leg.	5.	Same as unit 1.

2.	Head, chest.	6.	Sideward trunk.

3.	Balancing.	7.	Jump, hop, run or march.

4.	Forward and	backward trunk. 8.	Breathing.

Digitized by v^,ooQie
34

Rhythm of Movements

Arm and leg movements—usually in fast rhythm.

Trunk and head movements—always in slow rhythm.

Jumping—usually in fast rhythm.

Balancing—not done in rhythm but on count or command.

Breathing—always slow.

Compound exercises: the rhythm is that of the slow movement.

Example: Bend arms for thrust and raise chest. The movements of both arms and chest are slow in this exercise because chest raising is done slowly.

Grading.

The grades may be considered as units only in a limited sense, i. e. a patient’s progress depends upon his physical condition—his improvements as shown in the examination by the Medical officers.

An approximation of the time required would be one week each for grades 1, 2, and 3. Two weeks each for grades 4, 5, 6.

Grade 1 (15 Minutes.)

1.	Raise arms sideupward—1. Return—2.

2.	Arms bent for thrust: Straighten arms sideward and raise chest—1 Return—2.

3. Bend arms for thrust—raise heels and raise chest—1. Return—2.

4.	Hands on hips: Lower trunk 1-2 forward and exhale—1. Return—2.

5. Bend arms for thrust—1. Straighten arms upward—2. Return—3-4.

6.	Hands on hips: Bend trunk left—1. Return—2. Right—3-4.

7.	March in place (1 Minute.)

8.	Raise arms sideward and inhale. Lower and exhale.

Grade 11 (15 Minutes.)	«

1. Arms bent for thrust: Thrust arms forward—1. Return—2.

2. Raise heels and chest and inhale—1. Return—2.

3.	Bend knees 1-2 deep—1. Return—2.

4.	Hands on hips: Raise chest and inhale—1. Lower trunk 1-2 forward and exhale—2. Return—3-4.

5. Arms bent for thrust: Swing left leg forward—1. Return—2— Right 3-4.

6.	Sidle stride stand: Bend trunk left sideward and raise right arm side-upward—1. Return—2. Right—3-4.

7.	March in place—2 Minutes.

8.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale. Lower side downward and exhale.

Grade III (20 Minutes.)

1. Raise arms fore-upward—1. Return—2. Raise arms side-upward —3. Return—4.

2.	Raise arms forward—1. Move arms sideward raise chest and inhale—2. Return—3-4.

3.	Bend knees and raise arms sideward—1. Return—2.

4.	Side stride stand hands on hips: Lower trunk forward—1. Return—Z.

5.	Arms bent for thrust: Swing left leg sideward—1. Return—2. Right 3-4.

6.	Arms bent for thrust, feet closed: Turn trunk left—1. Return—2.

7.	Hike—5 to 10 minutes.

8.	Raise hands front of shoulders and inhale—1. Lower and exhale—2.

Grade IV. (25 Minutes.)

1. Raise arms backward—1. Swing arms fore-upward—2. Return—3-4.

2.	Bend arms for thrust and lower head backward—1. Return—2.

3. Raise left leg forward and arms sideward—1. Return—2.

4. Side stride stand: Swing arms foreupward—1. Bend trunk forward and touch floor—2. Return—3-4.

5.	Raise heels and raise arms side-upward—1. Bend knees arms sideward —2. Return—3-4.

6.	Feet closed arms sideward. Turn trunk left—1. Return—2. Right -3-4.

Digitized by LaOOQle
35

7.	Hike 10 to 15 Minutes.

8.	Hands front of shoulders: Straighten arms sideward palms upward and inhale—<1. Return—2.

•	Grad©	V.	(35	Minutes.)

1.	Feet closed, arms bent for thrust: Turn trunk left and thrust right arm forward—1. Return—2. Right—3-4.

2.	Arms bent for thrust: Straighten arms sideward, palms up, raise chest and inhale—1. Return—2.

3.	Raise arms sideward and left leg forward—1. Move left leg backward and lower trunk 1-2 forward—2. Return—3-4.

4.	Hands front of shoulders: Lower trunk 1-2 forward and exhale—1. Raise trunk, raise arms sideward and inhale—2.

5.	Arms bent for thrust: Lunge left sideward and thrust sideward—1. Return—2. Right—3-4.

6. Hands on hips: Turn trunk left—1. Bend trunk forward—2. Return —3-4.

7.	Run in place 20 seconds. Breathing exercise. Repeat the run.

8.	Raise arms foreupward and inhale. Lower side-downward and exhale. Free exercises—25 Minutes.

Game (moderately vigorous)—10 Minutes.

Grade VI. (60 Minutes.)

1.	Bend arms for thrust and place left foot backinward—1. Lunge left sideward and thrust arms sideward—2. Return—3-4.

2.	Step left forward, raise arms sideward, raise chest and inhale—1. Return—2.

3.	Raise left leg backwards, hands front of shoulders—1. Lower trunk forward, arms sideward—2. Return—3-4.

4.	Lunge left sideward and fend arms for thrust—1. Thrust arms sideward and lower trunk	forward—2.	Return—3-4.

5.	Bend knees and place hands	on floor—1.	Support lying frontways—2.

Bend arms—3. Return—4-5-6.

6.	Side stride stand, hands on hips: Bend trunk forward—1. Circle left—2. Backward—3. Right—4. Forward—5. Raise trunk—6.

7.	Run in place 1 Minute.

8.	Raise arms foreupward and inhale. Lower sidedownward and exhale.

Free exercises...........................20	Minutes.

Game vigorous......................................15 Minutes.

Hike ....................................20	Minutes.

Games: Battleball Dodgeball, Volleyball, Handball, Tennis, Relay races. Basketball, Tag games, Blackman, Pom-pom-pull-away.

Morning; Exercises outlined above. Afternoon as above, except grades IV, V, VI omit game and take hike. Short rest in middle of each hike. Hike, 10—15 M.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
36

O’" —	™	.r,	.iim, ■	i.	i	'	O

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND j

O"■""" " 1 ’	I. II .	'	I	O

CLUB EXERCISES

By HERMAN WAIZENEGGER, Milwaukee.

Music: Spring, Beautiful Spring, by Paul Lincke. (Jos

W.	Stern, 102 W. 38th St., New York.)

1st Exercise.

Measures

Whole arm circle left..................................... 1

Hand circle rear of left shoulder........................ 2

3-4 arm circle left, tip clubs............................ 3-4

(Right hand: 3-4 arm circle left—1; half arm circle right—2; half arm circle left, tip club—3-4.)

Same, beginning from side hold, right, left, right........ 5-16

2nd Exercise.

3-4 double arm circle left................................ 1

Double hand circle rear of shoulders...................... 2

7-8 double arm circle left, turn trunk right, and tip clubs on

forearms ............................................... 3-4

Repeat right, left, right..>.............................. 5-16

3rd Exercise.

5-8 double arm circle to side hold........................ 1

Lunge left sideward, tip clubs on forearms................ 2

Half horizontal arm circle, turn trunk left (right arm stays in

sideward position)...................................... 3-4

* Turn to front, close left to right. 3-4 double arm circle outward .................................................... 5

Double hand circle outward rear of shoulders.............. 6

Whole double arm circle outward........................... 7

Starting position ........................................ 8

Repeat right, left, right.................................. 9-32

4th Exercise.

Like 1-4 of 1st exercise.................................. 1-4

3-4 double arm circle right............................... 5

Double hand circle right rear of shoulders................ 6

Whole double arm circle right............................. 7

Double hand circle right rear of shoulders................ 8

Repeat all right, left, right.............................. 9-32

5th Exercise.

3-4 double arm circle left and step right sideward........ 1

Point left foot forward, tip clubs on forearms............ 2

Half double arm circle right and step left sideward....... 3

Point right foot forward, tip clubs on forearms........... 4

Like 1-3 of first exercise................................ 5-7

Hand circle backward, outside of hands.................... 8

Digitized by L^ooQle
37

(With: Step right sideward—5; cross left in rear—6; step right sideward—7; turn trunk right and bend upper trunk

backward—8.)

Repeat all right (stepping left), left and right.......... 9-32

6th Exercise.

Half double arm circle left and step right sideward....... 1

Half turn right, step left sideward, and half double arm circle

left .................................................. 2

Half turn right, step right sideward, and half double arm

circle left...........................................  3

Cross left in rear, bend knees, tip clubs on forearms..... 4

(Three step turn right and courtesy—1-4.)

Repeat beginning right (stepping left sideward)........... 5-8

3-4 arm circle left outward............................... 9

Hand circle left outward rear of shoulders................10

Continue arm and hand circles.............................11-15

(Simultaneous arm and hand circles.) Starting position....16

(Right arm: Half arm circle left- 9; 3-4 arm circle right—10; hand circle rear of shoulders—11;. continue arm and hand circles—12-15; starting position—16.)

Repeat all................................................17-32

7th Exercise.

Swing arms downward and backward and bend trunk forward . 1

Straighten trunk and swing arms to upward position........ 2

Double arm circle outward................'................ 3

Double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders........... 4

Whole arm circle right (outward).......................... 5

Hand circle right rear of shoulders....................... 6

Whole arm circle right (outward).......................... 7

Starting position ......................................... 8

(Left arm: 3-4 double arm circle left (outward)—5; 3-4 arm circle right (inward)- 6; hand circle rear of shoulders (inward)—7; starting position—8.

Repeat all three times.................................... 9-32

8th Exercise.

7-8 double arm circle left obliquely backward and step right *

obliquely forward...................................... 1

Tip clubs on forearms anc^balance hop..................... 2

Move left arm obliquely fore-upward, right arm sideward and

backward and step left obliquely forward............... 3

Balance hop .............................................. 4

Repeat 5-8 of Exercise 7.................................. 5-8

With: Step right backward—5; step left backward—6; step right backward—7; close left to right —8.

Repeat all three times.................................... 9-32

Note: Face right when assuming the starting position of the 7th exercise when executed the last time, and also on the eighth count of the eighth exercise so that this will be executed on the lines of a square. The three steps backward following the two balance hops should bring you back to the starting point.

Digitized by t^ooQle
38

CONCERNING EQUIPMENT.

By C. L. SCHRADER, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge, Mass.

Two main problems invariably force themselves into prominence when the question of equipping a gymnasium is being considered, namely, those of space and time. This assumption is applicable chiefly to the high school gymnasium, where the question of finance is always a delicate one. Rarely are these two problems met advantageously; one of two conditions is certain to prevail. Either a room originally not over-spacious is equipped with four or more of each piece of apparatus, thus occupying valuable space all about the walls; or, in order to obviate this defect to some extent, just one of each piece is supplied. Both errors are due to technical inexperience.

The equipping of a gymnasium is entirely a technical matter and should never be left to the architect or school committee or principal,—not even to an inexperienced teacher of gymnastics. Just as the laying out of an athletic field necessitates the opinion of an expert, so does the equipping, and in many detailed respects the construction, of a gymnasium require the knowledge of an expert.

While forty is set down as the ideal number of a gymnasium class, much larger numbers are frequently crowded in, so that working space is all important and should be sacrificed very reluctantly. In an amply large gymnasium the quadruple or even more extensive equipment is in place, although even here, when true economy is considered, it is not ideal. The one piece of each kind equipment is the poorest of all. It is little more than a museum, in which you exhibit the various kinds of apparatus, and is of little use for class instruction. True economy in accommodating all the classes and utilizing all the time allotted for classes to the best advantage is one of the greatest puzzles confronting the heads of of physical education departments.

In physical education in the schools we are chiefly concerned with class instruction, that is, handling large numbers. This granted, every effort made to render this instruction more efficient will be progressive and in keeping with the times, the aim being to raise the mass rather than the individual. The individual's ability in optional activites will, as a matter of course, be increased because of the general and much varied instruction during class, which should give rise to personal taste in at least one activity for voluntary pursuit. “He who brings much brings something to eveiy one.”

With the growth of the classes in our own School came the solving of just these problems. The results of this solution have been so gratifying that they may fill a general need as well as our special need. There are several pieces of apparatus which, because of their construction, lend themselves at the outset to mass work, as, for example, the ladders, booms and stall bars. Not one of these mentioned has been thoroughly utilized. I will discuss

Digitized by
39

one of these three, the boom, which I consider the most economical and at the same time that which offers the- greatest possibilities for variety.

Practically every type of gymnastics apparatus exercise is feasible on the boom. The boom, when placed low with the flat side up, may well be used as a balance board or for leaning rest exercises. When at the various heights, hip, chest, shoulder, head, reach or jump, all of the hind stand, support, vaulting, hanging and swinging exercises are feasible. The double booms spaced at different distances offer an endless chain of valuable exercises, each calling for either courage, skill, judgment, co-ordination aesthetic sense, or all. By attaching the saddle, we again have access to a valuable type of exercises calling for and developing qualities which are highly essential in a gymnastic lesson. We also use the uprights for jumping standards by stretching a cross rope, or rather a linen bandage from pin to pin, by means of a ring attached to each end of the bandage so that it may be easily dislodged when touched by the one jumping.

For some time I have been considering both the advisability and feasibility of a buck attachment. After due and deliberate

consideration, I approached Mr. Thornley of the Narragansett Machine Company, with the suggestion which he very courteously offered to put into concrete form. When completed it was sent to us and put to the test, and, with but one change it proved entirely satisfactory. The cut gives a general idea of the construction

Digitized by c^ooQle
40

but does not do it justice since the apparatus is indeed a splendid piece of workmanship, safe in every way. The buck is made to fit the heavy boom so as to take advantage both of the strength of the boom and also of the under groove into which fits a clamp which when fastened permits of no play. The buck is so con-constructed as to fit both the long and the cress way.

The first thought for objection which suggests itself is that the boom beneath the buck means danger. The height has been carefully experimented with so that the buck as it now stands is as safe as the individual buck. The danger is merely imaginary and experienced only by those who have used the other form exclusively; whereas those who begin buck vaulting on the boom, will never know the difference and show no more fear than the beginner cn the individual buck.

The advantages comprise a considerably lower cost, economy in space as well as in time,—hence making possible a quadruple equipment,—and finally a wider range of height adjustment. This

latter will appeal to many who have deplored the fact that the buck cannot be raised beyond a certain limit over which practically any high school boy or girl can vault. The height adjustment of the boom is such as to gratify this desire for higher vaulting, even with the use of spring boards. With two or three bucks attached, depending on the length of the boom, all are raised by one lift. We are now having additional booms constructed with this new attachment, and one High School is being equipped with them.

It might be well to state here that our boom construction differs from that usually catalogued. It is a German construction

Digitized by e.ooQLe
41

and is well worth adopting because of its simplicity of adjustment* It consists of stationary uprights against the walls, grooved to hold one end of the boom. Two other heavier uprights grooved on two sides hang on tracks, leaving the ends about two inches free of the floor. At the place where the uprights are to be locked into the floor the track has a notch of a depth corresponding to the clearing groove mentioned, so that when the wheel on which the upright rolls out drops into the slot the upright is flush with the floor. A child can easily remove this massive piece of apparatus. Two uprights give three spaces into which booms are placed.

The length and number of booms is, of course, dependent upon local conditions. The various bucks and saddles may be hung on a truck which can easily be moved to the booms for attachment. It is further possible to have each buck so made as to receive one pommel, whereby, by placing two bucks together, the practical result is a horse.

It is not to be inferred that the now familiar individual apparatus is to be eliminated, for certain types of advanced exercises will always necessitate this individual equipment. But it does mean that for mass instruction such an individual equipment is not necessarily essential and, under certain conditions above cited, not even desirable.

To recapitulate, then, we have in the boom and all of its accessories a piece of gymnasium equipment which will serve large numbers with those types of heavy gymnastics which belong to the day’s order of a well regulated gymnastic program; it takes up little room, and last, but not least, it reduces the cost considerably. I am not prepared to state the exact price of the buck attachment, but it is somewhere around thirty dollars. If it should become a stock article a further reduction may be possible. The Narragansett Machine Company of Providence, R. I., can give further information on this point.

Digitized by v^ooQle
42

PHYSICAL TESTS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By ROBERT M. SMITH, Philadelphia, Pa.

During the last year in the Philadelphia Public Schools there has been gathered by the assistants to the Director of Physical Education a number of records, if I may call them such. We were asked by the Director to find out and record the jumps, throws (Basketball Farthrow) and runs (50 and 75 yards) of all pupils, where possible, from the fourth to the eighth grades inclusive.

It has been my duty as chairman of this committee to compute these figures, placing them in their proper places and get the average for each age. I might state in passing that the ages in the Elementary Schools were from eight to nineteen years; in the High Schools from eleven to nineteen years. The assistant attached to a school would bring a class to the yard, have the children line up according to ages, the youngest at the head of the class. If it was the; Standing Broad Jump the assistant would show the proper method of jumping, and then call the children by ages. One jump was allowed, the jump recorded by the teacher. Most of the jumping was done on cement, the lines laid out with chalk. The running was in the schoolyard when possible, although a great many times it was done on cement streets. The Basketball Farthrow was in the yards, as was the Triple Standing Broad Jump. The only events taken indoors in the Elementary Schools were Chinning, Knee-raising and Leg raising.

The children had not been prepared for these tests. Every event was carried on in regular street clothing, the children coming directly from the classroom.	,

The reason for these tests was to find if the age-aims in force in the schools were too low for the present group of children.

A.	Elementary Schools.

What interested me most was to see the per cent that fell below the old age-aim. Take the Standing Broad Jump-the age-aim for boys of 8 years of age is 3’ 6”. Of 10,384 boys tested 1530 or 14.7 per cent could not jump the distance. Of 23,052 girls examined 3360 or 14.5 per cent could not jump 3’. Please bear in mind that the pupils were of all ages between eight and nineteen. This is one of the events that has been emphasized in the Philadelphia Schools for the last five years, especially in training teams for Field Day.

The Basketball Farthrow (Overhead) - as a standard I took the age-aim in this event as ten years for boys. Of 3,243 boys tested 361 or 11.1 per cent could not throw 20 feet. Of the girls 5,240 were tested and 491 or 9.3 per cent could not throw the ball 18 feet. Although I consider this an event that can easily be mastered, there are some few to whom a ball seems a total stranger.

In the running a larger per cent were encountered who could not measure up to standard. In the 50 yard dash-boys, of 3806 examined 1147 or 30.1 per cent could not cover the distance in 9 seconds - the age-aim of an eight year old boy. It would seem

Digitized by

Google
43

strange that as boys are always running such a large percentage should >fall below. In the girls’ group 1968 were examined and 446 or 22.6 per cent could not run the “50” in 10 seconds. For 75 yards - boys, 3577 were tested of whom 596 or 16.6 per cent could not do it in 13 seconds. For the girls, of 2959 tested 249 or 8.4 per cent could not run the “75” in 15 seconds. In the 100 yard dash for boys of 900 examined 211 or 23.4 per cent could not do it in 16 seconds.

While taking the records for the Standing Broad Jump, the Triple Standing Broad Jump was also tried. In this event of 3763 boys tested 1397 or 34.4 per cent could not jump 14 feet. Of the girls 3728 were tested, 706 or 18.9 per cent could not reach 11 feet. I feel that the standard I selected for the boys was a trifle high, especially as many of them had never jumped the Triple Standing Broad before. As I said above these records were taken on cement, and a great many of the pupils slipped on the last jump. Remember that very few had “sneaks”, and taken all in all no one can do themselves justice in street shoes.

In the Chinning, Knee-raising and Leg-raising most of the records were taken from “home-made” apparatus. A bar suspended in the dressing-room doorway was the method used inmost cases. In Chinning for boys in the 7th and 8th grades, 2806 were tested and 487 or 17.3 per cent could not pull themselves up at all. Of the same number examined 1259 or 44.8 per cent could not chin three times. Any grip was allowed. For the girls, same grades, Leg-raising and Knee-raising were put in place of Chinning. Of 234 girls examined in Leg-raising 171 or 73.7 per cent could not raise them at all; 195 or 83.3 per cent could not raise their legs two times (the legs were together, knees stiff, raised parallel to the floor). For the Knee-raising a much easier exercise, 316 were examined and 13 or 41 per cent could not raise them 20 times.

Following is a copy of the new age-aims worked out from these tests:

BOYS AGE AIMS.

Standing Broad	Basketball Farthrow Triple standingBroad Chinning.

(Feet and Inches) (Overhead) (Feet and Inches)

(Whole Feet)

Age	Aver.	Best.	Age	Aver. Best.		Age	Aver.	Best	Age Aver		.Best
7	3*6”	6*3”	9	18*	25*	9	12’10”	16’7”	11	r 1.5	4
8	3*7”	6’8”	10	20*	28’	10	14’10”	18’10”	12	- 2.7	14
9	3'10”	6’10”	11	22’	26’		13’11”	20’1”	13	2.9	11
10	4’4”	6’0”	12	24r	43’	' 12	13’7”	20’11”	14	3.8	19
11	4’3”	6*0”	13	26’	43’	13 ’	14’9”	19’10”	15	3.6	14
12	4*4**	« 6*2”	14	29'	45r	14	14’9”	21’9’>	16	4.7	12
13	'4*8*'	ntr•	15	32'	46*	15	16’10”	21’2”			
14	6*47’	8’ie”	16	33f-	43'				i		
16	6’KF	8*18”	17	34*;	'47					y		
16	T2*'	' 8* 18**'	* ’18'	35'	50’	y					
17	7’0”	9’0”	r ■.						V •. (  , 5 t . f		
18	rtf’	* 9’0”					f * ‘ *■' •'				
18	1.4”	rr *				* •	V:				

Digitized by CjOOQle
44

50 Yard Dash	75 Yard Dash		100 Yard Dash	
(Seconds & Fifths)	(Second3& Fifths)		(3ecands& Fifths)	
Age Aver. Best.	Age Aver. Best.		Age Aver. Best.	
9 9.1 7.3	10 12.4	11	11 16.4	15.3
10 8.4 7.0	11 12.3	9.4	12 15.3	12.2
11 8.1 7.1	12 12.1	9.4	13 14.2	12.1
12 8.3 7.1,	13 11.4	9.3	14 14.3	12.1
13 8.1 6.4	14 11.3	9.1	15 14.2	12.2
14 8.0 7.0	15 11.2	10	16 13.1	12.1
15 7.3 6.4			17 13.0	12.1
	GIRLS AGE AIMS.			
Standing Broad	Basketball Farthrow Triple Standing Broad			Basketball
(Feet & Inches)	(Overhead)	(Feet & Inches)		(Far Throw)
	(Whole Feet)			(Whole Feet)
Age Aver. Best	Age Aver. Best	Age Aver.	Best.	Age Aver. Best
7 2’6” 4T’	9 15* 20*	9 10*6”	16’6”	13 32* 57*
8 2*10” 4*7”	10 18’ 25’	10 11*10”	17’6”	14 28* 60*
9 2*11” 4*11**	11 20* 30’	11 12*8”	18*7”	15 28* 60*
10 3T* 5’7”	12 21’ 35*	12 12*9”	19*2”	16 33* 51*
11 3*4” 6*1”	13 23* 39*	13 12*9”	18*10”	17 33’ 52*
12 3*6” 6*3”	14 24* 42*	14 12*11”	18*9”	18 37* 53’
13 3*10” 6*4”	15 24* 45*	15 13*4”	19*0”	
14 4T* 6*4”	16 26* 43*	16 15’9”	20’9”	
15 4*1” 6*10”	17 26* 40*	17 14'3”	21*0”	
16 4*2” 6*10”	18 30’ 44*	18 14*11”	20*10”	
17 4*2” 7*0”				
18 4*4” 6*11*’				
19 4*4” 6*10”				
20 4*3” 6*8”				
50 Yard Dash	75 Yard Dash	Leg Raising	; Knee Raising	
(Seconds & Fifths) (Seconds & Fifths)				
Age Aver. Best.	Age Aver. Best,	Age Aver. Best. Age Aver. B3st.		
9 9.0 8.1	10 13.3 10.2	12 .53 4	12	25 42
10 9.3 7.2	11 13.2 10.0	13 .43 5	13	28 60
11 9.3 7.3	12 13.0 10.0	14 .46 4	14	30 63
12 9.1 7.3	13 12.4 10.0	15 .74 5	15	30 71
13 9.0 7.4	14 13.1 10.0	16 .1 4	16	34 70
14 8.4 7.2	15 13.4 10.2	17 .50 3	17	38 82
15 8.1 7.0	16 12.4 11.2	18 .66 4	18	36 84
16 8.2 7.0				
17 8.2 7.0				
	B. High Schools.			

In the Spring of 1918, Dr. Garber, Superintendent of schools, sent a request to all the High Schools to test the boys and girls in the following events-50 yard Dash, Running Broad Jump, Climbing (20 feet), Chinning for boys and Knee-raising for girls. All events to be taken in street clothes. The ages in the groups tested ranged from 11 years to 20. On account of local conditions only a part of the pupils could be tested.

In the 50 yard Dash for boys 2011 were examined, 610 or 30.3 per cent could not run 50 yards in 8 seconds, the age-aim

Digitized by LjOOQLe
45

of a 12 year old boy. Of the girls 4152 were examined, of whom 1097 or 26.4 per cent could not cover the “50” in 9 seconds, the age-aim of a 10 year old girl.

In the Running Broad Jump 1081 boys were examined, 248 or 22.9 per cent could not jump 9 feet 6 inches, the age-aim of a 12 year old boy. Of the girls, 4184 were examined. 1243 or 29.7 per cent could not jump 6 feet, the age-aim of a 10 year old girl.

Strength in their arms and shoulders was a great help to the boys in Climbing. This event was for height, maximum 20 feet. Boys 1767, were tested, 30 or 1.6 per cent could not climb at all; 45 or 2.5 per cent were not able to reach 5 feet; 203 or 11.4 per cent failed to reach 10 feet; 879 or 49.9 per cent could not climb 20 feet. But let us look on the positive side - 158 or 8.9 per cent did climb 5 feet; 667 or 37.7 per cent reached 10 feet; 893 or 51.1 per cent were able to do the maximum 20 feet.

For the girls - 4520 were tested, 1749 or 38.7 per cent could not climb at all; 3538 or 78.2 per cent could not climb 5 feet; 4203 or 92.9 per cent could not climb 10 feet; 4476 or 98.9 per cent could not climb 20 feet. On the positive side - 982 or 21.7 per cent did climb 5 feet; 327 or 7.2 per cent reached 10 feet and 54 or 1.1 per cent did climb 20 feet.

Chinning for the boys brought forward some interesting data -1629 boys were examined, 91 or 5.5 per cent of whom could not chin at all; 509 or 31.2 per cent could not chin three times.

Knee-raising for the girls-3995 were examined, 955 or 23.9 or 23.9 per cent could not ra:s2 their knees 20 times.

In the High Schools for Girls records for other events were sent to the Director, and I include these as they may be as interesting as the foregoing tests.

Basketball Farthrow (Round Arm), 475 were examined, 153 or 32.2 per cent could not throw 30 feet.

Baseball Farthrow (with Indoor Basball,) 152 were examined 35 or 23.2 per cent of whom could not throw 40 feet.

The new age-aims for High Schools are as follows: AGE-REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum Age-Requirements, High Schools, January 1919. “Averages’* and “Very Good” are based upon the tests spoken of in this article.

I. BOYS.

Chinning	Climbing	Running Broad	50 Yard Dash

Times	Maximum 20 feet Feet and Inches	Seconds & Tenths

Age Aver.,		V. G.	Age	Aver.	V. G.	Age	Aver.	V.G.	Age	Aver.	V.G.
12	: 2.	6	12	12.	20	12 :	9.3	: 11	12	8.4	: 7.4
13	: 3.	10	13	13.	20	13 :	10.0 ;	: 14.0	13	8.2	: 7.
14	: 4.	17	14	15.	20	14 :	10.3 :	: 14.6	14	8.2	: 6.2
15	: 5.	18	15	17.	20	15 :	10.6	: 15.0	15	8.	: 6.2
16	: 6.	18	16	17.	20	16 :	11.0	: 15.6	-16	7.8	: 6.2
17	: 6.	17	17	18.	20	17 :	11.2	: 15.6	17	7.4	: 6.
18	: 6.	16	18	18.	20	18 :	11.4	: 15.6	18	7.2	: 6.
19	: 6.	16	19	18.	20	19 :	11.6	: 15.6	19	7.2	: 6.

Digitized by CjOOQle
II. GIRLS.

Knee Raising	Climbing	Running	Broad	50 Yard Dash

Times Maximum 20 feet Feet and Inches	Seconds & Tenths

Age	Aver.	V.G.	Age	Aver.	V.G.	Age	Aver.	V.G.	Age	Aver.	V.G
12	: 27.	: 58	12	2.	10	12 :	6.4 :	8.0	12	: 8.8	: 7.6
13	: 40.	: 157	13	3.	20	13 :	6.6 :	11.0	13	: 8.6	: 7.2
14	: 35.	: 175	14	4.	20	14 :	6.7 :	11.6	14	: 8.4	: 6.8
15	: 35.	: 180	15	5.	20	15 :	6.9 :	12.2	15	: 8.4	: 6.6
16	: 34.	: 149	16	5.	20	16 :	6.10 :	12.6	16	: 8.4	: 6.4
17	: 33.	: 110	17	5.	20	17 :	7.0 :	13.0	17	: 8.4	: 6.4
18	: 32.	: 100	18	5.	20	18 :	7.0 :	12.3	18	: 8.4	: 6.4
19	: 31.	: 90	19	5.	20	19 :	7.0 :	11.6	19	: 8.6	: 6.6

In conclusion I might state that we are emphasizing this year in the Elementary Schools the Standing Broad Jump, Basketball Farthrow, (Overhead) and running 50 yards. Every child is examined at least once a month in one of these events to see if he or she can pass the age-aim. In the 7th and 8th grades Chinning for boys and Knee-raising for girls are coming in for the same attention as the above mentioned. With the co-operation of teachers and principals we are trying to make every boy and girl 100 per cent efficient so far as these three events are concerned. Boys and girls who pass the age-aim are given satisfactory on their monthly report cards. Those who fall below are given a “cross” so that the attention of the parents is attracted to what is taking place in the school. If the parents can be interested then they are helping in making the child a better American both physically and mentally.

PRELIMIMARY PROGRAM

of the Twenty-third Convention of the

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Chicago, April 9,10, 11 and 12, 1919.

Wednesday, April 9th, 8 P. M.

General Meeting.

Welcome to the City....Martin I. Foss, President Mid. West Section.

Presidential Address..............President	William	Burdick.

Mass Singing.....Conducted by L. A. Wegner, Song Leader at

Camp Custer.

Thursday, April 10th, 9:30 A. M.

Public School Section.

Topics.

1.	What lessons that must be considered by us has the war taught? How should the demand be met?

2.	What effect has the present form of military training had upon Physical Training and Athletics in High Schools?

3.	Normal Schools for the preparation of grade teachers: how much time should be set aside for Physical Training; of what should the course consist?

2:30 P. M.

General Meeting.

The place of Physical Training in the General Educational Program.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
47

Professor Charles Judd, Director of the College of Education, University of Chicago.

Dr. Thomas A. Storey, Vice president, A. P. E. A.

8:00 P. M.

Demonstration of Physical Training Activities Bartlett Gymnasium, the University of Chicago.

The demonstration will include

1.	Formal Gymnastics.

A.	With emphasis on corrective and hygienic values.

B.	With emphasis on co-ordinative values.

2.	Rhythm and dancing.

3.	Plays and games.

In each division of the program various age groups will be represented and the effort will be to make the demonstration of definite educational value.

Friday, April 11th, 9:30 A. M.

Section Meetings.

College Directors, Dr. Edwin Fauver, Rochest:r University, Ch’m. Women’s Section, Dr. J. Anna Norris, Univ. of Minnesota, Chairman. Playground-Recreation Section, P. C. Jacobus, Chairman.

North American Gymnastic Union Section, Emil Rath, Chairman. Y. M. C. A. Section, Martin I. Foss, Chicago, Chairman.

Normal School Section, Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Battle Creek, Mich., Chairman.

12:00 M.

Inspection of the plant of Sears Roebuck & Co., with luncheon as the guests of the company.

3:30 P. M.

Therapeutic Section Meeting.

The program will be on reconstruction work with demonstrations and slides.

8:00 P. M.

General Meeting.

New Opportunities in Physical Training.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Secretary A. P. E. A.

Dr. W. S. Small, Specialist in School Hygiene, Bureau of Education.

One other speaker to be announced. Discussion.

10:00 P. M.

Folk and Social Dancing.

Saturday, April 12th, 9:30 A. M.

General Meeting.

- Community Physical Training.

“Recreation in Industrial Communities,” A. H. Wyman, Director of Welfare Work, Carnegie Steel Company.

“Physical Training in Rural Communities.”

“The Playground’s Part.”

“Community Physical Training for Women.”

Speakers on the last three topics to be announced.

Report of Welfare Committee.

Digitized by Tooele
Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

Potomac and DeKalb Streets	ST.	LOUIS,	MO.

MANUFACTURERS OF

GYMNASIUM APPARATUS PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

STEEL LOCKERS

Catalogs descriptive of any of these productions will be sent on request. Merely mention in which line you are interested.

Our book ‘ ‘The Planning of a Gymnasium’ ' contains a mass of data on gymnasium construction and equipment. It also will be sent on request.

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FRANCIS MUSSELMAN, Principal ESTABLISHED 1903 SUMMER SESSION —June 30 to August 9, 1919

Six weeks practical and theoretical training in physical education. Beginning and advanced courses. Summer work credited toward diploma. Special work i n dancing and Military Tactics Our fine big dormitory remains open for summer term.

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—Registration Sept, and Feb.

Theoretical and. practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing women for teachers of physical education n public schools, colleges and normal schools, Young Women'8 * Christian Associations, and Playgrounds. Strong faculty of well known teachers. Exceptionally desirable dormitory facilities.

SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN—June 15 to July 15, 1919.

For Catalogs Address the REGISTRAR, 430 Sooth Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rock; Mountain Teachers Agency

326 Empire Building Denver, Colo.

WM. RUFFER, A. M., Manager

PACIFIC OFFICE:

1312 Northwestern Bank Bldg. Portland, Oregon

FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr.