Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, 8ec’y. of the Technical committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd <t Chestnut 8t’8, St.Louis,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., Managing Editor, 780 Third St., Milwaukee, WlS.

THE RISE AND GROWTH

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS AT

MILWAUKEE.

By Director GEO. BROSIUS.

(HAVE a definite reason for publishing this article in “Mind and Body.” It was in the year 1870 when the direction of the normal course in Chicago was entrusted to my colleagues August Lange, John Gloy and myself. And as I have directed all the succeeding courses, with the exception of three, up to the present time, I deem it my right and duty to publish a short retrospect of the rise and growth of the North American Normal School of Gymnastics during the last twenty-five years. The above mentioned course was preceded by two courses and, in 1872, succeeded by one in New York, when the permanent home of the normal school was erected in Milwaukee, in 1875. While instructor at the Turnverein “Milwaukee,” the superintendency of the normal school was placed into my hands. The task I had undertaken was enormous and rendered more difficult by the lack of sufficient experience. Many hours of strenuous effort were spent in the fulfillment of my duties, but the kind, encouraging appreciation of my work on the part of the North American Gymnastic Union, the assistance of a school-board, composed of able and worthy men, and finally the great importance of the work, filled me with new courage and enthusiasm. The experiences won in each course were carefully gathered and, whereever found

Digitized by GjOOQle
-166-

necessary, improvements were effected. Thus the North American Normal School of Gymnastics rose from small beginnings to its present prospering condition, as may be seen from the following sketch.

One of the most important instrumentalities that the North American Gymnastic Union created by its own initiative is the North American Normal School of Gymnastics. It would be unreasonable to suppose that this institution acquired its present enviable independence while it was still young and undeveloped ; for the equipment necessary for the education and training of efficient teachers of gymnastics, who must first be fitted for their manifold arduous duties, is an acquisition of recent years only ; that is to say, it did not reach its present state of completeness until the institution was placed in closer connection and interaction with the German-American Teachers’ Seminary and the German-English Academy in the city of Milwaukee.

The beginning of every great work is attended with difficulties, as the proverb has it, and the founding of the North American Normal School of Gymnastics is only a new illustration of this truth. The first earnest efforts toward the introduction of systematic gymnastics in this country may be dated back to the years 1848 and 1849. The heroes of the German Revolution of 1848, succumbing in their valiant struggle for the emancipation of the people and the establishment of the German

NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION AT MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-167-

Republic, had to flee for their lives. Following the line of least resistance, they directed their escape, for the greater part, to America.

Simultaneous with their appearance on our shores was the first stirring of systematic gymnastic life on this side of the Atlantic. Multifarious, however, were the aspersions and belittling criticisms thrust at them b}' prejudice on the one hand and lack of intelligence on the other. And had those whole-souled disciples of Jahn been less animated with the exalted spirit of their mission, no doubt many of them, tiring of continued attacks, animosities, and persecutions, might have surrendered, or abandoned both aspirations and advanced outworks already won from the enemy.

The War of the Rebellion caused a temporary lull in gymnastic activity. The turners, who were ever lovers of true liberty and undefiled humanity, flocked in great numbers to the standards of the Federal Government. When the war was ended they resumed, however, with renewed enthusiasm their favorite exercises and amusements. But the faster gymnastics gained a foothold, the more evident became the necessity of providing trained gymnastic teachers for the societies. The outcome of this deeply felt want was that in 1868 the first course of the Normal School of Gymnastics was opened under the direction of the gymnastic teachers Henry Metzner and William Heeseler of the New York Turnverein. The duration of this course was limited to one year, and all the hours of instruction w6re appointed for the evening, the participants being constrained by necessity to work in the day time for a living.

This course was followed by a second one of only six months’ duration. In 1870, in consequence of the precarious condition of the General Treasury of the North American Gymnastic Union, no course at all was given. At its Annual Convention at Pittsburg, Pa., 1870, it was resolved, however, to continue the Normal School of Gymnastics, and to remove it to Chicago.

The third course was consequently opened in Chicago in 1871, and was also limited to six months only, under the direction of the teachers Aug. Lange, John Gloy, and Geo. Brosius. But the results did not entirely meet the expectations, and the Committee on Examination recommended at the Annual Convention at Louisville, Ky., 1872, the founding of a permanent normal school of gymnastics. In contravention to this recommendation a fourth course was opened in the city of New York (New York Turnverein) during the following year. At the Annual Convention of the N. A. G. U. of 1874 at Rochester, N. Y., the Committee on Practice of Gymnastics resolved as follows :	“Be	it	recommended

that the N. A. G. U. institute one more attempt at forming a normal school of gymnastics, but that this attempt be undertaken in the West, provided that the next convention may determine whether or not the Normal School shall continue after this ensuing year.”

The institution was then removed to Milwaukee. The Turnverein “Milwaukee” offered gratis its spacious hall and excellent apparatus for the purpose, and the technical management was entrusted to the hands of Geo. Brosius, the teacher of gymnastics of that society. The school was to be under the supervision of a board of directors. The technical

Digitized by Goode
-168-

director and the supervisory board of directors engaging their combined energy for the best interests of the normal school and drawing largely from former experiences, the institution entered on a rapidly progressive career and then continued to exhibit excellent results. No student any longer was allowed to earn his living during the day-time while he attended the course; the number of studies was increased, and admission to the course conditioned to passing a preliminary examination. Under these conditions ten consecutive courses were given in Milwaukee. New conditions then developed which necessitated a change of location for the institution. It was the Socialer Turnverein of Indianapolis that was to foster it for some time in its further development. The technical management was placed in the hands of its teacher, William Fleck.

Meanwhile the idea of connecting the Normal School of Gymnastics with the German-American Teachers’ Seminary gained more and more advocates. There were opposers of such a policy, too, but when the two noble-hearted women, Mrs. Elizabeth Pfister and Mrs. Louise Vogel of Milwaukee, offered the German-American Teachers’ Seminary and its Model School the splendid gift of a magnificent new structure for a home, and the N. A. G. U. the adjacent lots gratis as a site for a permanent normal school of gymnastics, the objections were soon overcome. After thorough preliminary deliberations on the part of the two interested boards of directors, and after an extensive discussion of the proposed combination at the Annual Convention of the N. A. G. U. at New York 1890, the unification of the three institutions was resolved upon with unanimity.

A year or so later the two normal school buildings were completed side by side, forming a most imposing architectural structure, joined solidly into one, not only in form, but also in the internal working of the educational staff.

The control of the North American Normal School of Gymnastics lies entirely in the North American Gymnastic Union. Its technical director is Geo. Brosius, who was at its head during the ten earlier courses of its existence in Milwaukee, while the actual supervision is in charge of a board of directors of five members. The progress and growth of the normal school, from its first course up to the present year, may be judged from the following table, showing duration of courses, number of participants, curriculum, etc.

(To be continued.)

CHANGES IN THE TEACHING CORPS OF THE N. A. G. LL

Mr. Arthur Knoch has been appointed Instructor of Physical Training at the University of Cincinnati.

Mr. John Wimers has taken charge of the classes of the Chattanooga, Tenn., Turnverein.

Mr. Rob. Schneider was engaged as instructor by the Butte City, Mont.,. Turnverein.

Mr. Wm. Wolf has received the appointment as teacher of physical training-in the Ottawa, 111., Public Schools.

\

Digitized by tjOOQle
-IM-

PRACTICAL HYGIENE IN SCHOOLS.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

ALTHOUGH hygienic measures have been discussed amply and read carefully, it is of interest at all times to refresh one’s memory and now and again to call attention to some new points on this ever important subject.

The practice of hygienic rules in schools is of equal importance and equally beneficial to teacher and pupil. Hence follows that the teacher should pay attention to everything that may be of hygienic benefit, and, in the advanced classes, teach the pupils to practice hygiene and help her (or him) to carry out such measures may be suggested as being of general benefit. The pupils will soon understand that their teacher wishes their welfare, and in appreciation show greater love for her and her studies.

The janitor must be held to cleanse the floors, the windows, the seats, desks, etc., etc. But a mere apparent cleanliness is insufficient and inconsistent with a scientific hygiene. Dust, laden with the greatest enemy of mankind, pathogenic bacteria, accumulates everywhere and is never thoroughly removed by a mere sweeping with the broom and by the dusting with the dusting brush. This old fashion is merely a whirling up of dust from one place to allow it to settle in another. The cleansing should be performed with water, by washing floor, desks, black-boards, etc., etc., as frequently as possible.

The pupils must be taught to keep their school-room clean and to wipe their feet before entering the building. They must be told why this is necessary, so that reason may guide them and not arbitrary law.

The windows must be kept clean to admit as much light and sunshine as possible, the light being essential to the hygiene of the eyes, the sunshine to the hygiene in general. The rays of the sun should, in fact, never be excluded, except when they interfere with the work of the pupils or the teacher.

Never should one and the same study last longer than one hour. In the first place it is injurious to overtax the nervous system with uninterrupted attention, as this leads to an early fatigue of the mind, a weakening of the faculty of apperception, and to unavoidable inattention.

In the second place every class of pupils is constantly generating so much injurious gas, chiefly by exhalation, that an occasional minute’s gasp of fresh air out of doors and a change of air in the school-room is of the greatest benefit. Give, therefore, repeated recreations, both physically and mentally.

During intermissions the windows should be opened at bottom and top, so as to allow the escape of impure and the entrance of frfcsh air. Of course the nearest approximation to securing perfect hygienic ventilation is to produce a constant change of air by applying proper ventilators.

In cold weather the temperature of the room should be about 70° F. Overheating as well as an insufficient temperature run contrary' to hygienic rules and to the comfort of the teacher and pupils. The teacher should not allow the pupils to remain seated with their wraps or over-

Digitized by G.ooQle
—170-

coats on, as a so-called “cold” is too easily contracted under such circumstances, when the pupils rush suddenly into the cold air out of doors.

To secure a correct respiration and to prevent deformities, especially rotary lateral curvature of the spine, the teacher must insist on an erect posture of the pupils during their studies and work. Squint and nearsightedness may thus also be avoided or at least checked. Do not allow the pupils to “put their nose on the book.”

Gymnastics, or at least free exercises (calisthenics), must have careful attention in an up-to-date school. Such exercises are essential to a good discipline. The teacher should acquire, if she have not, sufficient knowledge of physical culture to be capable of leading some exercises. Although this hygienic measure is still generally too much neglected, rapid progress is being made in its introduction into more and more schools and colleges. Philosophers, pedagogues, and scientific men in general are assiduously popularizing the ideas of Pestalozzi, Spiess and many others, knowing that brightness, activity, attention, comprehension, memory, and the general well-being of the pupil are thus increased and multiplied. Directors and teachers of schools will in the end be more than compensated for the extra efforts, expenses, and time employed by a far greater success in their school.

Such exercises should be taken up daily and, where the school is fortunate enough to have its own gymnasium, an hour twice weekly should be marked on the plan of studies for gymnastics, thus following the example set in European countries.

SYNOPSIS.

PRACTICE:	YOUR	COMPENSATIONS:

Cleanliness........................Health.

Fresh air and plenty of light	- Increased resistance against disease.

No overtaxing of the mental faculties - -	Keeping reserve force on hand.

Correct posture of pupils ----- Preventing deformity.

Sufficient physical exercise - -	-	-	Improving the dwelling of the mind, thus at-

taining and maintaining a sound body for a sound mind.

Physical Culture for the Deaf and Dumb and the

Blind.

By ETHEL R. WEEDEN, A. N. S. G. ’95.

ONE year ago gymnasium practice was added to the curriculum of the South Carolina Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind. The year previous a gymnasium, at present one of the best in the state, was erected. It was well equipped by the Narragansett Machine Company. In June of the present year two classes, one composed of deaf and one of blind pupils, gave an exhibition that visibly testified to the beneficient results of eight months’ gymnasium practice. This year there are more classes receiving the physical training working with a steady purpose toward the mark of a higher standard of physical and mental ability.

In the afternoon, quite a while before the appointed time, the class that is to exercise on that day, gathers about the gymnasium doors, impatiently awaiting admittance. On one day it is a class of blind girls, on another a class of large deaf girls, on still another a class of

Digitized by t^ooQle
-171-

small deaf girls and again a class of deaf boys. It is easy to control any one of these sets since they appreciate the privileges of the gymnasium too much to risk the withdrawal of the same. The majority of the higher class of deaf girls are well built and need only direction as to the manner in which to use their bodies, strengthen their muscles, etc. There is good material here, but it is often in the rough state in the beginning. Each lesson shows them in better trim and at the end of the nine school months they will be able to compete with any class of hearing children of the same age in light and heavy work. To this class my commands are given as they would be to the hearing child, excepting that I must form each word distinctly with the lips, teeth and tongue. These pupils have been taught lip-reading, so that—while they cannot hear—they are yet able by close observation and attention to understand all that is said to them. So quick are they to note commands that I seldom realize that I am not teaching hearing children. Their interest is keen and at the close of the lesson they often express their feelings by stamping their feet in unison, in place of the Swedish “Thanks for the day, comrades.” To the younger deaf pupils the commands are all given in the sign language. There is a good spirit of competition among the children that urges each one on to excel the other. They are easily shamed and the one who does slack work is quickly laughed down by the others. Of course this applies only to the careless, not to the weakly.

With the blind there is much individual work to be done, and drilling in accuracy, but the results are worth the labor. They stand better, walk better, and acquire a control and independence that is entirely lacking at first. Their marching in file is done with the hands placed on the shoulders of the one in front. The order “Mark time” is given, then at the command “Forward” all hands are placed on shoulders, ready for the march. The other work is executed as by seeing children. During the last few minutes of the hour I give them a game which sends them away happy and with a good appetite for supper.

During the morning I give ten minutes work in each school-room. The windows are thrown open, and the fresh air and exercise refresh and brighten the scholars. The teachers have testified that the pupils do better work after these ten minutes of muscular work.

The children are taught to particularly remember their standing position and to be careful in their marching in and out of the dining-hall. In fact, to apply what they have learned. Chest measurements receive considerable attention, and each child has a prescription card to work at. Of course there are failures and discouragements, but these only make us try again. We drop all care when we enter the gymnasium, and look only for the bright side, thus making it a very attractive place to all of us. If physical training is to work the results we claim for it, where is it more needed than among those who by birth, disease or accident have been deprived of the full endowment of the senses that conduce to the happiness of mankind? The afflicted are the ones who have the need of our efforts toward the bettering of the race. If we can lay the foundations of a physique that aims at the ideal in its proportions we shall have prepared a dwelling-place for a

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-172-

mind that will lift itself above its trial into a clearer atmosphere of better reasoning and nobler action. Among the blind, especially, is too often found a lack of appreciation of some of the finer instincts. They cannot have a mental picture of their lapses into carelessness, as regards the personal appearance, the action and even the thought—therefore they are not confronted by the revulsion of feeling that acts as an incentive to orderliness with the seeing person.

To the lot of the person who has the oversight of their physical welfare falls the duty of picturing to them what they now are and what they may be. Once let the seed of thought in this direction be planted among them and the desire to do better and to be better will surely grow, and with careful pruning and oversight bear a rich harvest. I love the work, and if I can instil a similar love into the pupils we shall not have worked for naught.

EFFECT OF EXERCISES OF STRENGTH.

By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.

THE effect of exercises of strength has been made well known by Dr.

Schmidt’s little book. One of the effects is said to be a retardation of the venous circulation, owing to the great pressure in the thoracic cavity. An accompanying rise of pressure in the veins is one of the necessary consequences. That this pressure may rise so high as to burst the vessel walls is illustrated by the following case which came to my notice recently.

A young gymnast (age 20 years) of very fine build and in good health, but who had become quite stout during a somewhat extended vacation and absence from the gymnasium, attempted, after the regular lesson had been finished, the well known exercise of strength, known as “scale rearways,” on the flying rings. This exercise he had never been able to do in good form even when in good training. Much to his surprise he accomplished it this time. When repeating the performance some bystanding gymnasts urged him to extend the duration of the exercise. This he did, when suddenly he felt “something give way’’ under his left eye, to use his own language. The lower lid quickly became swollen and discolored dark blue, just as the regulation “black eye” would appear. No further attention was paid to the matter. In a few days the swelling underwent the well known coloring processes, denoting the different stages of absorption, etc., and finally subsided. There can hardly be any doubt as to the nature of the happening. Owing to the high blood pressure a fine blood vessel burst. That it should burst in just that particular region is not to be wondered at, if one remembers how easily blood vessels are broken in that region by external force. The seeing of stars and a momentary darkness accompanying, resp. following, the accident, go to show that intraocular and intracranial blood pressure was increased at the same time and that the young man must adjudge himself happy that the rupture did not take place in some vital organ.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-173-

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

II.

(Continued from No. 28.)

8.	SERPENTINE MAZE.

The girls grasp hands firmly, then follow the leader or head of the line easily, without pulling or jerking. The leader, who should be the strongest and most skilful of'the girls, leads her line about the playground, through many turns and windings, in the opposite direction to her column, forms a loop by passing through under the upraised arms of two of the players, then remains standing while her column forms a spiral around her. This spiral is unwound by the last of the column starting and the others following her, or bv the leader starting out from the center and leading her column back and forth through under the upraised arms of the followers.

9.	RACE RUNNING.

a) The players are arranged in a column of three lines, according to their sizes. Then the leader moves off to a position at a distance of about 40 to 60 yards. At a signal given by her the first rank runs to her, the one of the three who first touches her hand being winner. This one goes leisurely back to the columns, falling in line at the rear. The other ranks follow in order as rapidly as the signals are given by the leader, the winner in each rank going back to the end of the column and taking her place, so as to preserve the column of three files. When all the original ranks have run, the ranks of the winners behind them go through the same order and so on till the final winner is found. The defeated ones in each line form at the right and left of the leader, or in column behind her, to witness the rest of the racing.—b) The players form in a line in front. The leader takes her place at a distance from 40 to 60 yards and at a given signal all start together in a race. The one who first touches the leader’s hand, or reaches a previously determined straight line, is the winner. Should several reach the goal at the same time, they must repeat the race until one of them gains the victory.

B) PLAYS CONDUCTED IN MORE DEFINITE SPACIAL LIMITS.

aa) plays in circle formation.

13.	DROP THE HANDKERCHIEF.

All players, except one who is chosen as runner, stand in a circle shoulder to shoulder, facing the centre. The runner runs around the outside of the circle, carrying a handkerchief in her hand. This she drops behind some player while running. The person behind whom the handkerchief is dropped picks it up and pursues the runner, who seeks to gain the position just vacated by her pursuer before she is tagged. If she succeeds, she retains that position while her pursuer becomes the runner. If she fails, she must do the same thing over again, dropping the handkerchief behind some one else.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-174-

The game may be varied by substituting a pat on the back for dropping the handkerchief.

14.	CAT AND MOUSE.

The players stand in a circle, facing inward and grasping hands, except at two places where gaps are left. One player is chosen as mouse and stands within the circle. Another is the cat and takes her position outside the circle. A little dialogue then ensues as follows :

Cat :	“Little mouse, little mouse, come out.’’

Mouse :	“I	will not.”

Cat :	“Then I’ll scratch your little eyes right out.”

Mouse :	“But	I	will	through a hole get out.”

The mouse now runs about, in and out of the circle, through under the arms of the players in the circle, pursued by the cat who, however, is permitted to pass only through the two gaps left in the circle. When the mouse is caught (tagged), she takes her place in the gap last passed through, the mouse filling the other gap. The player on the right hand side of the cat now becomes cat and the one on the right hand side of the mouse becomes mouse.

15.	THREE HIGH.

The players form a circle, facing inward. Alternate ones step in front of those standing to the right of them, face them and take one step backward. The players are now arranged in pairs, with a space between them. Arunner and a catcher are appointed. The runner steps between the two members of a pair and turns her back toward one of them. The catcher tries to tag this one before she can run to a place between two others. If successful, they exchange places, the former runner becoming catcher and vice-versa. If the runner gets between others, the one toward whom she turns her back becomes runner, and so on.

16.	THE GROWLING BEAR.

The players form in a circle, facing inward. In the center, confined in a very small circle, is a growling, ill-tempered bear. The players forming the circle strike and otherwise molest her, till she grabs at any one within reach. If she holds fast to one of them, this one must in turn become bear, and the former bear takes her place in the circle.

17., THE BOILER BURST.

A circle is formed. Some distance from it a line is drawn. In the center of the circle stands the story-teller. She tells a story about a trip by rail or steamer, or a visit to a factory, or some other tale in which must occur the words, “The kettle burst.” The moment these words are uttered, all players start for the line. The last one to reach it must become the next story-teller. As many places may be marked off on the line as there are players, less one, and the one who fails to get one of these places must be the next story-teller.

18.	THE SCULPTOR.

One player, the sculptor, stands in the center of a circle of players. She places each of the players in a particular position, kneeling or with

Digitized by CaOOQle
-175-

hands upraised, for instance. When all are placed to her satisfaction she says, “The sculptor has gone out,” and leaves the circle. The statues at once come to life and play whatever pranks they will, till the sculptor returns, saying, “The sculptor has returned.’’ The statues now hurriedly resume their poses and any one failing to do so properly is cast out as a poor block of marble.

19.	THE KING HAS GONE OUT.

This game is similar to the preceding one. The king is in the center of the circle and assigns to each a piece of work, such as washing clothes, ironing, turning pancakes, etc., which she must affect to do. The king then leaves, saying, “The king must go out,’’ and the time till he returns, instead of being spent in work, is spent in riotous pranks. When he returns, all must instantly resume work or suffer the penalt}’ fixed.

ONE WAY OF PUTTING THE 16 LB. SHOT FROM A SEVEN-FOOT CIRCLE.

By FERD. W. FROEHLICH.

STAND with the shot in the right hand, (the hand is held close to the right shoulder), right foot at R, Fig. 1, left foot at L.

Raise left leg and cross it in front of the right, twisting or turning the body slightly to the right; swing left leg forward, at the same time hopping on right leg from R to R’, Fig. 1. Then step on the left at L’ and with a quick half turn left leap or spring forward, landing at P on the right foot, raising left leg and bringing the right shoulder well forward when delivering the shot. A person stepping out of the circle while trying for a “put” loses that put, the put being declared a foul.

A 16 pound iron ball is used. The measurement is taken from the circle line M to the deepest impression made by the shot. The rule for the N. A. G. U. Festival in St. Louis allows each man four throws, two right and two left, the best one from each side to count, and in the individual contest the best out of four puts to count.

In the class competition 15 feet count one point and every foot more one point extra.

In the individual competition 19 feet count one point and every foot more one point extra.

Putting the 16 pound shot can easily be practiced in the gymnasium by using one or more mattresses as a landing place, or by using leather bags filled with small shot.



Digitized by CjOOQle
-176-

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES.

3 Groups, each 4 Exercises. (Boys, 11—14 years.) Arranged by GUIDO WERNER.

1.	GROUP.

Starting Pos.: Arms at the side.

I.	EXERCISE.

1.	Step-pos. left forw. (on toe) and raise arms forw. (knuckles outw.).... 1—2

2.	Rise on toes and raise arms upw.,	(	“	“	).............. 3—4

3.	Return to 1st position......................................................  5—6

4.	“	“	stg.	“	.................................................. 7—8

The same opposite (right), 9-16,—and repeat left and right arm............... 1-16

2.	EXERCISE.

1.	Step-pos. left sidew. (on toe) and raise arms sidew. (knuckles backw.). 1—2

2.	Rise on toes and raise arms upward,	(	“ outw.)............ 3—4

3.	Return to 1st position....................................................... 5—6

4.	“	“	stg.	“	    7—8

The same opposite, 9—16,—and repeat left and right arm......................  1-16

3.	EXERCISE.

1.	Step-pos. left backw. (on toe) and raise arms forw. upw. (knuckles outw.) 1—2

2.	Kneel on left knee and bend arms to thrust (upward).......................... 3—4

3.	Return to 1st position....................................................... 5—6

4.	“	“	stg.	“........................................................... 7-8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and .right from..................... 1-16

4.	EXERCISE.

1.	Cross-step left forw. and raise arms sidew. upw. (knuckles outw.)...... 1—2

2.	Return left (foot) to right, bend knees (right angle) and lower arms side-

ward height of shoulders..................................................  3—4

3.	Return to 1st position....................................................... 5—6

4.	“	“ stg.	“	  7-8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from...................... 1-16

Pause, 16 counts.

II. GROUP (Exercises in turning).

Starting Pos.:	Pend arms to thrust during pause at 9th count.

1.	EXERCISE.

1.	V4turn left (on r. heel),	step-pos.	1.	forw.	(on	toe)	and thrust arms forw*..	1—2

2.	Lunge left forw., raise	left	arm	obliquely	forw.	upw.	and	lower	right

obliquely backw. downw....................................................  3—4

3.	Return to 1st position................•...................................... 5—6

4.	“	“ stg.	“	      7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from...................... 1-16

2.	EXERCISE.

1.	Same as 1st movement, 1st Ex., II. Group..................................... 1—2

2.	Lunge left sidew. raise 1. arm obliquely sidew. upw. and lower r. oblique-

ly sidew. downw............................................................. 3—4

3.	Return to 1st position........................................................ 5—6

4.	“	“	stg. “	 '.................................................... 7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat right and left from...................... 1-16

3.	EXERCISE.

1.	Same as 1st mvt. (above), but thrust arms obliquely forw. upw.......... 1—2

2.	Lunge left backw. and swing arms backw. downw................................ 3—4

v

Digitized by U.ooQle
-177-

Return to 1st position................................................ 5—6

“	“ stg. “	  7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............  1-16

4.	EXERCISE.

Vitum left, step-pos. left sidew. and thrust arms upw. (knuckles outw.)... 1—2

Same as 2nd movement, 4th Ex., I. Group............................... 3—4

Return to 1st position................................................ 5—6

“	“ stg. “	.............................................. 7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............. 1-16

Pause, 16 counts; clap at 9th count.

III. GROUP.

Starting PosArms bent to thrust.

1.	EXERCISE.

Step left forw. (whole foot) and thrust arms upw. (knuckles outw.).... 1—2

Bend trunk forw. and left knee, swing arms sidew. downw. striking

1 ball under left knee (knuckles forw.)...........................  3—4

Return to 1st position (swing arms sidew. upw.)....................... 5—6

“	“ stg. “	  7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............. 1-16

2.	EXERCISE.

Lunge left sidew. and thrust arms sidew., 1. obliquely upw., r. obliquely

downward........................................................... 1—2

Straighten 1. and bend r. knee, bend trunk r. sidew. and raise arms upw.

striking 1 ball (knuckles backw.).................................. 3—4

Return to 1st position................................................ 6—6

“	“	stg. “	  7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............. 1-16

3.	EXERCISE.

Step left backw. and thrust arms sidew. (knuckles backw.)............. 1—2

Bend trunk backw. and raise arms upw. striking 1 ball (knuckles backw. 3—4

Return to 1st position................................................ 5—6

“	“	stg. “	  7-8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............. 1-16

4.	EXERCISE.

Turn trunk left and thrust forward.................................... 1—2

Bend “ forw., turn and swing to the right, arms follow (pos. to the r.) 3—4 “	“	“	“	“	“	“ “ left, “	“	“	“	“	1.	5-6

Return to stg. position............................................... 7—8

The same opposite, 9-16,—and repeat left and right from.............. 1-16

—Medicine as a Discipline Agent. Whereas formerly the sulky, stupid, or ill-tempered boy was commonly relieved of such distemper by the master’s rod, it is now believed by a certain school of psychologists that with the judicious use of internal remedies his case is better reached than by the time-honored method of counter-irritation. A clearer insight would discover the salutary effects of a dose of castor-oil in many instances.

Here is a change for the much worried and maltreated teacher to get even with bad boys and to maintain order without coming in conflict with school laws.—We would suggest:

1.	Pills for lazy boys.

2.	Bad-temper powders for boys, who create noise and don’t mind.

3.	Castor-oil for the fighting and unmanagable boy.

Digitized by

Google

r
-178-

Douglas Park Out-door Gvmnasium and Natatorium >	in	Chicago.

TO the city of Boston is due the honor of having had the first gymnasium in her public park. While on a visit with some of my colleagues to that city in 1891 we became enthusiastic over what we had seen there, and we henceforth endeavored to induce the Chicago turning societies to work for something similar for our city. The committee appointed waited on the Commissioners of Lincoln Park. After some time they secured appropriations for the construction of a gymnasium in the aforenamed park, provided the Turners would contribute the whole apparatus. This was at first agreed to, but declined afterwards, because an appropriation had been made for the Westside for a similar purpose. An active agitation was kept up by the Chicago Turners to secure further appropriations out of public funds for such gymnasia and natatoria in all the public parks. The Vorwaerts Turnverein had plans drawn, and circulated a petition which was covered with about 30,000 signatures from Chicago citizens. The Park Commissioners looked favorably upon the idea and selected Douglas Park, where other extensive improvements had been projected, and utilized the plan drawn by the architect Mr. Frank Randak. He was appointed to supervise the work of construction and proved himself to be worthy of the confidence placed upon him. The Park Commissioner Chas. Yopicka and Superintendent Wm. Gleason deserve especial credit for endorsing the idea of the Turners. Mr. John Gloy of Chicago furnished the apparatus. On Sunday, October 11, 1896, the Park Gymnasium and the Natatorium were formally opened with a grand exhibition given by the Chicago Turners.

The Park Gymnasium has a length of 600 feet and is 210 feet wide; it contains a 14 mile running track and all sorts of apparatus, forming' one of the best equipped gymnasiums in the country.

The dressing rooms are connected by bridges running along the walls above the whole floor. There are dressing rooms for ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Geo. Sonnenleitner was appointed superintendent and Mr. Theo. Halock his assistant.

The Natatorium is a building without a roof and extends 300 feet in length. It contains two basins, one for ladies, 60x60, and one for gentlemen, 120x60. Of the necessary offices and dressing localities there are 78 for ladies and 112 for gentlemen ; in addition there are six shower-baths. The average daily number of bathers in August was 3—4000. There is constantly a long line of people at the doors waiting for admittance. The park authorities were compelled to reduce the time for each individual bath to one half hour in order to give all a chance, and the park-police is busied to preserve order. Of course the bathing is gratis and the city furnishes a towel and a bathing suit also free of charge.

During the month of October 25,979 persons made use of the Park Gymnasium, very good for a fall-month indeed.

It is hardly necessary to state that this institution is of the utmost hygienic benefit and a credit to the city, the Park Commissioners, and the Turners of Chicago. Already the Park Commissioners are at work to provide for like institutions in the other parks of our city. H. S.

Digitized by CaOOQle


DOUGLAS PARK OUT DOOR GYMNASIUM AND NATATORIUM IN CHICAGO.

Digitized by
-180-

Mind ftND BODY. ^

Subftcription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

3>*Eil-<*ra.*aJc:e«, WLacon aln.

tffT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PHYSICAL TRAINING STATE-LAWS.

IN various states of our country bills have been presented to their legislative bodies which have for their object the incorporation of physical training as a compulsory branch of school education. City-authorities (cities only have been included in these provisions) ought to be compelled to employ special teachers for this branch. As far as we remember, it is only in Ohio that such a bill became law ; in the other states these measures met defeat for various reasons. It seems to us that the defeat of a number of such bills was no such very unlucky thing for our cause after all.

If those efforts had all been successful, most likely a number of other states would have followed and—providing these laws had been enforced —what would, under the present circumstances, have been the consequence ?

Inasmuch as the regular normal schools for physical training could not have supplied the demand for capable teachers, there would have been an enormous “run” for these positions on the part of entirely incompetent men or women, which would only have tended to give our noble cause a set-back hard to be overcome for a decade or more.

Why not begin at the other end ? Why not enact first state-laws providing for boards of examiners, composed of representatives of the recognized schools and instituting regular examinations of such persons as wish to teach physical training in public institutions. All of the better normal schools of gymnastics insist on a sufficient length of time for instruction in such branches as Anatomy, Physiology, Pedagogy, Principles and Practice of Gymnastics, etc., and really differ from one another mostly only in details, and even these differences are gradually disappearing altogether. The graduates of these form what might be called the “Regular School.” The examining boards alone should have to decide what constitutes the criterion of this class of teachers who eventually could, upon presentation of their diplomas, be exempted from such state examinations. Through such measures we should see physical training greatly elevated in the public estimation, the schools and pupils protected from “professors” who claim they can do a back summersault as well as a front one, and people who desire to enter our ranks, would feel encouraged to take up gymnastic studies in a thorough manner before they would attempt to teach.

—Health must be earned—it cannot be bought.

Digitized by GiOOQle
—181—

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(Continued.)

Question : 7. How is the advance executed ?

Answer: The right foot is placed cautiously and quickly about 8 to 12 inches to the front, followed by the left at the same distance without deranging the position of defence.

Question: 8. How is the retreat executed?

Answer: This is in reversed order of the advance; the left foot is placed about 8 to 12 inches directly to the rear, followed by the right foot with a light “appel” when placed down again.

Question : 9. When does one advance:

Answer: One advances to shorten or keep correct distance.

Question: 10. When does one retreat?

Answer: One retreats to avoid a to close distance.

Question: 11. What is meant by distance?

Answer: The distance is the interval between two opponents. It is a correct distance, when the point can reach the opponent in a lunging position.

Question : 10. How is the extension of the arms executed ?

Answer: By extending both arms to their full length quickly but without any jerk; right and left hands as high as the shoulder, and point in line with the breast of your opponent. In order to resume the original position draw in your right hand quickly without jerking, at the height of the breast, elbow about 5 to 8 inches from the hip and in line of it, left arm in half circle behind the body.

Question: 13. How is the lunge executed?

Answer: The lunge is performed by extending both arms and left leg, while the right foot advances about twice its length, keeping at right angle with the left foot.

Question: 14. What is the correct posture of the body in the lunging position ?

Answer:	A	correct lunge has the following characteristics: The left

foot is flat on the ground, the left leg is perfectly extended, the right foot is at a distance of about four feet in straight line with the left heel, the right knee is vertically above the instep of the right foot ; the left hip is well pressed back; the left hand is about 3 inches above the left leg, the thumb upward and the palm of the hand directed to the left; the right hand at height of forehead and the point of the foil as high as the chest.

Question: 15. How does one return from a lunge into a correct position of defence?

Digitized by U.ooQle
-182-

Answer: One returns into position of defence by pressing from the ground with the right foot, relax and rebend the left leg, toss up the left hand and draw in the right arm to its correct place and resume the position of defence.

Question: 16. How many openings do we distinguish in position of defence ?

Answer :	We distinguish 4 openings.

REPORT.

Meeting of the Central Committee for the National Festival N. A. G. U. (May 6, 7, 8, 9, 1897), St. Louis, Mo.

THE Corresponding Secretary, Mr. Cremer, reported that Prof. Louis Soldan, Supt. of the Public Schools, had sent him a communication, saying that the Teachers’ Committee of the School Board has passed favorably upon our request that the children of the public schools participate by active work in our festival, and that they had authorized Mr. Wittich, their Supervisor of Gymnastics, to prepare for an exhibition of school work by about 4000 pupils.

The Chairman, Mr. Muench, reported that all contracts relating to our lease of the Fair Grounds had been signed and that we now have full control of the whole grounds, including one mile race-track, grand stand, amphi theatre, etc.

The Finance Committee reported an income of $2,921.65.

The Press Committee reported that No. 4 of the “Festzeitung” has been published and that they intended to publish a ‘‘Guide” for the visitors. The matter was laid over until a later meeting, in order to give the committee more time to submit plans. The question of employing an official reporter, whose business it will be to provide the papers (English and German) as well as the Associated Press with all the news, was also referred back to the committee for more definite propositions.

Mr. Braun reported that arrangements had been made with Mr. Bethmann, President of the Central Sharpshooters Ass’n and member of the St. Louis Turnverein, to arrange for the Shooting Tournament. Full particulars will be sent to all societies as soon as the arrangements are completed.

The Technical Committee reported that Mr. Aug. Muegge was now at work upon the fourth (and last) group of wand exercises and that they expected to have all exercises ready in a short time.

The Literary Committee reported that November 1st was the limit set for receiving contributions of such as compete for the prize poem. They also report and all appearances show that the attendance of male choruses will be much larger than it was at Milwaukee.

The ‘‘Housing Committee” reported that they intend to house about 1200 men in the Fair Grounds and the rest of the actives in the gymnasiums lying nearest to the grounds.

At the next meeting the preliminary program, as already submitted, will be reviewed and acted upon.	5.

\ .

Digitized by

Google
-183-

GAMES AND PLAYS.

89-91.

STAKE GUARD.

This game can be played indoors as well as outdoors. Indoors 12—24? players select a ‘guard’ by throwing their bean sacks from a distance of about twenty feet to within a square of from 8 to 12 feet, in the centre of which stands an Indian club. Outdoors a stake may be driven into the ground. The player, whose sack lands farthest from the club, or stake, becomes guard.

The guard now places his sack on the club, the other players meanwhile retiring to the starting line.

Upon a given signal all players simultaneously aim to hit the club, or the sack upon the stake, in order either to upset the club or to throw the sack off the stake, the guard in turn quickly replacing club and sack and then ‘tagging’ any player whom he can reach within the lines of his square while in the endeavor to regain his sack. The sack taking must be quickly done while the guard is replacing his stick. He can not tag a player outside the lines of his square. If he succeeds in tagging a player, then he in turn must seek to escape from the square before the new guard (the player who was tagged) can place his sack on the club. The players who succeed in getting their sacks without being tagged, may throw or hurl their sacks from the starting line as often as opportunity offers, the unsuccessful players lingering near the square to await their opportunity for recovering sacks.

(It is preferable to continue the throwing simultaneously upon a given signal after each displacement of the sack.)

After a while the throwing distance may be increased in order to make the game more interesting, it frequently occuring that no player succeeds in displacing the guard’s sack, when it behooves him to be careful, lest some one enters his trust,—a misdirected run not infrequently freeing all players, who stand around, watching an opportunity to regain their sacks.

The square can also be made smaller than stated above (to help the guard, or to secure better play—aim).

BALL TOSSING GAMES.

Form a circle ‘in front’ (pupils facing the centre player), double arms’ length distance between pupils. Odd pupils (and even pupils alternately) toss a ball to each other sideward, left or right, and over the heads of the ‘even’ pupils, the centre player endeavoring to get the ball in case of a ‘miss’ and exchanging places with the pupil who missed the ball.

Form a circle ‘in flank’ (pupils behind each other—left or right flank toward centre), arm’s length between pupils. Toss the ball overhead, bending backward, toward next pupil, or, as above, to odd pupils. The centre player exchanges places upon securing the ball, as above.

Form a circle ‘in front,’ in close order, with four openings, wide enough to permit the passage, or escape, of the centre player. Pupils face the centre. The centre player tosses the ball to whomsoever he likes, such pupil in turn tossing the ball back to the centre player, who must catch it and escape with it through one of the openings, the player, who threw the ball, endeavoring to catch him before he can succeed. Places are exchanged when the centre player has been caught.

The centre player of a circle tosses a ball to his playmates a number of times agreed upon—four, six or eight times. Upon the last return toss, the players scatter, the centre player endeavoring to hit some one with the ball before they can get too far away from him. The player who was hit exchanges place with the centre player.

The players of a circle toss the ball upwards and toward the centre of the circle, the centre player endeavoring to catch the ball in his cap or hat. Upon missing, places are exchanged with the player who tossed the ball.

Digitized by

Google
—184—

FRENCH BLIND MAN’S BLUFF.

A pupil, furnished with a wand and blindfolded, is standing in the centre of a group of players, a circle. The playmates dance and hop around him, until he signals them to stop by tapping the floor with his wand. He points his wand at the players and asds a question, to be answered by the pupil pointed out, in a disguised voice. Should the blindfolded player recognize the voice, he is relieved by the owner thereof.

TO CLASS LEADERS AND ACTIVE MEMBERS OF SOC’S.

Under this column we would like to publish your opinion upon practical subjects.

We will gladly revise articles and withhold names if so desired.

Come forward with your opinions and experience, all of you.

—Editor “Mind and Body.”—In answer to your call for opinions on hot or cold bathing immediately after exercise, I will say that I generally found a warm shower bath (tub-baths are a nuisance in a gymnasium and ought to be discarded) followed by a bath with the water gradually getting colder to be all that one can desire. I usually get into the bathroom wet with perspiration, and must say that I have never seen bad results follow.—By the way, I think that a lot of money is often wasted in putting all sorts of fancy “spray,’’ “needle,” etc. baths into halls where a plain, everyday shower bath will do all that common sense can ask for. These things cost much and—after the novelty has worn off—are seldom used, except to be shown to admiring visitors.

An Active.

—Editor “Mind and Body.”—I have seen a gymnasium where the active members immediately after violent exercise and in full perspiration took a “plunge” in the swimming basin in which the water was quite fresh.

I was told that no taking cold or other bad after effects had been noticed.

An article on the subject, which I once read, expressed the view that it is best to take a hot shower bath and right in succession a cold one, not changing graduall}’. I have found this an excellent rule.	R.	Z.

Editor “Mind and Body.” Sir:—1. The article signed “An Active” in Oct. number of “Mind and Body” is correct as to my thinking. Although I am not a 3d grade turner I prefer the steel horizontal bar.—2. I think that it would be a good idea to have a fencing section and have an extra night for meeting. 3. T believe in a good bath after exercise. I prefer this mode of bathing for myself. Have the water as hot as the body can stand with ease, run cold water in the bath-tub gradually until it becomes lukewarm; then take a shower-bath of cold water and rub bod}’ dry with a coarse towel. Be not afraid to rub.

Yours, A. A. R.

QUESTIONS:

What are the rules generally adopted for Relais-(Foot-)Races ? F. W. F. What is the best age of a class leader (Turnwart) ?

Can, and should, the duties and privileges of the instructor and of the class leader (Turnwart) be strictly defined and separated ?

—She didn’tt mean that. Teacher of Physical Culture to class: I will now show you how poorly some of you walk on the street, (she walks across the room awkwardly) and now how it should be done according to Delsarte rules, (crosses the room again).

“Well, Johnnie, how did I walk now?”

Johnnie: Bow-legged, Ma’m.

\

Digitized by U.ooQle
-185-

CORRESPONDENCE.

New Haven, Conn., October 10, 1896.

Editor “Mind and Body”!

In the review of my little book on apparatus work the “Amerikanische Turn-zeitung” says, that the nomenclature differs from the one used in the new book of the “Gymnastic Union.” “Bahn Frei” of New York takes exception to my terminology on the same ground. The difference is very easily explained by the fact that my book was already in the hands of the printer before “German Gymnastics” made its appearance. But even, had this not been the case, I think I were justified in using my own terms, for the terms used in “German Gymnastics” are not only not uniform throughout the book, but may in some instances be readily improved upon. In order that the digressions made by me from the terminology of the above mentioned book can be examined as to their merits, I shall submit some of my differing terms to discussion in your columns. In German Gymnastics the terms sideward and sideways are used as synonyms., I hold that the English word “ward” is to be used just as the German “warts” to indicate a motion in a direction. The word “ways” on the other hand, I have used just as I would in German the ending “lings.” as indicating a relation of our body to its surroundings, that is, gymnastically speaking, to an apparatus. I mean to include hand apparatus in this rule. Following this rule, I speak of a run forward, flank vault sideward left, to a rest rearways. The difference is well illustrated by repeating the sentence without discriminating between the terms “ward” and “ways.” Here it is : a run frontways, flank vault sideways left to a rest rearward or backward. I also use, for obvious reasons, the terms: forward, sideward, backward, but frontways, sideways, rearways. I would like to hear from all who can, for good reasons, not assent to this proposition of mine being made a permanent and generally acceptable rule.

E. H. Arnold.

H.	S., Chicago.—It was impossible to get the new pictures.

Dr. B., T.—The steps mentioned in movement C, exercises I, II, III & IV, Group II, in our October issue (p. 149) are “closing” steps, in which the heels are brought together as in fundamental position.—Let us hear from your institution, please. Best regards.

Dr. D. M. F. K., Ph.—A very good beginning.

G.	B., J. C.—Could you not send us some short communication in reference to your summer experience ?

G.	H.—Have complied with your wishes.

A. Kn., Cine.—Have referred your letter to the Freidenker Pub. Co. Thanks for compliments.

H. B. C., Chicago, C. B., Kansas City, W. A. O., Cincinnati.—We expect “something sometime.”

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Miss Nellie Fogelsong has opened the “Dayton View Gymnasium” at the Auditorium, Dayton, 0.—This gymnasium will be open to ladies and children.

—The next national contest of the “Deutsche Tumerschaft” will take place in Hamburg, Germany, in the year 1898.

—What next? In order to be consequent and to make the girls “mind” also, we wonder that nobody yet suggested the formation of Amazon-Companies in our schools!

—Physical training colleges and normal schools will soon be as plentiful as medical colleges in this country, Again we have to report of a new one, the Temple College of Philadelphia, Pa. Mr. C. M. Williams is director of the Men’s Department with Hermann Bretthauer as assistant; Miss M. E. Schetky is director of the Ladies’ Department, and there are two medical advisers. The Normal Training Class will attend a course of eight months.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe

/
-186-

—Military drill is not a question of bread and butter with the gymnastic teacher—the fad would prove very short-winded,—but a question of educational common sense. If one can substitute military drill for gymnastics, we might as well substitute whistling for singing in the schools. Everything goes, if it must go.

—To teach the boys subordination, is one of the main arguments for military drill. Do we not live in the latter part of the 19th century, in which we claim to be able to accomplish every- and anything by our advanced scientific, systematic, educational methods? This glorious free country ought to take a lesson from European sisters, where in spite of kings and canons education is not adulterated by drills.

—R. I. Gymnastic League. The second annual business meeting of the Rhode Island Gymnastic League was held at the Manual Training High School recenth'. The president, Mr. Horace S. Tarbell, declining re-election, Mr. William L. Coop of the Narragansett Machine. Co. was elected to that office. Mr. F. E. Parker of Brown University was made First Vice President, Miss Laura Sanborn, Director of the P. Y. W. E. C. A., being chosen Second Vice President. Miss Ellen LeGarde, Director of Physical Training in the Providence public schools, was made Secretary-Treasurer. An executive committee was elected of three members, Miss S. May Taylor of the Pawtucket schools, Miss Edith Hill from the Woonsocket schools and Mr. John Doldt of the P. A. A. A resolution was passed to hold monthly meetings throughout the year, open to the public.

—The “Posse Gymnasium Journal” in its September issue cites an article by Dr. M. E. Hartwell in the June No. of “Physical Education,” in which Dr. Hartwell pleads for more harmom^ in the ranks of the A. A. A. P. E., especially its Boston branch, and for the subordination of personal feelings .to general fundamental principles. The P. G. Journal accuses the A. A. A. P. E. of having been guided by personal feelings when this body neglected to invite a certain prominent teacher to read papers or take part in the discussion in the meetings of the society. From this distance we are unable to decide as to who is the party at fault, but from what we saw of said prominent teacher and his school, leaving all their merits undisputed, we are inclined to believe that he and his followers disported themselves a little too pronounced as the only representatives of the genuine article and that they generated thereby a certain aversion if not repugnancy to such manifestations.—In the same issue the editor blames the popular magazines for misguiding the public through their poorly advised articles on physical training. Whenever we see such articles, the data furnished and also the cuts for the illustrations are, in the great majority, credited to the “Posse Gymnasium Journal.” Some traitor must evidently exist among the P. G. J. staff.

LADIES’ COLUMN.

“BLOOMERS,”—YES OR NO?

By TONI WENDELBURG.

<5|n the Sept, issue of “Mind and Body,” T. V. M. states that “their ladies’-<5/ class, one of the ‘earliest’ in the country, has not yet felt the necessity of wearing bloomers.—They can perform all the exercises they wish to, in their skirts.”

I believe this to be so! But I would suggest the question, How well can they perform some (yes all) the exercises in skirts ?

Must T. V. M. not herself admit that the “bloomer” costume allows of much freer movement of the trunk and lower limbs ? No one will venture to say that a woman in bloomers cannot run and jump much better than one in skirts.

Again, if T. V. M. ladies perform at all on apparatus as I suppose they do, •of what use are their skirts then ?

What beautiful effect it must make, when, while swinging clubs, the skirt is clapped at almost every arm-circle made.

I do not favor the bloomer costume on the street; not because bloomers are not perfectly proper and healthy, but because our times are not quite ready for

Digitized by G.ooQle
-187-

this street-costume. We must let progress take its slow course, in dress reform as in everything else.

This transition from sweeping skirts to bloomers were too sudden.

But I uphold this, that the bloomer costume, properly made, is the only proper and sensible costume for the gymnasium, and there are very few ladies’ classes in America that have not adopted it as such!

If I may be allowed, I would suggest another improvement on our old-time gymnasium costume. Why not substitute a shirt-waist, (made from the same piece of goods as are the bloomers), for the blouse? A shirt-waist with full sleeves, with the under-arm seams long enough to allow the waist to “give” as the arms are raised or stretched, the bands of waist and bloomers hooked or buttoned together and covered with a neat, but simple belt; what neater and better adapted costume could be devised ?

I see no use whatever in the “bagging” part of a blouse, as this only hinders freedom in a great many, especially arm-exercises.

I know of a ladies’ class of 35, one of the oldest in the country, that has adopted this costume, and would not exchange these neat suits, consisting of shirt, waist, and bloomers of dark-blue serge or ladies’ cloth, for any other gymnasium suit manufactured.

Another suggestion and I will close for to-day.

How, if instead of wearing bloomers on the street, we would inaugurate dress-reform by discarding corsets, for home and street wear, in fact, altogether? This, I am certain, would benefit our health and help pave the way for other and more extended reforms.

We ought to be satisfied, knowing that we have 200 bones in our body, not to put any more round about it!

—Mr. Editor,—The following remark of a member of the T. V. M. in the September issue of “Mind and Body”: “Our ladies’ class is one of the earliest in the country and has so far not felt the necessity of wearing bloomers or the like. All the exercises we care for we are able to perform in our skirts”—is rather an astonishing one to such lady gymnasts who consider the blouse and bloomers as the most practical suit for girls and ladies in the gymnasium. Surely the interest of this class, and the desire for progress in physical training as well as for the unrestricted freedom of the body while exercising, cannot be very great.

For little girls, six to ten years of age, the wearing of the skirt is quite appropiate. It is not at all necessary that they wear bloomers, as the exercises they are expected to perform are of such a nature that the skirt will but sligktly impede free, graceful, and correct movements ; nevertheless many six, seven and eight year old tots wear them, and doubtless to their advantage.

Larger girls and ladies ought, however, to don this costume for various reasons; among others, to relieve the body of tight waists and skirt-bands so as to obtain that comfortable feeling of a loose garment; to give free play to every limb and part of the body while exercising, and to take up more advanced physical work, especially on the apparatuses.

In the execution of higher grade exercises the skirt will unquestionably prove more or less of a hindrance. This can already be noticed by a sharp observer in exercises with hand apparatuses. Take for instance the Indian clubs. When swinging them they will, no matter how careful you be, strike against the skirt, and cause an unpleasant noise, and frequently the skirt will fling the clubs of careless scholars to the floor, thereby causing a general disturbance. To avoid this hindrance many pupils will draw back the skirt with the hand not exercising or will even pin it in back of them. This certainlv does not make a very pleasing effect.

The skirt, however, becomes entirely out of place in exercises on apparatuses. Let two girls, one in the skirt, the other in bloomers, exercise on the rings, horse, slanting ladder, parallel bars, see-saw, etc., and this will about be the difference noticed in their Work: The girl in the skirt will show signs of timidity in stepping forward to the apparatus, her movements will be restrained, very often incorrect on account of the fear of her skirt coming out of place. On the other hand the girl in bloomers will step forth frank, grasp the apparatus, and give her body full play while exercising. Nine out of ten unprejudiced judges

Digitized by tjOOQle
—188—

must point out the bloomers as the most practical gymnasium suit for girls and ladies where beneficial exercise and propriety is concerned.

The blouse and bloomers may not look very pretty, nor show the figure to its best advantage, but this is not a point to be considered, as the suit otherwise answers its purpose in the gymnasium to the fullest extent. Were this not the case, it would not in the past few years have been so widely adopted by girls and ladies in Turnvereins and schools.	A.	W.,	S.	St.	L.	T.	V.

QUESTIONS :

Is it good policy and really advisable to admit men-visitors during ladies’ gymnasium hours ? If yes, are restrictions neccessary and what should they be ?

At what age should the line be drawn between members of a ladies’- and a girls’ day class ?

BOOK REVIEW.

—Course of Study in Physical Culture, Detroit Public Schools, prepared by Miss N. D. Kimberlin, Teacher Physical Culture, Detroit, Mich.—Of this manual 54 pages are devoted to general directions and carefully graded lessons in physical training for the eight grades of the Detroit Public Schools and the remaining 15 pages to practical physiology.—The book is intended for local use but is full of interest to every teacher connected with public school work.

—Anthropometry and Physical Examination. A Book for Practical Use in Connection with Gymnastic Work and Physical Education. By Jay W. Seaver, A. M., M. D., New Haven, Conn.—Of all the manuals on Anthropometry this is by far the most exhaustive, containing 200 pages and a large number of plates and charts. It is the revised 2nd edition and is not only enlarged but also otherwise much improved as compared with the first edition of 1890.

The chapters on anthropometry proper are rewritten and brought up to the present status of the subject. The illustrations are very good and prove a great help to the reader. We are especially thankful to the author for going so deep into the law of growth—a theorem with which to be intimately acquainted is almost in dispensable to the students of anthropometry.

To be familiar with this book, is to be thoroughly posted on anthropometry. We cannot but recommand it very highly.

—Report of Tenth Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, held at Teachers’ College, New York, April 25th, 26th and 27th, 1896.—From meeting to meeting these reports seem to grow in size, having now reached the 250 page book-size. We do not know of any publication in the whole field of physical education that could be of equal interest to the teacher of gymnastics. Considering that the members pay only $1.00 a year for membership and receive this book free of charge, we must admit that it is really a well paying investment for members df the A. A. A. P. E., for this book alone is worth many times more than that.—We shall refer to the contents in some future issue of “Mind and Body.“

Physical Exercises and Gymnastics for Girls and Women. Arranged for the use of teachers in High Schools, Private Schools, Gymnasia, etc By F J. Harvey, Principal of the Physical Training School a* d Gymnasium, Exeter. England ; Late Director of Exeter Hall Gymnasium, London With 104 Illustrations. - The different chapters on Effects of Exercise. Common Physical Defects, Gymnastics compared with Outroor Exeicise, Practical Suggestions, Arranging the Class for Exercise, Definition of Terms. Free Exercises, Dumb-Bell-, Shorr Wand , Ball-, Barbell Exercises, Fiuur-Marching, Do-ible Barlell-, Breathing-Exercises, German Vaulting Horse, Parallel Bars, Slanting Ladder and Games are well written. The exercises in some g oups seem to be treated a lit tie too short and could in a future edition profitably be enlarged upon The book contains very interesting reading matter throughout and is a fit guide to teachers of womens’ and girls’ classes.

—Physical, Inteli ectuai., and Moral Advantages of Chast.ty. By Dr. M. L. Holbrook, Editor of “The Journal of Hygiene.” New York, London—While we are in a great many instances in full accord with the author, we must nevertheless remark that modern scientific views differ widely from Dr. Holbrook’s argumentation on more than

\

Digitized by CjOOQle