Vol. 6.	NOVEMBER, 1899.	No. 69
		

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

WHEN TO PRESCRIBE PHYSIQUE.*

By EDWARD M. SCHAEFFER, M. D., Baltimore, Md.*

PHYSIC and physique are verbally enough alike to be twin-ideas in the practitioner’s therapy; indeed, they are etymologically identical. We naturally think of physic in acute, painful affections and grave emergencies. Should we not more frequently call upon the silent partner, the physique, in combatting hereditary or acquired weakness of the physical organism, in relieving many chronic, functional disorders, in strengthening the will-power and in restoring mental equilibrium ? Oddly enough, in the institutions of Maryland it has been, as a rule, much easier for the deaf, dumb and blind, the feeble-minded and insane, to be placed under systematic and scientific bodily training than for the growing student or the patient with imperfectly exercised or developed physique to receive the same needed care and instruction. The object of this paper is to suggest that there is a legitimate field for the physical director, working harmoniously with other medical specialists and the general practitioner, in the cure or prevention of disease.

Dr. Hartwell, in Hare’s “System of Therapeutics,” says: “Physiology in its modern development has thrown much light on the nature and uses of general muscular exercise, but until physicians and clinicians

* Read before the Clinical Society of Maryland, January 6, 1899.

Digitized by Cjoooie
-194-

shall have given as much attention to general exercise as they have to massage, muscular exercise must remain a part of empirical therapeutics, even though there be a considerable and increasing number of men who are capable of making rational use of it. The growing tendency of some of the wisest and most successful physicians to supplement the use of drugs by means of hygiene and dietetic measures is a hopeful one and may ultimately lead to a recognition and determination of rational uses of exercise in the treatment of disease. Speaking broadly, it is hardly possible to discriminate accurately between the hygienic and therapeutic effects of exercise, at any rate when we have to dd with certain disorders, $uch as debility, anemia, neurasthenia, hysteria, obesity and insufficient muscular development. Exercise is as necessary as sufficient and nutritious food for growing children in health, in order to secure normal growth of structure and normal development of function in the various tissues and organs. Similarly, adolescents and adults require a certain amount of muscular exercise to prevent their organs from dwindling in size and losing their full power of functional activity. In ill-nourished, weakly children, on the other hand; in convalescents, recovering from acute or chronic illness, in many cases of brain fag, in some forms of mental derangement, exercise may be employed as a general tonic and prophylactic.”

The eminent neurologist, Dr. Charles K. Mills, writing on the general therapeutics of the nervous system, affirms: “Much can be done to prevent the development of nervous affection^ by careful hygiene and education of children, which should be individualized as far as possible, especially for children with neurotic tendencies. Education should be as objective as possible. Travel, amusement and natural exercise, skilfully directed, may be made more efficient in the treatment of the nervous and insane than drugs or special therapeutic procedures.”

He then speaks of his method of employing systematized, active exercise, with or without apparatus, and urges that it should be as far as possible personally directed by one who is discreet and thoroughly well fitted for his work. Treatment should begin with the simplest forms of exercise and then be constantly increased and elaborated as the patient gains in strength and skill. “The usual respiratory movements should be combined with muscular movements, as on these two powers depends the ability to perform all bodily exercise. Inherent nervous force has also something to do with the capacity to perform bodily exercise. Special efforts of breathing include taking deep, full breaths through the nose and mouth, forced expiration as well as inspiration, counting with a loud voice while holding the breath. The development of the lungs and abdominal walls and the greater aeration of the blood which is conveyed to weak spinal and-encephalic centers make them of decided value in cases in which active movements are applicable. In my own practice I have used systematized, active exercise in the treatment of idiocy, insanity, chorea, hysteria, neurasthenia, nervous palpitation, lithemia, diabetes, curvatures, etc. For gout and lithemia, to promote excretion and nutrition; for anemia and spanemia, to assist assimilation and further oxidation; for headache, sleeplessness and nervous irritability, to soothe and calm the nervous system; and for diabetes, to favor

Digitized by CjOOQle
-195-

tke action of the skin and increase combustion, there exercise has a value which cannot be too highly extolled. In hysteria the advantage <rf any treatment which involves special direction and the adroit calling of the volition of the patient must be evident. Cases of neurasthenia, melancholia and other nervous troubles will derive much benefit from the wheel, for the wheelman must develop—whether he chooses or not— his will, his independence, his self-reliance and accurate control of his muscles.”

Dr. Charles L. Dana teqchps rib less emphatically the therapeutic rdk of skilfully greeted exercise: “In the treatment of nervous diseases the physician attempts (1) to relieve distressing symptoms; (2) to secure radical cure; (3) to prevent return. This calls for various means, which may be classed under the head of general hygiene, diet, exercisse, cKmate, hydrotherapy, massage, electricity, drugs, etc. To secure and keep steady nerves and to prevent the supervention of organic nervous diseases would require a considerable reconstruction of the present social system. Children should be brought up to eat slowly a mixed diet, to sleep early and long, to play in the open air, to learn self-control and obedience. Their parents should keep from them all infectious fever9. Adults need to keep in mind but two words—moderation and exercise. With these they need not fear the use of alcohol, tobacco, tea, coffee, or even irregularities in sleeping and eating # # # As a prophylactic against nervous disease the value of exercise, if taken out of doors, can hardly be overestimated.”

PULMONARY CASES.

Turning to a large and troublesome class of cases associated with bad physique and impaired nutrition, viz., the pulmonary tubercular group, there comes this voice even from the utterances of a climatological association. Dr. R. C. Newton says: “We are often too ambitious in ordering our patients change of air. They do not need to go a thousand miles or two to obtain fresh air and that change in their way of living which their health demands. They need more hygiene, more exercise, more sunlight and probably a better diet. Regular, systematic, not too severe exercise in the open air every day is what is needed to establish and develop such a constitution in the growing <;hild that he will not be liable to phthisis. Change of climate does not bring change of disposition, nor, for that matter, of predisposition. Precious and even invaluable as change of climate often is in a number of diseased conditions, it is not always what is most needed. Let us more often be content with smaller doses of climate and supplement them with larger doses of hygiene, both moral and physical.”

My attention was first directed to the therapy of general exercise {for I am not discussing medical gymnastics or Swedish movements, strictly so-called) some ten years ago, when a year’s experience in sanatorium life gave me an opportunity to test personally and observe quite extensively the decided benefit from regulated exercise drills to the class of pptients who frequent such institutions, viz., those of a nervous, dyspeptic, anemic and neurasthenic type. Taking up, later, work among college students, there came a familiarity with the details of modetri anthropometry and the thorough methods of looking an individual over

Digitized by CjOOQle

f
-196-

from the standpoint of his heredity, life history, physical and mental endowment and special developmental needs. As is well known to many, the physical director first gets acquainted with the personal and family history of his subject through the inquiry blanks which he has filled in, and in his examination lays stress upon the freedom of chest expansion, the lung capacity as tested by the wet spirometer, the relative weight and height, the development and tonicity of the neck, chest, back and abdominal muscles, general bodily symmetry and the various strength tests on appropriate dynamometers.' Sufficient data have been collected and tabulated in the leading colleges and in the public schools of certain cities to form a basis for comparison, so that the young subject may be contrasted with the normal or average of his or her age and height, and any marked deviation therefrom, either in growth or strength, pointed out. This comparison is also of value as a means of arousing the interest or ambition and furnishing a motive for determined effort in bodily improvement. The chief practical difficulty in the way of the ordinary practitioner in prescribing exercise lies not so much in the choice of suitable movements as in sustaining the interest of a patient in his needed development and differentiating useful and pleasurable exertion from the “demnition grind’*’ of monotonous work. The banker sawing wood in his cellar, the dyspeptic tugging away at the paraphernalia of a gymnasium, the neurotic “doing time” on a much overrated constitutional, the hypochondriac swinging Indian clubs or engineering pulley weight, are apt to be painfully conscious of the element of work. Nothing seems, at times, more wearisome to the average individual who needs it than a straight-out prescription of deep breathing, nolens volens, a most invaluable exercise per se, but one which arouses considerable physical and mental antagonism when dogmatically, rather than physiologically, administered. The true besoin de respirer should be elicited by putting the large muscles of the thigh to work, for example, and creating an urgent demand for oxygen in the system, or by some simple movement of the arms, rapidly repeated.

HEART AND CHEST FIRST.

Modern educational gymnastics differs from the old calisthenics, or gymnastics, in the emphasis placed on the value of chest and heart, rather than general muscular development. The latter is a necessary sequel of the former, but the converse is by no means a reliable rule. The chest has been called the keystone to a fine physique by an authority (Cheesman), who says: “Its development includes that of other parts. No one can perfect the capacity, bony frame and muscles of his thorax without also developing back, loins, and limbs. A good chest means good arms and also good legs. Take care of your chest and your limbs will take care of themselves. It may perhaps be asked,, if one is well without this, what need of a capacious chest and powerful limbs. While it is true that many undeveloped persons enjoy fair organic health, greater respiratory and muscular power would unquestionably make such lives more effective and longer. A roomy thorax and strong heart are no mean allies in resisting the assaults of disease. A few extra cubic inches of respiratory capacity or a small reserve of disciplined cardiac

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-197-

power may suffice to determine a favorable issue in pneumonia, pleurisy or typhoid. Every inch which a man may add to his chest measure adds to the measure of his days. These advantages to the individual are, moreover, shared by those who inherit his physical traits.”

THE SECRET OF WHOLENESS.

This is largely an era of pre-digestion, not only of food for babies and invalids, but even our mental pabulum is offered in the form of a “literary digest,” and perhaps a good deal of our thinking has a warmed-over look and flavor. Under the ambitious greed for overexpansion in some one department of our being we are constantly marring that symmetry and unity of functioning which alone can keep us whole or healthy, sane or sound.

“In what I hold to have been a singularly unlucky day for posterity,” says Dr. Bridger, “rather more than half a century ago, there was first separated from the stomach of the pig its special digestive ferment, pepsin,” because many persons whose stomachs needed rest, or bodies needed exercise, where hereby enabled to “frank certain foods through the walls of the stomach or intestines, thus interrupting a beneficial blockade of nature.” The enormous sale of tonics, alteratives, purgatives, etc., among the well-to-do is evidence of the lack of harmony between the amount of fuel introduced and the actual output of physical energy. “Mental energy, of course, requires good feeding to support it, but though the amount of physical exercise required by the sedentary brain-worker is much diminished, a moderate amount is most essential and should be made a regular habit of the daily routine of every individual. ’ As Chomel expressed it, “A person digests as much with his legs as with his stomach.”

. WEAK ABDOMINAL WALLS.

Next to the almost universal need of instruction in voluntary deep breathing comes the want of properly developed abdominal walls, especially in women. It seems not a little surprising that the specialists in displaced organs should not preach rather more preventive and curative training through cultivation of the natural supporters of the body’s viscera.

No girl’s education is complete, nor is she fit for the responsibilities of maternity, with undeveloped trunk muscles. As women so dread the loss of a good figure through obesity, teach them that their best protection in this regard lies in good respiratory power to burn up excess of fat, and in good abdominal muscles to prevent accumulation of the same.

NEURASTHENICS.

My personal sympathies are especially tendered to that uncrowned martyr, the hereditary neurasthenic, whose sufferings are often as grievous as they are subjective and intangible. By an easy adaptation of one of Ben Franklin’s alleged sayings, it may be confidently asserted that the best doctor for such a patient is the one who knows the general worthlessness of most medicines prescribed for that protracted state of irritable weakness.
-198-

Exercise and rest go hand in hand in the successful management of most cases, and require nice relative and quantitative adjustment. Each case is a study in itself and calls for the closest attention to details in the daily regimen. The systematic, intelligent, moral support of the physician in charge is hereby best established and maintained. With systematic, gradually increased exercise belong, of course, regulation of the diet, baths, mental diversion, etc. In neurasthenia the nutrition of the nerve cells is principally at fault. Says Dr. Dana: ‘‘Many persons with delicately balanced organizations only require some single depressing or irritating agent to put them in a pathological state. This is the case with those neurasthenics who are made so by reflex causes. 4 * * Of reflex influences causing and keeping up neurasthenia, disturbances of the stomach, intestines and liver are by all odds the most important; next come irritations from pelvic and generative organs.” Now, it is in these conditions, with their resulting states of perverted nutrition, that bodily exercise seems physiologically and therapeutically most indicated. ‘‘The exercise should not be severe; it should be interesting, it should be done in fresh air, and it should bring into play the lungs and arms more than the legs. Walking does little good, though it is better than nothing.”

Again, in breakdown, as Dr. Weber points out, it is a question how much is due to overwork and how much to the accumulation of waste products in the system from insufficient exercise or too liberal diet. “The great usefulness of exercise in many cases by furthering the oxidation of waste products and toxic materials circulating in the blood is undoubted. * * * It seems probable that metabolism is only very slightly increased by massage in comparison to what it is by active exercise.

SIMPLE CATARRHS.

In conclusion, I will quote from a very interesting paper, entitled “Diet and Exercise in the Treatment of Simple Chronic Inflammation,” written by Dr. Mulhall of St. Louis, a prominent throat specialist (Medical Record, December 26, 1891): “It maybe stated broadly, that the vast majority of simple, non-specific chronic inflammations in the human body are caused by the faulty habits of the individual. *** Trace the life of an individual, from a hygienic standpoint, with constipation, hemorrhoids, leucorrhea, endometritis, intestinal or stomachic indigestion, hepatitis, bronchitis, laryngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, eczema, neurasthenia and a host of other disorders, and you will find in one or many ways that the laws of health have been long and grievously transgressed. The one has been overfed, underfed or badly fed; the other has neglected physical exercise. All other causes combined, including alcoholic excesses, are as nothing when compared with errors in diet and exercise in producing simple chronic inflammation. It is to these two causes, dyspepsia and perverted nutrition, physical inactivity and toneless muscles, nerves, and glands, that I attribute the extraordinary prevalence of chronic nasal catarrh in the United States. Our climate, our macadam streets, our furnace-heated houses, are but subsidiary to these two great primal causes.”

I trust that my plea has been made out, that there is room in the practice of medicine for the specialist in physique or scientific body-build-

Digitized by C oQle
-199-

ing. You may classify him as a kinesiologist, if you like, but I think he will be better content with the college title of physical director.

It is generally as useless to recommend “more exercise” without specific direction as it was to recommend “dieting,” in an off-hand way, to the uninstructed sufferer.

Physique and physic are the happy combination which a natural therapeutics suggests in aiming at a constitutional cure that shall be radical enough to prevent relapse.

A NEW BALL GAME.

Mr. Emmermann of Harburg is the author of a new game which has for its object moderate exercise and accuracy in throwing.

The game permits of a great many participants and does not call for violent exercise, hence can be played by girls as well as boys.

It is played on a rectangular field (abed) 60x270 ft., which is divided into halves by the line e f On each side of this center line and parallel to it draw the lines g h and m o forty-five (45) feet distant.

The apparatuses required are a large hollow ball (basket-ball) and one-fourth as many small hand balls (2—3 inches in diameter) as there are players on a side. This large ball is tossed up in the middle of the field (x) and the object of the game is to hit this large ball with the smaller ones.

For convenience let us divide the players into two opposing teams A and B of twenty players to either side, with A in possession of the hand-balls. Each team is assigned to one-half of the field, A the upper, B the lower half.

Five players of team “A,” who are the throwers,” line up on g h, the rest take places ad libitum in the field a b g h. The players of team “B” take such places in the lower half of the field as will best permit their catching all stray balls thrown by team “A.” The instructor, or any impartial person, tosses the large ball upward some fifteen or twenty feet in the center of the field and the five throwers of team “A” endeavor to hit this ball before it strikes the ground. For every hit, team A scores six (6) points; for every miss, if the small ball be caught by a player of the opposing side, team “B” scores one point. If the thrower of team “A” can throw the ball across the g6al-line c d, their side scores three (3) points for every ball thrown over. After every throw the points scored are counted and the difference credited to the proper side.

A novel way of keeping score is by means of a flag which is planted as many yards from the center in the opponents’ territory as the other side has points to its credit.

60'

60'

Digitized by C^ooQLe
—200—

Besides the above, following rules are to be considered:

1.	A ball which is caught must be thrown by the catcher, balls picked up from the ground may be thrown by an}” player on the team.

2.	A thrower shall not change his position suddenly in order to deceive the opponents as to the direction of the throw, nor shall he throw across the side lines. The force of the throw shall be the opponents* chief difficulty in catching.

3.	If the instructor or “tosser-up” is hit by a thrown ball, the opposing side shall be credited with ten (10) points.

4.	The “tosser-up” shall be judge of the “fair hits” and the scorer shall decide as to a fair catch.

5.	A ball caught beyond the goal line shall be stored as any other fair catch.

6.	Rule 5 also applies to balls thrown out of bounds over the side lines. In order to force a straight throw, a ball thrown over the side lines does not count for the thrower.

7.	If the team having the first throw scores enough points on this throw to plant the flag beyond the opponents’ goal line, the opposing team shall be allowed one throw.

8.	Boisterous behavior is to be avoided. If a ball is caught, the catcher shall hold it in his right hand with the arm extended upward until he is recognized by the scorer.

9.	In competitive games there should be at least four (4) and not more than ten (10) throwers to a side.

10.	During the game, the captains of the teams are the only players who may address the officials on questions of dispute.—IT.'A. Ocker.

IMPROVEMENT IN ARMY ORGANIZATION.

ONE of the important advance movements made in this country during the last decade of this present century have been the great improvements introduced by the United States government in attending to the sanitary condition of the soldiers in their camps in our new foreign possessions.

But there is another advance movement in connection with improved methods of army organization which has been recently started by the veteran journalist, Henry Chadwick—the youngest brother of the eminent sanitarian philosopher, the late Sir Edwin Chadwick—who is so well known in the world of field sports as “The Father of Our National Game * of Base Ball.” Of this new movement, however, we leave the veteran to tell his own story, and to that of the object he has had in view, as also of the value of the army improvement he desires to see our government adopt.

mr. Chadwick’s new idea.

In an interview with Mr. Chadwick on his return from Washington the last week of October he talked of this new idea of his as follows: “During the war with Spain, I read of several games of base ball having been played by our troops in Santiago, at Porto Rico, and at Manila, and learning that the soldiers had had difficulty in obtaining

Digitized by ^.ooQte
-201-

base ball material for their games, and then only at considerable cost to themselves, it occured to me that our government should follow the example of that of the. English war office in providing their soldiers with cricket outfits free of expense, and send to our troops in the West Indies and the Phillippine Islands a full supply of base ball materials gratuitously. When I heard, while in Washington, that the Navy Department supplied our sailors with boxing gloves, dumb bells, Indian clubs, and foils for fencing free of expense, I determined at once to see the President on the subject and to solicit his approval to my idea. This I did at 10 a. m. on October 28, he according me a special appointment on that day. Through the courtesy of Secretary Cortelyou, I had sent to the President the day before a copy of an editorial which had appeared in the Washington Star of October 25 approving of my plan and commending it to the government’s attention as a matter of importance in promoting the health of the troops in encampment. When I saw the President I asked him if he had read the article in question, he replied that he had done so, and with interest, and he suggested that I had better see the Secretary of War on the subject; so I went over to the war department the same day, but unluckily Mr. Root was absent from the city that day. I, however, took measures to have the matter brought to his attention on his return to town.” The article in the Star is as follows:

SPORT FOR THE TROOPS.

The suggestion which has been recently advanced by Mr. Henry Chadwick, the veteran base ball writer, that the United States troops be furnished gratis with base ball outfits is worthy of consideration by the military authorities. It is well known that soldiers when off duty are eager for some sort of exercise, particularly in the direction of sport. Almost every army post has its base ball and foot ball clubs, and, as Mr. Chadwick says, wholesome rivalries spring up which advance the spirits of the regiments, just as the intercollegiate games in spring and autumn aid in maintaining pride and interest in the institutions. The small pay of the soldier does not permit him to contribute much to this purpose, and often it is difficult to secure a proper amount of attention to the games which thus invite the men, because of the lack of equipment. Particularly when soldiers are on garrison duty it is important that they be kept in good condition by some exercise outside of their regular drills. The training which a man receives on the base ball diamond or the foot ball gridiron is of rare value in maintaining a high state of muscular efficiency, which will be of service when the troops are called into action involving an exposure to fatiguing conditions. Such an enterprise as that suggested would have an excellent moral effect, too, in that it would assure the soldiers that the Government has a care for them aside from the mere routine of providing them with uniforms and fighting implements.

It may be said just here that Mr. Chadwick’s ‘‘new idea” has met with hearty endorsement alike from army officials and from the newspaper editors, and there is but little doubt that his plan will be adopted in the near future by the War Department. In an interview Mr. Chadwick recently had with Mr. A. G. Mills, the Vice-President of the Otis

Digitized by Google
-202-

Elevator Company and ex-President of the old National League, the veteran magnate highly approved of Mr. Chadwick’s idea. He said that when he was in the United States Army in 1862 he got up a game of ball between teams of his regiment and a rival company at which over 19,000 soldiers were deeply interested spectators; and that he then realized the value of the game in keeping up the esprit du corps of the soldiers, and in providing them with a regular exercise so well calculated to relieve the monotony of camp duty. President Young of the National League, too, in a chat with Mr. Chadwick while in Washington also related a similar experience when he was in the army in 1864 down south. Mr. Mills has written to his friend Mr. Root advocating the adoption of plan Mr. Chadwick favors of supplying the troops with base ball materials free of expense.

It may be added that where the news of the movement in question has been read by veterans of the volunteer corps, and also by United States Army officers, it has been enthusiastically endorsed. In fact, some of the soldiers are arranging to send Mr. Chadwick a vote of thanks for his efforts in behalf of affording them the means of healthful recreative exercise while in camp.

ABOLISHING THE SCHOOL RECESS.

SOMETIMES it looks as though the school officials were overdoing the thing in trying to make the schools of the present day as different as possible from the old schools, where the fathers and the grandfathers got their education. The last '‘improvement” that is suggested* by school boards in some places is to do away with the recess in the middle of the forenoon and the middle of the afternoon, thus compelling the scholars to stay in the heated schoolroom from 9 o’clock in the morning until noon, and all the afternoon, without a minute of rest. If the abolition of the recess does not raise up a race of people with nervous headaches it will be a miracle. The old recess! Good gracious, it was the recess that kept the boys and the girls from dying in their tracks. Did you ever sit in a country school, and see the scholars studying, and mumbling, and reciting, with their foreheads wrinkled, their eyes strained, the perspiration in large drops on their foreheads, and an air of depression all over the room? Presently the eyes turn to the old clock on the wall back of the teacher, and there is a faint smile on every face as it is noticed that in five minutes it will be half past ten, but each face looks as though it would be a week at least before that minute hand would get around to the mark, and as it moved along like a snail it would be seen that all were holding their breath, and watching the teacher. Would she see the clock, or would she be so busy she would forget the important event? It is half past ten, and she makes no move, and seems to be deaf und dumb, or immersed in some problem in the book before her. It is a minute after the time, and all eyes are on the clock, study has ceased entirely, and each scholar acts as though he or she would live just one minute more, and if' the bell did not ring, they would scream. The teacher seems dead to the world, until some boy, who will have cramps if this thing

Digitized by C^ooQle
-203-

keeps up, jumps up and says, “Please, teacher, may I go out?” The teacher comes to life and says, “Can’t you wait till recess?” and the boy says he didn’t know as they were going to have any recess to-day, and then the teacher looks at the clock, says, “Excuse me,” rings the bell, and there is a rush for	the door,	and two	minutes of the	most

valuable time	has been wasted. There	is no class of people on	earth

that can do	more different	kinds of	things in	fifteen minutes	than

scholars can	during recess.	The first	thing to	do is to whoop and

yell, to clear the lungs, and then some wrestle, others play marbles, climb trees, and walk in the shade or run in the sun, and get over the ground as though a new world had got to be made in that short fifteen minutes, and while they are playing, the teacher, who has stoleq two minutes of the children’s time, will come out and watch them, and be sure to let the recess last the full time, and when it is over each scholar wants to be the last to come in, as he wanted to be the first to go out. Ah, how many friendships that last through life are made at the school recess. The pretty girl is surrounded by her admirers, as she will be in society years later, and the boy who can be her acknowledged lover is the happiest boy in school, while the girls who are not so pretty get as jealous of the favorite as they will when they grow up, and are rivals for the hands of the grownup boys. The bullies of the school will get together behind the school house and talk fight, arid plan campaigns of slaughter that are never carried out, and when they go back to the study room, it is easy to study, where it was so hard before the recess. What can be the matter with these school officials that would cut off the recess? Have they been disappointed in love, or were they never boys themselves? The recess in school is like the sherbet served in the middle of* a banquet, it aids the digestion like the blanched almonds and the celery and the olives. If the banqueter sat and ate of the solids of all an evening, and never had the rest that comes with the etceteras, he would die of apoplexy before the speaking began. If the scholar studies all the time, until his head whirls, his brain will become clogged and some day he will have one long recess at a lunatic asylum, where he will yell for all time, and the smart Aleck who has cut off the recess will be to blame for the whole business. Don’t try to put on any frills to the old school-house system of education. As well try to run a steam engine without any safety valve, as to run a school without a recess, and have an explosion that will blow fool school commissioners and overworked children higher than a kite. When you stop the recess you might as well seal up the brain, and put it in a bottle of alcohol. The boy and the girl have got to have a time to cut the string that holds the cork down, and let the wolf howl.

AN OPPORTUNE NEW PUBLICATION!

Games for Schools and Gymnasia Bv W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. Pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50 Cents.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr.

Digitized by CaOOQie
-204-

Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and wrell classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention Of every progressive pedagogue.

KING DOLLAR IN FOOTBALL.

The importance of the money question in the difficulty over arranging a football game between Wisconsin and Chicago universities recalls an editorial opinion of the Chicago Inter-Ocean of a few days ago, which was as follows, under the title “Commercial Football

“In their greed for gain the men who control and direct the various college football teams in the west are slowly dulling public interest in the game. Time was when the average football man thought only of the glory and prestige to be gained from a hard-earned victory on the gridiron. The financial question failed to interest him. The games were played for the benefit of the students and alumni of the colleges directly interested. There was generally a deficit after the box office receipts had been counted, but neither the faculty nore the students complained.

“To-day, however, the spirit of commercialism prevails in nearly all of the colleges. The successful football manager of to-day is the man who outclasses his rivals as a financier. If a manager succeeds in finishing a season with several thousand dollars to the good, his reputation is established. The record made by his team is merely a secondary consideration.

“This season the leading universities and colleges in the west are at sixes and sevens over football. The strongest teams are not scheduled to meet one another, and as a result the west will be without a genuine champion team. All the wordy wrangles leading up to the present situation are really due to a matter of money, and the true college spirit has apparently been forgotten. The various managers and so-called boards of athletic control have repeatedly aired their grievances through the public prints, and the great majority of the newspaper readers have been forced to learn a deal more about the financial side of football than they cared to know.

“Moreover, the public have begun to feel that they are overcharged for the privilege of enjoying the great college sport. Without doubt $2 is too much to pay to see the average game between college elevens. Yet this is the standard price at about every large college in the country, and it is raised to $3 as often as the wise managers decide that their attraction is strong enough to warrant it.

“Why such greedy management is tolerated or excused we do not know. It costs no more to maintain a training table and buy canvas jackets to-day than it did ten or fifteen years ago. To be sure, the coaches and advisers of the big teams, who worked for the love of sport in the old days, now demand pay, and large pay, too. But their salaries can absorb only a fraction of the increased receipts.

Digitized by Google
If W	,	Imr Published Monthly.

MUtP ftrfD BODY. -#r FREIDENKEE publishing CO.,

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	MUwaukee,	,Wl»c©aa.»laa.-

»■ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis . Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

CHANGE IN THE EDITORIAL COMMITTEE.

MR. WM. STECHER, the former secretary of the Technical Committee of the “Turnerbund” has resigned as a member of the editorial committee of “Mind and Body,’’ his business-affairs demanding all of his time and energy.

So also has withdrawn Mr. Karl J. Kroh, formerly with the Chicago Normal School and now head of the Department of Physical Education at the newly founded Teachers’ University of Chicago. Mr. Kroh is abroad, studying the different systems of physical training all over Europe. This and the organization of his department will prevent him for some time from engaging in any literary work whatsoever.

Mr. Kroh and Mr. Stecher are of the founders of “Mind and Body” and to both is due the greatest part of credit for whatever “Mind and Body” has accomplished.

We wish to express to them our most sincere thanks and hope that they will continue their disinterested affection for “Mind and Body” and true physical education in general.

The publishers have been very fortunate in securing such capable men as Dr. E. H. Arnold, Mr. Ch. Eberhard, Dr. W. A. Ocker .and Mr.

H.	O. Dreisel as successors to Mr. Stecher and Kroh. (Vide first page!) Dr. F. Pfister will remain the managing editor.

FOR PARENTS.

In a recent article W. 0. Krohn, an eminent psychologist, urges frequent inquiry of parent and teacher into the underestimated value of children’s physical development. After giving wise advice as to the physical care at certain times, he adds: “Another period that should occasion grave concern on the part of parents and teachers is the one between the ages of twelve and fourteen, which is one of most rapid physical growth and, at the same time, of more or less physical revolution, of minor mental vagaries, and of morbid mental emotions. The child of to-day needs a large stock in trade of physical vigor. This will, at the same time, bring to him greater power to resist disease, not only physical disease, but also various forms of psychopathic taint that may result from the stress of social conditions in which he may be compelled to pass his later life,—real mental abnormalities that would certainly befall him if his power of resistance should be weakened, owing

Digitized by L-OOQle
—206—

to a poorly developed body. Physical exercise properly adjusted to the period of growth is a provision against the inordinate demands of the future. It indirectly invigorates the mind, as certainly as it directly invigorates the body.”

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By W. A. OCKER, M. D.

Insomnia.—A Swiss physician, Dr. Otto Naegeli, declares that the best way to overcome insomnia is to imitate the breathing of a man who is asleep, and to make the head undergo the various movements to one side and the other which one occassionally makes while falling asleep in a sitting posture.

Shoes and Nervousness.—It is averred by a famous Chinese doctor that nervousness is kept out of the Celestial Empire by the use of soft-soled shoes. The hard soles worn by the Anglo-Saxon race are said to be the cause of their extreme nervous temperament.

Vegetarian Shoes.—Vegetarians who are so strict that they do not care to wear an article of clothing into which any animal properties are introduced are catered for in the boot line by a London shop-keeper, who is the inventor of a vegetarian shoe. For two years he has been experimenting, and as a result he has produced a foot-cover in the construction of which there is absolutely no paper or leather of any description. Not only this, but, according to his assertion, they wear one third longer than leather shoes, and the upper material is always soft and never cracks.

Nutrition in Chocolate.—The great nutritive powers of chocolate are now so generally recognized that it has been adopted for campaign use in the armies and navies of almost every European Government.

A Tie.—You have probably noticed, if you are a man, that when your tie gets loose it invariably slips round to the left. This is because you use your right side during a day about five times as much as your left. This movement rebuts on your shirt collar, causing it and your tie to'move in the opposite direction. The muscles on an average man’s right side have more than double strength of those on his left side; in fact, so great is this disproportion in development, that by the time a man or woman reaches 40 the right side is, even to the eye, more fully developed than the left, and in many cases this disproportionate growth is highly injurious to health, as it is liable to force the interior organs out of place.

Smoking.—At a recent meeting of physicians it was voted that physically non-smokers develop better than those addicted to the use of the weed.



Digitized by C.ooQle
-207-

German Gymnastic Festivals.—The technical committee in revising the rules governing contests has made following changes. Gymnastic contests shall consist of three main groups, viz. (a) Free-exercises (calisthenics with ov without hand-apparatus), (6) Competition by district, (c) Individual competition. Supplementary to these are Exercises of foreigners, special exhibitions of districts, societies, etc., gymnastic games, fencing and individual exhibition ad libitum.

In substituting “competition by district” in place of “society” the committee expects to relieve the computists of much extra work. It is also decreed that participants must register at least four weeks prior to the opening of the festival.

Another change aims to give the sub-committee of the technical more power and influence. Instead of permitting the local societies of the Festive City to conduct the entire festival, the sub-committee is entrusted with this work.

The calisthenics or wand-exercises as well as the tactics are to be published at least four months prior to the beginning of the contests. It has been put down as an iron rule that all who shirk the wand-exercises shall be debarred from further competition.

As to the athletic sports the following changes were made: 1. In the broad-jump a stepping back shall not forfeit the jump as heretofore, but the impression in the ground nearest the “take off” shall be measured and recorded (same as our A. A. U. rule). 2. In putting the shot the weight shall be 15 kg. instead of 17 kg. In making “the put” (which is from a stand) a raising of either foot shall not invalidate the “put.”

A new addition to the sports is the “Triple Competition.” The exercises for this are to be published four weeks prior to the opening of the festival. There shall be no prizes for an individual exercise, but in order to receive a prize you must score at least twenty points in the three exercises. Though ten points constitute the highest mark recordable in any one exercise, it has been agreed that if a gymnast attains more than ten points it shall so be noted on his diploma. Since this rule has been adopted for the triple-competition it is to be hoped that a similar rule will soon apply to’ all forms of competition.

The German gymnast is to have his choice between the German and the English Hop, Step, and Jump. The German consists of two steps and a jump, the English, as the name indicates is a hop, step and jump.

In wrestling the opponent is down if both shoulders touch the floor simultaneously. Formerly if any part of the wrestler’s back was on the floor he was considered “thrown.”

Cycling.—Dr. Deucher of Bern, Switzerland, has the following to say regarding the gymnastic value ot cycling. After calling attention to the increased strain on the heart caused by physical exertion in general, he denounces, from a medical standpoint, racing, long-distance riding and riding for record or against time. He calls attention to the fact that the high scat and the low handle-bars are the prime reason of hump-back-riding. For healthful sport he recommends following rules:

1.	Walk all hills; 2. Speed must not exceed 12—15 kilometers (7Y2 to 9 mi.) per hour, under exceptionally favorable conditions 18 km. are

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-208-

permissible; 3. Greatest of caution, especially for beginners and persons in advanced years ; 4. Hygienic clothing ; 5. Proper nourishment. Abstain from drinking a large quantity of fluid shortly before and during a trip. After the ride a hearty meal may be taken.

The doctor claims that if these rules are followed, riding will prove beneficial and may be recommended as healthful exercise.

“FORCED” EDUCATION.

The damage to the nervous organization of the child, and the generally disastrous effects of forcing in the school curriculum, have been often remarked, but the evil still continues. The N. F. Medical Journal (September 16) notices with approval an address made before a provincial Canadian medical society last summer, in which this subject was taken up. The special point made was that the course of study should be carefully adapted to the average, or rather, the under-average child,, and this both as regards mental and physical development. “Rudimentary education is all that the community should set peremptorily before the mass of children; those who have the capacity for more advanced education are few in number, and their aspiration may well be met by a few high schools.” These are truths, we might better say truisms, but our educational authorities do not always seem to regard them, and their repetition can not well be too emphatic. With all our boasted intelligence, we might as well recognize the fact that mediocrity is the rule and talent and genius are the exceptions.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Dr. E. H. Arnold will shortly contribute a series of articles on Gymnastic Nomenclature.

—Mr. Geo. Heintz, sen., informs us that his “Fencing-Lessons” are to be continued, but that during the last months he was prevented from doing any work on account of sickness in his family. Mr. Heintz has a national reputation as a fencing-teacher and his “Lessons” were missed by a goodly number of our readers.

—Betz’ Dry Hot-Air Apparatus seems to have been invented expressly for football-players to quickly subdue sprains and such minor accidents.

—The teachers of physical culture and the Turn Societies of the City of Chicago are working very energetically in behalf of our cause. The following comprehensive program has been planned and already in part performed:

Sunday, Nov. 19, fencing-day of all the teachers of physical training at the North Side Turnhall.

Saturday, Nov. 25, regular meeting of all the teachers of physical training. Program: Practical gymnasium work consisting of fancy steps, illustration of Basket-Ball, In-Door-Base-Ball, and Captain-Ball. General discussion and business meeting, Vorwaerts Turnhall.

Sunday, Nov. 26, fencing-day of the teachers of physical training, district A, Lincoln Turnhall.

Digitized by

Google
-209-

Friday, Dec. 1, general practice meeting of the active Turners of the North Side district, at Lincoln Turnhall.

Sunday, Dec. 3, general practice meeting of ladies at the Social Turnhall.

Reports regarding rendition are expected.

GAMES.

By \V. C. SCHAEFER.

MEMORY EXERCISE.

Hpve four or live (or more) children stand in a row in the front of the room. Give each the name of a color. The pupils now close the eyes and the teacher lets some of the members in the row change places. The pupils then look up and some one is called on to name the colors as now arranged or to replace them as before. This trains the eye-memory.

LEAPING OVER SEATS.

Let pupils rise, face their seats (seats remain down), place one hand on the back of the seat and the other on the desk, and leap over to standing position on the other side. Face about and repeat, returning to starting position.

BAG PUNCHING.

This is practicable for primary pupils in the schoolroom. Have the bag suspended from a hook in the ceiling so that it shall hang at the proper height for children. Then fasten a detachable hook on the floor by an elastic cord or ribbon. Have another hook on the wall on one side which may be lett hahging when not in use. If a regular punching-bag cannot be had there will be little difficulty in finding some proper substitute. A large children’s rubber ball sewed up in a stout bag with two loops on opposite sides for attaching cords will do, and will cost but a few cents.

LADDER VAULTING.

Place a ladder on edge on the floor and let a strong boy at each end hold it firmly in place, then let the pupils march around the room and vault over the ladder. A short ladder about eighteen inches wide with rounds eighteen inches apart is easily made, and will serve many purposesv

SEAT FINDING.

Several chairs are placed in a row, alternate chairs facing in opposite directions. A number of pupils, exceeding by one the number of chairs, march around them, while another one sings a song. The singer stops abrubtly sometimes, and the marchers sit down on the chairs as quickly as possible. The one who fails to get a chair then takes the part of the singer while the former singer joins the marchers.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-210-

RACKET CATCHING PLAY.

This requires a tennis racket or some substitute, as described in a preceding game. Some light object is repeatedly tossed up and caught with the racket. When it is missed, the racket is passed on to the next pupil.

RUNNING AND COUNTING PLAY.

Pupils run around the room while the teacher counts. The counting is irregularly interrupted. When it stops, all pupils stop, when resumed, they start again.

TEN PIN PLAY.

Set up a row of ten pins (sticks of wood a foot long, sawed off square, will do) near a corner. Place a couple of boys behind them to replace them when knocked down. Give each pupil two or three balls (large marbles will do, if wooden balls are not obtainable). Let one row of pupils at a time come forward to a place marked by a chalk line and in turn roll their balls.

CROSSING THE LINE.

Draw a chalk line ten or twelve feet long on the floor. Have a group of pupils on one side of the line and a catcher on the other side. The pupils cross the line back and forth and the catcher tries to catch them while on his side, but is not allowed to enter. their side for catching them. The first who is caught becomes the next catcher.

WHERE IS IT ?

A pupil, who may be called the seeker, leaves the room after being shown some small object which he is to find later. When he is out the object is being concealed. When he re-enters the pupils sing some familiar song while the seeker moves about the room looking for the object. When he approaches it they sing more softly, when he moves away from it they sing more loudly. This is to guide him in the search.

WHAT DO YOU TASTE ?

Have read}r cut some very small cubes of various kinds of bread, as wheat, rye, Graham, whole wheat, etc. Let pupils close eyes and tell the kind of bread simply by taste. This may be varied so as to materially develop the memory of taste, a sense which is very commonly ignored in training.

WHAT DO YOU SMELL?

This is conducted like the preceding play with eyes closed, so that dependence may be placed on the sense of smell only, without aid from other senses. Coffee, tea, spices, etc., may be used.

WHOM DO YOU HEAR?

One pupil listens and looks at several others while these in turn say, “Who am I ?” He is then blindfolded while the others move to new places. They then repeat again, one at a time, “Who am I ?” The guesser must try to tell from the sound of the voice who has spoken.

Digitized by c^ooQLe
-211-

WHICH SOUND DO YOU HEAR ?

Sound as many tones on some musical instrument or by beating on objects in the room as there are rows (or other divisions) of pupils in the room. Assign a tone to each division. Let the pupils close their eyes. Sound one of these tones and let all those to whom it was assigned rise. They must remain standing till another tone is sounded, when they sit down, and those to whom it was assigned rise. Done as rapidly as possible, this affords good physical and aural exercise.

LONG-WAND EXERCISES.

Arranged by DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Cleveland, O.

Ranks of four or six, standing in flank position :

T

T

T

T

Q-rovup I.

Exercise 1. a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise 2. a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise 3. a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise 4. a.

b.

c.

d.

Files 1, 3, 5, Files 2, 4, 6,

Raise arms sideward—1 !

Raise arms upward—2 !

Return to position a—3 !

Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

Raise arms forward—1!	•

Swing arms sideward—2 !

Return to position a—3 !

Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

Raise arms sideward—1 !

Bend knees and raise arms upward—2! Return to position a—3 !

Return to starting position—4 !

Repeat 5—16.

Raise arms forward—1 !

Rise on toes and swing arms sideward—2 ! Return to position a—3 !

Return to starting position—4!

Repeat 5—16. etc., repeat Exercises 1 to 4. etc., execute Exercises 2, 1, 4, 3.

0-ro-u.p XX.

Exercise 1. a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise 2. a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise 3. a.

b.

i/i-turn \eft, step left forward, and raise left arm forward—1 ! Bend left knee, and raise left arm upward—2 !

Return to position a—3 !

Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

^4-turn left, step left forward, and bend left arm, wand in front of chest—1 !

Kneel on right knee and straighten left arm forward—2 !

Return to position a-r-3 !

Return to .starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

14-turn left, lunge left forward, and raise left arm obliquely forward up—1 !

1/2-turn right, straighten left and bend right knee, raise right and lower left arm—2 !



Digitized by C.ooQle
__212—

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d. Return to starting position—4 !	<

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Exercise 4. a. ^4-turn left, lunge left forward, and bend left arm, wand in front of chest—1 !

b.	Bend trunk forward, straighten left arm downward, and raise right arm upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4*!

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Files 1, 3, 5, etc., repeat Exercises 1 to 4.

Files 2, 4, 6, etc., repeat Exercises in the following rotation and beginningto

the right : 2, 1, 4, 3.	____

O-ro-u-p XU.

Exercise 1. a. Step sideward left and raise arms sideward—1!

b.	Return left foot, ben^ knees, and place hands on hips—2!

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Exercise 2. a. Lunge forward left and raise arms sideward—1 !

b.	Straighten left and bend right knee, bend trunk backward, and raise arms upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Exercise 3. a. Step sideward left, raise and bend arms, wands over shoulders—1 !

b.	Bend left knee, bend trunk sideward left, straighten left arm downward and right arm upward—2 !

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Exercise 4. a. Lunge forward left and raise arms sideward upward—1 !

b.	Kneel on right knees and bend arms, wands over shoulders—2

c.	Return to position a—3 !

d.	Return to starting position—4 !

Right 5—8 ! Repeat 9—16 !

Files 1, 3, 5, etc., repeat Exercises 1 to 4.

Files 2, 4, 6, etc., execute Exercises 2, 1, 4, 3.

CORRESPONDENCE.

K. J. Krohy Rome.—Would I were with you and could admire once more the beautiful “Castello St. Angelo.” Do not forget to make some notes for “Mind and Body” as you travel through empires, kingdoms, and republics.

E.	H. A.—Our sympathies are with you again as they were last year. It must be terrible to live in New Haven and see the home-heroes go down twice inside of 12 months. Brace up and hope!

F.	Dodge, Jowa.—Your letter has been referred to Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn.

Karl F. Ross, Los Angeles— Contribution will appear in December issue. Send Indian-Club-Series. Thanks!

—Some startling surprises have been sprung upon the football public this season, notably Chicago’s defeat of Cornell and tying Pennsylvania, Cornell’s defeat of Princeton, Columbia’^ defeat of Yale, and Harvard’s defeat of Pennsylvania, although the latter can hardly be classed as a surprise: The Carlisle Indians are now a very important factor in the football world, and their defeat of Pennsylvania surely places them in the first rank. Harvard had all they could do to beat them.



Digitized by ^.ooQle
-213-

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—“Outing” for November. Among the contents will be found “The Buck of Cordwood Hill,” by Frank H. Risteen ; “Smoking Out a Grizzly,” by Jos. E. Badger; “The Golfers’ Open Championship, 1899,” by Charles Turner; “Held for Downs” (a complete story), by Ward Cruikshank ; “Moose in the Maine Woods,” by C. Bailey; “Three Days’ Ducking on Lake Champlain,” by Elliot C. Brown; “A Glimpse.at Chinese Cities (Shanghai), by E. M. Allaire ; “Thanksgiving on the ‘Popples’,” by J. R. Benton; “Cycling Over an Old Virginia Pike,” by George H. Streaker; “A Race ’Round the Horn,” by T. Jenkins Hains, author of “The Wind Jammers”; “Autumn Sport in Tennessee,” by D. C. Fitch ; “Turtle Catching with a Rod,” by John Cloverdale ; “The Season's Review in Lawn Tennis” (illustrated from photos), by J. Parmly Paret; “A Forecast of the Football-Season” (illustrated from photos), by Walter Camp; “Hunting the Wild Yack in Thibet,” by W. J. Reid; “The Medaska’s Lost Cup (A Yarn of White Bear Lake),” by R. Slye.

—Medical Indoor Gymnastics by Dr. Si. Schreber. Translated from the Twenty-Sixth German Edition by Herbert A. Day. Leipzig, 1899. Friedrich Fleischer. N6w York, Gustav E. Stechert, 9 East Sixteenth st.—We have before us a literal translation of Dr. Schreber’s book on Medical Indoor Gymnastics, the passing through 26 editions of which work indicates no less than its extensive sale among the Germans that it fills a general want. We print here the headings of the different chapters in order to give an idea of the contents of the book:

I. The Value of Medical Gymnastics in General.

II.	The Valde of Medical Home Gymnastics in Particular.

III.	General Rules for the Practice of Medical Home Gymnastics.

IV.	The Separate Exercises of Medical Home Gymnastics.

V.	A Collection of Prescriptions to Serve as Examples for Special Treatments.

VI.	Concluding Remarks.

VII.	Tabular Plan of the Movements.

The book is well illustrated and is gotten up somewhat in the form of Dr. Hartelins’ work, although of smaller size and therefore simpler and plainer.

—The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette. Vol. XV, No. II. Nov. 1899.—As usual this journal contains many interesting articles and new suggestions; it also embodies a special department on physical culture.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS ADOPTED BY THE METROPOLITAN ASSOCIATION OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION, SEPTEMBER 18, 1899.

Strike out section 8 of present Boxing Rules and insert instead the following (page 61):

Sec. 8. Immediately before the competition each competitor who has weighed jn shall draw in person his number and compete as follows: Have a preliminary round ot as many contests as the total number of contestants can be divided by two. In case any contestant does not compete in the preliminary series, he shall be allotted a number in the next series of bouts, so as to avoid the possibility of again drawing a bye. This leaves 2, 4, 8 or 16 contestants, and the rounds then proceed regularly without byes or uneven contests.

Add to section 4 of the Boxing Rules the following:

All weighing in shall cease as soon as the first bout of the tournament on each night is commenced.

Strike out Section 9 of Boxing Rules and insert the following:

Sec. 9. Each competitor shall be entitled to the assistance of two seconds only, and no advice or coaching shall be given to any competitor by his seconds or either of them, or by any other person during the progress of any round. For a violation of this section the referee may disqualify the competitor who is so advised or coached.

Digitized by Google
-214-

Strike out section 15 ot the Boxing Rules and insert instead the following : Sec. 15. The contestant who has last been defeated by the winner shall receive second prize; and all who have been beaten by the winners of either first or second place shall be entitled to compete for third place.

Strike ont section 8 of Wrestling Rules and insert instead the following:

Sec. 8. Each contestant shall be entitled to the assistance of two seconds only, and no advice or coaching shall be given to any competitor by his seconds or either of them, or by any other person during the progress of any bont. Any violation of this rule, or of Rule 7, by any contestant, or the refusal of any contestant to break any hold when so ordered by the referee, may be punished by the referee by the loss of the bout to the offender and his exclusion from farther competition.

Strike out section 9 of Wrestling Rules and insert instead the following: Immediately before the competition each competitor who has weighed fit shall draw in person his number ana compete as follows : Have a preliminary round of as many contests as the total number of contestants can be divided by two. In case any contestant does not compete in the preliminary series, he shall be allotted a number in the next series of bouts, so as to avoid the possibility of again drawing a bye. This leaves 2? 4, 8 or 16 contestants, and the bouts then proceed regularly with no byes or uneven contests.

Strike out section 10 of Wrestling Rules and insert instead the following:

Sec. 10. The contestant who has last been defeated by the winner shall receive second prize; and all who have been defeated by the winners of either first or second place shall be entitled to compete for third place.

Strike out section 14 of Wrestling Rules and insert instead the following:

Sec. 14. If, in the preliminary bouts, no fall has been obtained by either contestant after the expiration of six minutes, the referee may award the bout to the contestant having shown the best qualitiest or who evidently has acted mostly upon the offensive; or the referee may, after allowing three minutes rest, order a supplementary bont of three minutes. If, in the final bouts, a fall has not been obtained at the expiration of six minutes, another bout of six minutes shall be ordered. If, at the expiration of this second bout, a fall has not resulted, an additional bout of three minutes shall be ordered; if no fall, referee shall reward. Add to section 16 of Wrestling Rules the following:

All weighing in shall cease as soon as the first bout of the tournament on each night is commenced.

Rule 3 of General Rules—Strike out section 16 and insert instead the follow-iag (page 30):

Sec. 16. One mile walk.

ARTICLE XI.

Sec. 15. No athlete who has been released from a club which is a member of this Union, and who competes for another club directly thereafter, shall be allowed to compete again for the club he was released from for one year from the date of his release, except that the club has disbanded or ceased to exist.

In Article X, of the Constitution of the A. A. U., strike out section 2, on page 12, and insert instead the following:

Sec. 2. No one shall be eligible to compete in any athletic meeting, games, or entertainment, given or sanctioned by this Union, unless he shall be a duly registered amateur athlete, a member of the organization from which he enters, and shall not have competed from any other club in this Union during a period of three months next preceding such entry : nor shall any member of any club in this Union, or any club in any district in this Union, be allowed to compete, in case he has within one year competed as a member of any other club then in this Union, except with the consent of such other organization, which consent shall be filed with the Registration Committee of his district prior to such competition, unless such other organizaiion shall have disbanded or practically ceased to exist; provided, that the requirements of this section shall not apply to any athletic meeting, games, or entertainment, the entries for which are confined to members of the club or organization giving such meeting or entertainment.

No person shall be eligible to compete for or to enter any competition as a member of any club in the territory of any active member of this Union unless he shall have resided within the territory of said active member at least four months

Digitized by v^ooQle
■215—

previous to enteriiig for competition r nor shall anv person be eligible to enter or compete in any district championship meeting unless he shall hare been a bona tide resident of said district for at least six months prior to the holding of said district championship meeting of more than one district in one year.

In Article XI. of the Constitution of the A. A. U., strike out section 15, on page 16, and insert instead the following:

Sec. 15. Every athlete, when he registers, shall state his residence and what club he wishes to represent, and he shall not be allowed to change the club during the term of his registration without the consent of the Registration Committee of the district in which he resides. And when any registered athlete changes his residence from one district to another, he shall notify the Registration Committee of the district wherein he is registered, and such Registration Committee shall issue a transfer to the district in which such athlete intends to reside.

In Article X. of the Constitution, page 13, strike ont the Whole of section 7, and insert instead the following:

Sec. 7. Trainers and handlers shall not be allowed within the centre field, or inner circle, or on the track immediately prior to or during competitions at championship meetings, except in distance races exceeding one mile; not to include A. A. U. Championship meeting.

Add to paraph 2 of section 2, Article X. of the Constitution:

The restrictions contained in this section shall not apply to undergraduates competing from any college belonging to an allied body.

Before “championship” insert “district.”

Article X., Section 5—Cut out “Foot Ball.”

Leave Relay Race.

The Legislation Committee reports in favor of amending section 2, of Article X., to read as follows :	#

No one shall be eligible to compete in any athletic meeting, games, or entertainment given or sanctioned by this Union, unless he shall be a duly registered athlete, a member of the organization from which he enters, and shall not have competed from any club in this Union during a period of three months next preceding such entry; nor shall any member of any club in this Union, or any club in any district in this Union, be .allowed to compete in case he has within one year competed as a member of any other club then in this Union, except with the consent of such other club, which consent shall be filed with the Registration Committee of his district prior to such competition, unless such other club shall have disbanded or practically ceased to exist; provided that the requirements of this section shall not apply to any athletic meeting, games, or entertainment, the entries for which are confined to the club or organization giving such meeting or entertainment.	•

No person shall be eligible to compete for or enter any competition as a member of any club in the territory of any active member of this Union, unless he shall have resided within the territory of said active member at least four months previous to entering for competition; nor shall any person be eligible to enter or compete in any district championship meeting unless he shall have been a bona fide resident of such district for at least six months prior to the holding of such championship meeting; and no person shall be eligible to compete in a championship meeting of more than one district in one year. The restrictions contained in this section shall not affect the eligibility of an undergraduate connected with any allied college athletic organization who shall have been elected to membership in any club of this Union prior to November 20, 1899, to represent such club as long as he remains an undergraduate; nor shall these restrictions apply to an undergraduate competing for any college belonging to an allied body.

The Committee on Legislation recommends that section 7, Article X., of the Constitution be amended by striking out the words “Basket Ball,” so as to read as follows:

The prohibitions of this article shall not be construed to debar‘teams composed solely of amateurs from playing against base ball or foot ball teams composed wholly or in part of professionals.

The Committee disapproves of the proposed amendment to Rule 3 of the General Rules to substitute the one-mile walk for the team race in the list of

Digitized by i^ooQle
—216—

Championship events for the outdoor field meeting, and recommends that the said rule be not amended.

The Committee reports in favor of the amendment which was proposed to Article VII., section 10, of the Constitution, and recommends that same should not be incorporated in the Constitution, but should be adopted as Rule 14 of the Athletic Rules, and that the subsequent rules, now numbered XIV. to XXVII., be amended-bv changing the numbers to XV. to XXVIII., consecutively.

The Committee does not recommend the adoption of the proposed amendment offered as an amendment to section 15 of Article XI., as it is the Opinion of the Committee that the present provisions of section 2, Article X., if stringently enforced are sufficiently restrictive, as they prevent ah athlete under any and all conditions, from transferring his club representation during a period of three months, and the Committee is of the opinion that the evils which the proposed amendment seeks to remedy are so patent that they cannot fail to be recognized by the Registration Committee, who has absolute power to prohibit the changing of representation in particular cases.

The Committee reports favorably upon the proposed amendment to section 15, Article XI., of the Constitution, and upon all the proposed amendments to the Boxing and Wrestling Rules.	J.	E. Sullivan, Chairman.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Spalding’s Official Basket Ball Guide for 1899 is the October number of Spalding’s Athletic Library, and is very complete, containing the official rules, hints to players and officials, records, and pictures of leading teams. The Guide is edited by Dr. Gulick.

—President J. E. Sullivan of the Metropolitan Association of the A. A. U. appointed the following committees for the ensuing year: Finance Committee : James J. Frawley, chairman; F. W. Rubien and John Steil. — Track and Field Championship Committee: F. W. Rubien, chairman; James J. Frawley, Bartow S. Weeks, B. F. Moore, jr., Thomas F. O’Brien, and John J. Dixon. — Legislation: Bartow S. Weeks, chairman; Thomas F. O’Brien and John T. Dooling. — Boxing* and Wrestling: John J. Dixon, chairman; H. Obertubessing, John T. Dooling, J. Hart, and John P. Boyle. — Club Investigation : Garrett Fitzgerald, chairman :

G.	B. M. Shurts and F. Dieterle.

In the article “Many New Records,’’ etc., published in last month’s “Mind and' Body,” several inaccuracies crept in the first, being the statement that “Westhall’s record of 0.15 for 150 yards has never been equalled by a professional and only twice by an amateur.” H. Hutchins did the distance in 1414 seconds, G. Forbes and H. M. Johnson in 15 seconds, all professionals. The amateurs who have beaten it are B. J. Wefers in 14 3-5, C. J: B. Moneypennv and C. G.‘ Wood in 14 4-5.

Deerfoot’s hour record is disputed and H. Watkins’ hour record of 11 miles 1286 yards is not authentic.

The claim is made that J. Nuttal’s record of 1.13 for 600 yards still survives. This has been beaten by two amateurs, Thos. E. Burke in 111 and E. C. Bredin in 111 1-5.

Richard’s %-mile in 3.07 has been equalledAby T. P. Conneff in 3.07 and also beaten by him in 3.02 2-5.

Hewitt’s half-mile in 1.3514 was probably intended for 1.5314. C. J. Kilpatrick has beaten this in 1.53 2-5.

Walsh’s 500 yards in 1 minute % second has been beaten by two professionals, E. C. Bredin in 5814 seconds and John Powers in 59 seconds.

“Butterfly’s” record of 1.04 for the quarter-mile has also been beaten by two professionals, R. Buttery in 4814 seconds and E. D. Bredin in 4814 seconds.

Phillip’s 120 yards in 11 4-5 seconds has been beaten by G. Seward (professional) in 1114 seconds, B. J. Wefers in 11 2-5 seconds and G. A. Bradley in 11 3-5 seconds, the two latter being amateurs.	'

Dates and places will be furnished next month if desired.

Digitized by taOOQle