MIND AND BODY

Vol. 3*	SEPTEMBER-OCTOBLR,	1919	No.	281

P*Usfce4 By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ula, Mias.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Wwt. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER .45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as	second-class matter October 14,1916, at the pottoffice at New Ulm,

Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

STANDARD MEASUREMENTS FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN.

By JAMES KERR, M. A. M. D., R. A. M. C., London.

The first statement on health in the series of Reports which I with the conditions of school life in the Metropolis, that “We jbave no trustworthy measurements of the development of London school children,” is still true. Since that was written, millions of lneasurements have been recorded from all localities, without re-fciut nationally or individually commensurate with the time and labour expended. The recording of heights and weights are ah valueless as meaningless unless referred to some kind of a standard, and no standard exists.

General Considerations.

Certain conventions require recognition. The convention in most need of standardizing is the age group, figures are given fat a certain age, but it is often impossible to say whether they eipresa measurements for the value at the birthday, or the group age last birthday, or for the nearest birthday.

-	- 1 'T .....

jtefcrint “American Journal of School Hyyitne*’

Digitized by <^.003 Le
194

When using yearly intervals the commonest convention is to adopt age last birthday as the basis of classification.	last

birthday should be the foundation for all school annual age groups when measurements are taken. Age in years and months can nearly always be recorded. As a practical statement the height of boys of 13 should mean the average height of the annual group whose age last birthday was 13.— No other meaning should ever be attached to the figures, without a special qualification. It should be written or printed 13—, with a dash as in the Registrar General's Tables.

The theoretical heights, deduced from tables or graphs, as the height on the thirteenth birthday, are often convenient to.use as exact statements, and should be spoken of as height at 13, and written 13., with a point after it to indicate the exact date. ‘

Without attention to such conventions many tables and statements are indefinite and cannot be used for comparison later.

Often with groups of children, classed as entrants, specials, or leavers, there is a tendency to irregular distribution through the year of age which must be guarded against by noting the average age of the group. A method found in some sanitary Reports of aggregating the heights and dividing by the number of children may in such a case give erroneous results. One instance where for an English seaside town this method gave the height of nearly 1000 boys in their sixth year (t. e., aged 5—,) as 103.7 cm., but half yearly groups printed elsewhere in the Report showed this value to be not less than 104.3 cm., furnishes evidence of a very substantial increase on the result as set out by the aggregate method.

Purpose of Measurements.

The purpose of general weighing and measuring appears to have departed from its original intention of obtaining data for standards, and to have been widely extended and continued, in Great Britain at least, with the vague idea of somehow benefiting the individual from utility as a measure of nutrition or otherwise.

Height is generally felt to express conditions of heredity,— whereas weight rather expresses environmental changes. This is roughly true. Height is a much less variable measure than weight, therefore presumably less liable to alteration by accidents of environment, so that any considerable variations suggest deeply placed causes of change. Robertson points out that the weight being more variable is a more sensitive indicator of the effects of environment, and to be preferred as a test of dietetic or other changes, over stature, whose variations go far back in the life history. .

Results of Measurements.

Race, however, is the main factor in height. The average English elementary school boy is considerably above the average Japanese boy of the same age, but in the Rhondda Valley the’averages of the children fall below the Japanese. The following table.

Digitized by VjOOQle
only including groups exceeding 500 in numbers, shows this in centimetres.

Elementary School Boys 		5—6	6—7	T—8	12—13	13—14	14—15
English, Tuxford and Glegg 	  Japanese, Mishima	  Thondda Valley		103.0  102.8  100.9	108.0  108.3  105.8	114.7 11 .8 111.31	139.8  135.2  134.1	142.5  141.5 139.1	147.1  146.3

This matter of race however is not the only feature modifying stature, as wherever examined the height attained also varies with the social class. Even in London, where however other selection may also come in, Jacobs states that the West End Jew averages nearly three inches more than his East End kinsman. In the secondary schools year by year the children, as shown later, are taller than corresponding groups in elementary schools, and again elementary scholars in better districts socially show growth greater than in poorer schools. It is probable that the comparison of schools in different towns or districts nearly always fails in respect to social conditions not being allowed for, or equalized.

The kind of variation can be found by taking indiscriminately from Reports the average heights of boys in their thirteenth year. Here are found variations in Great Britain, for instance, for boys of thirteen from 138.5 in the Poorest Schools of Glasgow to 151.4 for Public School boys, in which social condition seems the main factor.

Again by height is meant the total height, which is made up of height of head, of body, and of length of legs. This last is the most variable element, and all these vary at different ages.

Variations In Height Measurements.

The so-called standards of height are merely averages, which can in no sense be regarded as standards for comparison as they include indiscriminately all classes of children, the only thing in common being sex and age. As an example, the tables from hundreds of thousands of measurements by various observers collected by Tuxford and Glegg express nothing but figures derived from arithmetic. The children are probably not represented in these tables in the proportion in which they exist either in school or in the general population. Internal evidence, noted later, suggests that selection makes them misleading above the age of eleven. Not only would more be measured in towns than country, but there was no exclusion of deformed or diseased, sufficient to obtain anything like a healthy average.

The marked effect on height of rickets for instance would probably be over represented instead of being absent from this table. These effects are well shown in figures for heights derived from the 1914 Report for Aberdeen.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
HEIGHTS OF ENTRANTS. Aberdeen, 1914.

		I	Heights in Centimetres			
Average  Age	Num-  bers	Percentage of Ricketty		Ricketty		
			Non-  Ricketty	Beaded  ribs  only	and  enlarged  bone  ends	and  defrmity of long bones
Boys 5 4-12	1914	39.9%	105.4	101.3	98.0	95.0
Girls 5 4-12	1828	34.2%	103.6	100.3	97.3	94.0

If it is remembered that in addition to rickets roughly 25 per cent of elementary school children show some scoliosis and also especially in children who work industrially, some flatness of feet, the necessity for a rigorous selection of standard children is demonstrated.

Early Environment.

Many years ago Dr. C. J. Thomas in a study of children in Southwark pointed out that it is necessary to look far back in the life history for the causes of poor physique, as where the parents are reported to have sunk from a higher stratum of the community the children are usually of excellent physique compared with the aboriginal denizens of the neighbourhood, and he might have added that this probably throws some light on the alleged good physique of the drunkard’s child. He found also that the children born in a year when the infantile mortality was low showed an increased physique in stature, and those bom in years of high mortality a decreased physique. Curves of heights for ages, and infant mortality for the corresponding years of birth show a close but inverse correspondence. From this he concluded that the year of birth should be noted by those engaged on anthropometric surveys.

Combe noted that Lausanne children bom in the winter months were distinctly smaller at their birthdays than those bom in the summer months at corresponding ages.

Mumford, in his study of the past thirty years scholars, finds that “of every 100 boys at the Manchester Grammar School who are retarded one year or more in their work, 83 per cent show evidence of damaging disease in early infantine life.” He shows that physique as estimated by height and weight of the present generation is better than at corresponding ages thirty years ago. His results are confirmed by observations from Marlboro’s Rugby and other Public Schools. There is no doubt about the improvement in physique as shown by heights.

The increase in height appears to be generally noted. Parsons, from examination of thigh bones, concluded that the Midland Englishman of the thirteenth to the fifteenth century had an average height of 167.0 cm. (65.75 inches), and the British Association averaged English height as 171.5 cm. (67.5 inches). It is quite probable that there was a considerable fall in the first half of last century from effects of industrialism on the young, but there is no doubt about there being a gain going on now.

Digitized by

Google
197

But measurements of skeletons over long periods show no very great change in stature; indeed it is to be remembered that the remains of a race have been found in the Mediterranean Riviera who flourished about 250 centuries ago and had an average stature of 180 cm. (6ft. 1 1-2 in.).

Probably the recent general increase is mainly due to avoidance of many effects of urbanization, less illness, better hygiene and the good feeling from free trade.

Stature and Intelligence.

Another point noticed by every investigator who attends to school hygiene beyond mere routine recording, is the relation of stature and intellectual accomplishment.

If the children of a definite year group be taken, and separated out by their school classification, into standards, grades, or classes representing academic and presumably intellectual status, the children of higher intellectual level, although of the same calendar age, will be of greater average height than those of lower school attainments. This also in some degree for other than children, for instance, in. the British Association enquiry, the tallest class of the community, apart from any selection by height as for guardsmen, was found to be Fellows of the Royal Society. American observers first noted these relations of stature and intelligence, and they were equally recorded in the first enquiry in London schools.

Taking ten, eleven, and twelve-year-old groups of girls, the average heights in centimetres for each year in each school class can be shown in the following table:

St. Louis Grades		3	4	5	6	7
St. Louis 	  Porter's  Report	10*s [ ll’s 12's	130.8  133.6	134.0  136.0  142.0	134.7  137.6  144.5	136.4  139.0  143.3	140.9  145.9
London Standards		III	IV	V	VI	VIII
Report J 1906	l 10's ll’s 1 12's	129.2  131.1  135.7	132.4  135.8  139.7	133.5  138.7  140.8	135.1 138.9  145.1	145.0  145.4

The American writers point out that the children who are retarded in their intellectual grades, are also retarded in all their physical measurements. They are not simply short or light weight children of their particular age, but all their measurements correspond to those of younger children, whilst the measurements of children who are ahead of their age, that is, are precocious, correspond to older children. This idea of physiological age suggests that the vital clock may go more quickly with some than with others. It might be worth enquiring whether these individuals run through life more quickly, or whether, as is more probable, their vital potentiality is better to start with.

Digitized by floosie
198

Rhythm of Growth

In a vague kind of way the growth of children has been separated by some foreign writers into periods, an early plump period in the first four years, then a lean period of gawky growth in length from the fifth to the seventh year, with a second plump period of chubbiness from eight to ten, followed by another lean period from eleven to fifteen, and in the case of girls a third plump period up to eighteen or nineteen.

That the height is not exactly fixed is shown by the diurnal variation, mainly due to shortening of the vertebral column, as determined by Prof. T. A. Storey in New York. Seven young men measured for three years showed diurnal loss and nocturnal gain to an amount such that one might lose a centimetre and a half in a day within physiological range.

There is also a periodical seasonal change obliterated in English records. The variation seems almost the inverse of that for weight, and this was the cause of its being detected in London measurements (Fig. 4). Growth in height does not take place in a uniform way, as is usually stated, but with an annual rhythm which is better demonstrated in the variation in weight. This variation is sufficient to need consideration in determining standards. Averages derived from Spring measurements would differ significantly from those determined in the Autumn.

So far as stature is concerned, race is the chief influence beyond control. Conditions within control are healthy infancy, freedom from early disease, sufficient food and wholesome environment socially. By selection of the children to be measured, excluding the deformed and diseased, the backward mentally, and the starved, ill clothed and city-dwarfed children, it should be possible to lay down standards for height considerably above the measurements at present considered satisfactory, and children whose growth had been arrested by deprivation could then be really assessed at a true estimate of their loss, instead of merely being compared with the average of another lot, nearly as badly starved, or chilled, deformed or misshapen from want of sufficient light, air or exercise.

A rate of change in height corresponding to physiological age and subject to correction for the time of year, and possibly month of birth would give a figure by which any child ought to be capable of observation, provided its curve of growth has been kept for some time.

For a general judgment of the whole life conditions of the children up to the time of observation, the standard of heights for boys should be above that given either by the British Association or Dr. Duke's tables for Public School boys, because in these tables it is certain that a number would be included who if not actually deformed by scoliosis or early rickets, would have had some arrest of growth from early childish or infantile diseases.

Discrimination of Standard Values

Digitized by
199

In the lists too there would have been some of the retarded and backward cases, physically or mentally. Averages will not do. Heights of points on a map are measured from a datum line, and heights of individuals in a community must also be referred to a datum as standard.

These standards are ultimately to be obtained by processes of exclusion of non-standard children. If the ricketty children are excluded in the Aberdeen measurements, instead of boys of five and a quarter measuring 102.1 cm. they reach an average of 104.5 cm., an increase of about three per cent.

Similarly, if the condition of the (A) children of the poorest schools of Glasgow, who measured 138.5 cm., had been raised to that of the (D) best school they would have measured 144.5 cm., an increase of four per cent. Secondary scholars exceed the elementary in size by eight per cent. Again if the improved conditions of early life today are compared with the past generation, an increase up to four per cent is noted, and still more is expected, in stature. It is quite probable therefore that the standard height of English speaking boys is between five and ten per cent above that given by Dukes for Rugby pupils. With such a standardized material approximation to a permanent standard of heights should be obtained. Subdivisions of this material would be necessary into classes indicating racial strains, and adjustment by pigmentation and cranial measurements would afford corrections to greater exactness.

A proper standard will be somewhere above, but certainly not below the following provisional suggestion for standard heights of English speaking races.

Birthday 		6.	7.	8.	9.	10	11
Boys 		121.0  119.0	126.0  124.0	131.6  129.0	137.0  135.0	142.0  141.0	148.0  147.0
Girls							
						

Birthday 		12	13	14	15	16	17
Boys 		155.0  156.0	161.0  162.0	166.0  166.0	170.0  167.0	172.5  168.0	174.0  168.0
Girls							
						

The values of the representative series of boys’ measurements are shown in figure 1, along with the suggested standards. The standard for girls has also been shown by a thin line of vertical dashes. For the sake of numerical comparison the actual heights can be stated for part of school age.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Heights on Birthday	10	11	12	13	**
Poorest Glasgow boys		123.9	128.5	132.8	136.6	140 2 144.4
English Elementary (T. and G.)		127.?	132.0	137.2	141.2	
English and American (S.)		131.5	135.8	139.8	145.0c	151.4
Chicago Boys (Baldwin)		135.9	140.3	145.4	150.2	165.0 157.2
Supernormal (Baker)		137.1	141.7	149.0	155.0	
Standard (Kerr). . . 		142.0	148.0	155.0	161.0	166.0
					

The amount which the above groups fall short of possibilities— that is if all hindrances to healthy efficiency were removed—in other words, the measure of deprivation shown in stature, may be expressed in percentages below the standard as:

Percentage Defect from Standard on Birthday	10	11	12	13	14
Poorest Schools in Glasgow.		12.8	13.2	14.3	15.2	15.5
Tuxford and (Clegg's: English E. S		10.3	10 9	11.4	12.4	13.9
Stephenson’s: English and American		7.4	8.2	9.8	9.9  5.7	1:1
Baldwin: Chicago		4.3	5.2	6.2		
Baker: Supemormals		3.4	4.2	3.8	3.7	S.f
					

Whilst the prescription of a standard of heights seems quite attainable, there are many complications in respect to weights.

This is well shown by two neighboring playground classes of girls, measured at intervals. The height increase was exactly equal, whilst the weight increases in one case were double the other.

Girls	Nos	Average	Class	Average  Weight		Weeks in Class and Percentage Increases			
	. •	Ages		Height	1	8	16	27	32
	20	12 7-12	A	34.06	100	99.16	ioo.i;	102.50	103.70
Weights									
	24	12 1-12	B	32.11	100	99.16	99.47	104.73	10r.O7
	20	12 7-12	A	142	100	101.4	102.1	103.00	103.30
Heights									103.35
	24	12 1-12	B	133	100	101.4	102.1	103.03	

Digitized by
8 a 16 20 WEEKS 3Z	8	ft	>6	20	2g	jfe

'■V

						
					/  /	
						
				•/i		
			#,  / .•	r / /  /		r\
		/  #/				
		£	,-BoyS or ElivtN —:			
#	£-		ConTrol$—— London annual »■			

7

6

ftr .

wk«

increase

4

2.

I

Tl*. 2.

						
					i  - t	/
				/  /	—t / /	
				/  r y	>1	/
			/ f	r		
		,JP\	fs			
	J	r-i	#G.f	Its O  n£X»r nital 1	F EUVCN  ri	.	
	?■		-  Fla  &		NVcsfatea.	

MMW ak. MA-y

Digitized by t^.ooQle
202

This fragment of information showed that height and weight might vary independently. As a matter of fact the class B which put on weight most had milk and biscuits in the forenoon, and a short afternoon rest which the other class did not enjoy.

When open air schools were first started in England they were judged extravagantly on the alteration in height, weight, and haemoglobin content of the blood, because contrast was made with rates of growth as deduced from annual increases.

Seasonal Variations In Measurements.

When suitable controls were examined the first impressions had to be altered. At Shooter's Hill (London) twelve children present through three successive summers of the open air school grew in weight at the rate of .217 per cent for the whole period, but thirty normal boys in an ordinary East End school grew .326 per cent weekly in 26 weeks including Summer. At the Tuberculosis School the ten Summer weeks' growth was at the rate of .48 per cent against ten winter weeks rate of .20 per cent.

Definite seasonal variation in growth both in height and weight is established, although the exact seasons and amounts have not yet been determined.

So too haemoglobin probably has a definite seasonal variation, which remains to be determined, and will probably be found equally well apart from the open air schools.

Indeed the open air school as such appears an over rated institution, and if the conditions of temperature, humidity, relative amounts of feeding, rest and exercise, together with changed academic tasks, and relaxation were adopted in school houses similar results might be expected.

These variations with season had been noted before.

Schmid-Monnard of Halle, as part of his short but brilliant career, took up the question of growth of holiday children, and determined that although there was a retardation in the first year of school life, seasonal variation began in the second year of infancy and was later independent of school, and that the increase of weight was at its maximum in September. Quite recently Professor Spuhler of Berne has attempted to show that it is want of exercise which largely accounts for arrest of growth in Winter. He took two groups of students at Kussnacht, one exercised, the other unexercised and compared them as to increase of weight and certain measurements in Summer and Winter with the results shown in the table:

Kiissnacht  Seminarists  Aged about 18	Weight Increase Kilos	Height  Increase  cm.	Chest  Cfe.  cm.	Thigh  Cfe.  an.
	Summer Winter	S W	S W	s w-
No Physical Training	4.0 0.3	2.9 1.2	2.8 1.0	
Regular Gymnasium Courses	3.9 1.5	2.6 1.0	8.1 8.1	THS

Digitized by
203

Dr. Henderson Smith has recently shown that there is a regular seasonal variation in the increase of weight in Sanatoria, which falls in the first three months of the year and attains its maximum in September.

Children easily gain or lose in weight. It is this which makes rate of change in weight valuable as an index of present health. There is noted ten years ago in the London Education Reports “Evident systemic depression resulting from the slighest operations. In most cases of treatment of teeth or operations for adenoids, there was a distinct effect, which in many showed itself as an arrest in the increase of weight, and in a few as loss of weight going on for a week or two.”

Loss of Heat and Deficiency of Food.

These rates of change in weight can be determined as averages for long periods from the usual tables of massed results. Taking out shorter periods however seasonal variation, otherwise masked, shows ap.

Some children! were regularly measured for periods up to 36 weeks from the beginning of April. The girls of eleven may be taken, but the variations in the other age groups were practically similar.

There were girls in open air schools, who had regular school meals; girls in playground classes without school feeding, control girls from the same schools; and lastly comparison rates derived from massed statistics.

The tabular statement shows the percentage growth for four weeks intervals for the different groups of girls.

Percentage Increases			Weights				Heights		
Girls a^ed 11,6-12		Open Air Classes	Playground  Classes	Control  Classes	London  Annual  Rates	O. A.	d	d	Annual  Rates
Actual measures		26.7	| 29.0	29.5	29.8	132.2	134.8	135.4	1134.4
1  I	8	.00	.00	.00	.00	OC	.00	.00	‘ .00
	12	.75	.49	.62	.80		.29	.22	.26
Weeks	16	1.87	.91	1.42	1.60		.59	.60	.52
from \	20	2.24	1.77	2.73	2.40		.96	.90	.78
April  First  |	24	3.36	2.81	4.22	3.20		1.33	1.30	1.04
	28  32	4 60 6.74	4.62	6.00	3.80  4.60	1.70	1.56	1.70	1 30 1.56
j	36	7.11			5.30	2.50			1.82

These groups were strictly comparable, and all increased at a greater rate than the annual rate would indicate, but the greatest increase was not in the open air children or playground classes but in the Controls. A similar set of boys give comparable results, but as no controls were specially taken the measurements of an ordinary school were utilized as controls.

Digitized by v^ooQle
204

The two parts of figure 2 illustrate this more rapid summer and autumnal growth in weight, and show how the loss of heat in the open air children retards their growth, if they have not ample feeding to compensate.

The same set of events is illustrated by a chart which was published for New York scholars of 1913. This chart also shows the rapid Autumn increase with slowing in the early part of the year and actual decrease about April and May. (Fig. 3.)

It would be interesting, if rather speculative, to consider what is the meaning of seasonal variation. With equal amounts of food and less call for heat production a gain in weight might be expected in Summer, but that does not account for growth in height at other times. The weight accumulation is chiefly about harvest and probably a long inherited habit, and natural preparation of a winter reserve store.

Relations of Height and Weight.

Whatever the cause may be, the differing times and rates of growth in height and weight disturb their relations, and any index derived from them must be very variable unless a seasonal correction can be applied.

Two boys of the same age were followed for four years summering in open air schools. Fig. 4 shows their growth in weight during the summer sessions, and in height largely during the winter closure. The index of grammes per centimetre in height shown for the opening and closing dates of the school is very variable each year. The straight shaded lines show the annual rates for weight as deduced from mass statistics.

In dealing with massed statistics the weight varies with height almost independently of age, so that for practical purposes a limit can be set for each height below which weight should not fall. Taking about 2000 children in Miss Elderton’s tables who were 45— inches high, and a similar number of 51—inches, and dividing them in young and old age groups, when these groups are calculated and drawn for a thousand children at each age group they nearly coincide. (Fig. 5.)

Similar results are got for the boys, and for other heights. It would thus be comparatively easy to determine a weight below which a child of a given height should be regarded as suspiciously unhealthy, but it is more difficult to determine the standard weight below which a child is to be defective. Probably that must come mainly from considerations of height.

Standards of Weight.

Taking once more as illustrative types the 26 poorest "A” schools in Glasgow reported on by Leslie Mackenzie, the averages of English Elementary Schools compiled by Tuxford and Glegg, the English speaking children collected by Dr. Stephenson, and mainly secondary scholars, Baldwin’s recent measurements of Chicago schools, and the wealthy scholars in the School of Education reported on by Miss Josephine Baker the weights found are given in the table.

Digitized by VjOOQle
-140

WT540lbs 50

■130

70

IOOO AT*

80

GLASGOW

GIRLS

45- INCH SI- INCH WEIGHTS

AGES si'

----(rS-tl-5

----^S~BS &5-K*

lO-S-ns IhS-W

Tig. 5.

5  .												
							/  //	*  i  «	/•  r ✓  /  y*	/  /		
						r.	/  /  —V	/•  //  rib	if	S W Standi	LIGHT  lltl CD	5
				4>*		✓Jr		Cktc&go Bon/s	—  Endish Elemental	  En^isJi&Ameftcari		  FbcxeSt Glasgow					
												

F1«. e.
206

Category	Sex	5.	6.	7.	8. | 9.		10 J 11 | 12			13	14	16
26 Poorest  Glasgow	B  G	17.2  16.8	18.5  18.1	20.0)  19.5	21.8124.5 21.0|23.0		25.7127.9130.1  24.8127.0129.7			32.4  33.0	34.5  34.8	....
English E. S Tuxford	B  G	16.9  16.4	18.4  17.8	20 4 19.6	22.1124.026.3128.6131.6 21.8l23. 3 25.6|28.2I81.6					34.2  35.0	36.7  38.0	
English and  American  Stephenson	B  G |	18.4  18.0	20.3  19.4	22.4  21.3	24.727.1B0.132.2 23.6 25.3|28.2|31.0				34.9  35.1	37.9  39.8	42.4  44.2	47.6  47.8
Chicago Schools Baldwin	B 1  G |		21.3  19.6	22.5  21.8	25.9  23.2	26.6130.5132.3  26.4|29.7|30.2			34.8  34.2	39.0  43.0	43.6  46.5	48.2  50.8
“Supemormals”  Baker	O I		22.0	24.5  21.1	26.9  24.6	30.3  30.1	30.9  30.7	33.6  34.7	40.0  38.3	48.1  38.5	46'.i	si. 4
Standard Weights Kerr	B I  G |		21.5  20.5	24.1  22.9	26.6  25.4	29.1  27.4	32.0  30.0	35.1  33.8	38.4  38.7	42.0 46.1 44.l|48.0		51.1  51.2

The differences between boys and girls appear less marked in the poorer classes, and this shows up strongly in later school life.

Plotting out curves on a large scale from the table just given, and taking smooth curves which include them all, and marking the differences sufficiently between the sexes, values are obtained which must be a near approximation to the ultimate standards to be got in careful selection of children, developed without adverse physical environment. (Fig. 6.)

As concerns the value of these standards as of immediate utility, it is not to be expected that any ultimate standard will be materially above these weights nor on the other hand is it likely that any will be lower than the suggested heights.

For determining the weights it will not be sufficient to take a number of children of a certain height and weigh them, and take these weights as standard. The children must be critically selected. Disease of all kinds, and disability of every variety must be excluded, for instance the large flabby anaemic unexercised child, with cold blue hands, thickened lips, pulpy watery tissues and excoriated nostrils, so common among institution-reared children is probably often above weight, and should yet be excluded as of defective constitution, poor in immunity, and capacity to resist adverse environment.

The various indices that have been recommended by many writers are only satisfactory in a rough way for mass measurements. They can never replace individual judgment in a single case, and are simply empirical statements of averages.

One of the most assiduous workers in this field has been Dr. Tuxford. His measure of physical development in children only professes to be such an empirical formula but it is very neat so long as it is applied to the class from which it was derived. It should yield a product of 1000, and above or below this expresses defect or otherwise by the thousandth. Applied to 11-year-old girls in his tables 999 is the result. With other classes of children it fails, the same aged children in Miss Baker’s tables give 1107 as the index whilst their North London Collegiate contemporaries yield 1143, and yet this is one of the neatest of such formulae.

Digitized by
207

They are no help. This paper suggests the usefulness of certain datum lines in public health matters.

As a nation we should not accept quietly the difference in physique between primary and secondary scholars. We must make all children pass into the one national standard of physique, and no longer regard as inevitable the inferior physique of artisans and superior build of professional classes, as set out by the British Association Committee a generation ago, but must recognize that the difference is largely due to want of adjustment of environment, and its amount a national index of social inefficiency.

On testing the standards here suggested by deriving the index of grammes per centimetre of height one finds that they give results in fair accord with the indices of English and American children collected by Stephenson, but fall short in later school days of the ultra rich class of Baker, or the relatively too heavy girls of the North London Collegiate School.

The Growth Coefficient.

Having settled on standards the next point for practical usefulness is to correct the annual rate of change down to monthly or even weekly coefficients, and here is reached ground “no man's land” as yet, where one must await future decisions.

The actual height or weight is not as valuable as the rates of change in either. The real index of nutrition then which is awaited is this corrected increment of growth for each month of the year, varying from high positive to actual negative with season, perhaps influenced by temperature, a little by race and social condition, but comparatively less still by actual magnitudes of height or weight, so that any normal ranges of variation in these have been neglected as of little moment for this important coefficient, the real indicator of present condition.

Once definite scientific enquiry is pursued, even with temporary standards as here suggested, the measure to work towards sets an ideal before the eye, and holds up a mode of estimating sanitary and environmental effects on the individual and defects in his condition, which will materially contribute to the national welfare of those who come after. It will indeed later afford in some things a vigorous measure of impending social reconstructions.

NOTES SHOWING THE MAIN FEATURES OF THE SWISS MILITARY SYSTEM.*

From Report of LIEUT. COL. GEORGE BELL, JR., Nov. 1911.

Switzerland, with a population (3,315,443) smaller than that of Massachusetts, and with an area less than twice that of the same State, can mobilize 240,000 trained and properly equipped soldiers inside of 24 hours. Behind this force is a reserve of about the same size, part of whom are armed and have received training, and may be used to fill casualties, for the defense of positions and for special duties of various kinds.

In many respects the Swiss Republic resembles our own, as their Cantons correspond to our States, and the greater portion of

Furnished by Physical Education Service, Washington, D. C.

Digitized by tjOOQle
208

the Army belongs to the different Cantons and not to the Federal Government, whose troops are but a very small fraction of the whole, although the Confederation has, with the consent of cantonal authority, charge of a:l recruiting for military service.

(■ Every Swiss citizen owes military service from the commencement of the year in which he attains the age of 20 to the end of that in which he reaches 48, and must present himself during his twentieth year at a designated place in his location for physical and mental examination. The place and time for this examination are published in the local newspapers and posted on bulletin boards. It is considered a misfortune to be rejected, but the examination is thorough and only about 50 per cent are accepted. The mental examination to test the instruction given in school requires a knowledge of reading, writing, arithmetic, and the history and geography of Switzerland, and if not sufficient the recruit must attend evening school in his town until he reports for duty.

After the examination, if successful, the man is given a soldier’s register, in which is stated the result of the examination, and he is allowed to return home. Later on notice is sent to him to report at the training place to which he has been assigned. There is one •of these places for each division of Infantry, and also separate training grounds for the Artillery, Cavalry, and Engineers. In 1910 there was 19,494 recruits accepted.

The men for the different arms are selected largely because of their occupation. Thus engineers are assigned to the Engineers Corps, telegraphers to the telegraph companies, young country farmers to the cavalry, the mountain guides and climbers to the Mountain Artillery, and so on, every advantage being taken of a man’s trade or profession to improve the Army and also to lessen the amount of special training required.

All men accepted are insured by the Government against sickness or accident contracted while in service, and men not accepted are taxed because of their exemption until after they have reached 40 years of age, this tax being in addition to all other taxes.

The elite, or active army, is composed of all men between 20 and 32 (except in the Cavalry, where it is 30) years of age, who have been able to pass the required mental and physical examinations and are accepted. After 32 (in the Cavalry, 30) the soldier passes to the landwehr; and after 40, until 48, he belongs to the landsturm, as do all other soldiers who have become incapacitated for service in the elite and landwehr, but are still able to serve in the landsturm, and also all volunteers possessing sufficient knowledge to shoot and the necessary physical fitness.

Training of Recruits.

When a recruit reports at his training place or school he is fitted out with a uniform and equipment, complete in every particular for field service, and given a rifle. These articles he takes home with him after his training is over and keeps them until the end of his military service. When he is turned out for any purpose he has to present himself fully equipped, and if anything is missing he can be fined or imprisoned. The purpose of the schools for recruits

Digitized by Google
is not only the training of recruits to become soldiers, but also to educate the cadres. The length of time for the school for recruits is fixed as follows:

Days

Infantry.......................................65

Cavalry......................................  90

Artillery....................................  75

Foot Artillery (fortification troops)..........75

Engineers......................................65

Sanitary troops (Hospital Service).............60

Commissariat—..................................60

Train..........................................60

Where special training takes place in separate courses, recruits have to serve only 40 days of the schools above mentioned. For example, soldiers of the Hospital Service have to follow a special course in the hospital, but the 40 days of the recruit school must be served first.

Each recruit school is under the charge of a field officer who belongs to the corps of permanent military instructors, of whom there are about 215, and who are professional soldiers most carefully selected. He is assisted in the charge of this school by a number of assistant instructors and also by a suitable number of commissioned and non-commissioned officers from the Army.

Each day at least eight hours’ hard work is required, except on Sundays and even then they are frequently sent out for night work in the evenings. There is a great deal of night work, night firing, constructing trenches, etc., but it does not interfere with that required each day, for, although the recruits may be out until 3 o’clock in the morning, the work next day proceeds as usual.

The men are taught to keep their kits and arms in shape, are given instruction in hygiene, in the regulations and in the theory of shooting, besides having all kinds of outdoor exercises.

After completion of his course at the school the recruit is allowed to return to his home and then becomes a regular member of the organization to which he is assigned.

Universal education is compulsory in Switzerland to the age of 15, and in all schools a certain amount of gymnastic training is always given to improve the physique, and a preparation for the military service, and recently more care has been given to it than formerly, and an attempt to get more uniformity has been made.

The interest shown in rifle shooting by all has been the means of educating almost all the Swiss youth in the handling and use of aims. So, except for the collective firing, night firing, and firing at unknown distances, time has been gained in recruit training by it not being necessary to devote a great deal of time to gymnastic training and individual firing. Money is saved and the period for training shortened whenever possible; thus, to save ammunition and get the greatest benefit from the fire every sergeant of infantry carries a field glass, and children carry their schoolbooks and other packs on their backs, so it is not necessary to accustom the recruit to carry his knapsack.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
210

Permanent Instructors.

The uniformity and efficiency of the instruction and training in the entire Army is due to the work of the permanent instructors, who practically spend their entire time out of doors with the various classes or units undergoing instruction; aiding, advising, correcting, and noting. They may be, and are, assigned to command of a unit, viz, battalion, regiment, brigade, division, or army corps, but not more than one-fourth of the entire number may be upon this duty at one time. They also act as umpires at maneuvers.

Repetition Courses.

In the elite a repetition course of 14 days is held every year for the “Artillery” and fortification troops (Foot Artillery) and of 11 days for all the other arms. Privates, of the first class, and corporals have, however, to serve only 7 (in the Cavalry 8) repetition courses in the elite. High non-commissioned officers, beginning with the grade of sergeant, have to serve 10 repetition courses in the elite. These repetition courses must take place alternately in the small and large corps units.

In the landwehr a repetition course of 11 days takes place every 4 years for all the different arms. Privates and corporals have to serve only one repetition course in the landwehr. Landwehr soldiers who are detailed to the elite must serve their repetition course with the elite.

The Federal Assembly has the authority to order special courses, to take place in case of a new organization of a part (unit) of the Army or when new arms (rifles or heavy guns) are adopted, and for parts of the landsturm (second and land reserve) for from one to three days for special purposes.

Shooting Obligations and Voluntary Activity.

All non-commissioned officers, corporals, and privates (soldiers) of the elite and landwehr provided with the long rifle or short carbine are obliged to do the shooting practice yearly, such as officially prescribed, in one of the existing voluntary shooting societies. Those who neglect to comply with the said prescription have to attend a special course for target practice without pay.

The shooting exercises in the voluntary (private) shooting societies receive the support of the Confederation, provided that such practice is taking place in conformity with military prescriptions. The Confederation provides for special training of shooting masters (controlling private instructors or voluntary societies).

The Confederation also supports all voluntary activity in connection with military education (drill, training, etc.) according to the merit of such activity, and provided that it be duly organized and placed under the control of the Confederation. (There exist military societies, the central society of non-commissioned officers, etc., for the purpose of training while in civil life; which societies are supported by the Government.)

Training of Non-Commissioned Officers.

Schools for non-commissioned officers of 20 days are prescribed for Infantry, Hospital, Commissariat, and Train Troops, and of

Digitized by CjOOQle
211

36 days for Cavalry, Artillery, Engineers, and Foot Artillery (fortification troops). The proposal or selection of the men to attend these schools is made in recruit schools by the officers of the troop and the instructors (permanent officers) in repetition courses by the officers of the units of the troops.

Newly appointed corporals, with exception of those who are selected to pass a school for officers, have to serve in a recruit school.

Training and Education of Officers.

The training for officers takes place in schools for officers of a time of 80 days for Infantry, Cavalry, and Foot Artillery (fortification troops); 105 days for Artillery and Engineers (in two parts); 60 days for Train troops; and 45 days for Hospital (sanitary service), Commissariat, and Veterinarians.

Non-commissioned officers will be selected as aspirants to become officers in recruit schools and non-commissioned officers’ schools by the officers of the troops and the instructors, in repetition courses by the commanders of the units. In the hospital (sanitary service) as well as in the veterinary service, aspirants for officers are selected by the Surgeon General of the Army and the chief commander of the veterinary service, respectively. The last-named aspirants (doctors, veterinarians, and apothecaries) must have passed a Federal professional examination.

The newly appointed lieutenants have to serve in a recruit school, doctors and veterinarians in one of the other arms. Officers selected for quartermaster, (paymaster) must attend a school for 20 days, and after their appointment they have to serve in one-half of a recruit school. Officers, who in a recruit school or in a repetition course, have proved their fitness for a higher rank must attend a central school as follows:

Central school I, of 30 days, the subaltern officers of the Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery, Engineers, and Foot Artillery (fortification troops) for the appointment of captain.

First Lieutenenat of Infantry, Cavalry, Engineers, Foot Artillery, Artillery, Commissariat and Train Troops, who are selected for promotion must serve in the position of commander of a unit in a school for recruits.

A central school II, of 50 days (which may take place in two parts), for captains who are selected for a higher rank.

For captains of the hospital (sanitary service), veterinarians, commissariat, and train troops the central school II can be substituted by a special school.

For the education of officers the Federal Assembly may prescribe special school for target practice and technical and tactical schools; for the purpose of education officers may also be called in to serve in schools or courses of other arms.

Promotion.

Promotion from second lieutenant to first lieutenant and from first lieutenant to captain is by seniority, but certificates of capacity are necessary. First lieutenants who do not show capacity pass to the landwehr. Captains usually serve about six years before

Digitized by ^.ooQle
212

promotion to major, which comes only upon recommendation of superiors, and if not promoted captains serve in the elite until they reach 38 years of age, and in the landwehr until they reach 44 years of age.

Superior officers serve in the elite and in the landwehr until they reach 48. In the landsturm all officers may be kept in the service beyond the limits stated. Officers who are young enough to serve in the elite may be transferred to the landwehr or to the landsturm, or officers who are of an age to serve in the landwehr may be sent to the landsturm. A major must serve at least two years in that grade before promotion, and a lieutenant colonel, also, must serve at least two years as such.

• Recommendations for promotion to include the grade of lieutenant colonel go through channels from the officer under whom the officer promoted will serve to the division commander; and if the chief of the arm (a regular officer) considers the promotion merited he issues the necessary certificates. For regimental and brigade commanders a board, composed of the Secretary of war, the chief of the arm concerned, and the division commander, send in two names from which the executive selects one. Division commanders are usually taken from brigade commanders in much the same manner.

DATA RELATING TO THE SWISS ARMY. Historical Outline.

Obligatory military service has always been the basis of Swiss military systems (p. 1).

The first military compact among the Cantons was the Covenant of Sempach in 1393 (p. 4).

But although there was increasing willingness and ability to act together, no unified force came into existence until 1807. On June 5 of that year the Diet provided for central military authorities. Instruction, as also organization, arms and equipment, was left to the Cantons, with the provision that these arrangements were to be as nearly uniform as possible (pp. 36-37.)

A law of 1853 made the army a stable organization. By decree of the Federal Council an order of battle was adopted. The Cantons took charge only of instructions for the infantry; instructions having to do with all the other forces were intrusted to the Confederation. At this time the Federal elite or active army numbered a total of 56,082 in all branches and the Federal reserve a total of 26,334. There was also the landwehr. (pp. 44-45).

By a law of 1865 there was created a general staff, under the direct control of the military department, (p. 47).

It was the military organization law of 1874, however, which led to a true Federal army. This measure made universal service a reality, stabilized the organization of the higher units, lengthened the period of service, and turned over to the Confederation everything pertaining to instruction and armament, (p. 49).

Digitized by
213

In 1886 there was enacted a Federal law providing for a land-sturm. (p. 54).

A long series of these separate enactments following the law of 1874 produced complications and brought need for a new military organization law. (p. 56).

The reorganization thus desired was provided for by a law of 1907 and put into effect in 1912. (preface, p. III).

(For the text of the law of 1907, see Recueil officiel des lois et ordonnances de la Confederation suisse, v. 23, Berne, 1908, pp. 695-755. Or Amtliche Sammlung, v. 23, Bern, 1908, pp. 781-842. Under date of 1907, a lengthy exposition of Swiss military legislation and related matters is given by P. Wolf. Die schweizerische Bundes-gesetzgebung, v. 3, c. 34, pp. 1-482. Among the features of this work are reproductions of certain forms or blanks used for administrative purposes.

A SURVEY OF PHYSICAL RECREATION CONDITIONS IN INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.

The survey was made, under the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia, for the purpose of ascertaining the extent and possibilities of health work through Physical Exercise in industrial establishments.

It covers establishments having welfare work, in Philadelphia, including also prominent factories and stores in Toronto, New York, Chicago, Chicopee Falls, Mass., and Dayton, Ohio.

Information was obtained from the following number and types of establishments:

Factories...................................23

Department stores...........................10

Miscellaneous............................... 7

Total...................................40

The following methods were used in obtaining data:

1.	Personal visit.—To	places	having	tried	physical recreation	19

2.	Telephone.—To directors of general welfare	work.15

3.	Correspondence.—Including questionnaires, to distant

establishments .............................................6

Total...................................................40

Attached to this report is the list, with names and addresses, of establishments included in the survey.

L Hours.

1.	Of employees at place of work, per day.

Average of 19 establishments:—8 hours, 57 minutes.

2.	Time for lunch,

Of 19 establishments,

12 have 1 hour,

_______________7 have 3-4 ” .

9mmy made for the Playground* Ajwxdation of Philadelphia by Dorothy C Lee April 1919.

Digitized by

Google
214

2.

3.

4.

5.

3.	Rest periods.

Of 40 establishments, 9 have rest periods,

2	have 10 minutes twice a day,

2	99	15	99	99	99	99

1	”	15	”	once	”	"

2	”	5	”	every	1	1-2	hours,

2	”	special	rest privileges whenever work is slack.

Number	of Employees.	(Complete data not available.)

Prom 17 establishments of various types it was found that:

1.	Whether factories employ a greater number of men or women depends mainly on the nature of the work.

2.	Department stores, with 1 exception, employed 2 and

3	times as many women as men.

Athletic Facilities.

These were found to be entirely independent of the kind of establishment. Of 40 establishments:

2	formerly possessed facilities,

28 now do,

10	have none at all.

Of 6 types of facility found:

12 establishments had a special recreation room or space.

3	”	”	" gymnasium.

5	”	”	” roof space available for ex-

ercise.

8	”	”	” lunch rooms available.

13	”	”	” a field or country club.

5	”	”	Y. M. C. A. or Y. W. C.	A.

for own use.

Of the 6 facilities mentioned above:

15 establishments had 1. 7	”	”	2.

3	”	”	5.

Physical Examinations. Of 17 establishments:

8 required no physical examination,

4	”	a	complete	one	for	men	and	women,

1	”	”	”	”	”	”	alone,

4	”	”	partial	”	”	and	women.

Kinds of Exercise.

Of 40 establishments:

32 encouraged exercise in some form,

5	had social dancing only,

8 had no exercise at all.

Kinds of exercise found:

Social dancing........................16 establishments.

Military drill—(Boys alone in 2)....... 6	”

Games—(In evening clubs).............. 2

Digitized by
216

Physical training classes—(2 other establishments stopped).................... 5	establishments.

Setting up exercises—(3 other establishments tried it formerly).......... 3	”

Athletics—(7 of these have only representative teams).........................19	”

Bowling—(Girls included in 1).......... 2	”

6.	Records.

Absence,

Sickness and accident,

Production.

All records usually are accessible.

7.	Expense of Supper after hours.

Of 40 establishments, only 10 needed to consider this point.

Of these 10,

The company provided supper in 4,

The employees provided supper in 2.

The company provided supper in 4 at cost.

8.	Methods of Advertising.

The following are used. 24 establishments considered.

Regularly published paper................11	establishments.

Bulletin boards..........................11	”

Special notices ......................... 3	”

Posters.................................. 5	”

Personal contact......................... 7	”

12 establishments used 1 of the methods,

4	establishments used 3 of the methods.

9.	Attitude of establishments toward Physical Recreation.

Of 40 establishments, 33 gave definite opinions.

Company:

" would be grateful for it”

“ needs and wants it”

" will take it up immediately”

" is anxious for suggestions but dubious of possibilities”

“ would let employees have their own way”

“ thinks heavy manual labor precludes much other exercise” Group:

4 estab. —“would favor any attempt”

4	”	—"find great benefit in work”

5	”	—“see great need, but also very great	problem”

6	”	—“see	need”

.	7	”	—“have plans and hope to begin work some-

time soon”

Problems.

“Impossible to interest girls in anything which necessitates their staying after hours”

"What to do with public while calisthenics are held” (Store) “How to arrange recreation for those whose work requires a standing position”

"Special problem of ignorant foreigners who do not know how to play”

Digitized by
“What appeal can be found which will draw but even a fair proportion of girls, and keep their interest" “Turnover makes recreation benefit another employer" “Piece workers resent time lost” (Factories)

“Older women have old and set ideas, and are apt to resent young recreation leaders.”

General Summary.

In two establishments in Philadelphia, one factory and one department store, the benefits of physical recreation have been proved by fair trial.

In the store, classes were first held in Physical Training at noon. Although gymnasium suits were furnished by the firm, time proved too short, and the results in personal appearance too untidy, so a class at night was tried—for a short time only as war work interfered. Enthusiasm attended the work as far as it went.

Another store tried physical training for 5 years, furnishing gymnasium suits. The excessive labor turnover where girls are concerned caused exercise to end, the death and sickness records, however, being favorably affected.

One factory finds benefit in the closest attention to the health of the employee, both men and women. If a run down condition is reported, malted milk given twice a day, a thorough physical examination given, weight recorded frequently, advice given concerning the proper exercise to take, opportunities for exercise afforded, and a rest at camp if improvement is not speedy.

Athletics are not under special direction. Three establishments that own a field or country club have provided no trained director or supervisor of athletics.

In one of the two plants that own bowling alleys, this diversion has not proved popular.

Hygiene talks have been introduced through government agency, and a few places carry them on more extensively.

Three factories allow rest periods with personal liberty, allowing employees to sing or dance whenever work is slack.

A Y. W. C. A., trying to carry on the welfare work of a nearby factory and also community work, finds that neither are very successful, the two atmospheres being quite different.

One store has recently started military drill, and tried the plan of inviting girls to join a company. They picked the girls with the best personal record, recruiting from people of this type. The result was a rush of requests to join, ana interest which has continued so far.

Three of the most satisfactory forms of exercise inside the establishment are dancing, jumping rope, and roller skating (over the floors).

The main reasons given by establishments which have fo r.erly tried some form of Physical Recreation and have discontinued, are the prevention on account of war work, and the impossibility cf sustaining interest

Digitized by Google
217

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN FRANCE.

By FRANK KLEEBERGER, Instructeur Sports Jeux Amertcains.

Outline of Activities.

Regional Center of Physical Instruction, Royan-Charente-Inferieure, France, March 31,1919. Personnel of Instruction:

Major Sagansan—Commandant of the “Center,”

Captain Le Biham—Instructor;

Major Teillet,—Post Doctor;

Lieut. Dupras—Instructor, Champion Gymnastic;

Lieut. Augeard—Instructor, Champion Gymnastic;

Sec'y. F. L. Kleeberger,—Instructor in American Sports. Fourteen monitors, experts and instructors in various phases of the program.

Personnel of Students:

170-250 soldiers from every walk of life; farmers, clerks, teachers,

etc.

Purpose and General Scope of Work:

The Regional Centre of Physical Instruction at Royan is one of eight similar centres. The students being trained in these centres are under military control and organization. They will return to their communities on being demobilized and no matter what their future profession, will serve as leaders in the schools and in the athletic societies which they are to organize. A limited number will remain as instructors in the Army.

The purpose of this plan is plainly the systematic promulgation of the doctrines of physical education and constructive physical recreation throughout not only the schools and army of France but throughout the industrial communities and social fabric of the country as well.

The underlying principle which determines the program to a great extent is the utilization of play, song and dramatic activities rather than formal drills to accomplish the desired ends. The DEMENY method of physical drill is employed and no attempt is made to enforce discipline, accuracy of movement or sharp response to command. Singing games, ring games, all permitted with a rich content of dramatic activity constitute the major part of the program for the younger children while the old sports such as track, soccer and rugby football, tennis, boxing, swimming, etc., combined with the new and popular American sports, chiefly volleyball, basketball and baseball, with proper gradations, make up the program of the older groups. It is especially interesting to see these wonderful, but somewhat clumsy, warriors of France playing singing and dramatic games. They go at it with great enthusiasm, however, aad will surely brighten the lives of the children of France when they once get home and get their program really in action.

The officers in charge of the instruction at this Centre are splendid, capable fellows and it is a delight to work with them.

Digitized by LaOOQle
218

Their constant courtesy and their consideration of my difficulties with the French language prove most encouraging. They have taken a great interest in my scheme for mass instruction in boxing and have installed it as a definite phase of their program.

The introduction of American sports by an American instructor in the schools of Royan has not proved possible so far nor has the development of playground facilities throughout the municipality. The chief sport followed by the boys seems to be that of pitching pennies with now and then free for all soccer games played with a tennis ball or bunch of rags. There are wonderful possibilities here, with proper equipment and organization, to set up a demonstration American playground utilizing the beach where thousands of summer pleasure seekers of the wealthier classes might be inoculated with American sports. A group of about twenty Royan society ladies are already greatly interested in American sports and the number is constantly increasing. These ladies meet twice a week at the balloon hangar, which is used by the “Centre” as a gymnasium and spend from two to three hours playing volleyball, basketball and baseball as well as participating in simple gymnastics. A group of townspeople are anxious to make special arrangements with me to instruct their young sons (12-16) in American sports through the organization of a special class similar to the ladies class above mentioned.

All this must be done through the organization and with the limited equipment of the “Centre” which hampers greatly the possibilities of development at the present time.

The scheduling of basketball, baseball, etc., between representations of the various camps of Doughboys near Royan has proved a splendid means of interesting the Frenchman in the possibilities of our games. There is no reason why an extensive program of such contests cannot be promoted throughout the summer months to the mutual benefit of the Doughboys and Frenchmen.

Possibilities For Extension of Work:

Special classes might be conducted in the schools and playground equipment installed providing the school authorities concerned could be convinced of the advisability of such action. Present school yards are inadequate for real play.

The balloon hangar might be efficiently lighted and utilized at night or flood lights even placed on the beach. (Light at present is a rare article but they tell me there soon will be plenty when the new rulings go into effect.).

Special goal posts could be constructed and equipment stored near the beach, making possible the utilization of its splendid surface for all sorts of games during low tide.

Equipment:

The present equipment of athletic supplies is carrying things pretty well considering the methods pursued in the teaching of volleyball and basketball. In case we are to carry mass boxing through in a satisfactory way it will be necessary to make about twenty pairs of boxing gloves. We also need at least three good baseball finger mits and an outfit for field hockey would prove a valuable addition.

Digitized by v^ooQle
219

Handball seems to be unknown in these parts and a court could be built at relatively small expense.

Luckily I came provided with a complete outfit of gymnasium togs for I am expected to participate in eveiything. I Shortly will be called upon to do some track work and will probably get in shape to run the hundred in competition. If you can get some track shoes to fit a man who wears a number 5	—6 tennis slipper and

can find a stray tennis racket they will prove most welcome.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

IMPORTANT NOTICE.

With this issue of Mind and Body a change is made in the dating of the magazine and this number appears as the September-October issue. The next number will appear the latter part of October under the November dating. Hereafter Mind and Body will be mailed regularly on the 25th of each month and will be dated for the month immediately following. There will be no change in the number of issues per year, the only change being in the dating.

School journeys are in future to form an important part of the educational work of the English schools. Under the provisions of the new educational act the London County council intends to arrange this summer about 100 school journeys, in which about

4,000	children are to participate. The journeys are planned to extend over a fortnight. Traveling expenses are to be paid jointly by the board of education, the London County council, and the parents.

In the Manchester (England) Guardian we find the following interesting comment on the Inter-Allied Army Sports. We would like to call particular attention to the last paragraph in which our national game is characterized as “mysterious.”

British athletes have not so far done more than was expected of them, but the Dominions have been much to the fore, and the French sporting papers’ prophecy that the events would be fought out between the British Empire and the United States looks as if it were coming true. Among the winners of the first heats of the hundred-metre dash, Teschner (United States), Butler (United States), and Howard (Canada)—this last a long pant with an easy powerful action—seem the most likely winners of the final. The French were outclassed, having taken the inter-Allied games with not much more seriousness than the British.

The mile was a very good race. The winner of the first heat was Mason, who, after lying well back for three-quarters of the

Digitized by Google
220

face, won in splendid style from the American Shields and Arnaud, the holder of the French record. In the second heat Stout (United States) won well from the Frenchman Delvart, in rather poor time. In both heats the Australians ran gamely and well.

All the enthusiasm so far is for the baseball players, who are playing their mysterious game in the centre of the Stadium. Canada is up against the United States, and apparently is not disgracing herself.

The International Y. M. C. A. College Gymnastic Team, after two years of inactivity because of war conditions, will be organized at the opening of College this fall.

The object of the team is—first, to take up the study and practice of all forms of gymnastics; second, to exhibit such work in the Y. M. C. A., academies, colleges and recreation centers throughout the country. The team is unique inasmuch as it presents an exhibition of what an all-around trained man can do. No individual member of the team specializes in any one event. The program is quite characteristic of the type of work carried on in the College. Although there is comparatively little time given to the practice of advanced gymnastics in the regular college work—it merely takes its place along with the other branches of physical education, technical and religious subjects—yet this team in the past has reached a high degree of efficiency.

The team for the past fourteen years has given demonstrations and carried the message of the Christian physical director into scores of cities to thousands of young men. (The team is prepared in connection with gymnastic engagements to assist in conducting boys’ and men’s meetings.)

Dates are now being arranged for the 1919-1920 Season. Those interested in securing a visit from the team should write Manager R. W. Peters, Springfield, Mass.

SUN WORSHIP.

Tylor, who should be trusted in such things, says that sun worship “is by no means universal among the lower races of mankind but manifests itself in the upper levels of savage religion in districts far and wide over the earth, often assuming the prominence which it keeps and develops in the faiths of the barbaric world.” One should not be surprised, therefore, that among the keepers of the public conscience upon a certain hill in the District of Columbia there should have broken out a revolution of religious fervor against the attempt, originated a year ago, to deflect the ordered conduct of the American people from the predetermined time division of the sun’s course. That among the worshippers of Osiris the simple shepherds and peasant folk of the western prairies should have been prominent, goes without saying- but it is a little surprising that among them there should have been so many priests of Set—manufacturers of gas and electricity with which to beguile the hours of

Digitized by ^ooQle
221

Darkness. Indeed it has been impiously suggested that these latter may not have been solely prompted by the public good.

Be that as it may, said keepers of the p. c. have decided by a large majority that it was wrong for the American people to set forth their clocks, and that the recent departure from the strict chronology of the sun-dial must cease this October. It was argued that as a war measure it might be meet and proper to turn on an extra hour of daylight in which to weed gardens, play games and fish for perch; but that it would undermine the security of the nation to do so in times of peace. Among the infidels who tried to maintain the practice Were a majority of industrial employers, social workers, and a large minority of representatives of labor—all for once agreed upon an item of policy—who had observed the excellent effect of the additional hour of sunlit evening upon the choice recreation and pastime; also a majority of medical men, especially those interested in the prevention of tuberculosis. A majority of labor men, on the other hand, seem to have become convinced that manipulating the clock was a device of employers to stave off the demand for a shorter working day, and therefore joined the farmers and the lighting interests in urging the repeal of daylight saving.— The Survey.

CRUSADERS’ HEALTH CHORES.

From Bulletin of National Tuberculosis Association.

Reproduced from the official record of health chores.

STATEMENT OF CHORES.

1.	I washed my hands before each meal today.

2.	I washed not only my face but my ears and neck and I cleaned my finger nails today.

3.	I tried today to keep fingers, pencils and everything that might be unclean out of my mouth and nose.

4.	I drank a glass of water before each meal and before going to bed, and drank no tea, coffee nor other injurious drinks today.

5.	I brushed my teeth thoroughly in the morning and in the evening today.

6.	I took ten or more slow deep breaths of fresh air today.

7.	I played outdoors or with windows open more than thirty minutes today.

8.	I was in bed ten* hours or more last night and kept my window open.

9.	I tried today to sit up and stand up straight, to eat slowly, and to attend to toilet and each need of my body at its regular time.

10.	I tried today to keep neat and cheerful constantly and to be helpful to others.

11.	I took a full bath on each day of the week that is checked

(X).

Total number of chores each day.................

*Boys and girls thirteen years of age may change this to “nine hours.” . Those under nine years should sleep eleven hours at least.

Digitized by LjOOQle
222

TWENTY-TWO NORMAL SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES SHARE IN UNITED STATES SOCIAL HYGIENE FUND.

Twenty-two normal schools, colleges, and universities in 19 States had, up to June 21, had their applications approved for aid from the educational research and development fund of the United States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board. The money is given for the purpose of organizing or completing the organization within those institutions of “Departments of hygiene, the curriculum of which shall include courses and conferences in informational hygiene, and courses, conferences, and training in the applications of hygiene, emphasizing with appropriate and due proportion and with proper tact and persistency the serious importance of the venereal diseases, their causes, carriers, and prevention; and emphasizing at the same time the other important facts and applications of general hygiene and intergroup hygiene.”

The list is as follows: University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah; Alcorn A. P. M. College (colored), Alcorn, Miss.; Woman’s Medical College, Philadelphia, Pa.; Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.; University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.; Colorado State Teachers’ College, Greeley, Colo.; New York State Teachers’ College, Albany, N. Y.; Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.; University of South Carolina, Columbia, S. C.; Northwestern University, Evanston, DL; University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.; State Normal School, Cheney, Wash.; Milwaukee State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.

Will Study Sex Filins.

An appropriation was made from this same fund to the Johns Hopkins Psychological Laboratory for an investigation of the informational and educative values of certain motion-picture films that are being used in the campaign against venereal disease. This investigation is to be carried on under the direction of Dr. John

B.	Watson and Dr. Knight Dunlap, in co-operation with Dr. Adolf Meyer, of the John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. S. I. Franz, of the Government Hospital for the Insane, and Prof. R. S. Woodworth, of the Psychology Department of Columbia University.

The membership of the board is as follows: Carter Glass, Secretary of the Treasury; Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War; Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy; Lieut. Col. W. F. Snaw, Medical Corps, U. S. A.; Lieut. Commander J. R. Phelps, Medical Corps,

U.	S. N.; Asst. Surg. Gen. C. C. Pierce, United States Public Health Service; Thomas A. Storey, executive secretary, (1800 Virginia Avenue NW., Washington, D. C.).

AIMS OF A PROGRAM IN EDUCATION.

(Adopted by the National Education Association July 4) At So. Milwaukee Meetings.

A program of education in America should aim to bring about the following results:

1.	A general high level of patriotic, intelligent, and competent

Digitized by LjOOQle
223

citizenship through the specific training of all the children of the democracy for citizenship to an age approximating maturity.

2.	The Americanization of the un-Americanized elements in the United States, both native and foreign bom.

3.	The complete abolition of illiteracy.

4.	The use of English as the universal language of instruction in public education and as the means of making general and common our American ideals.

5.	A high degree of physical and moral fitness for both the responsibilities of peace and the duties of war on the part of all our people.

6.	An adequate and effective system of public education, both State and National, as the chief agency for the accomplishment of the above ends.

All successful health education must be positive, rather than negative. This and other principles underlying the teaching of hygiene are explained in Teaching Health, a pamphlet just issued by the Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

The pamphlet says:

We must learn to think of health in terms of strength and beauty and joy, rather than weakness and disease. We must imbue the attainment of health with the spirit of a glorious game, following the laws of health as we would obey the rules of the game. “Thou shalt!” must take precedence of “Thou shalt not!” We must not say “Don’t forget to brush your teeth or they will decay and you will have a bad digestion.” Rather, we must say “Brush your teeth regularly so that you may enjoy the feeling of a fresh, clean mouth, and have a sweet breath, and a fine shining set of strong teeth!”

Next, health must not be taught didactically but by personal example and object lesson. Frequently it must be taught indirectly rather than directly. The child has no interest in health for health’s sake, and it is not unnatural that this should be so. But every girl desires to be beautiful, and every boy desires to be strong and athletic, and the wise teacher will build on these natural interests of the children, and inspire them to do the things which will result in physical beauty and strength.

The teaching of health, moreover, can not be confined to any one lesson period, but can be introduced into almost every study in the curriculum. It is often chiefly a matter of emphasis rather than formal instruction. The consideration of questions of diet, of ventilation, of the spread of transmissible disease, are all important, but it may be desirable to treat of them in connection with work in domestic science, in physics, or in nature study. History, civics, English, and geography all offer opportunities for the inculcation of health lessons. The important thing is that teachers themselves shall have acquired the hygienic point of view, so that they will be able to see and make use of these opportunities.

Finally, a definite amount of time should be allowed every school day from the kindergarten upward for health inspections,

Digitized by Google
224

the discussion of health problems, and for other health activities. In the lower grades this time should be devoted wholly to the promotion of health habits. It is the what rather than the why which should be impressed on the younger children. With the older children, the reasons for health rules take more prominence, and in the upper grades the habits which have been formed in the lower grades should be reinforced by accurate scientific knowledge. The material of instruction hygiene should be taken from life; and textbook instruction, if any, should be merely incidental. In the upper grades the pupils should be interested in public health movements, and much information of personal value can be thus indirectly conveyed. For instance, in studying the phases of the campaign against tuberculosis, the pupil learns many facts about the disease and its prevention, with the advantage that his attention is directed outward and is not morbidly turned upon himself.

We have been too much accustomed to regard health as something arbitrarily given or withheld from us by Providence—something over we ourselves have no control. We now know that in order to obatin health we must earn it by obeying the laws of health.

An inquiry into health supervision in city schools was begun by the Bureau of Education on July 21, when questionnaires were sent to city superintendents throughout the United States asking for the following information:

How much money was expended in the last fiscal year for school health work?

(a)	Was this entirely from public funds?

(b)	State whether from education or health funds.

(c)	If any part came from sources other than public funds, state the source, purpose, and amount.

Is the school health work administered by the educational authorities or health authorities, or jointly?

(a)	How many school physicians are employed?

(b)	How much time per day do they give to this work?

(c)	What is their compensation?

(a)	How many school nurses are employed?

(b)	Are they employed by year or month?

(c)	What is their compensation?

Do you have school clinics, e. g. (o) Psychological? (b) Dental? (c) Eye? (	d)Other?

Are these clinics free?

How many children were treated in each kind of clinic during the last year for which you have a complete report?

The superintendents were also requested to name other movements or agencies in their cities for safeguarding the health of the pupils in the public schools and describe the specific work they are doing.

The inquiry is under the direction of Dr. Willard S. Small, chief of the division of school hygiene in the bureau. The last previous inquiry covering the field of school health supervision in city schools was made in 1914.

Digitized by

Google
225

Mr. E. B. De Groot has accepted a position in Los Angeles, Cal., as Scout Executive of the Los Angeles Council of Boy Scouts.

Much as one may regret the unfortunate ending of the American tour of Australia’s famous women swimmers, Miss Fannie Durack and Miss Mina Wylie, the few races in which they engaged with American girl swimmers were so conclusive in outcome that the visitors’ decision to compete no more in this country will in no way affect the demonstrated superiority of American contestants.

Miss Durack may find consolation for her defeat in the fact that the world’s records for women at most distances still stand to her credit, but her own comments concerning the difficulty of the open water course used on this side and her failure to even approach over them her best times of the past furnish convincing proof of how little reliance may be placed on performances made under different conditions as a means of comparison. In swimming as in all other sports the only true test of relative ability is competition. American mermaids have earned supreme laurels in actual contest.

It is announced that Professor John R. Allen, director of the Bureau of Research of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers would assume active charge of the bureau of research, Pittsburg, Pa., on August 1, 1919. Offices for the bureau will be

Erovided in the main building of the U. S. Bureau of Mines in Pitts-urgh, where, as already announced, the bureau will have its laboratory. The location of the building is of particular importance. Adjoining is the Carnegie Institute of Technology, and within a block is the Carnegie Library. The University of Pittsburgh stands on the next hill, within plain sight and short walking distance. The Mellon Institute of Research is only a few blocks away. From this it may be seen that the atmosphere of scientific investigation and research and the assistance and cooperation that will be at hand is of the greatest value to this undertaking.

According to the contract between the society and the bureau of Mines the society agrees to expend not less than $15,000 per year in this cooperative plan (it expects to spend at least $25,000). The society will furnish a Director of Research at a salary of $6,000 a year; such assistants, investigators, engineers, stenographers, etc., as may be required, and the funds available will permit; and the necessary instruments, appliances and apparatus for carrying on the work under investigation.

The Bureau of Mines is to furnish three investigators; one at a salary of $3,000; one at $1,800 and one at $1,200. The Bureau of Mines will also furnish office space and janitor service; use of their physical and chemical research laboratories as space conditions may permit and the requirements may dictate; use of special laboratory in connection with the power house; service in the form of steam at high or low pressure; direct or alternating current; hot or cold water and gas, etc.; use of such instruments as they may have available.

Digitized by LaOOQle
226

Some idea of the scope of the work to be undertaken by the Bureau is given in the statements, published in the Society’s Journal, of some of those who have been most active in the bureau’s establishment.

Past President F. R. Still, for instance, states:

“One of the first things on which the work will be centered, will be an effort to determine what physical conditions of the atmosphere must be provided in order to maintain the same perfectly healthful effects as are obtained in pure, dean, fresh, outdoor air. This condition is not known today to physicists, thus opening an avenue to constant assaults by physicians and others. Such criticisms are quoted repeatedly, to the discredit of this branch of the engineering profession, and to the business of the manufacturer and the contractor.

“Next in order will be a scientific determination of heat losses by the use of various kinds of materials commonly employed in the construction of all kinds of buildings.

“Then will be investigated the efficiency of various kinds of radiation and the proper place to locate radiation to secure the best and most efficient results in different types of buildings.

“The most efficient methods of burning different kinds of coal in different types of boilers and furnaces, warm-air furnaces and furnace heating, pipe sizes for steam and water mains, and hundreds of other subjects, will be investigated.

“Many manufacturers have made a practice of conducting private investigations to develop their apparatus to the point of commercial perfection which is to them most desirable, finally submitting their products to the experimental laboratory of some prominent university so as to gain an endorsement having some semblance of impartiality. This never succeeds in convincing the public, as there is no comparison with other makes of the same apparatus, nor does this method establish any standard by which to measure the performance of the apparatus tested. Hence the time and expense thus employed is usually poorly invested if not entirely wasted.

“This project is of such importance to every manufacturer, contractor, jobber, and specialist in the heating and ventilating field that it should receive his unqualified approbation and financial support. It is a big undertaking and will entail a heavy expense for several years. The financial support of every manufacturer and engineering organization must, therefore, be enlisted, and such financial support must be supplemented by the personal support of everyone concerned.”

BOOK REVIEWS.

School and, Home is the title of a small magazine published by the Parents and Teachers Association of the Ethical Culture School. New York City. The spring issue sent to us is devoted to the

Digitized by
227

"Physical Aspects of Education/’ In the issue, the school physician, nurse, physical training teacher, etc., each tells of the bearing hia or her branch of schoolwork has upon the production of healthy, normal boys and girls. This collection of short and well written essays should help enormously to bring about a close cooperation between the homes and the school. Teachers should find much valuable material in the little booklets.

The Soul in Suffering by Robert S. Carroll, M. D., 241 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $2.00.

In this book the author of “The Mastery of Nervousness” who is medical director of the Highland Hospital at Asheville, N. C. has presented a practical application of spiritual truths.

The Soul in Suffering has grown out of many years spent in a realizing contact with illness of body, mind and soul. It essays to bring a step closer the practical benefits of the accuracies of medical science and the highest aspirations of our religion. It stands for medical ideas reaching out' to Christian ideals, that one of the greatest problems of human existence—the problem of suffering —may be a bit more worthily met by all helpers of mankind.

Many of the chapters, especially those called Healing and Work will appeal with great emphasis to all physical training teachers. The book is heartily recommended to all who come in contact with many people, and who need to have a sane guide to influence the soul in suffering.

New Schools for Old by Evelyn Dewey. 337 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by E. P. Dutton and Company, New York. Price $2.00 net.

In “New Schools for Old,” Miss Dewey tells how a rundown rural school may be transformed to such a degree that the entire district may be influenced for good.

By giving the kind of education necessary, Mrs. Harvey, the school teacher led the people to see their needs. When they saw what might be accomplished through co-operation, they were willing to share the responsibility of attempting to solve community problems. Mrs. Harvey stood, as one of them, for what was best. She worked with them rather than for them.

The converted school became the center for adult social life as well as the place where right social habits might be developed in the children. The teacher realized the necessity of reorganizing the curriculum to fit the particular needs of the pupils. She put into practice the definite purpose in her mind.

The Porter School became the field of vital interest to all. Through successfully meeting the rural school problem, there came to the community more abundant living; real democratic education.

“New Schools for Old” is especially valuable for those interested in the rural school problem. It has a vital message for all who consider social efficiency an important aim of education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
AND HYGIENE I

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D. Pittsburgh, Pa.

DOES THE HEART RESPOND TO FATIGUE?

The phenomena of fatigue in skeletal muscles have been the •subject of numerous experimental investigations. They have clearly demonstrated that a decrease in irritability or responsiveness to stimuli is one of the characteristics that develop. Fatigue products, so-called, seem to be produced or liberated as a result of overexertion. If they are discharged into the circulation, they can reach structures other than those immediately concerned in the contractile responses. Even distant muscles may thus give evidence of increased efficiency, that is, fatigue; and the sensation of weariness that arises through the fatigue of muscles shows that nerve cells too can become affected. On general principles one would expect the heart also to exhibit manifestations attributable to fatigue in the skeletal muscles. However, it is a familiar physiologic fact that the heart cannot be thrown into tetanus or fatigue, as can an ordinary muscle by repeated stimulation. This is presumably due to the peculiar property known as the refractory period, during which stimuli reaching the organ are ineffective. Nevertheless, Mendenhall has shown in the pharmacologic laboratory of Dartmouth Medical School that the heart, like other tissues of the body, is affected by the products of fatigue. Unlike skeletal muscle, its irritability is increased rather than decreased. Moderate fatigue, carried to a point possible of attainment by voluntary efforts, causes a marked rise in the irritability of the heart muscle. Mendenhall suggests the possibility that such an increase in irritability has an adaptive purpose; thus, with increased activity of the skeletal muscles, the heart muscle is influenced by the increase in fatigue products in the circulation, and more readily responds to stimulation. Finally, Mendenhall adds, the continuation of the rapid beating of the heart following exercise may in part be explained by its increase of irritability, due to the presence of fatigue products. It is also conceivable that continued fatigue, as in overwork, may give rise to cardiac disturbances that are the result of increased irritability of the heart muscle.—Current Comment “The Journal of the Amer. Med. Association. April 12,1919.”

Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.,

Gentlemen;—

I am wondering if the readers of Dr. Krogh's department would not be interested in the little observation that I have made of the effects of altitude upon the heart so far as it pertains to the work of a physical director. When I first left Illinois for El Paso, Texas, which is a little less than four thousand feet above sea level,

PHYSIOLOGY

□

Digitized by CjOOQle
229

I had the notion that altitude was hard upon the heart. I even wondered whether strenuous games should be permitted. It is true that during the frequent hill climbing that I did that first fall, I, myself, suffered from slight nose bleeds, but I found that the children seldom tired. The girls played basket-ball with all their might and with no evident harm. The boys played every game in season, including soccer foot ball. Instead of having less vitality than children of the central states they had more. Of course their chest expansion was noticably greater due to the rareness of the air.

I returned to Springfield a month ago and was amazed to find so little average endurance among the children. I blamed it on the fact that they had not been accustomed to play. Then, suddenly, I noticed that it was not only they who were breathless; that I, who had been used to join with the boys in their soccer or basketball, was breathless after a little folk dancing.

This is my explanation. The pressure of the great volume of air in the lower altitudes actually causes the heart to work much harder. When one first goes to a higher altitude one has nose bleed because the heart is still working too hard; one is apt, too, to suffer from, and even die from, heart failure at first for the same reason that a man sometimes dies as the result of running to catch a train. He seldom dies while running, but afterwards the strain of the sudden let-down is too great. I believe that once accustomed to the high altitude, the light weight of the air is really easier upon the heart, so that when one returns to the low level he becomes breathless from the unusual strain put upon the heart. I am sure at any rate that the eastern director need not worry about the possibility of athletics being too strenuous for our lively Rocky Mountain children.

Yours sincerely,

MARGARET HEMENW Y Springfield, 111.

THE BASIS FOR COMPENSATION OF THE SOLDIER FOR CARDIAC DISEASE.

Nine months of experience on the disability board of General Hospital No. 9, where we have had unusual clinical opportunities for the study of patients suffering from various forms of cardiac disorder, have enabled us to draw some practical conclusions which may be of use to demobilizing boards.

(We may add that the following deductions may also be of use to physical directors and physicians in deciding on the advisability of exercise for selected cases of heart trouble.—Ed.)

Drs. Gittings and Smith in their article, which appeared in full text in “The Journal of the American Medical Association March 29, 1919, classify the cases examined as follows: 1. Those with constitutional inferiority; 2. Those with defective physical development; 3. Those of a neurotic type; 4. Those in which the disorder of the heart action is postinfectious; 5. Those that are

Digitized by kjOOQle
230

postrheumatic; 6. Those due to hyperthyroidism; 7. Mixed types

8.	Those in which there is organic heart disease.

“In spite of all that has been written, the fact still needs emphasis that most systolic murmurs at or near the apex are of functional, rather than organic, origin. In spite of many exceptions, the organic murmur is loudest at or near the apex, is constant, and is increased by exercise; and the functional murmur is apt to be as loud or louder at the base and is exaggerated in the supine position. To exclude cardiorespiratory murmurs, auscultation should always be done with the patient holding his breath midway between expiration and inspiration.

“We have emphasized the importance of the history in determining the types of functional cardiac disease, and one of the most important items in the history is the previous occupation. In the series so far reviewed, over 60 per cent of those with functional cardiac disease have earned their living in prewar days in light or sheltered occupations. Of the organic cases, over 80 per cent have selected active economic pursuits, in spite of the more or less damaged condition of their hearts. As Major Peabody has elsewhere pointed out, those with functional cardiac disease always take particular care not to injure themselves by hard manual labor. The much more unfortunate victim of organic heart disease does not hesitate to take chances, in spite of great limitation of his cardiac reserve. We must emphasize the fact that our studies have demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that the individual suffering from functional cardiac disorder of any type does better on exercise than on rest; that the exercise must be graduated from the smallest possible beginning, and that these patients require constant encouragement to overcome thteir natural aversion to, and feaf of, the symtoms produced by exertion. These symptoms have resulted in their leading inactive lives until the vicious cycle has been definitely established. The cycle cannot be broken successfully by revolutionary methods. As has been stated, many of them fail to respond to any discoverable incentive. A few react to the gospel of muscular development, and it is an interesting speculation as to how many might have been saved a lifelong disability had the gospel been rightly preached at the impressionable age. The neurotic type is too self-centered and neurasthenic to be reached in ordinary class work. The approach to this individual must be psychiatric as well as physical. The postinfectious type offers the greatest possibilities for real cure, with the proviso that especial care must be exercised to avoid overstrain. True myocardial lesions in the light of our present knowledge demand rest until all definite signs have disappeared. Finally, it must be noted that graduated exercise offers a much better cardiac tonic for cases with valvular defects than years of clinical teaching have led us to believe. It cannot be too strongly insisted, however, that the fool rushing in where angels (of the past) feared to tread may work incalculable damage. Caution and skilled knowledge are prerequisites of successful treatment.”
231

Standards For Growth.—The period of physical development of each individual is an era of the highest significance for his entire life. It represents a time when all manner of formative influences are brought to bear on a receptive organism: the years when the bodily backgroundfor future potentialties is being created. The forces that direct this development and make its progress possible are at least twofold: hereditary and environmental. The environmental forces include nutrition, work and play, and are in some measure controllable. If they cannot always alter the limitations set by inherited factors, they can nevertheless frequently prevent deteriorating influences from making any inroad on the growing individual or interfering with the best attainment of his developmental possibilities.

If we are to assist in any degree in facilitating a proper environment for the young, it obviously becomes essential to have some standards by which to judge the success of the undertaking. What shall be the index of successful or satisfactory nutrition and growth? In everyday life, primary emphasis is at present accorded to the body weight,‘for this is something measurable with accuracy, whereas the judgments formed by the appearance of the person under investigation have obvious psychologic limitations. Diagnosis almost always gains in accuracy when exact quantitative measurement can be substituted for the guesswork of subjective impressions. Ascertained facts thus supplant haphazard assumptions which vary with the experience and dependability of the observer. To know that a patient has actually lost or gained 15 pounds in weight is decidedly more helpful than to suspect that he is “looking somewhat thin.”

Is body weight the best measure of satisfactory growth in children? Or is the determination of growth in height a better index? Can either or both of these factors be related to age in such a manner as to answer the question, What is the normal? These queries have frequently been raised and discussed. A recent critical review of selected data bearing on the subject has been pre-pjfcred by Holt of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. His statistics show a wide variation in the relation of weight to age—the weight-age curve—among the European nations, all of which are represented in our present American population. With such wide variations as those noted both in foreign and in American boys, it is evident, Holt says, that Weight for age is not of great importance in determining the nutrition of a child.

Holt’s study shows, further, that the curves for height and age in a general way correspond to those of weight and age among the different groups in the United States and also among the foreign boys in their relation to each other, but the variations in the height-age curves are considerably narrower. As the growth impulse is essentially a hereditary factor, it can be understood why variations in height are so great. The tendency to grow often exerts itself even in the absence of adequate nutrition, so that increase in size may occur with stationary weight at times. It appears from

Digitized by ^ooQle
232

Holt’s data that a much more important relationship than weight to age or height to age as an indication of the state of the child’s nutrition is that of the weight to height. This index of nutrition appears to be far more independent of nationality; but of course there must be actual increment in size as well as a proper proportionality between height and weight. The weight-height index fixes the child’s status in nutrition ; the annual increase in size indicates this progress. Deviations from the average may still te regarded as normal. For practical purposes Holt puts the peimissible deviation at 10 per cent. The careful inspection by a good observer is by no means to be dispensed with in forming an estimate of good nutrition and growth; but it may advantageously be supplemented by the facts secured through anthropometry.—American Medical Association	Editorial May 3,1919.

Effects of Moderate Exercise on Blood Pressure.—One

hundred officer cadets were used by Smythe to get these data. He found that in the majority of cases, the systolic blood pressure is lowered after moderate exercise. This lowering is caused mainly by the dilatation of the arteries and capillaries, and not by fatigue of the heart muscle. The average pulse rate in the series waps 78 per minute, both before and after exercise. The effects of moderate exercise on the system are beneficial, as the peripheral dilatation caused thereby increases the warmth of the skin, and provokes the flow of sweat from the sweat glands without taxing the heart to any degree.—From “Practitioner,” London, April 1919. No. 4.^

Steps to Eradicate Defects in Youths.—The Maryland, board of education has adopted measures with a view to eradicating physical defects in the youth of the state, following the submissions of figures at a recent meeting in McCoy Hall by Dr. M. Bates Stephens, superintendent of education, showing an alarming condition among young men. Dr. Stephens showed that in the first draft call for Maryland there were 21,644 young men ranging from 21 to 31 years, of whom 9,117 were rejected as physically unfit for military service. The percentage of unfit was entirely too high and could be greatly reduced by preventive measures. Greater stress on school sanitation, proper schoolhouse architecture, mandatory medical school inspection, instead of the present optional law, and larger provision for physical education in the schools, would he no small contribution toward better health conditions. Dr. William Burdick, Baltimore, supervisor of physical education, reported that the federal government has allotted $6,000 to Maryland to be expended in maintenance of a course of hygiene in the normal schools. He also reported that a beginning has been made to adjust the daily program so that physical exercise may be given regularly.

Digitized by Google
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

SOCCER FOOTBALL IN THE HIGH SCHOOL.

The beginning of a new school year is always filled with high expectations. The students are eagerly looking forward toward future successes. Their interests are those of the school. Their desire for social contact with its strife and struggles, and the longing for its enjoyment is probably at its highest point. This desire is bound to find an outlet and if it cannot find such in the activities of the high school, it will turn to activities outside, where the students without proper guidance generally fall into vicious circles. No other department of the high school is better fitted to curb this evil than the department of physical education. It can command the leisure moments of the student body and direct its activities along sound physical, mental and moral lines.

The activities of the department of physical education in a high school must at all times be broad and varied enough to suit the interests and needs of the greater part of the student body. There must be intra-school as well as inter-school activities during all seasons with particular emphasis on the former.

Fall is the season of football. The larger part of the student body is interested in this game only passively, that is, as spectators, while only a very small percentage has the desire to participate. The participants are usually those who have had previous experience in playing. These few are easily taken care of and usually form the “varsity” material. The majority of students, however, must be given a substitute. A game which is closely allied to football and appropriate for the season is Soccer. Many teams within the school may be organized and leagues may be formed with appropriate eligibility rules and suitable rewards given for faithful participation. Those who show no interest in this game should be encouraged to enter some other form of work such as tennis or track.

Soccer has many advantages. It does not require the careful selection of human material as in football. Beginners can be taken almost immediately into the game thus avoiding the long intensive periods of practice in learning formations and other technicalities. From an economic point of view the expenses connected with Soccer are inconsiderable.

By devoting part of the regular class period to the simpler games leading up to soccer the interest may be stimulated. The game of “Bombardment” may easily be converted into a kicking

Digitized by LjOOQle
234

game. It may be played indoors, in the school yard or field. The size of the field outdoors may vary in size according to the number of players. A basket ball or a soccer ball, not too tightly inflated, may be used.

Kick-Bombardment.

The field is about forty by sixty feet with a center line dividing the field into two equal areas. Another line at either end of the field running parallel to and three feet inside of the end line marks off the end zone. Each team must play within its own half of the field. The members of each team are divided into forwards and guards. The object of the game is to kick the ball over the opponents’ end line, the ball in passing over must not be above the reach of the guards.

Guards:—The guards should prevent the ball from passing over the line and may use their hands or any other part of the body in stopping the ball. The use of the hands in preventing the ball from going over the end line is only permitted so long as the guard remains within the end zone. The guard may venture out of this zone but may no longer employ the use of the hands in stopping the ball. If the ball is touched by the guard and passes over the end line the score shall count. Use of the hands with the foot or any other part of the body touching the inner area, (field of play), shall be considered a foul.

Forwards:—At no time within the field of play may the forwards use the hands. They may stop the ball with any other part of the body. Touching the ball with the hands while within the field of play or venturing into the opponents’ field shall be considered a foul.

Out of Bounds:—From out of bounds on the side lines or at the end, the ball may be tossed or rolled into the field of play.

Kick-Off:—The ball is kicked off from the center of the field. The player who kicks off may take one step but may not take a run preceding the kick-off. The side winning the toss-up gets the kick-off.

Foul Kick:—A foul kick is taken from the center of the field. The opposing forwards shall not be permitted to interfere or block the kick. They should stand on or near the side lines.

Scoring:—When the ball passes legally over the opponents’ end line:

a.	After a foul kick it shall count one point,

b.	After a kick during play it shall count two points.

After each score the ball is again put in play at the center, the

side against which the score was made getting the kick-off. If the foul kick is unsuccessful the ball remains in play.

(To be Continued.)

Digitized by LaOOQle
235

MASS CALISTHENIC DRILL.

By CHRISTIAN BROCAR, Spokane, Washington.

Suitable for pupils in the fifth to eighth grades.

Music: King Cotton, by Sousa.

Formation: Open Order.

PART I.

Exercise 1.

Face left in four counts 1-4, raise arms forward 5, raise arms upward 6, lower arms forward 7, lower arms 8.

Repeat three times, 9-32.

Exercise 2.

Raise arms forward -1, raise arms upward -2, lower arms sideward -3, lower arms -4.

Repeat three times 9-32.

Exercise 3.

Raise arms slowly forward 1-4, raise arms slowly upward 5-8, lower arms slowly sideward 9-12, lower arms slowly 13-16.

Repeat 17-32.

Note; During the arm raising inhale slowly. During the arm lowering exhale slowly.

Exercise 4.

Raise arms forward 1-2, raise heels and carry arms sideward 3-4, lower heels, bend upper trunk backward with turning the palms of the hands upward 5-6, straighten trunk and lower arms 7-8.

Repeat three times 9-32.

Exercise 5.

Place hands on shoulders and turn head left 1-2, straighten arms sideward and return head 3-4, bend trunk left 5-6, straighten trunk and lower arms 7-8.

Repeat left 9-16, then repeat twice right 17-32.

Exercise 6.

Raise heels and bend arms for strike 1-2, lower heels and turn trunk left 3-4, strike sideward 5-6, return trunk and lower arms 7-8.

Repeat left 9-16, then repeat twice right 17-32.

PART II.

Exercise 1.

As exercise 1, Part 1,1-32.

Exercise 2.

Raise arms sideward -1, raise arms upward clapping hands -2, lower arms forward -3, lower arms -4, repeat 7 times 5-32.

Exercise 3.

As exercise 3, Part I.

Exercise 4.

Stride left forward and raise arms forward 1-2, bend left knee and carry arms sideward 3-4, straighten left knee, turn palms of the hands upward and bend upper trunk back-

Digitized by Tooele
236

ward 5-6, replace left foot, straighten trunk and lower arms 7-8.

. Repeat left 9-16, then right 17-32.

Exercise 5.

Stride left sideward with raising arms sideward and closing the hands to a fist 1-2, bend left knee with raising left arm to a half circle over head and right arm in rear of body 3-4, turn trunk left with lowering head backward 5-6, replace left foot, return trunk and lower arms 7-8.

Repeat left 9-16, then right 17-32.

Exercise 6.

Stride left backward and raise arms backward 1-2, 14 turn left on heels, place hands on hips and bend trunk forward 34, straighten trunk, 14 turn right on heels and straighten arms obliquely sideupward 5-6, replace left foot and lower arms 7-8.

Repeat left 9-16, then right 17-32.

REED EXERCISES FOR WOMEN’S CLASSES.

F. NICKE, Syracuse, N. Y.

Music “Dancing Stars” Schottische.

Composer Lew Crouch.

Starting position: Arms bent for thrust (hands at the sides

of the shoulders), the reed held vertically.

Introduction:	Total..........4M

GROUP I.

Exercise I.

a.	Place left foot forward and straighten arms forward, reed

in line with arms, 1-2, place left foot sideward and carry arms sideward, reed vertical, 34, return movements, 5-8,............................................2	M.

b. Repeat a, right..................................2	M.

c.	Raise left knee forward and straighten arms obliquely

foredownward, reed in line with arms, 1-2, lower knee and bend arms, 34, repeat right, 5-8................2	M.

d. Repeat c,........................................2	M.

e. Repeata-d,.......................................8	M.

Total...........................................16	M.

Exercise II.

a.	With a quarter turn left step left forward and straighten arms forward, reed in line with the arms, 1-2, place right foot forward and carry the arms sideward and backward-downward, (circling reed over head and backward-downward) 34, step right backward and carry arms sideward foreward (recircling reed upward and to forward position) 5-6, with a quarter turn right, close left foot to right and bend arms, 7-8.........................................2	M.

Digitized by
287

b.	Repeat a, right............................... 2	M.

e.	Circle reed backward-downward with raising left foot backward, 1-2,	bend	arms recircling reed ana lower	left

foot 3-4, same right,	5-8,.................... 2	M.

d.	Repeatc....................................... 2	M.

e.	Repeata-d,.................................... 8	M.

Total

16 M.

Exercise III.

a.	Place left foot sideward, turn head left and straighten

left arm obliquely sidedownward and right arm upward, 1-2, lunge left sideward, turn head right and change arm position, 3-4, return movements, 5-8.............. 2	M.

b.	Repeat a, right................................... 2	M.

c.	Circle reed forward eight times, hopping over it with the

left foot leading, 1-16........................... 4	M.

d.	Repeat a-c, but finish with circling reed and hopping over it seven times and stamp in place left and right.. 8 M.

Total.............................................16	M.

Exercise IV.

a.	Schottische left sideward, 1-4....................... 1	M.

b.	Leap hop right and left in place with circling and hopping

over reed twice, 5-8................................. 1	M.

c.	Step-hop turn right sideward (step-hop right and left)

1-4,................................................. 1	M.

d.	Step right sideward, 5-6, close left, 7-8............ 1	M.

e.	Repeat a-d, beginning right, left and right..........12	M.

Total........................................16	M.

GROUP II.

Introduction:	Total  4	M.

Exercise I.

a.	Bend right knee and place left foot backward with straight-

ening arms foredown ward reed touching floor and in line with the arms, 1—2, lunge left forward raising arms sideward, reed vertical, 3—4, change knee bending and raise arms upward (lower head backward), 5-6, straighten right knee, replace left foot and bend arms, 7-8..... 2	M.

b.	Repeat a, right.................................2	M.

c.	Face left and circle reed forward three times and hop

over it, 1-6, two stamps in place facing front with bending arms, 7-8.................................. 2	M.

d.	Repeatc,right.................................. 2	M.

e.	Repeat a-d..................................... 8	M.

Total............................................16	M.

Exercise I-I.

a.	Bend right knee and place left foot backward-inward with raising arms obliquely foreupward, reed in line with the-arms, 1-2, lunge left sideward, lower arms foredown ward

Digitized by Google
238

b.

C.

d.

crossing reed (reed in line with arms), 3-4, change knee bending with a quarter turn right raising arms sideward (right arm passing upward and then sideward) and with lowering trunk forward, 5-6, raise trunk, straighten right knee and replace left foot with facing to the front, 7-8. 2	M.

As a, right........................................2	M.

Asc-d, of Exercise I. above........................4	M

Repeata-c..........................................8	M.

Total..........................................16 M.

Exercise III.

a.	With a quarter turn right lunge left backward straighten-

ing arms obliquely foredownward, reed in line with arms, 1-2, lunge left forward with kneeling right raising arms foreupward and lowering them sideward, reed vertical, 3-4, straighten to a stand with a quarter turn left immediately lunging right sideward with right arm upward and left arm obliquely sidedownward, 5-6, close right to left bending arms, 7-8....................................2	M.

b.	Repeat a, beginning right........................2	M.

c.	Circle reed backward seven times and hop over it leading

with left foot and on last	two counts two stamps, 1-16 4 M.

d.	Repeata-c,.......................................8	M.

Total..................................................16	M.

Exercise IV.

a.	Face left and leap hop left forward circling reed forward,

(hopping over it, 1-2, repeat leap-hop right, left and right forward circling and hopping over reed each time, 3-8,....................................................2	M.

b.	Schottische left backward arms	bent	for	thrust,	14, half

turn right and step swing-hop right	and	left	forward, 5-8

..................................................2	M.

c.	Repeat a-b, beginning right..........................4 M.

d.	Repeat a-c, finishing with two stamps in place facing to

front instead of a step swing-hop.......................8	M.

Total.................................................16	M.

COUPLE DANCE.

For Girls’ and Womens* Classes.

Formation.

Column of front couples moving in a circle or about the hall. No. 1 is on the left and No. 2 is on the right side.

Position.

No. 1 places right arm around waist of No. 2 (from the rear) and grasps the right hand of No. 2. The left hands are grasped in front. Both begin with the outer foot.

Digitized by LxOOQle
239

Part I

a.	Two polka hops forward (outer and inner foot).... 2 M.

b.	Four skip steps forward.......................... 2	M.

c.	Repeat a - b,.................................... 4	M.

Total ....................................... 8	M.

Fart II.

Partners release hold, place hands at waist with facing each

other.

a.	Two step-courtesies sideward. (No. 1 left and right and

No. 2 right and left.)............................. 2 M.

b.	Both execute four skip steps forward with 1-2 turn left passing each other right. The two have changed places

r	and are again facing each other................... 2 M.

> c. Repeat a -b, returning to original places................. 4 M.

Total ......................................... 8 M.

Part III.

Repeat Part 1...........................................8 M.

Part IV (Trio)

, Position as in Part I.

a.	Hop on inner foot and place outer foot forward,	1,	hop	again

on inner foot and swing outer foot backward, 2... 1 M.

b.	Three polka hops forward (outer, inner and	outer	foot),

3,	8 .............................................. 3 M.

c.	Repeat a -b, beginning with inner foot............ 4 M.

d.	Repeat a-c ......................................... 8 M.

Total ......................................16	M.

Omit the next eight measures.

PartV.

As Part I but with the 4 skip steps the couples execute a whole

wheel left around the center............................

Total ........................................ 8	M.

Part VI.

As Part II. .. Total.................................. 8	M.

Part VII.

As Part V.. . . Total................................. 8	M.

Finish.

a.	Two steps forward,	1-2........................... 1	M.

b.	Release hands placing them at waist, face each other and

two steps backward,	1-2.......................... 1	M.

c.	Close heels and bow towards each other, or No. 2 executes

a minuet courtesy while No. 1 bows, (finish)...... 1 M.

Total ........................................ 3	M.

Digitized by
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Established

1873

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MED ART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room

planning, equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

&

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

350* DeKalb St.. St, LouJa, Mo.

THE CHIGA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED	1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 and FEBRUARY 2

Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical training ia all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens' Christian Associations and Playgrounds. A strong faculty of teachers with s national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country* Exceptionally fine dormitory for non-resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1920 opens JUNE 28 SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN For catalogs address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago.

jj

i

i

&

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rock; Mountain Teachers Ageucj

PACIFIC OFFICE:

326 Empire Building	1312	Northwestern Back Bid*

Denver, Cole.	Portland, Oregon

WM. RUFFER, A. It, Manager FRANK K. WELLES, Mr-

Digitized by

Google

V