MIND AND BODY

Vol. 17.

JANUARY, 1911.

No. 195

Editorial Committee :

^ 1X1 AM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Pht., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. AM baaineas letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

JOHANN CHRISTOPH FRIEDRICH GUTSMUTHS,

TEACHER OF GYMNASTICS AT SCHNEPFENTHAL 1786-1835.

By Fred E. Leonard, M. D., Oberlin College.

More than ten years before Salzmann opened his private school at 'chnepfenthal, Basedow had made physical training an integral part of the :urriculum at the Dessau “Philanthropinum” (1774-1793). In January Df 1776 Simon, one of his teachers, undertook the direct oversight of this branch of instruction and discipline, and after him Du Toit was entrusted (1778-1793) with the same task. Three years as teacher of religion and co-director at Dessau (1781-1784) had made Salzmann himself familiar with the means and methods adopted by these men, and immediately after his own school was started he assigned to Andre the direction of the daily gymnastic lesson and the Sunday games of pupils. A year later, in July of 1786, this portion of Andre's duties was turned over to GutsMuths, who thus became, not the first, but the fourth teacher of gymnastics in modern times in a school open to all classes of society. The pre-eminence of GutsMuths among pioneers of modern physical training does not rest, therefore, upon priority in time, but is due rather to his long period of service— almost fifty years, to the character and results of his teaching and the favorable impression which it made upon visitors, and to the series of volumes from his pen which formed what has been aptly called the first normal school of physical training for other teachers, and not in Germany alone, but elsewhere in Europe and even beyond its borders.

GutsMuths, son of a tanner in moderate circumstances, was bom August 9, 1759, in the ancient Prussian town of Quedlinburg, pleasantly situated on the Bode about thirty-five miles southwest of Magdeburg and only three miles distant from the northwest base of the Harz mountains. Once a fortified Hanseatic town, it is still partly enclosed by a turreted wall, and commanded from a rocky eminence at the west by an old castle which was for eight centuries the seat of the imperial abbesses of Quedlinburg, until the secularization of the abbey in 1803. The crypt of the adjacent abbey church contains the tomb of Henry the Fowler, who founded the town in the first half of the tenth century and with others of the Saxon line of Holy Roman emperors made it one of the royal residences. The birthday of GutsMuths

Digitized by

Google
-322-

lies between those of Quedlinburg’s two most famous sons in modern times— the poet Klopstock, born thirty-five years earlier, and Karl Ritter, the father of scientific geography, born in 1771. His own early home, No. 122 auf der Polle, is marked by a memorial tablet of marble, given by the Berlin Turn-lehrer-Verein and unveiled with appropriate ceremonies April 16, 1871. It is said that, kept much at home and denied the close companionship of other children, he would climb the roof almost daily and sit there for hours at a time to gaze away at the Harz, and over the nurseries and gardens for which the town was celebrated then and upon which Europe and America still draw for supplies of flower and vegetable seeds.

The boy’s first library consisted of a great Bible illustrated with beautiful copperplate engravings, an old geography with woodcuts of the different races of men, and, best beloved of all, the “Acerra philologica,” in German. This last book, containing hundreds of selections from the writings of well-known Greek and Latin authors, he read through a score of times, he said, and it may have given him his first introduction to the gymnastics of the ancients. He was also fond of working with tools, and skilful with his pencil and afterwards with brush and paints. In the spring of 1773, while he was in his third year at the Gymnasium or classical secondary school of Quedlinburg, his father died. Four years later, upon recommendation of the prorector of the Gymnasium, he became private tutor in the family of Dr. Friedrich Wilhelm Ritter, a respected physician in the town and medical adviser to the then abbess of Quedlinburg, Princess Anna Amelia, sister of Frederick the Great. GutsMuths now found his time fully occupied. Besides preparing his own school tasks, he must teach the two oldest of Dr. Ritter’s four sons and a merchant’s boy whom he had also accepted as a pupil, and to fit himself the better to discharge the new duties he studied carefully Basedow’s “Elementarwerk” (1774) arid especially the “Meth-odenbuch” (1770).

In 1799 GutsMuths entered the university of Halle, intending to take up the study of theology; but inclination led him to attend as well courses in mathematics, physics and modern languages (including English and Italian), and pedagogy, too, continued to interest him greatly. After three years in Halle he returned to Quedlinburg to resume his old position in the Ritter household, where there were now six children, five of them boys and the oldest barely nine years old. The next to the youngest, aged three, was Karl, the geographer-to-be. Only two years later, in June of 1784, Dr. Ritter succumbed to a severe attack of typhoid fever. His young widow found herself unable to continue the salary which GutsMuths had been receiving, but he was unwilling to desert the family in its time of need and was easily persuaded to remain for another year in spite of the changed circumstances.

During this same year Christian Gotthilf Salzmann was making preparations to open his new educational institution at Schnepfenthal, about seventy miles away to the south and west in a straight line. Already teachers had been selected, but outside of his own large family there were no pupils on the grounds. He decided to receive without charge, as the first of these, some promising lad not yet beyond his sixth year, and having learned of Dr. Ritter’s death from a published announcement, sent two friends to Quedlinburg to see whether there might not be among his sons a suitable candidate.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-323-

As a result, Frau Ritter was asked to part with her favorite Karl.,, June 7, 1785, taking the boy and his brother Johannes, four years older, she set out for Schnepfenthal, accompanied by GutsMuths, and reached there at noon of the 9th. A stay of several days led to such favorable impressions on both sides tthat she accepted Salzmann’s offer to receive both children, and GutsMuths consented to remain as a permanent assistant. He made the return journey to Quedlinburg with the widow, arranged his affairs in the home city, and on the 30th ef the same month was again in Schnepfenthal, ready to begin the duties which were discharged uninterruptedly thereafter until within a few weeks of his death, nearly fifty-four years later.

The life-story of GutsMuths during the next half-century, apart from his work as teacher and author, is soon told. In a letter to a university friend, written in June of 1791, he speaks of his garden, and of cabinetmaking and wood-turning; he has daily gymnastic exercises with the children in good weather, goes shooting in the fall, and in winter skates on the meadows and coasts down the neighboring hills; he is an industrious botanist, still takes up his brush occasionally, painting portraits especially, but also landscapes from nature, and enjoys the use of a very good pianoforte by one of the .best German makers; he mentions the many distinguished visitors (Goethe, Wieland, Kotzebue, and others), but says that of more importance to him is the Gotha library of seventy thousand volumes from which he has permission to draw whatever books he desires, through a messenger who makes trips back and forth every day or two. The school itself has a good collection of books, and he has been made librarian. Together with an English pupil he has read much in that language.

Twelve years after his arrival in Schnepfenthal, on the 15th of August, 1791, GutsMuths was married to Sophie Eckardt, the eighteen-year-old daughter of a clergyman and a niece of Salzmann’s wife. For some time she had helped in the domestic economy of the school. They occupied a storehouse on the grounds, at first, but after fifteen months moved into a home of their own in the little village of Ibenhain, a half-mile distant in the valley. There they gradually improved and beautified the dwelling and its surroundings, laid out a garden which became famous for its flowers and fruit, and by the purchase of adjoining pieces of ground from time to time came at length to be possessors of a considerable estate, the source of much pleasure and not a little profit. The family life seems to have been .an ideal one. Eight sons and three daughters, were born to the couple, and the mother of GutsMuths spent her last years with him, until her death in December of 1808. Only two of the children married during his lifetime, but they presented their parents with six grandchildren. “Father” Salzmann died in 1811, but his son Karl succeeded to the directorship and the new administration brought no change in GutsMuths’s relations with the school. The completion of fifty years of teaching, celebrated June 1, 1835, found him still in full enjoyment of his powers and busy in his calling. He continued in active service up to the end of March, 1839, and died on the 21st of the following May after a brief and painless illness.

In the earlier years, while pupils and teachers were few, GutsMuths gave instruction in various elementary subjects, but especially in geography and the French language. Gymnastics was added, as we have seen, in July of 1786. Later, when he had moved to Ibenhain, he confined himself to his

Digitized by CaOOQle
-324-

favorite subjects—the gymnastic lesson from 11 to 12 daily (until the summer of 1835), and geography and technology between 2 and 4. After 1802 he was swimming teacher as well. Salzmann had expected not more than twelve pupils at the start, but in the fall of 1785 there were already 13, including four of his own children, and the numbers steadily increased during the next two decades, to 49 in 1790, 52 in 1800, and 61 in 1803. The war which broke out in 1806 led to a marked falling off, followed by another rise, from 22 at the beginning of 1814 to 36 three years later, and 41 in 1823.

For full information regarding the sort of gymnastic exercises which GutsMuths practiced with his pupils we turn, of course, to his books. With few exceptions they were taken out-of-doors, in a spot set apart for the purpose and provided with the necessary apparatus. Already at Dessau, and by his predecessor Andre at Schnepfenthal, a varied list of suitable forms had been elaborated:	Marching	in	time, walking on the balance beam and

crossing ditches on the edge of a plank, jumping over a stick placed on jump stands, pole vaulting, jumping across a ditch, vaulting, carrying weights with outstretched arms, throwing at a target, foot-races, running and jumping through a long rope swung by two persons, simple free exercises indoors, skating and coasting, and long walks. Most or all of these GutsMuths continued to employ, modifying them, however, and making numerous additions as experience suggested^"During the summer of 1794, for example, or before it, he has the pupils going up and down a rope-ladder, swinging on vertical ropes, climbing a mast, hanging and traveling on the under side of a horizontal beam, balancing rods on the finger, going through various exercises while standing on one foot, jumping over a rope swung close to the ground, throwing a wooden discus, wrestling, pushing against each other, lifting a weight hung on a rod and moved toward or from the hands according to the strength of the individual, estimating distance with the eye, and reading aloud so as to be heard by a person stationed at varying distances. He kept ^ an accurate record of each pupil’s performances, in order to note his needs and progress.

Some idea of the value of the contributions which GutsMuths made to the literature of physical training may be gathered from a mere list of titles, arranged in chronological order. It will be noticed that the books cover four related subjects—gymnastics proper, games, swimming, and manual training.

1793. Gymnastics for the Young (“Gymnastik fur die Jugend. Ent-haltend eine praktische Anweisung zu Leibesiibungen.”) Two volumes, pp. 28 + 672, illustrated with ten copperplate engravings and a folding sheet containing eight figures.

1796. Games (“Spiele zur Uebung und Erholung des Korpers und Geistes, fur die Jugend, ihre Erzieher und alle Freunde unschuldiger Ju-gendfreuden”). Pp. 22-|-496, illustrated with four plates containing 16 figures. A second edition, unaltered, appeared the same year.

1798. A Manual of Swimming (Kleines Lehrbuch der Schwimm-kunst zum Selbstunterricht........”).	Pp. 22+124.

1801.	Mechanical Avocations (“Mechanische Nebenbeschaeftigungen

fur Jiinglinge und Maenner.......”).

1802.	Games. A third edition of the book of 1796.

1804. Gymnastics for the Young, A second edition of the book of

Digitized by CjOOQle
-325-

1793, but “re-written throughout and much enlarged,” so as to be essentially a new work. One volume, pp. 16-}-528, illustrated with 12 plates containing 52 figures drawn by the author.

1809. Mechanical Avocations. A second edition, unaltered, of the book of 1801. Pp. 14+468, illustrated with 8 folding plates.

1817.	Manual of Gymnastics for the Sons of the Fatherland (“Turn-buch fiir die Sohne des Vaterlandes”). Pp. 78+300, illustrated with four copperplate engravings containing many figures.

1818.	Catechism of Gymnastics. (“Katechismus der Turnkunst: kur-zer Abriss der deutschen Gymnastik. Ein Leitfaden fiir Lehrer und Schuler”). Pp. 6+182.

1833. A Manual of Swimming. A second edition of the book of 1798, “revised, improved, and enlarged.” Pp. 38+108.

Any discussion of the contents of these volumes would prolong this article unduly. Readers may be referred to the American Physical Education Review IV: 14-16 (1899 March), and IX: 95 and 96, 105-107 (1904 June) ; but especially to Dr. Carl Euler's “Geschichte des Turnunterrichts,” third edition, pp. 29-45 (Gotha, 1907), and Adolf B. Netsch’s “GutsMuths* paedagogisches Verdienst um die Paedagogik, die Geographic und das Tur-nen” (Hof a. S., Rud. Lion, 1901.	112 pp.). Reprints, translations, or

abridgments of the “Gvmnastics,” or compilations based upon it, appeared in Denmark, Sweden, Holland, France, Austria, Italy, Greece, England and the United States (attributed on the title-page to Salzmann!). The first edition was reprinted in 1893 by A» PichleV’s Witwe & Sohn (Vienna arid Leipzig), and in the same year an 8th edition of the “Games” was published by Rud. Lion (Hof a. S.). In addition to his books on physical training GutsMuths wrote numerous ones devoted to Geography, and rendered an important service to educational science through the tfBibliothek der paeda-gogischen Litteratur/' which he edited and published in the years 1800-1820 (53 volumes).

The Erziehungsanstalt Schnepfenthal has enjoyed an unbroken existence down to the present day. The modern pilgrim to this historic shrine leaves the main line of railway between Leipzig and Cassel at Frottstedt, seven miles west of Gotha, for a short spur which leads south to Friedrichroda. Beyond Waltershausen the track bends to the left to avoid the first foothills of the Thuringian Forest, passes Ibenhain, and then curves sharply to the right again to disappear up a narrow valley. At the mouth of this, four miles from Frottstedt, is a little station where the traveler leaves the train. A few steps to the west, along a road which follows the base of the ridge, bring him to the grounds of the school, a former villa site, and on the rising slope, through the evergreens, appears the long main building, two stories high with a mansard roof and a tall pointed tower in the center. Behind the structure rise successive ranges of steep hills, and the view in front covers a wide, open, cultivated valley in which at least five villages can be counted. Within all is severely plain, but neat and comfortable. The walls of the reception room are almost hidden by rows upon rows of small portraits of former pupils.

Retracing his steps to the station, and crossing the track and a stream just beyond it, the visitor passes the village of Rodichen at the right and climbs an oak-covered ridge which leads off to the north, at right angles to

Digitized by CjOOQle
—326—

the first. Here he finds a level spot which constituted the original Turnplatz or outdoor gymnasium. A rustic fence encloses the small area, shaded by oaks and beeches, and a balance-beam, pairs of fixed jumpstands, and other apparatus of more recent date recall the scenes depicted in the “Gymnastics’’ of 1793. Close to the Turnplatz, at the north, lies the cemetery of the school, containing among others the graves of GutsMuths and “Father” Salz-mann. The former is marked with a flat stone slab, inscribed with the name “J. Ch. F. GutsMuths,” followed by the place and date of birth and death.

A brisk walk of ten minutes from the school out into the valley carries one to the village of Ibenhain and along the length of its single street. The row of houses on either side are set close to the road, and the barnyards which separate them are hidden by tight, high fences, pierced by large double gates for teams and a small one at the side for the use of human beings. Down the center of the street flows a stream. At the far end rises the village church, and adjoining it—the last house on the right—is a two-story dwelling, better looking than its neighbors, the sides plastered, but the gable end, facing the street, slated from peak to ground. A cast-iron tablet set in the gable bears the inscription “F. F. F. F. Hier wohnte Joh. Christian [read Christoph/] Friedrich GutsMuths, der Bergriinder der deutschen- Turn-kunst, geb. in Quedlinburg den 9. Aug. 1759, gest. in Ibenhain den 21. Mai 1839.—Gestiftet von deutschen Turnern am 9. Juli 1861.” It was unveiled on the 20th of October, 1861, in the presence of turners from Eisenach, Erfurt, Gotha, and Waltershausen, and pupils and teachers from the Schnep-fenthal school.

A SEVEN-DAY TRAMP THROUGH NORTH-EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA.

By William A. Stecher.

We’re off! Only one who has set out on a tramp equipped for anything reasonable that may occur knows what this means. Yes, the three of us were off for a week’s tramp. Dressed in serviceable clothes, the few necessaries packed in a knapsack slung over the shoulders, we started carefree on our trip from Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, at eight o’clock on a bright, sunny September morning. While we had outlined our route in rather bold strokes and eventually hoped to land at the Delaware Water Gap, we had no definite plan which held us down to doing anything certain at any time or on any day. We just knew “that we were off,” that the sun was shining, that it was a glorious day, and that we were glad to get out of the city into the great open country.

What wonder then that we fell into the error of most trampers and walked more on the Jirst day than we should. We landed at Collegeville, on the Perkiomen creek, shortly after half past one o’clock, having marched seventeen and a half miles. Hunting up one of the many boarding houses located here, we ate dinner. After a rest we secured a skiff and rowed up this beautiful creek for a swim. The late afternoon was spent lounging under some of the large trees bordering the creek; After supper we were soon asleep—all in one large room.

Our expenses for dinner, supper, sleeping and breakfast (next morning) were $1.00.

Digitized by
-327-

The second day found us up early—and stiff. This day’s tramp was up the Perkiomen valley. The road wound up the valley among rich farms— cider pressing was in, progress in several places—past several old and flour-ising towns.

About noon time we reached Perkiomenville. Dinner at the hotel cost us each forty cents. After a rest we continued our tramp.

The main industry in most of these towns is cigar-making. Here are located enormous cigar factories, in which whole families—father, mother and the children—are employed.

The inhabitants are mainly Pennsylvania Germans; it is perfectly safe to speak German to anyone you meet on the road. In fact, if inquiries as to direction, distance to the next town, condition of the road, etc., are made in German one is immediately looked upon as a friend, and is certain to get not only all the information asked for, but- also many inside glimpses into the life of the inhabitants.

We reached Palm early enough to take a bath (bath rooms are not found in all hotels) before supper. We slept two in a room. Supper, rooms and breakfast cost us each one dollar.

People rise very early in these villages. We were awakened at six o’clock and at seven had a splendid breakfast, in company with the proprietor of the hotel, his wife and all the children. We were treated as guests of the family. Eight o’clock again found us saying “Auf Wiedersehen,” and off on the third day’s tramp.

About ten o’clock we had our first experience with a rainstorm. It came up so suddenly that we had no chance to go to a house. In fact, none was in sight. A small, low, thickly leaved tree gave us shelter until the

Delaware Water Gap, Pennsylvania.

Digitized by
-328-

shower passed over. About eleven o’clock we passed over the watershed dividing the water flowing toward the Perkiomen and the Schuylkill1 from those flowing toward the Lehigh.

The view from this crest is magnificent. A friendly apple tree gave us shade and fruit as we sat under it and enjoyed the scene across the great valley beyond.

An hour’s walk down hill brought us to Macungie. Dinner at the hotel cost each forty cents. We were anxious to get closer to the Blue Ridge mountains and that as quickly as possible. Therefore after dinner we took the trolley'to Allentown (cost 15 cents). After a short tour through the bustling town we visited the famous duck farm, where thousands of ducks are raised for eastern markets. Then came another trolley ride to Slating-ton (cost 25 cents), the Blue Ridge mountains now being directly in front of us. After an early supper a visit was paid to one of the great slate quarries with which this region abounds. Supper, rooms (two in a room) and breakfast cost us each $1.25.

Our fourth day’s walk was begun at eight o’clock in a drizzle. Crossing over the Lehigh river, we turned up the tow path of the canal. Since the railroads were built the canal is not used much. We met only two canal boats, filled with anthracite coal. The large, and numerous locks were interesting. Crossing the moving water of the overflows of the canal on a narrow board is a unique experience for a city dweller, as a “dizzy spell” will be certain to precipitate one into the water. %

The scenery, where the Lehigh river forces its way through the mountains, is very fine. A tramp of nine miles brought us to Weissport. Crossing the canal we were received by the martial strains of “Has Anybody Here Seen Kelly?” played by the city band with more fervor than correctness. Not expecting such a royal welcome on the threshold of a town we were highly elated. Upon inquiry, however, we were told that “tl:e‘ band is practicing; day after tomorrow is Labor Day.” A good dinner at the hotel soothed our disappointment, and a trolley ride up Flagstaff mountain (fare 10 cents) brought into view such wonderful scenery that we soon forgot the band.

The grandeur of the view one has from Flagstaff mountain down upon Mauch Chunk and the Lehigh valley surely reminds one of Switzerland.

The same trolley took us down the other side of the mountain and landed us at the famous “Switchback railway.” This is a combination of two inclined plane railways and two gravity railways. The route traveled is twelve miles long. The fare is seventy-five cents a person.

The walk from the station down the steep streets into Mauch Chunk reminds one strongly of the steep roads in Alpine villages. After supper at the hotel (cost fifty cents) we trolleyed back to Weissport to sleep. Having found no “running water” in any of our rooms during the trip, we were nevertheless awakened during the night by receiving a shower bath. Rising quickly we discovered that it was raining heavily and that a leak in the roof allowed the water to drop on our heads. Moving the bed close to the door we were soon again in deep sleep. Dinner, room (including shower bath) and breakfast cost each one $1.25.

Leaving Weissport on the fifth day of our journey at half past eight we turned from the Lehigh valley to cross the watershed between it and

Digitized by CaO Le
—329—

the Delaware river. The walk was along the north side of the Blue Ridge, part way through a great stretch of forest country. It must have been about half past one when, tired and hungry, we readied Trachsville, a village

View from Flagstaff Mountain, showing Mauch Chunk, the Lehigh river

and canal.

consisting of a small hotel and a few dwellings. Upon inquiry if one could get anything to eat we were told that “we eat dinner at twelve o’clock.” The dishes evidently had already been washed, for we saw two young girls violently rocking themselves on the porch. Arguing with the young man in charge that we did not know the local customs, we entered the barroom (all country hotels have barrooms). Discovering several jars filled with candy, we bought some and sent it to the young “kitchen mechanics” with our compliments. This was a wise move, for after the candy was accepted and eaten one of the girls appeared and said she would see “what was left over.” After a short time she appeared with an enormous loaf of home-made bread, a few pounds of butter, a crock of home-made apple butter, one large home-made sausage, a half gallon of milk and a huge apple pie. When, after a half hour’s hard work, we found that we could not eat all, and asked for our bill we found that we each had to pay twenty cents.

Hearing'that a “real” stage coach left Broadheadsville every morning at seven o’clock we had a farmet drive us there, which cost each of us forty cents for the eight mile ride. ‘

. The rest of the late afternoon was spent visiting a small lake jn the • vicinity. .Supper, bed (two. in a room) and breakfast in the quaint, neat, hotel at Broadheadsville cost us each 75 cents.

We were up very early on our sixth day out, for this was Labor Day, and

Digitized by Google
—330—

we were to take the stage at seven o’clock. We found the stage wach. to be a rather long, covered wagon, with a roof, but open at the sides. It was already comfortably filled by farmers and their families* in holiday attire, bound for Straudsburgr twelve miles off. Its .driver’s name was Adam. Well, Adam knew his business. He stopped at every little town, took everything (including the mail) that was billed for Straudsburg.. He loaded on more passengers, rigged up an extension behind the wagon, and put a few coops filled with live chickens and geese there. Bags of potatoes were tied under tl^e wagon. A bed and mattress were strapped on top. Later side-extensions were improvised. When more people came, five passengers (two from our party) Lad to climb on the top of the wagon. We surely “were a sight”

. when we drove up the main street of Straudsburg filled with hundreds of visitors. Adam, however, always kept his passengers in the best of humor by witty remarks about anything he saw or passed. ^ Some day we will be certain to find him as the traffic manager of some city’s street car system. At the end of the trip we were taxed fifty cents apiece for the privilege of being allowed to ride with Adam.

"After we had walked through the city we had a good dinner at one of . the smaller hotels (thirty cents each). A trolley ride through beautiful cbuntry (fare 10 cents) brought us to the Delaware river. The tramp was then continued along the well built road between the many beautiful hotels that lin£ the river, and through the famous Delaware Water Gap. A swim in the river at the lower end of the gap was refreshing before the walk to* Portland was resumed. Supper, rooms (two in a room) and breakfast cost each of us $1.25.

View from Mt. Jefferson, shoeing one of the Inclined Planes of the Switchback Railway, Mauch Chunk,' Pennsylvania.

Digitized by L.ooQLe
-331-

We were now at the tfaitheast end of our trip. The seventh day was used to trolley homeward via the well known Liberty Bell route to Bangor. At Nazareth a stop was made to visit its old academy. Then we rode on to Allentown. Eating dinner.there (thirty-five cents), we turned off to the east, passing through many small towns and arrived in Philadelphia at four o’clock.

We had had a splendid vacation of a week; had lived out of doors most of the time; had seen and tramped through one of the most interesting parts of Pennsylvania. Including all expenses, the whole trip cost each of us fourteen dollars.

VENTILATION IN ITS RELATION TO HEALTH.

By William G. Snow.

In connection with the crusade that is being carried on in many parts of the country by heating and ventilating engineers to educate the public to a proper appreciation of the necessity for adequate ventilation of their public and other buildings, including their homes, the following, taken from a lecture delivered by William G. Snow at Cornell University last May, forms a careful review of the subject that will prove interesting: reading to the engineer and layman alike. Mr. Snow’s lecture was delivered in the course on Sanitary Science and Public Health, in co-operation with the New York State Department of Health :

. “While it is admitted,” said Mr. Snow, “by all thinking people that ventilation must promote health, it is not realized to what extent the converse of this statement is true; .that is to what extent ill health is caused by insufficient or ineffective ventilation.”

Macfie, in his recently published work, “Air and Health,” says:

4Air containing merely the CO2 and moisture usually contained in vitiated air will not produce the effect of vitiated air, and vitiated air, therefore, must contain an additional constituent. This additional constituent, though undetected by chemists, is probably detected by the nose, for it is well known that air is oppressive and harmful not so much in proportion to the amount of CO2 and moisture it contains as in proportion to its smeltiness. The very fact that the nose is so sensitive to such odors would seem to suggest their harmfulness.”

In addition to the carbonic-acid gas, the effluvia and the humidity mentioned, which affect the comfort and well-being of persons, are the dusts to which Dr. T. Mitchell Prudden’s little book “Dust and Its Dangers” is devoted.

Outer air contains, of course, more or less dust which when admitted to a building tends to settle. Dr. Prudden observes that even ordinarily efficient systems of ventilation do not carry off any considerable proportion of the dust particles from closed still rooms ... and when by a system of forced ventilation we, cause large volumes of dust-laden air from out-of-doors to pass through them, we are actually, so far as micro-organisms are concerned, cleansing the air and sending it out much freer from germs than when it entered, these having slowlv settled as ,the air makes its way from the entrance to the exit of the ventilating openings.” He says:

Digitized by

Google
-332-

“When we consider the comportment of dust particles in closed rooms, we see at once that the great renovating and cleansing agencies which are so efficient out-of-doors are, except on special occasions, absent, namely, the winds and strong air currents and the more or less frequent and prolonged wettings. . . . A rainfall, to a certain extent, tends to free the air of its germs by washing them down. . . .”

Dr. Prudden points out that:

“We s'nould always remember that bacteria do not become detached from the surfaces or materials on which they grow or are lodged while these are in a moist condition.........”

The most obvious means to prevent the accumulation of dust within enclosures is to remove it from the entering air.

While the harmful effect of foul air may not be immediate further than its effect on one’s comfort or mental acuteness, it is generally conceded that frequent and protracted exposure to such air, as in the case of poorly ventilated school buildings, results physiologically in a lowering of the vitality of the occupants, rendering them more susceptible to disease and considered economically results in a lessened efficiency on the part of both pupils and teachers.

Playfair asserts that, in modern hygiene, ‘nothing is more conclusively shown than the facts that vitiated atmospheres are the most fruitful1 sources of disease.”

Tuberculosis and pneumonia are most prevalent among persons living or working in unventilated rooms. These diseases are caused by specific bacteria which, for the most part, gain access to the air passages by adhering to particles of dust which are inhaled. To bad air we attribute much of the anaemia, the pallor, the neurasthenia, the general ill-health of slum dwellers and factory workers and most persons engaged in sedentary indoor occupations.”

As to the effect of dust, Mr. Prudden says:

“Very moderate amounts of dust particles in sensitive persons cause such a degree of irritation of the respiratory organs as either to deprive them of robust health or predispose them to the acquirement of various diseases which with unirritated lungs they would readily resist.

“As to the bacteria . . . there are unfortunately a few species which, when they once find lodgment in one place or another in the organs of respiration, may grow and multiply, and successfully resisting all1 the protective agencies of the body, set up distinct, persistent and even fatal disease. These forms of bacteria which can or in these regions commonly do this, are insignificant in number in comparison with the harmless species with which dust is usually swarming. But few as they are they have an extreme significance. If it were not for these few species of disease-producing bacteria people could perhaps afford to be as indifferent as they are to dust and its dangers. ...”

It has been pointed out among the causes of atmospheric vitiation and discomfort that high temperature and humidity have much to do with the oppressiveness of the atmosphere in occupied spaces.

As to desirable and practicable relative humidities in rooms occupied in winter by persons in health, faking into consideration the cost of main-

Digitized by Google
-333-

taining a high relative humidity in cold weather and the trouble from condensation on windows, I am inclined to favor a range from 50 per cent to 55 per cent according to the weather, rather-than a higher relative humidity.

Referring to humidity as applied to manufacturing plants, this was discussed in a very interesting manner by George V. S. Michaelis in a paper entitled “Sanitary Conditions in Ventilating and Humidifying Cotton Mills.”

Mr. Michaelis says after pointing out the economic waste due to insufficient heating, resulting in chilled fingers of mill operatives:

“Pure air is, however, fully as important in influencing product as warm fingers. Adequate ventilation, therefore, is as vital a factor in summer as in winter.

“Curiously enough, humidification has developed in the minds of most mil! men as a purely mechanical proposition; that is to say, in its relation to improved fiber conditioning. Adequate humidity has been recognized as increasing output through strengthening the yarn, reducing electrical tension, improving the yarn by causing the fibers to engage together more closely, and by giving greater elasticity at the same time that greater strength is given. This may be called the direct effect of humidification.

“Proper attention has not been given by mill men to the indirect effect of humidity which is upon the working capacity of the operative.

“Unbiased British officials and certain American engineers have demonstrated that, considered both immediately and ultimately, the direct or mechanical value of humidity works on parallel lines with the indirect or operative-working-capacity effect, and that the best results in dividends are secured by considering direct and indirect (mechanical aiid personal) effects together, in other words taking the resultant of the two working factors.

In certain buildings, where the results o£ changing from poor to good ventilation have been carefully observed, a marked improvement, in tht general health of the occupants has been manifest. For example, the records of the United States Pension Bureau show that when the offices of the department were located in scattered and poorly ventilated buildings, 18,736 days were lost by employees through illness in one year and about the same number for several' successive years.

When the department became established in its new well-ventilated quarters the loss was reduced to 10,114 days’ absence on account of illness, the working force being larger and the work increased.

The gain effected is not to be measured alone by the days’ absence saved, but by the greater vitality and efficiency of the eritire working force.

It is stated that improved ventilation resulted ill the reduction in the death rate in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital from 50 per cent to 5 per cent for equal terms of years.

In the Boston City Hospital good ventilation is said to have given reductions in death rate from 44 per cent to 13 per cent in surgical warejs and from 23 per cent to 6 per cent in other wards.

In regard to dwellings, investigations among the dwelling-houses of Dundee, Scotland, showed that with an increase in air space per occupant

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-334-

there was a great falling off in the death rate. With air space per person in the ratio of 4 to 1, for example, the death rate was in the ratio of about 12 to 2 l, showing a reduction of over 40 per cent in the case of the larger spaces.

Even though there be no method of ventilation provided, the mere abundance of space per occupant secures a certain air change owing to the fact that no partitions, floors or ceilings are perfectly tight, hence, the greater the space per occupant the greater the surface of surrounding walls, etc., and the greater the accidental air leakage of spontaneous ventilation as some put it. ...

Prof. Winslow, of the Mass Institute of Technology, in a paper on “The Cash Value of Factory Ventilation,” mentions that:

“Efficient production requires skilled and practical workers, in good physical condition, applying themselves, with energy and enthusiasm to their tasks.

“Irregularity, of attendance, and the physical sluggishness and nervous inattention which accompany lowered vitality, mean direct money loss to the employer of labor, as well as a burden on the community at large.”

As an example showing the results of improved ventilation the paper calls attention to the operating room of the New England Telephone and Telegraph Cq. at Cambridge,' Mass.—a long room having a capacity of 30,ocx) cu. ft., extending from front to back of a business block. Fifty or sixty women are employed in this room as operators. >.

‘‘Duripg the warmer months no difficulty has ever been experienced in ventilating the room by means of large windows at each end and by, the use of- electric fans. In the winter time, however, it was impossible to secure , adequate natural ventilation without undue exposure to drafts. In the spring of 1*907 a simple but efficient system of artificial ventilation was installed. •. ...

“A marked improvement in the comfort and general condition, of the operators followed this change and the betterment was sufficiently marked to show itself in a notably greater regularity of work.” .

Statistics collected, and tabulated show that prior to the installation of the ventilating system for the three winter months, January,, February and March inclusive, 4.9 per cent of the force were absent in 1906 and 4.5 per cent in 1907. With the ventilating system in use the absences for the same months in 1903 fell to onlv 1.9 P^r cent; a striking reduction.

Perhaps nothing has focussed the attention of the General public, on the necessity of fresh air so much as the crusade now being waged against tuberculosis. Dr. Woods Hutchinson, in his book, “Preventable Diseases,” brings out in a mo^t vivid manner the wonderful changes wrought in the prevention and treatment of thi? disease.

He advises us to learn to sit or sleep in a gentle current of air all the time we are indoors.	.

If ventilation could be had for little or.no cost above that for heating alone, there would not be the “hue and cry” against it on the part of those whose “pocket nerve” is touched.

The fact, however, that in cold climates adeauate ventilation costs money should not be allowed to stand in the way of its more general compulsory adoption.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-335-

Those who are most in need of it are, as a rule, least able to demand it, hence the necessity of the strong protecting the weak through the enactment of legislation to secure to children in schools, to adults in public buildings and to workers in factories and shops an adequate volume of pure fresh air* It is not . pleasant to consider that in crowded, 'unventilated rooms the air must be breathed and rebreathed, nor is it pleasant to consider the other causes of'atmospheric vitiation within enclosures as pointed out.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

PNEUMONIA AND DUST.

While the old time unreasonable dread of contagioti& disease has been declining because of the growing assurance; that modern medical science has advanced sufficiently in its knowledge of disease distribution to point out the special dangers involved and their successful avoidance, there has developed a well founded feeling that many‘diseases formerly considered as due to causes within the individual niffy 'prove under certain circumstances to be communicated from without.5 ' After all, even a quarter of a century ago very few physician^ vterb convinced that tuberculosis was anything but hereditary, and mbst 'refused to accept the notion just then being introduced that it was contagious. A half century ago the idea of * pulmonary consumption eVer being communicated to those in close .’contact with sufferers' from that disease would have been very generally scoffed at by medical men as well as the public: There are other diseases in,which the existence 6f a? certain measure of communicability is. just beginning to be clear to progressive medical science. Among these the most prominent is- pneumonia.

It may seem needlessly alarming to clalss ptfetaftnotiia among, the possibly communicable diseases,:1but the present "situation with regard to this affection is sufficiently .'s’enious to justify considerable -alarm. Professor Osier, one of our most distinguished American medical author*' ities, said of the disease recently:	;	'	;	(	,

“The most widespread‘and fatal of all acute diseases, pneumonia, is now ‘The Captain of the ^Mcn of Death/ to use the phrase applied by John Bunyan to consumption.^ ** *	*	y:;	’

This declaration is called forth by the recent mortality statistics of our large cities. While other diseases cause1 every year a decreasing mortality in proportion to the population, ? the* death, rate froni pneumonia is on the increase. The death rate from1 consumption is notably less than it was even a decade ago;>tbat from pneumonia is alarmingly greater. This increase itr fatality has cpme'jusfc during the period when the better sanitation of our cities has seen a material reduction in the general mortality of even crowded centers.* '

During the last quarter of a century the average age at time of death in this country has increased from about 31 years to over 35 years. The three most important causes of death . remain—pneumonia, heart disease and consumption* While themortality from pulmonary tuberculosis has. been notably decreased and the expectation of life after the deyel6poientApfh^krt disease has became much more favorable, the fatality of pneumonia is ever on the increase. The incidence of pneu-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—33S—

monia is directly in proportion to the density, of population;, and as the trend of ottr modern .life is to gather people more and more in crowded urban centers, the'outlook is discouraging.

It is often assumed that pneumonia is almost exclusively a disease of the cold weather. It is the custom to associate it with the catching of cold. The main basis for this is the* fact that the affection is usually ushered in by a chill. Pneumonia is, however, a disease of any season of the year when the conditions of its development are fulfilled. These conditions are not exactly known, but are commonly bound up with the bringing together of many people in more or less confined spaces.

The history of a case of pneumonia usually includes the presence of the patient in a crowded hall, theater, church or some numerous assembly within a few days before the development of the affection. The germs of the disease evidently get into the air and are taken up by the respiratory mucous membranes under such circumstances. In normally healthy individuals they fail to develop, but in those who are run down from overwork or worry or some pathplogical condition, or who; are temporarily predisposed by exposure to cold air when fatigued or when hungry, the germs find a favorable soil for luxuriant growth. At times there may under such circumstances be apparently epidemics of the disease. There have been several such groups of cases at schools. There has been no doubt in the minds of hospital physicians who have seen groups of cases occur in wards that contagion is at times an important factor in the spread of the disease.

The gleam of hope in the prospect of amelioration of the present conditions with regard to pneumonia is to be found in reliance on sanitary precautions to lessen opportunities for the distribution of the specific germ of the disease. These must concern themselves especially with dust and its dangers. Greater care will have to be insisted on with regard to the careful cleaning of rooms in which crowds of people collect. This may even require the replacing of the carpeted floors of theaters by polished hard wood, which will have to be kept scrupulously clean. The cleaning process will have to begdone in the early morning hours, giving ample time for the dust to nettle before the opening of the theater. Sunlight is practically entirely excluded from our theaters at the present time by the Supposed necessities of the architectural problem involved in the confined space that must be utilized. The sun's rays are the great natural antiseptic, the most powerful and universal bactericide we know. If they could be allowed to penetrate freely for several hours on a clear day into rooms meant for the accomodation of crowds they would do more to make the space healthily clean than even the minutest possible cleansing precautions. The health regulations of the future will doubtless impose the necessity for the admission of direct sunlight into theaters just as the police regulations require fire escapes.

Meantime, of course, such proposals may seem Utopian and the theory on which they are founded far fetched. Much stranger things have happened, however, in the history of applied sanitary science than the acceptance of such common sense ideas. The city sanitary engineer of the future will consider it#quite as objectionable, or even more so on the score of health, to have dusty streets than to have

Digitized by Google
-33T-

malodorous streets. A special effort will have to be made to bring people to the realization of the'necessity for such at present apparently unwarranted sanitary interference, but the current popular attitude in matters of public health is so much in advance of that of twenty-five years ago that the outlook is not discouraging. Much will have to be submitted to in order to lessen the ravages of this most fateful of the nursing sisters of death—pneumonia. Dust and its dangers for the respiratory tract, not because of its mechanical irritation, but its germ contents, must be the text that will lead to a proper appreciationjof present conditions and the means necessary for their correction,.

About this time every year in our large cities the mortality due to pneumonia becomes a marked feature of the mortality report of the Health Department.

There is no doubt that pneumonia has actually increased in firej quency to some extent, tho not by any means to the extent that seems s to be indicated by the'mortality record. A considerable share of the deaths in pneumonia—more than one-half of them—occur in children under five years of age and in old persons beyond sixty-five. With regard to both these classes of patients it was not the custom, until comparatively recent years, to seek out the direct immediate cause of death so carefully as is done at the present time.

Tuberculosis used to be the most serious foe to humanity, but now its colleague in the realm of ptflmoil ary 'diseases has surpassed it. There is an actual increase of pneumonia among healthy adults, and the disease is every year claiming more and more victims in proportion to the population. The main causes of this are that, as population grows thicker, dirt and dust of all kinds, as well as the exhalations of others* lungs, get into the air we breathe and becomes sources of infection. It is typically a disease of the city rather than the country, and is not due to exposure to cold nearly so much as to the inhalation of infectious material from other persons. These causes for its development furnish the best hints for its prevention.

As to its treatment, not much can be said beyond the fact that all / symptbms which develop must be promptly met and treated, in order that they may disturb as little as possible the patient’s health and strength. Besides this, the most important thing is that there shall be a plentiful abundance of fresh air, and that this shall be admitted directly to the room. The presence of several persons in the room must not be permitted, and lights and other sources of atmospheric vitiari'on must be, as far as possible, ..excluded. In our hospitals better results are obtained by treating patients suffering from pneumonia out in the open air, on the roofs of hospital huildings, or under tents in the yard, than in any other way. A distinguished Canadian specialist in pulmonary diseases declared that he would rather be treated under the trees in the park than in the best appointed hospital in the city.

As to the fatality of the disease, the expression of the old English physician two centuries ago must not be forgotten. He said: “It is much more important to know what sort of a patient has the disease than what sort of a disease the patient has.” The outcome in pneu-•monia depends much more upon the condition of the patient before the disease developed than on the severity of the attack itself. This is, of
-338-

course, a general rule to which there are exceptions, but the exceptions are few and far between. All depends on what the patient takes into pneumonia with him. If he has an affection of the heart to begin with it will be a miracle if he escapes with his life. If there was any kidney disease when the pneumonia began, then he will almost surely die, overwhelmed by the toxins of the pneumonia, which he is unable to excrete because of the conditions of Lis kidneys. If when he was younger he suffered from tuberculosis his recovery from pneumonia is much more doubtful than would otherwise be the case. The recovery will usually not begin by crisis with rapid convalescence, but will come by lysis and a long, slow climbing up of the hill to health. This represents more nearly what is known about pneumonia at the present time than any sensational reports with regard to the disease; and it makes clear the necessity that those who already know themselves to be suffering from diseased organs are under of taking precautions that will enable them to avoid a disease which is almost sure to be fatal if it comes.

“The Independent/’

POSSIBILITIES OF APPLIED HYGIENE IN OUR SECONDARY

SCHOOLS.

By Emily Cope Smedley, Westtown, Pa.*

The invitation to speak to you today came to me with a large degree of surprise. Nevertheless I consider it a privilege to have this opportunity to share with you the results of our practical experience with Applied Hygiene at Westtown School. ,

Allow me to state briefly that Westtown, with an average attendance of 230 male and female students, was founded by Friends in 1799 for children who have membership with them, and that it has stood for all-round secondary education ever since.

Gymnastics were introduced in the year 1887 and have been taught (to the girls) three times a we^k during regular fifty-minute school periods since that time. Every girl is measured and tested each year, and in addition to this she is carefully examined for heart, throat and lung troubles by the school physicians.

The school is located in the midst of six hundred acres affording ample opportunity for out-of-door life in way of games and such exercise as crosscountry walks, camp suppers, etc.

A well-organized Athletic Association among the girls has been in operation for years. It includes five subdivisions: Tennis, Hockey, Basketball, Swimming, and Skating, each governed by its own rules and regulations. The girls go in for these different sports primarily for the pleasure and secondarily to acquire skill, self-control and general efficiency. When certain standards are reached they win their class numerals as reward of their success. All the students belong to this Association and elect, in season, whichever sport they wish. This makes it possible for every girl to take part in some active game every afternoon between school and supper.

* Read at the meeting of the Philadelphia Physical Education Society, October 29th, 1910.

Digitized by

Google
• —339-

Exercise regulations demand that one hour shall be the minimum amount of time spent out-of-doors each day (rain or shine) and that at least three days in the week the girls must take part in some active sport or game. This last rule was made simply to help a few lazy, inactive mortals to get into things and learn what real fun is.

Our out-of-door equipment is Unusually good, and any fine day the casual visitor may see at least three-fourths of the girls distributed over six tennis courts, the hockey and basketball fields, and swimming pool. And the beauty of it all is that our pupils appreciate their blessings and are thriving in good Chester County air.

Swimming is optional in the fall, the pool being open three afternoons every week. During the Spring Term formal gymnastics stop and swimming classes take their place. All who do not know how to swim by that time are definitely taught and at the close of the school year about ninety per cent are perfectly at home in the water.

As soon as a girl can swim-correctly the three recognized strokes (chest, sides, and back, a distance of 400 feet), and also the length of the pool twenty times in ten minutes (a distance of 1,000 feet given as an endurance test), she is awarded her class numerals, which she wears upon her sweater, a recognized compliment. The complete test covers a distance of 1,400 feet, which is 80 feet more than a quarter of a mile, but it is only 1,000 feet, which is accomplished in ten minutes.

Girls who make the school teams in hockey, basketball, and tennis, or who pass an examination in fancy skating also are entitled to class numerals. As soon as snow comes, it is gleefully welcomed. The boys make a coasting track, and sledding, on flexible flyers, becomes the height of fashion and is heartily enjoyed by all ages.

If any one girl succeeds in acquiring three small numerals (like *10 or ’12) she is entitled to one large set (like 1910 or 1912), which shows at once her athletic standing. Thirteen girls constitute the total number having received large numerals of their classes, and three of these girls have excelled in every one of the six athletic divisions and might have worn two sets if they chose. There is no lack of interest in athletics at Westtown.'

The girls do not have what is commonly known as a Field Day with the hundred-yard dash, broad and high jumps, hurdling, etc., and thus far they have not missed it, which relieves me of a responsibility which I prefer not to shoulder for girls of secondary school age.	.

Thus far I have given you an outline of the Athletics, and while they are doing much toward increasing the health and happiness of the children, there is still another department which is closely associated and is playing a very important part.

Three years ago a thoroughly practical Hygiene Course was introduced. We believe with Mathew Arnold “that conduct is three-fourths of life, and that is no less true of the physical than of the moral and intellectual life,” and further, since training is a matter of life-long importance and consists largely in observing proper rules of every-day life, we are trying to inculcate in our pupils those habits of healthful living which relate to their personal and community life.

This is brought about by the direct study of the simple facts of hygiene as practiced individually. So that correct habits in eating, sleeping, exercising, bathing, etc., may become, as Montaigne has said, “second nature.”

Digitized by C^ooQle
-340—

We want them to have the spirit of personal ambition as well as social helpfulness, and it is by this method that we have approached them, and it has been through their loyal co-operation that we already observe a marked improvement in health conditions.

In order to judge what is being accomplished we have a “Health Register” which is decidedly unique, containing a list of personal questions which they answer each day for a month. These cards are carefully examined once a fortnight and marked on a regular basis, deductions being made wherever shortage occurs, and at the end of the month credit is given each child upon the extent to which she has lived hygienically. A grade is entered on their monthly reports and goes home to their parents along with other marks. In this way Applied Hygiene has become a real and vital factor in each girl’s life and further is recognized as a part of the school course.

In addition to this practical side a short course of six lectures is given to the First, Second and Third year girls, while a regular course in Physiology is given in the Senior year.

Returning to the Health Register, I would like to say that from them I have been able to make an intelligent study of the girls and to help them to understand the importance of not only knowing, but what is far more difficult, living up to the best standards in these matters of every day life. It is gratifying to observe the change in public opinion in regard to the simple matter of eating between meals, for instance. It had long been the custom at Westtown (as well as at many other boarding schools) to have crackers, cake, jelly, candy, etc., always on hand to eat between times. This seemed, in the minds of the children, a necessary part of school life.

About three years ago one of the school physicians made some remarks to the children about the disadvantages and evil effects from eating too often and of questionable articles. The interest of the girls was aroused, and I determined to make a special study of this particular question.

Fruit was put on sale, and they were encouraged to eat fruit at all suitable times and it would not be counted against them, neither would small quantities of candy when eaten shortly after any regular meal.

With this understanding we started the crusade. I looked over their cards once in two weeks and reported to the student body the progress which was being made, and at the end of three months interest was running high, for in Tenth Month the average number of girls not eating between meals was twenty, while in the First Month following seventy-six reported clear. Now it is the exception for a girl to eat except at meal time, and the best part of all is, that they feel better and are healthier and voluntarily acknowledge the fact. Each girl averages from eight to ten hours of sleep, and windows are always open at nights.

In case of bathing the showers are in great demand not only after exercising, but also before breakfast, when it is customary to see a line waiting for cold water showers. Thus the germ for correct self-government in these simple every day matters is getting a good start.

It also falls to my lot to have charge of the excuses issued on account of illness and to keep a record of the same. I am therefore in a position to make a comparative study of health conditions as they exist during different months of the same year, and also for different years.

Digitized by Go Ie
-341—

CURVES REPRESENTING THE NUMBER THAT WERE SICK DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR 1908 AND 1909, ALSO 1909 AND 1910.

-— /9o 8-o r	 -	/?*	?	-’/o.

In making a health curve for different months of the past two years, such a curve registers lower in six . months out of nine during the second year of the experiment. In other words, there was less sickness in Ninth, Eleventh, Twelfth, First, Second and Fifth Months of 1909 and 1910 with more girls in the school than there was during the same months of the previous year.

The total number of girls who missed some school in 1909-1910 was twenty less than in 1908-09, notwithstanding the fact that there were ten more on the roll the year we had less sickness.

The curve ran highest in Second Month of both years, showing that vitality and resistive power is down at that time.

A small hospital was built three years ago, making it possible to completely isolate any contagious disease. Since we have had it there have been six cases of measles, three at a time twice. This includes all cases of contagion in the whole school.

Having thus reduced the possibility of spread in cases of simple contagious diseases, our next step is to determine the cause for the increase in the preventable minor illnesses during certain months, and if possible to fortify against attacks of colds and tonsilitis, etc. Can it be that because we live more shut up in the First, Second and Third Months the cold germs have a better opportunity to cause trouble? If so, let us have better ventilation all the year around.

Digitized by

Google
-342-

It seems to me now that one of the chief educational reforms of the future would be the better ventilation of the school rooms, which will inevitably bring with it a direct effect upon the learning capacity quite apart from the questions of* physical health.

Our principal and superintendent are both thoroughly awake to all educational movements in other sections, and have interested the rest of the Westtown community in the experiment made by'Dr. Evans in Chicago, his fresh air methods and results. This fall arrangements have been made for out-of-door study during vacant periods for a group of twenty-five girls who are less strong than the rest. This studying is done on a porch with a southwest exposure, and adjoins the regular study hall*. These pupils are a selfregulating body and report any disorder to the teacher who has charge inside. Thus far their keen interest in the success of the plan has kept them remarkably good. Many of them have sent home for steamer rugs and extra wraps, and the school has had heavy blanket bags made to wrap around them when real cold weather sets in. Plans are being made to have two sides of this porch enclosed with adjustable glass windows for cold and stormy weather. The idea is to see how many of the twenty-five can remain out all winter and what the effect will be. We feel with Dr. Evans that “too much air is just air enough,” and that the experiment will be a most interesting study.

I would not wish to imply that these twenty-five girls are sickly or have any real trouble of any kind,, for we have no invalids at Westtown; quite i the contrary; we are considered a healthy crowd.

The school rooms have always been heated and ventilated by the best up-to-date methods, those scientific methods which are so beautiful in theory,, but which produce a dry and overheated atmosphere in spite of all good intentions. This fall, among other improvements, we have had directions that the real genuine fresh air direct from the outside is to be allowed to enter by opening the windows at frequent intervals. The class rooms are all aired before the opening of school, and the starting temperature for the day is not below 63 degrees nor above 67 degrees. The feeling seems to.be growing that people are apt to live too warm during the winter months and thereby cultivate sensitiveness.

While appreciating that Westtown, with its comparatively small number, its rare environment and equipment, may be no guide for secondary schools in general, yet I do believe the possibility, to experiment for the good health of our children, is far greater than we may first realize, and that it is quite worth our while to be fully awake and to see if Hygiene cannot be made more vital and practical in our schools.

We teachers of Physical Education must have a truly broad outlook, and train the children under our care, in forming those habits which will give power by which to live more completely. In other words, to help them to acquire that physical efficiency, which is ability to do easily and happily whatever they have to do in the every day of life.

—Your publication is the fairest, squarest, and most intelligent and practical exponent of physical training and although I am not now active as a teacher, I assure you I would not be without a copy regularly of “Mind and Body.” I have all volumes since it was established and I want more.

Yours truly	LOUIS	LEYERZAPF.

Digitized by Google
-343-

Mind and body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Month*?•

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

2b£U**rak,'uJK««, WUcon eln.

99* AddreM all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W.s Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

• Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THE YEAR 1911 brings with it a number of great anniversaries for those interested in physical training. In our last issue we called attention to the hundredth anniversary of the opening of the first open air gymnasium and play field at the Hasenheide, Berlin, under Jahn. Today we wish to remind our readers that in July it will be one hundred and twenty-five years since, in 1875, Johann Christoph Friedrich GutsMuths began his notable career as teacher at Schnepfenthal.

Dr. F. E. Leonard has written an original article on GutsMuths which we print in this issue and to which especial attention is called.

GutsMuths was an ideal teachei: who from the very beginning understood the intimate relation between mind and body, how one affected the other. He also fully understood the mental and moral value of play. His plea for the use of games to regenerate a nation physically and mentally would please our most enthusiastic modern play advocates. Yes, even the manufacturers of our modem frames from which we hang ropes, poles, ladders, swings, etc., would be astonished to find that GutsMuths used such frames in his playground.

The North American Turner-bund at its national convention last June adopted a resolution advising its societies to celebrate the anniversaries of GutsMuths and Jahn by appropriate festivities. We propose that all schools, associations, playgrounds, etc., do likewise, and that next May or June every city has its celebration in honor of these two men who did so much to place our physical training upon a sound basis. If we show the world that long ago such exercises as running, jumping, climbing, vaulting, throwing, exercises upon fixed apparatus, and all sorts of games were consciously used by great teachers as the best means not

Digitized by Google
-344-

merely for physical' development, but also for mental and moral ends, we shall greatly help our cause. Now is the time to prepare for a

Field Day In Grateful Remembrance of GutsMuths (1785) and Jahn (1811).

—INTEREST IN OUTDOOR LIFE is increasing. What is needed to get more pupils to join in the movement are accurate accounts of short and long trips: How they were organized and conducted; how much the trips cost; how camps should be arranged and managed; what the expense is of fitting up and conducting a camp, etc. It is our intention to publish a series of articles in Mind and Body covering those points.- The first article appears in this issue. Contributions by our readers will be received with thanks.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

GOAL BALL.

AN OLD GAME IN A NEW WAY.

By Gborge B. Mullison, Philadelphia, Pa.

The interest a child displays in a game is in direct proportion to the skill which may be required; that is, the more difficult the game the greater the interest.

A game should supply a physiological need. It should supply exercise that will develop the musculature, that will co-ordinate the system of muscles with the higher senses and that will bring in use to the greatest degree the precentral motor area of the cortex; in a word, it necessitates what will develop the neuro-muscular activity of. the organism and correlate this with the governing centers of the brain.

All of our popular national games have these characteristics. Baseball, basketball, tennis, handball, football, etc., require the exercise of the muscles, the co-ordination of the muscle system and the exercise of the special senses. There is a tremendous expenditure of nervous energy. The arms, legs, body, eyes and ears must all be used, all must work harmoniously, and all must be co-ordinated by the control of the higher centers.

Rarely is a new game invented. It may be new to you or it may simulate some game that you know, but it has undoubtedly been played somewhere even though in a modified form. Goal ball is in the evolutionary stage in the Philadelphia public schools, and much remains to be learned. It is a combination of basketball and soccer. It is especially adaptable to school yards and to cold weather with the additional advantage that it may be played with large or small numbers with the same degree of interest.

Little is required in the way of lines. The absolutely necessary ones are the goals and goal-keeper’s space—described hereafter—while the others only facilitate the duties of the referee. Two posts (or perpendicular.lines on a fence will answer) are placed six feet apart and six feet high at each end of the playing space (Diagram, a). A rope or bar is placed across the top of these posts (Diagram, b). This constitutes the goal (G). With the

Digitized by CjOOQle
Field of Play 6000 to 30000 square feet.

line connecting the base of these posts as a base line, a square is marked out towards the middle of the field, which necessarily must be six feet square. This constitutes the goal-keeper’s space (K). A circle, eighteen inches in diameter, is placed in the middle of the field (O) and another concentric to this with a diameter of twenty feet (20 ft.) (C). A line six feet long is placed parallel to near edge of goal-keeper’s space and fifteen feet away as a free throw line (F). From the center of this line a circle twenty feet in diameter is marked (M) and an alley-way laid out from the free throw line to the near edge of goal keeper’s space (N).

(All of these twenty-foot circles and alley-way are not necessary except in regulation of games.)

The playing space may be any size or shape. It is immaterial whether it is 6,000 square feet or 10,000 square yards, only the smaller the space the less should be the number of players.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-346-

The players are divided into equal sides. A dodgeball or basketball is placed in the small central circle. One player from each side, with no other players nearer than ten feet, stamp with one foot toeing the 18-inch circle and at a given signal seize the ball. The ball is advanced toward the goal by passing, a score being made when it is thrown between the goalposts and under the crosspiece. There should be two halves with a change of goals.

The following rules are suggested, though they may have to be changed with the evolution of the game.

(1)	There shall be one goal-keeper for each side, who is the only one who may enter the goal-keeper’s space, though he is not compelled to stay there. If any one of those defending the goal except the goal-keeper shall enter this space, the ball shall be given to the other side, five yards away, for a free throw. If any part of the body of one of the aggressive team enters this space, the goal, if made, shall not count and the goal-keeper shall throw the ball out with no one nearer than 10 feet.

(2)	Running with or advancing the ball by oneself is prohibited and in such case the ball shall be given to a player of the opposite side with no one nearer than 10 feet.

(3)	Kicking the ball, holding, tripping, pushing and any unnecessary roughness shall be penalized in the same way as advancing with the ball (See 2).

(4)	A free throw consists of a trial for a goal, at a distance of five yards from the near edge of the goal-keeper’s space, with no one nearer than 10 feet and no one in the alley-way between the goal-keeper and the one making the throw.

(5)	There are no out of bounds, and the play shall only be stopped as in above mentioned cases and after scoring, in which case it shall be put in play at the center.

(6)	One official is all that is necessary in a small field, though two may be an advantage when a large field is to be covered.

Geo. B. Mullison.

—“Can You Take a Ram} Eggf” “Never,” you shudder. But you can, and it is an accomplishment that everyone should have, for eggs taken raw are invaluable at times. Several years ago, when the idea was first introduced,- it seemed barbarous to many people, like eating raw meat, and only a step from cannibalism. But the athletes and the invalids together blazed the way, until there are now hundreds of persons who eat their eggs that way from preference. Certainly there is no doubt that they atfe better so, as coagulated albumen, which is the white of the egg cooked hard, is one of the most difficult things the human stomach is ever called upon to digest. If the egg is broken whole into a Small wine glass and a few drops of fresh lemon juice squeezed over it, it may be swallowed as easily as a raw oyster. Try not to break the yolk in the mouth, because it is this which has the unpleasant flavor. If the egg is thrown into the mouth so that it strikes the base of the tongue, it will go down of its own accord. Never take the egg into the front part of the mouth, as it is almost certain to break in getting itself swallowed.—“The Fresh Air Magazine,” Philadelphia.

gitized by CaOOQle
4

-347-

BOSTON’S MUNICIPAL GYMNASIUMS.

By Everett B. Mero.

Although Boston has municipal indoor.gymnasiums not duplicated in number or efficiency by any in the world, comparatively few citizens appreciate this fact* Six institutions are now .devoted exclusively to physical welfare; and soon two model new buildings will be added—at East Boston in January to mark the birthplace of the municipal gymnasium idea in America, and at Jamaica Plain next June, when a former structure will have been rebuilt. Two others are planned but not started—one on Blossom street in the West End and one in Charlestown. For the latter, money has been provided but work is delayed. A new gymnasium is also planned for Ward 15 in South Boston.

No other city can offer a list of such length or show service so great as centers about the Boston free public gymnasiums, unless Chicago be the exception. That city has more of such gymnasiums than Boston is likely to have for many years, and the recreation system of which they are vitally important parts, produce greater returns than the gymnasium of Boston can hope to equal under present arrangements, even if the number were the same.

The difference is one of fundamental, policy which ’rests upon the conception of what is proper recreation service by a city. Shall it be through several unrelated agencies following various policies, some good and some bad, as in Boston? Or shall it be through systematic arrangement of gymnasiums, playgrounds, dancing halls, athletic fields, swimming facilities, means for social Welfare and civic eduction, all under intelligent supervision that springs from a central administration, which is the method favored in Chicago and in other progreefciy^eities ?

So far as the gymnasiutns go there is no room to question their value. They give ample returns for ev^sy dollar spent on them. . The individual use of the gymnasiums and baths is probably more than the use of all the 25 to 30 playgrounds of the city iq which supervision is given or attempted. The baths are a feature of the municipal gymnasiums having separate importance in the scheme of public welfare provisions. As a matter of fact, a number of the gymnasiums are more often referred to, officially at least, as baths than as gymnasiums. Botf\ work together.

The .service is operated under careful supervision, local and general. The city- has not created these recreation centers and. left them to run themselves, as has been the too frequent policy, with playgrounds. Erratic administration '“higher up”‘has been the main trouble in this department.

Medical supervision is an important feature from a hygienic point of view. This has been developed to a state where all applicants for use of the various gymnasiums are provided iwith medical examination and advice on methods of right living for efficiency. This part of the work has been developed by Dr. William R. Woodbury and.staff, until not even the Chicago recreation centers nor any others can show anything like the same personal oversight and provision for the well being of individuals.	*

Civil service instruction and practice is another important part of the work of the public gymnasiums. Many of the policemen and firemen going into these departments of city service pass through the public gymnasiums.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-848- •

The improvement in physique of applicants for these positions since this system has been in efficient operation has been very marked.

The gymnasiums also serve as preliminary training schools for volunteer leaders, who devote time and energy to the service of the city and their fellow men while getting personal benefit and pleasure, with a hope of some day becoming paid instructors in the gymnasiums.

It is worth while mentioning that the men, women and children who make use of the city’s gymnasiums, who “wiggle their arms and legs about” and use the various apparatus that make possible all-round development for personal welfare and good health, do so because they like to. It is just as much play for them, it gives them just as much pleasure, as if they were playing games in a playground. If this were not so, why should the youngster and the grown-ups keep using the gymnasiums? They don’t have to. Everything is run, in a sense, on a “do as you like” principle. AH citizens who comply with the few necessary rules are free to use the gymnasiums as desired, and they do so practically to the limit of capacity. If one of the early parts of the general plan, of which only a little has been carried out, ever becomes possible, there will be a gymnasium run by the city in each ward, which will be not only a place for physical exercise and cleanliness, but also a neighborhood social center.

The municipal gymnasium and baths are conducted by the Bath Department. The department also has charge of bathing beaches and floating baths in summer. The total attendance at all these institutions is. over

2,000,000 a year. The present head of the department is Richard M. Walsh. Hugh C. MpGrath is general superintendent. The trustees, serving without pay, are Francis M. Carroll, Mrs. Agnes C. Bulger, James W. McLaughlin and Chairman Walsh.

Some of the good points in the doings of the department are thus indicated by one of the gymnasium directors, Henry A. Higgins:

“In view of the haphazard manner in which the department has been developed, one may well marvel at the well-ordered methods and system with which it cares for the physical education and recreation of men, women and children. One beach, for instance, on a hot day, accommodates more people than may be seen on all the playgrounds of the entire city.'

“All the beaches, together with floating bath houses, are open for use during the entire summer season and hundreds of thousands of the city’s population derive from use of them all ^he advantages of bodily exercise, personal cleanliness and wholesome recreation. Instructors give free instruction. It is undoubtedly due to this fact that few cities in the world can point to as many children who can swim as are found in the city of Boston. Hundreds of children have been taught not only to swim, but have been coached in the methods of rendering aid to others.

“The three summer months suffice to reap all these advantages. But during the entire year the indoor baths and gymnasiums are doing their noble work. The system has become so (elaborate that practically all the big residential districts are provided for.

“All these agencies are centers from which health and cleanliness radiate every day in the year. In them thousands bathe and take some form of regular, systematic physical exercise. There are hours specially set aside for men, women and children, and all have their organized classes. Two days are for

Digitized by v^ooQle
-349-

men, two for women and girls and two for boys. General public bathing and gymnastic classes are conducted simultaneously.

“The most successful of all these places, from the viewpoint of attendance, is the Columbia Road gymnasium and baths. Here four classes a week for women have an aggregate attendance of 800. There are two classes of meri, 250 each, and four classes of children aggregating close to 1,000. In addition to this there is the bathing attendance in the shower baths and the swimming tank.

“The D Street Gymnasium, South Boston, in point of attendance, comes close to Columbia Road, with Cabot Street Gymnasium and that of North Bennet Street closely following. At the two South End gymnasiums the classes are smaller because these buildings are small, old and out-dated and cannot accommodate the people who apply.

“In point of high bathing attendance, the North Bennet Street Gymnasium easily leads. This building is located in the thickly settled section of the North End, where little or no bathing facilities exist in the homes. From 300 to 1,200 people bathe here every day. The house has a record of having handled 1,800 in one day. The Dover street bath house, which has no gymnasium, ranks next to the North Bennet Street building. This house, too, is located in a thickly settled section of the city where bath tubs are scarce. Sixteen hundred persons are said to have bathed there in one day.”

THE OBLIGATORY EXERCISES ON THE HORSE FOR GERMAN GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS FROM 1880 TO 1908.

Translated by Carl O. Hibrholzer. Military Institute, Bordentown, N.J.*

FRANKFURT.

1.	From the side-stand frontways, straddle vault to a balance-rest (fig. 46) holding the legs forward horizontally, squat backward to the front-rest, feint and make one whole circle left with the left leg, feint left with both — legs and double rear vault to a cross-stand.

2.	Long Horse. Giant leap (Fig. 52). Keep the legs together as long as possible. Height of horse 150 centimeters, distance of the beat-board from the horse, 1 meter.

DRESDEN.

1.	Run and jump to a free rest frontways on the pommels, hold it as a lever from 4 to 5 seconds, slowly squat through forward to the balance-rest (Fig. 46), holding the legs forward horizontally, lower the legs to the rest rearways and circle the left leg left, then the right leg right, then circle both legs right and jump off to a sidestand rearways.

2.	Long Horse. Giant Leap (Fig. 52). Place the hands on the neck of the horse in making the leap. Keep the legs together as long as possible. Height of horse, 130 centimeters. Distance of the beat-board from the horse,

1 meter.

MUNICH.

1.	Feint with the left leg, feint right with both legs, circle both legs

* Translators Note. In order to make these figures used more easily understood, the reader is referred to the “Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises,” by L. Purity. Figures occurring in .the translation refer to the illustrations in that book.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-350-

right to a rest frontways, one half right circle, with the left leg and scissors-right sideward and then left sideward to a balance rest over the left pommel,-left hand between the legs and the legs held horizontally, circle backward the left leg and rear vault left to a cross-stand.

2.	Long Horse. Giant Leap (Fig. 52), but with the hands placed on the croup; a cone-shaped felt hat .40 meter high shall be placed in the saddle. Height of horse 130 centimeters. Distance of the beat-board from the horse,

1 meter.

BRUSSELS.

1.	Flank vault swing left to the rest rearways, circle the right leg right and then flank vault swing right to the rest frontways, one half circle right with the left leg and scissors right and left, one half circle backward with the left leg then a rear vault passing over the croup and neck to a crossstand.

2.	Long Horse. Squat Vault. Height of horse, 130 centimeters. Distance of the beat-board from the horse, 1 meter.

HAMBURG.

1.	From the rest frontways, half circle right with the left leg, one half circle left with the right leg to the rest rearways, flank vault swing left to the rest frontways, one half circle left with the right leg, raise the left leg over the neck to a balance rest over the left pommel, legs held horizontally, circle the right leg backward over the croup, continue the swing over the neck to a feint left with both legs, swing both legs backward and make one-flank .vault circle to the rest frontways, one half circle left with the right leg and scissors left, one half circle left with the right leg over the croup to-the balance rest on the right pommel. Circle backward with the left leg and rear vault left over the croup to a cross-stand.

2.	Long Horse. Giant Leap with a half turn on the long axis of the body. (Giant straddle vault with a half turn.)

NtJRNBERG.

1.	From the rest frontways, feint left, circle the left leg left, then feint right with both legs, circle both legs right to the rest frontways, one-half circle right with the left.leg and scissors right and left, one-half circle right with the left leg, then feint with both legs and circle both legs left to the rest frontways, the needle right with a three-quarter turn left to the riding seat: in the saddle (Fig. 50) ; reverse (under) grasp on the rear pommel and lever on both elbows, dismount to a cross-stand at the end of the horse by rolling over forward resting the right shoulder on the croup.

2. Long Horse. Giant Leap. Placing the hands on the neck of the horse. Height of horse, 1.50 meter. Distance of .{he beat-board from the horse, 1 meter.	,

FRANKFORT. ;7	*

1.	With a run, jump to a free rest frontways; squat through forward

to a balance rest, legs held horizontally, squat through backward swinging the legs and body up high, lower to the rest frontways; feint .with the right leg, circle the right leg right to the rest frontways, then circle both legs right; feint left with both legs and circle both legs leftfoljowed immediately by a rear vault passing over the croup and neck. (The‘right hand rests in the neck.)	^	.)#.! c'ioJr.

2.	Long Horse. Giant Leap. Keep thegteg*? str-aight, the legs straight:

vr r
-351-

and held together. Place the hands on the neck of the horse. Between the beat-board and the horse a buck should be placed crosswise and touching the horse. Height of the apparatus, 1.35 meters; distance of the board from the horse, 1.30 meters.

FIELD DAY OF THE ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Saturday, May 21st, 1910.

Indian Club Exercises for Pupils of Grades VII ano VIII.

Music:—March, % Time. ,

An introduction of 8 beats will precede the exercises and an interlude of 16 beats will be played between the parts, during which the pupils remain in the starting position.

PART ONE.

First Exercise.

a) Raise clubs sideward obliquely downward, march forward three steps

and close heels at four............................................   1-4

b)	Raise clubs sideward obliquely upward, mark time and face left about ...	5-8

c) as a), and d) as b), at 16 clubs are lowered ........................... 9-16

e) to h) Repeat a)-d) facing right about................................   17-32

Second Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs horizontally forward and stride left- forward............... 1-2

b)	Swing clubs down and backward on right side, turn trunk right and

bend left knee................................................        3-4

c)	and d), Return movements..............................................   5-8

e)-h) Repeat to right.....:..............................................   9-16

i) Raise left club horizontally forward............ ...................... 17-18

kl Swing a complete straight arm circle forward twice..................... 19-22

l)	Lower club and pause................................................   23-24

m)	—n)-o) Repeat with right.........................................     25-32

Third Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs horizontally sideward and stride left sideward.............. 1-2

b)	Bend arras, left over head, right across back, clubs horizontal, turn head

left and bend left knee.........................................      3-4

c) and d) Return movements...............................................    5-8

e) and h) Repeat opposite................................................   9-16

i> Raise left club horizontally sideward................U................. 17-18

k)	Swing a complete straight arm circle outward twice.,.................. 19-22

l)	Lower club and pause..............................................     23-24

m)	and o) Repeat with right...........................................   25-32

Fourth Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs backward and stride left backward........................... 1-2

b)	. Raise clubs side-upward, cross them at neck of clubs over head and

kneel left................................    .:...................   3-4

c)	and d) Return movements.........................-....................... 5-8

e) and h) Repeat with stride and knee bend right..........................  9-16

i)	Raise left club backward up...................    *..................  17-18

k)	Swing a complete straight arm circle backward twice................... 19-22

l)	Lower club backward and pause......................................... 23-24

m)	and o) Repeat with right............................................  25-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART TWO. <

First E'xERbisE.1; (	;	'

a)	Raise clubs sideward, arms straight, march* forward three steps and

close at four...............................................’.............. 1-4

b)	Cross clubs over head at the neck of clubs, rhark time and face left

about...............................................    ,.......*.......... 5-8

Digitized by {^.ooQle
—382—

c) as a) and d) as b), at 16 clubs lowered.............................. 9-16

e) and h) Repeat a)-d) facing right about.............................. 17-32

Second Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs horizontally forward and lunge left forward.............. 1-2

b)	Swing clubs backward on right side and Tower trunk forward.......... 3-4

c)	and d) Return movements.............................................  5-8

e)—h) Repeat to right. At 16 raise clubs to starting position..........  9-16

i) Arm circle, hand circle, arm circle forward left and return to starting

position......................................................  17-20

k) the same as i) with right........................................... 21-24

1) and m) swing both clubs with arm circle on side of body and hand

circle in front left and right.................................

(At 32 lower clubs.)

Third Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs horizontally sideward and lunge left sideward.........

b)	Bend trunk left sideward..........................................

c)	and d) Return movements...........................................

el and h) Repeat to right. At 16 raise clubs to starting position....

i) Arm circle, band circle, arm circle sideward left and return to starting

position.......................................................

k) the same as i) with right..........................................

IV the same as i) and k) swing both clubs outward twice...............

(At 32 lower clubs.)

Fourth Exercise.

a)	Raise clubs backward and lunge left backward........................

b)	Swing clubs forward up and bend trunk backward....................

c)	and d) Return movements...........................................

e) and b) Repeat lunge backward right. At 16 raise clubs to starting

position.......................................................

}) arm circle left backward to forward position; band circle backward and arm circle backward to starting position.......... ...............

k)	the same as i) with right.........................................

l)	the same as i) and k) with both clubs.............................

PART THREE.

First Exercise.

During the interclude of 16 counts the ends of the clubs are placed under arms at 9.

a) Raise left leg forward ; hop right 1—cut step left 2—raise right leg for-

ward and cut step right............................................ 3-4

b)	Two step left forward ; 5-6, step right forward and turn left about.	5-8

c)	and d) Repeat a) and b).............................................  9-16

e) and h) Repeat a) and d) starting with right and turning right about. 17-32

(At 32 raise clubs to starting position.)

Second Exercise.

a)	Swing clubs backward and lower trunk forward......................     1-2

b)	Swing clubs forward up and bend trunk backward....................     3-4

c)	the same as a), d) straighten trunk and raise clubs to starting position. 5-8

e) and h) Repeat a) and a)..............................................  9-16

i) % double arm circle forward on left side turning trunk left and return 1

double hand circle forward outward with bending arms 2—and arm circle forward to starting position 3-4...............»:!.... 17-20

k)	the same as i) right......................................      ;..	21-24

l)	and m) Repeat i) and k)............................................. 25-32

Third Exercise.

a)	% double arm circle left sideward, left arm in rear and bend trunk left. 1-2

b)	Swing clubs left sideward o^Hquely upward and bend trunk to right.. 3-4

c)	. and d) Return movements....,.,..............................        5-fJ

e) and h) Repeat a) and d) starting to right.................1..——

i) % double arm circle inward to'sjge position. 1—tilt clubs on straight

arms; 2—Double hand circle outward behind arms.................   17-18

1-2

3-4

5-8

9-16

17-20

21-24

25-32

1-2

3-4

5-8

9-16

17-20

21-24

25-32

Digitized by

Google
—353-—

3—Double arm circle downward to side position with arms crossed in

front........................................................... 19-20

k) l)-m) same as i) last time return clubs to starting position......... 21-32

Fourth Exercise.

a)	Double arm circle backward to position upward and bend trunk back-

ward..............................................................  1-2

b)	Swing clubs forward down and backward lowering trunk forward........	3-4

c)	and d) Return movement (return clubs backward to starting	position. 5-8

e)	and h)	Repeat a) and d).............................................. 9-16

i)	Double	arm	circle outward to the upward position twice............. 17-20

k)	Double	arm	circle combined with double hand circle	outward......... 21-22

l)	Double	arm	circle outward to startiug position...................... 23-24

m)	Repeat i)-k)-lj..................................................... 25-32

With the last count place right club on shoulder and lower the left close ranks

and march off the field.

The New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

OUTDOOR ATHUETICS.

The New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics entered on September 14th, the twenty-fifth year of its existence with a good sized enrollment of pupils.

The first four weeks of our fall term were as usual, spent in outdoor sports and athletics at our fields at Silver Sands, where a three period schedule alternating hockey, baseball, soccer, tennis, boating and swimming was carried on by four divisions, daily.

One most interesting feature of this outdoor season, were the long rows of our navy, which has been enlarged to consist now of two canoes, two round bottomed and two flat bottomed boats, up and down the Connecticut coast. Often one division rowed one way and walked back while another walked to the place of destination and rowed back.

CAMPING.

This year a new and enjoyable place was tried in connection with this outdoor work and proved a success. This was camping. Tents, cots, and cooking utensils were added to our possessions, the Senior class was divided into three sections and each section camped for a week at the shore. This camping is a benefit in several ways besides the great pleasure of the free healthy life and we are hoping that soon not only Seniors but the whole school will camp during our Spring and Fall terms.

The athletic season closed with our interclass games which were played on the last three days, the hockey in a pouring rain. These resulted as follows: Hockey : Seniors 0, Juniors 1.—Baseball: Seniors 23, Juniors 13.—Soccer : Seniors 0, Juniors 1.

WALKING.

We continued our outdoor pleasures after the beginning of indoor work by walking. So far we have taken four walks of 9—13 miles each. One, most delightful, was by moonlight on October 18th, to East Rock and from there to the shore where we took a plunge at 11 o’clock in a high roaring surf. We walked back as far as the car line and from there rode home, arriving at 12. Breakfast was late the next morning and our schedule began at 10.30 instead of the usual hour, 8.30.

Our last walk was a jolly one on December 13th, through snow banks to the top of West Rock. It was an ideal day, cold but bright and the tramp of seven miles was completed in two hours and a half.

Now the time has come for ice, our outdoor exercise during these winter months will be skating whenever the weather is favorable.

—Value of Lying Down. Nature takes the time when one is lying down to give the heart a rest, and that organ consequently makes ten strokes less a minute than when one is in an upright posture. Multiplying that by 6o minutes gives 6oo strokes. Therefore in eight hours spent in

Digitized by CjOOQle
-354-

lying down the heart is saved nearly 5000 strokes, and as the heart pumps six ounces of blood with each stroke, it lifts 30,000 ounces less of blood in a night of eight hours in bed than when one is in an upright position. As the blood flows so much more slowly through the veins while one is lying down, extra coverings must then supply the warmth usually furnished by circulation.—“The Fresh Air Magazine,” Philadelphia.

EXCUSES FROM GYMNASTICS IN THE PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By D. M. Fbrd. Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

According to the physicians advices before me, the total number of excuses from gymnastics during the past year were only 82 against 56 last year. Of this number 8 were excused temporarily and 24 permanently. 25 of' the excuses asked for excuses from all forms of physical exercises while 7 pupils were allowed some mild forms especially free exercises.

The following tabulation shows the number excused in each grade, and the number enrolled.

The number excused amounts to only 0.020% of the total average number enrolled. Last year the percentage amounted to 0.036 °/0 or comparatively 1% times as many.

The following tabulation shows the order of excuses by grade in comparison to the percentage.

The causes for the ex-	grade] 1.

O.L	It	O*

cuses varied somewhat	<t *

from those given last 5th «•	4'

year. The causes given were the following :  TABLE OF EXCUSES.			7th  4th  2nd  1st	n  ti  II  II	5.  6.  7.  8.	
PHYSICAL CAUSE FOR EXCUSE.	Total  ex-	Par-  tial	Temp-  orary	Perma-  nent		Total
Appendicitis 		cuse.  3	excuse	excuse.  1	excuse.  1		3
Bronchitis-chronic 	;		1	—	—	1		1
Chorea (St. Vitus Dance)				2	1	1	2		3
Croup-spasmodic		-	1	1	-		1
Deformity and Malformation of Joints 		1	—	-	1		1
Fracture of Arm					1	—	1	-		1
Heart Disease			7	2	2	7		9
Hernia-femoral rupture		-	1	-	1		1
Hip Joint Disease				1	1	-	2		2
Incontinence		—	1	—	1		1
Injury to Hip		1	-	1	-		1
Paralysis-infantile		3	—	—	3		3
Pott’s Disease (tuberculosis of spine)		3	' «- .	-	• 3		3
Rheumatism		1		1	—		1
Weakness 		T	-	-	1		i
Total			25	7	8	24		32

	Average No.	No.
Grade	Enrolled.	Excused.
1.	31586	3
2.	27528	3
3.	26236	8
4.	22541	4
5.	18712	5
6.	14137	5
7.	9434	2
8.	6222	2
	156346	32

Digitized by C.ooQle
-355-

In conclusion I must state that the cards for excuses used this year have been more thoroughly filled out than the sheets were which we used last year. They are more complete and specific.

Sample of Card used*

BOARD OF PUBLIC EDUCATION. OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

Physical Education, Room 694 City Hall.

PHYSICIAN’S CERTIFICATE. EXCUSE FROM GYMNASTICS.

Teachers may temporarily excuse pupils from Gymnastics. Excuses for more -than a few days, as well as permanent excuses will be given by this office only upon approval of the physician’s certificate. Principals will always be notified of the disposition of such cases.

Philadelphia,....................... 191.....

Uame of Pupil..................................Age.........Grade........

Name of School and Teacher..............................................

(Above data is to be filled out by the Principal or Teacher)

Office ( Permanent excuse accepted......Principal	notified.............

Records) Temporary excuse. Keep track of this case and report later.

Signed............................. Date..................191.....

(REVERSE SIDE.)

TO BE FILLED IN BY THE EXAMINING PHYSICIAN.

Date..................................

It is advisable that (name)...............................................

be excused	*rom ^e forms of physical training marked with a

cross (X.) Running (	),	Jumping (	),	Free Exercises (	), Apparatus

Work (	),	Gymnastic	Games	(	).

Please give short diagnosis; constitutional or organic defects.

If temporary, how long, approximately, should this excuse be valid?. Signed.............................. M.	D.	Address..............

EXAMINATION FOR TEACHER OF GYMNASTICS,

Newark, New Jersey, January 14th, 1911.

An examination of candidates for the position of teacher of gymnastics in the public schools of this city will be held at the Hamburg Place school building, Hamburg Place near Ferry Street, on Saturday, January 14th, 1911, beginning at nine a. m.

The written examination will include the following subjects :

1.	General principles of anatomy, physiology and hygiene.

2.	Theory and practice of physical training.

Candidates who have been graduated from a professional training school in physical training, whose professional course covers a period of not less than two years, may be exempted from the written examination, provided, such candidates hold also a diploma from an approved four years’ high school course, or present evidence of scholarship equivalent to that covered by such a diploma.

Important. Only candidates possessing a diploma from an approved four

Digitized by LaOOQle
-356-

years’ high school course, or candidates presenting evidence of academic training' equivalent to that covered by such a diploma, shall be considered eligible to take the examination.

An oral examination will be given at the same and place.

The examination will be open to men and women.

The salary schedule for the position of teacher of physical training is :

High	school head teacher, male $1500 to $2500 per	annum.

“	“	“ “ female 1200 to	1800	“

“	“	assistant,	male	1200 to	2000	“	“

“	“	“	female	900 to	1500	“

Grammar school teacher, male 1000 to 1700	“	“

Candidates will be rated upon the following basis : Written examination, 50 per cent; oral examination (experience 25 per cent, fitness 25 per cent) 50 per cent; total LOO per cent. A rating of not less than 37Y2 per cent in each of the examinations is required.

Candidates who wish to take this examination should communicate at once with E. K. Sexton, Secretary of the Board of Examiners, City Hall. Blanks on which to make formal application can be had upon request.

A. B. Poland, City Superintendent.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—Pittsburg University is to have a new Stadium and an athletic field. The field is to be laid out, the Stadium built and presented to the university in time for use at the opening of the university next fall. No specified amount is fixed but it is said that the gift will amount to several hundred thousand dollars. The gift is made by J. C. Trees, an alumnus of the university.

—At the annual meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union the following officers were unanimously elected:	President,	Everett	C.	Brown,	Chicago

A. A.; Secretary-Treasurer, James E. Sullivan, New York; Vice Presidents, A, J. Lill, Jr., Boston; J. J. O’Connor, St. Louis; T. Morris Dunne, Portland, Ore.; George F. Pawling, Philadelphia.

Cleveland, Ohio, has asked for the privilege of holding the' Olympic Games in 1916 within its limits. Judging by the enthusiasm with which this request was received it seems certain that Cleveland will be selected.

—The following records were accepted by the A. A. U.:

RUNNING RECORDS.

Sixty Yards, Indoor—06 2-5, W. J. Keating, Albany, N. Y., Feb. 8, 1910; 06 2-5, R. Cloughen, New York City, Jan. 28, 1910.

Ninety Yards, Indoor—09 2-5; E. A. Frey, New York City, May 2, 1910.

One Hundred and Twenty-five Yards—12 2-5, F. Ramsdell, Celtic Park, New York, May 30, 1910.

One Hundred and Ten Yards—10 4-5, R. Cloughen, Celtic Park, New York, Sept. 5, 1910.

Seventy Yards, Indoor—07 1-5, J. J. Archer, New York City, Feb. 5,. 1910; R. Cloughen, New York City, Feb. 5, 1910.

Two Hundred and Twenty Yards—21 1-5, R. C. Craig, Philadelphia, Pa., May 28, 1910.

A

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—857-

Five Hundred Yards—57 3-5, M. W. Sheppard, Aug. 14, 1910.

Five Hundred and Fifty Yards—1:04, M. W. Sheppard, August 14, 1910.

Five Hundred and Fifty Yards—1:05, M. W. Sheppard, June 27, 1910.

Six Hundred Yards—1:10 4-5, M. W. Sheppard, Aug. 14, 1910.

Six Hundred and Sixty Yards—1 :21 2-5, M. W. Sheppard, May 30, 1910.

Seven Hundred Yards—1:26 4-5, M. W. Sheppard, May 30, 1910, all made at Celtic Park.

Eight Hundred Yards—1 :43 3-5; M. W. Sheppard, Poughkeepsie, N Y., Aug. 23, 1910. Race track.

Nine Hundred Yards—1:57 1-5, M. W. Sheppard, Aug. 7, 1910.

Two-thirds Mile—2:45 2-5, M. W. Sheppard, July 31, 1910.

1,000	Yards—2:12 2-5, M. M. Sheppard, July 17, 1910, all made at Celtic Park.

Two-thirds Mile—2:44 2-5, M. W. Sheppard, race track, Newark, N. J., Aug. 20, 1910.

Two and One-half Miles, Indoor—12:08 1-5; Jan. 29, 1910.

Three Miles, Indoor—14:29 2-5; Jan. 29, 1910.

One and Three-quarters Miles, Indoor—8:10 3-5; Feb. 26, 1910.

Two Miles, Indoor—9:14 1-5, George V. Bonhag, Feb. 26, 1910, all made at Buffalo.

Two Miles—9:26 3-5, T. S. Berna, Ithaca, N. Y., May 7, 1910.

Four Miles, Indoor—19:39 4-5, George V. Bonhag, New York City, Feb. 5, 1910.

Four Miles—20:11. Four and One-Half Miles—22:43 1-5. Five Miles—25:09 1-5, George V. Bonhag; all made at Travers Island, Sept. 10, 1910.

Ten and One-half Miles—58:02. Eleven Miles—1:00:56 1-5. Eleven and One-half Miles—1:03:53. Twelve Miles—1:06:50 3-5. Twelve and One-half Miles—1:09:48 4-5. Thirteen Miles—1:12:49 3-5. Thirteen and One-half Miles—1:15:514-5. Fourteen Miles—1:18:56 3-5. Fourteen and One-half Miles—1:22:05 4-5. Fifteen Miles—1:25:15. Fifteen and One-half Miles—1:28:33. Sixteen Miles—1:31:49. Sixteen and One-half Miles—1:35 :12 3-5. Seventeen Miles—1:38:37.1-5 ; all made by J. F. Crowley, Celtic Park, Nov. 14, 1909.

Seventeen and One-half Miles— 1:42:08. Eighteen Miles — 1:45:114-5. Eighteen and One-half Miles—1:48:22 2-5. Eighteen Miles —1:51:41 4-5. Nineteen and One-half Miles—1:55 :03. Twenty Miles— 1:58:27 3-5; all made by James Clark, Celtic Park, Nov. 14, 1909.

HURDLE RACING RECORDS.

Forty Yards, Low—0:05, T. N. Richards, Lafayette, Ind., Feb. 19, 1910.

Forty Yards, Low—0:05, T. N. Richards, Lafayette, Ind., Feb. 19, 1910.

Seventy Yards, Low—0:07 2-5, J. J. Eller, New York City, Feb. 5, 1910.

Seventy-five Yards, Low—0:09 2-5, Roger Bacon, New York Citv, Sept. 17, 1910.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-358-

Equaled same day by Bob Eller, New York City, Sept. 17, 1910; J. J„ Eller, New York City, Sept. 17, 1910.

*Four Hundred and Forty Yards, 20 Low Hurdles—1:00, C. J. Baconr Brooklyn, N. Y., July 3, 1910.

One-fifth Mile, Low—0:43 3-5, C. J. Bacon, Celtic Park, N. Y., June

25,	1910.

JUMPING RECORDS.

Running Hop, Step, and Jump—49 ft. 7 3-8 in., D. F. Ahearne, Celtic Park, N. Y., May 30, 1910.

^Standing Hop, Step and Jump, Indoor—32 ft. 8 in., Platt Adams, Newark, N. J., Nov. 25, 1909.

VAULTING RECORDS.

Pole Vault for Height—12 feet 10 7-8 inches, Leland S. Scott, Stanford, Cal., May 27, 1910.

Pole Vault for Distance, Indoor—28 feet 2 inches, Platt Adams, Madison Square Garden, New York City, Oct. 31, 1910.

SHOT PUTTING RECORD.

42-Pound Stone With Follow—27 ft. 1-2 in., M. J. Sheridan, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 28, 1909.

THROWING WEIGHTS RECORDS.

*56-Pound Weight for Height—16 ft. 6 1-4 in. M. J. McGrath, Chicago, 111., Aug. 28, 1910.

56-Pound Weight for Height—16 ft. 6 3-16 in., Con. Walsh, Travers Island, N. Y., Sept. 24, 1910.

56-Pound Weight from Stand—33 ft. 1 in., M. J. McGrath, Travers Island, N. Y., Sept. 24, 1910.

WALKING RECORD.

*One Mile—6:29 1-5 (indoor), G. H. Goulding, Buffalo, N. Y., Feb.

26,	1910.

RELAY RACING RECORDS.

Two Thousand Four Hundred Yard Relay (Indoor)—5:06 1-5, Irish-American A. C. team (J. Bromlow, W. C. Robbins, A. R. Kiviat, H. Schaaf), New York City, Feb. 5, 1910.

Two-Mile Relay—7:53, Irish-American A. C. team (Riley, J. Bromlow, M. W. Sheppard, A. R. Kiviat), Celtic Park, N. Y., Sept. 5, 1910. THREE-LEGGED RECORD. *

Ninety Yards, Indoor—0:10 1-5, W. J. Keating and W. Slade, New York City, May 2, 1910.

DUMBBELLS.

^Pushing up one dumbbell weighing 104 pounds 18 times, with one hand, from shoulder to full arm length above the shoulder, George Tsam-biras, New York City, March 19, 1910.

WALL SCALING RECORD.

One Hundred Yards, Wall Scaling—0:35 4-5, Second Division Naval Militia, C. N. G. team (A. L. Perkins, W. C. Roberts, H. L. Treat, F. Loveland, Jr., W. E. House, E. V. Hedlund, W. J. Goltra, J. C. Comstock). 25 yards run to 10-foot wall, 25 yards and return, 25 yards to and over wall, then 25 yards to finish. Hartford, Conn., Feb. 21, 1910.

JAVELIN RECORD.

Throwing the Javelin—163 ft. 1 in., B. Brodd, New Orleans, La., Oct* 15, 1910.

\

Digitized by CjOOQle
-359-

Hose Carriage Race, Ten-Men Team—Run 200 yards from standing start, lay 100 feet hose, break coupling, affix nozzle, and show water; 0:44, Uniontown Hose Company, No. 2 team, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y., Aug. 27, 1910.

*Medley Relay Race (Indoor)—7:412-5, All Toronto team (C. L. Watson, 220 yards; M. J. Folinsbee, 440 yards; G. M. Brock, 880 yards; J. L. Tait, 1 mile), Buffalo, N. Y., Nov. 14, 1910.

*A11 records marked thus are subject to further investigation.

SWIMMING RECORDS.

Fifty Yards, Bath, Two Turns—0:242-5, C. M. Daniels, Chicago,

111.,	April 6, 1910.

One Hundred Yards, Bath, Four Turns—0:54 4-5, C. M. Daniels, Chicago, 111., April 7, 1910.

One Hundred Meters, Bath, Four Turns—1:02 4-5, C. M. Daniels, New York City, April 15, 1910.

Two Hundred Yards, Bath, Seven Turns—2:14, C. M. Daniels, New York City, March 5, 1910.

Two Hundred and Fifty Yards, Bath, Nine Turns—2:55 3-5. Three Hundred Yards, Bath, Eleven Turns—3:35 4-5. Three Hundred Meters, Bath, Thirteen Turns—3:57 3-5. Three Hundred and Fifty Yards, Bath, Thirteen Turns—4:17, C. M. Daniels, New York City; all made March 4, 1910.

BACK STROKE.

One Hundred Yards, Bath, Three Turns—1:12. One Hundred and Fifty Yards, Bath, Five Turns, 1:56 2-5. H. J. Hebner, St. Louis, Mo.; both made April 9, 1910.

RELAY RACING.

Two Hundred Yards, Four Men, Fifty Yards Each (25 yards bath)— 1:45, New York Athletic Club (George South, 0:26 2-5 C. D. Trubenbach, 0:27; N. Nerich, 0:26 2-5, and C. M. Daniels, 0:25 1-5), New York City, April 15.

Two Hundred Yards, Six Men, Fifty Yards Each (25 yards bath)— 2:42 1-5, New York Athletic Club (above and L. B. Goodwin, 0:28 3-5, and J. A. Ruddy, 0:28 3-5), New York City, April 15.

Four Hundred Yards, Four Men, One Hundred Yards Each (20 yards bath)—1:00 2-5, New York Athletic Club (George South, 1:01 3-5; C. D. Trubenbach, 1:03 3-5; N. Nerich, 1:00, and C. M. Daniels, 0:55 1-5), New York City, April 11, 1910.

Five Hundred Yards, Five Men, One Hundred Yards Each (20 yards bath)—5:02 3-5, New York Athletic Club (above and L. B. Goodwin, 1:02 1-5 )„ New York City, April 11.

<* __________________________

—The International Olympic Committee has definitely decided to hold the next Olympic Games at Stockholm, Sweden, in 1912. The following branches of sport will be included: Athletics, cycling (road race), fencing, gymnastics, swimming, wrestling, horse display, lawn tennis, shooting, yachting and probably football and rowing.

The method of selecting an American team will in all probability be the same as in previous years. Try-outs will be held on the Coast, Central West, South, and in the vicinity of New York, Boston and Philadelphia.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—3B0—

—At a recent meeting of the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Gymnasts, March 20, 1911, was set for the annual intercollegiate meet in the Yale gymnasium.

The question of how many times a member of a team could compete in the intercollegiates and also in dual meets resulted in considerable discussion. It was finally voted to recommend that a man could compete but four times in the intercollegiates and the same for the dual meets. This changes the rule for the dual meets, it formerly being possible for the men to enter as many dual meets as their college would let them.

—The players in the recent Harvard and Yale football game were in actual motion only a trifle more than three minutes in each of the four fifteen minute periods, according to a correspondent of the Harvard Bulletin, who held a stop watch at the game. It was also ascertained that there was an average of twenty-one minutes’ actual rest in each period.

The correspondent claims that there was less than fifteen minutes of running and wrestling stretched over two hours of play, and that the game is far less exhausting than a boat race, which calls for sustained effort for more than twenty minutes.

—That the new football as worked out during the season just closed has made the game more interesting to players and spectators alike is the general opinion expressed by the members of most of the great teams. The great majority believes that the new rules have made the game less dangerous and all agree that it furnishes greater opportunity for headwork on the field. Capt. F. J. Daly says:

“I think the new rules put a greater premium on speed and brains than the old rules. They give a better opportunity for the individual to show himself. On the whole they are very beneficial, having accomplished the purpose of the Rules Committee to a very great extent.”

BOOK REVIEW.

—TWENTY YEARS AT HULL HOUSE, by Jane Addams. 462 pages, 5*^ by 8 inches. Published by The Macmillan Company, New York. Mailing price, $2.75.

This is in no sense a guide book to settlement work, or a recipe for clubs and classes. It is the life story of Jane Addams.

With that clearness and gentleness which characterize all of Miss Addams’ writing, but with those stirring forces in reserve which reveal themselves in the mintage of every phrase, she has set down in one volume the story of her life, the history of Hull House, and her conception of the philosophy of social progress.

Now that all societies and schools are judged by their efficiency as social agencies in their communities, the trials and tribulations, the hopes and victories of Miss Addams will be a guide to every one interested or actively engaged in work undertaken for the welfare of the community. The book is highly recommended. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by v^oogle