MIND AND BODY

lVol. 4	NOVEMBER, 1934	No.	423

Physical Education Meets Problems of the New America

James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National

Recreation Association

The definite responsibilities for school physical education are:—

1.	To develop organic strength and capacity. The human body or machine must be made fit and have the organic vigor and strength to do. The physical organism must be prepared to act and to react to life situations and meet the needs that demand a strong, vigorous body.

2.	To have the organic power is not enough. We must in the second place train this strong, able body to have the intelligence and desire to take care of itself. Many individuals destroy their healthful bodies throgh improper health habits. That is, we should do everything to help the human body and nothing to injure its physical abilities. Boys and girls must be trained in health education for wholesome living. They must not only have the knowledge, but also definite habits which they will carry on through their growing years.

3.	To have a strong body and to have health knowledge is not..sufficient. There is the other great necessity for the development of motor-abilities and physical control through the cultivation of neuro-muscular skills. We can have a strong body and live well and yet would not be able to jump, to leap, vault, to throw or climb because of a lack of training in neuro-muscular skills. That is, in physical education we must train the body to be able to act, as in mental education we train the mind to think. So we must in our activities expose boys and girls to many forms of physical activities that give power in the control of the bodies. Training of nemo-muscular skills is of great importance. For instance, as games are valuable in the elementary grades, and relays and individual tests in the intermediate schools, so tumbling is of great value during the pre-progressive years of the junior high school.

4.	And yet the above three steps are not sufficient. We come now to a very important factor which is vitally necessary and one that is largely neglected. It explains why American adults do not continue their physical education. It has much to do with the maintenance of power. There are two things we

Digitized by v^.ooQle
146

must do in physical education. [1] I*1 youth we must give and build for power, and [2] in adult life we must maintain that power. We have been weak in the performance of the second task. In Europe, through the Tumvereins and Sokols and other adult physical education organizations, grown folks pursue actively their interests in sports and adult living. For instance, Germany has not many men who can pole vault over 14 feet, but at one recent secondary meet there were over eight thousand laymen who could vault over 9 feet. That is, we must do everything to develop play interests and habits that will be carried over into recreational hobbies and avocations. Boys and girls must in their school days be exposed to many recreational forms of expression that bring satisfaction. We like to do those things that we do well. We do well those things in which we have skill and we get satisfaction and enjoyment in doing things well. Man is a skill hungry animal, but not only is it necessary for us to give him skills in youth, but we must also engender great abiding interests that compel adults to carry on. The reason why adults stop carrying on their recreational activities is that they lack a great inner urge. Enjoyment comes in doing something in which we are greatly interested. The adults that I know who continue to camp, to hike, to play tennis, to swim, and to carry on are those who have within a deep interest and find satisfaction in the doing.

6.	Then we must definitely train for citizenship and sports which offer us a great opportunity. Unfortunately, however, too often we have basketball for basketball sake and not basketball for sportsmanship sake. Basketball can be a tool of learning as much as spelling for literature. The over emphasis on the “win” in sports ofttimes defeats the great educational implications. Character cannot be trained through lip service by singing the Star Spangled Banner or reciting any ethical code. It is a thing of doing. To youth sports represent life situations in which the player must play the part of being a bad or a good sport. That is, we should use our sports to build power in character.

In summary, there are five great powers that physical education as a way of education can formally and informally train and prepare for:—

1. Build organic fitness for today and tomorrow through activities definitely selected to build strength, vigor and capacity.

,	2.	Inculcating	health	habits	for	today	and tomorrow by not

' only giving the knowledge, but by providing ways and means for wholesome living in practice.

3.	By developing physical abilities and controls; by providing a wide, rich program of many activities that develop neuromuscular skills.

4.	By generating within the hearts of boys and girls recreational habits and interests that they will carry over into their adult hobbies and avocations.

Digitized by kjOOQle
147

5.	By definitely training for behavior through sportsmanship and in this way build for character and better citizenship.

National Standards of Achievement for Girls Being Established in Physical Education

Activities

By Grover W. Mueller

School authorities, interested in the development of the physical education program, have recognized for a long time the need of acceptable standards of achievement in the activity program. In the past ten years, particularly, a wide range of achievement tests in physical education has come into use in the elementaryr and secondary schools. These tests have been largely developed in local situations. They are outcomes, primarily, of local needs and experimentations and as such they have served a very definite need and purpose. Their value, however, is limited because they are not constructed upon, nor do they include, the findings of an adequate statistical study of national scope.

A study, on a very large and extensive scale, is now being made to establish standards of achievement for girls. A committee of women, selected for their contributions to physical education in this country, is now at work on this study, under the auspices of the National Recreation Association and with the cooperation of the Society of State Directors of Physical Education. Standards for boys were set up two years ago by the National Recreation Association at the request of the Society of State Directors of Health and Physical Education. At that time a committee of nationally known men in the field of physical education cooperated with the two organizations actively engaged in the formation of the standards.

The performance of about 15Q,000 girls has been measured and scored. These records were secured from all parts of the United States, and represent a complete cross section of the school population in this country. In those states where there is a state director of health or physical education, the state supervisor selected twenty schools, classified according to enrollment. States where there is no state supervisor were contacted through persons well known in the field of physical education.

The women’s committee selected fifty-two different activities which are common in the physical education program. The choice of activities, in which skills are being studied, was determined by certain considerations:

1.	Activities must involve fundamental body movements.

2.	Activities must involve many different body coordinations.

3.	Activities which are usable in many types of situations.

4.	Activities suitable for areas of dense population and for less dense areas.

Digitized by v^ooQle
148

5.	Activities which can be used as test elements.

6.	Activities which can be treated to relatively objective measurement.

7.	Activities which are a challenge to the girl because of their probable interest.

Four classifications of activity have been made to facilitate handling the data. The activities have been listed under game skills, self-testing activities, individual athletic activities, and water activities. Tabulation of the data has presented a tremendous problem. The size of the task may be realized from the fact that a conservative estimate shows that the tabulation of frequency tables alone took 1944 hours for four men working on an eight hour day.

The data has been divided into four types for statistical treatment. 1, those events measured and scored in time units; 2, those events measured in distance units; 3, success or failure scores, and 4, the number of successful efforts in a given number of trials.

One of the factors taken into consideration in arranging the data for tabulation purposes is the geographical distribution of scores. The United States Census classification of states was used for this purpose, which makes nine geographical divisions. On the basis of population each district will contribute its share of scores in the final tabulations. Other factors are age, size of the school, and type of physical education program.

The achievement standards when finally computed will be on a percentile basis. This will make it possible for a teacher to “place” student performance from time to time on the basis of achievement and progress. The standards will help to furnish motivation for the program in time allotment, training of personnel, increased facilities and opportunities for participation. They will also assist the teacher to rate her own curriculum, method and teaching achievement. The study should be expected to answer the following questions. What skills do girls at each age between eight and eighteen years of age possess? What may be expected of girls of each of these age groups? What shall the requirements of national achievement standards be? Which activities are fundamentally most sound as a basis for standards?

It is expected that the completed standards will be published by the National Recreation Association early in 1935. Miss Amy Howland, Department of Public Instruction, Mount Vernon, N. Y., is the director of the study. Additional information may be secured by writing directly to Miss Howland.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN AUSTRALIA

M. H. Alexander, Sports Mistress

The Church of England Girls’ Grammar School, Geelong, is one of the principal Public Schools of Victoria, Australia, for both boarding and day pupils. Classes range from the I Form in the

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
149

Preparatory School to the VI Form Leaving Honours Standard.

The Preparatory School has its own building, opposite the main school, with nice grounds for play and airy class-rooms for work. These children attend Assembly with the rest of the School at 9 a. m. each day. The three forms have Physical Culture and Games at least four times a week, and the joy and energy these children put into their work is amazing. The girls learn to throw and catch with a tennis ball, and in the III Form they use the hard ball and learn how to play Baseball [which is one of the main games in the Public Schools] properly. Tennis, swimming, netball and running, as well as indoor games, are also taken, and the children learn from the start to take a sound beating in the right way.

In the Main School, girls attend Roll-call in their own form-rooms at 9 a. m., followed by Assembly. The Head Mistress takes Prayers every morning, and after this the girls go quietly to their rooms, and work for the day begins. Every girl in the school has one Gymnastic and one Games period a week, and these are compulsory. By this method every girl plays games, and the “mugs” get just as much coaching and encouragement as the better players. Games are played from 3:30 to 5:30 every day, summer and winter. The School Teams practise together two or three days a week, and the House Teams and Juniors also have their days each week. Tuesday afternoons are always kept for House matches. During the summer terms, Baseball is played throughout the School, and there is always keen competition for places in the School and House Teams. Every recess and lunch-hour girls are to be seen practising throwing catches or batting. Swimming is also taken during the 1st Term, and Athletics early in the 3rd Term. During the 2nd Term the Winter Term tennis and netball are played, and again there is keen competition for places in the various teams. The School has seven hard tennis courts, two netball courts, and a large sports field. All sports and games are played under the Inter-House System, and in swimming and running the individual scores for her house only.

A boarder’s life at school is very pleasant. The girls are divided into groups, or sections, eight to ten in each, and each group is housed in its own part of the building, with dressing and study rooms, a sitting-room, shower and bathrooms, and a spacious sleep-out. Each girl is allowed to come and go as she pleases in her own group, and there are no rules, except those the girls make themselves. A Staff is in charge of each group. The rooms are very nicely furnished, and .the girls can add any little thing they like to make it more homely. There is a General Sitting and Common Room, so that the girls in different groups can mix if they wish. The girls mix d'uring the day in School, on the sports field, and for week-end outings, so there is no opportunity for them to become “cheeky.” Perparation is done at night, in the various group sitting-rooms or studies, and is supervised by the senior girl in each group. Riding is

Digitized by CjOOQle
150

very popular among the boarders, who are mostly good riders, and groups of girls are to be seen setting off nearly every afternoon. The girls are allowed out on alternate Saturdays with friends, and, for those who are left, a picnic or outing to one of the various seaside beaches is arranged. Saturday nights are spent in the recreation hall, where dancing or some other form of amusement is indulged in.

The school year consists of three terms, of fourteen weeks each. The 1st Term begins the second week in February and the year ends early in December. This is just a brief outline— it would take far too much space to tell you everything in detail. We are a very happy and jolly school.—Phys. Edu, Eng.

Interpretation of Ohio State Law on Interscholastic Athletics

Following are extracts taken from Opinion No. 635 issued by John W. Bricker, Attorney General of the State of Ohio, April 18 18, 1933.

Syllabus:

1.	Boards of Education are without power to expend public school funds under their control to support or promote the competitive playing of games by picked teams from the pupils of the public schools.

2.	The authority granted by law to the Director of Education to prescribe or approve courses of physical education in the public schools does not authorize the inclusion within such courses of what is commonly termed interscholastic athletics or the competitive playing of athletic games by picked teams from the pupils of the several public schools.

3.	Interscholastic athletics, as the term is commonly used, is not a proper public school activity under the law.

4.	A Board of Education in Ohio is not authorized to pay from public funds under their control the expense of furnishing basketball, football or baseball uniforms for the high school basketball, football or baseball teams, as the case may be.

5.	A Board of Education is not authorized to pay from public funds for the expense of transporting their basketball, football or baseball team to a distant point for the purpose of holding an athletic contest between that school team and a team representing another school.

Because of the difficulty of definitely drawing the line between what constitutes “physical education” in the public schools and the inter-scholastic playing in competition of football, basket ball, baseball and similar games by picked teams from among the pupils of the several schools more commonly referred to as “school athletics” or “inter-scholastic athletics” the question of how far Boards of Education may go in fostering these activities and expending public funds in support of them has always been quite troublesome.

Digitized by OQle
151

Physical education and athletic training in coordination with regulations for the protection and conservation of health according to the modem theory of education are regarded as one of the essentials of the public schools. In a recent report published through the Federal Office of Education it is stated that health and physical education in this decade is the fastest growing part of the curriculum established for the public schools. It is stated therein: “It is not to be thought of as extra-curricular.”

Section 7721, General Code, providing that all pupils in the elementary and secondary schools of the state shall receive as a part of their instruction such physical education as may be prescribed or approved by the Director of Education, provides also that: “Credits and penalties shall be applied for success or failure in physical education courses as in other school subjects.” The language of this statute would seem to imply that courses in physical education are to be regarded as being as teachable as other curricular elements and as amenable to established standards of measurement of progress in education as are other recognized school courses.

It is apparent that the General Assembly by its legislation concerning physical education in the public schools meant to make this type of education as essential a part of public school work as other branches of knowledge taught in the schools and to repose in the proper school authorities great latitude in exercising their discretion as to what shall be included within courses of physical education in the public schools.

It is equally clear that the necessary equipment and appliances necessary to carry on the prescribed courses in physical education may be provided by Boards of Education and paid for from public funds.

Measured by the definitions of “physical education” and “physical training” adopted by the courts in the case reviewed above, and in the light of the holdings and reasoning of these courts, I am of the opinion that the term “physical education” which the statutes of Ohio direct shall be included in the curriculum of the public schools of Ohio does not include what is commonly called “interscholastic athletics,” that -is, the playing of games in competition by picked teams representing the several schools. Interscholastic athletics is not a proper public school activity within the scope of “physical education” as the term is used in our statutes. That being the case, it is not a proper subject for which the Director of Education may, in his discretion, prescribe or approve as a part of the courses in physical education and therefore it is not within the powers of a Board of Education to expend public funds for necessary “apparatus” to enable the school teams to engage in such interscholastic athletics or to support or promote such activities in any respect.

I appreciate the difficulty of definitely drawing the line between what is properly physical education in the public schools and so-called interscholastic athletics. That, however, is an administrative problem and not strictly a legal problem.
152

The actual promotion and conducting of so-called “interscholastic athletics” involves the expenditure of a considerable amount of money for the payment of coaches, purchase of uniforms and equipment, traveling expenses, payment of officials and other employees for the conducting and management of the actual competitive games that are played, the cost of correspondence, rental of grounds and purchase of trophies of various kinds. This expense is borne by the organizations, and the moneys necessary therefore are derived, to a great extent, from admission fees which are charged patrons of the games. Sometimes these funds are supplemented by voluntary contributions from persons who are interested in such activities. There is no statutory authority in Ohio for the expenditure of public funds for such purposes.—The Discobolus.

The Judging and Evaluation of Competitive Apparatus or Gymnastic Exercises

Leopold F. Zwarg, D. Ed.

The following material is a Guide to Officials and Competitors, prepared for the National Committee on Physical Education, American Gymnastic Union by Dr. L. F. Zwarg, Germantown High School, Philadelphia, Chairman of Committee on Apparatus Work.

Introductory Remarks

The latest practices and ideas in Europe and the United States have been studied in preparation for this guide. Extracts, even literal translations from the sources cited, are embodied. Criticism, discussions, and additional ideas or suggestions are invited, in order that this guide may be improved. There seems to be a wide-spread need for some uniformity in the field under discussion. \ Students in colleges of physical education nrr frr quently taught nothing about the evaluation of~c<5Tnpetitive efforts. They, as well as teachers, coaches, judges and competitors should profit by an agreement upon at least general lines.

Perhaps the most radical departure from tradition will be found in point six under proposed rules, allowing a competitor, if he slides off the apparatus, to continue, provided he remounts immediately. This is now actually a rule with the German Turners, the largest organization in the world sponsoring this type of competition, and in the Philadelphia Public High Schools league. Why not? The answer to this question compels reasoning. What is the purpose of competition? What is to be tested in this or any other type of competitive effort?

In recent years, the term Gymnastics has been applied to activities upon apparatus, but also to other activities. This guide deals with exercises upon apparatus, including, of course, tumbling: It should be evident, however, that it may also be

Digitized by UjOOQle
153

applied to the evaluation of competitive free, rhythmic and dancing exercises, and diving.

A. The Nature of Competitive Apparatus Work.

In physical education, certain activities, such as track and field events, swimming races, rope climbing, chinning and others, can be accurately measured, timed, or counted. This is because they require only a single effort, accompanied by only one thought or object, namely to gain height, time, distance, or an increasing number of counts.

A competitive exercise on a piece of apparatus, [likewise a free or dancing exercise] requires a number of different and complex efforts occurring rapidly, not alone in succession, but also in most difficult combination. Every effort requires a different thought. Before any one movement is finished, concentration must center on the next one; yet all efforts must be combined to form a complete whole. A well composed and well executed exercise on the apparatus requires considerable skill, kinesthetic sense and perhaps more intricate mental processes than any other physical performance. It is therefore scarcely measurable. It approaches the artistic and should be judged as a whole.

In some organizations, an exercise must be judged according to difficulty, combination, execution, approach, and finish, and points for each part must be entered on the score sheet. The number of points ^hich may be given for each part is limited. Experienced judges do not find this practical; they record their total first, and then split the total in order to comply with the rule. This is the best they can do for the following reasons. It is a difficult matter to establish relative values accurately. Combination and difficulty usually overlap, and one factor may outweigh some other to a greater extent than the point limit will allow. If a judge concentrates too much on one item, he may lose sight of the others. An inaccurate total judgment results.

The psychological processes in evaluating an apparatus exercise are difficult to explain. One judge will follow the ups and downs of the exercise; he will add here, deduct there, and arrive at the result in some mathematical way. Another takes the total impression only; he weighs the whole performance upon his mental balance, instinctively and by feel. A third looks for a critical point or climax in thy exercise; his major judgment is formed By the way this or thattdifficult point is mastered. Most judges probably begin with the first and end with the last two methods.

It seems logical to use an analytic method in order to determine the rating. The mind, as a matter of fact, does analyze the situation, but too quickly to be able to record a value for each element. A judge does not know beforehand [except in a prescribed exercise] the difficulty and combination involved, and when the exercise is finished there is no concrete trace left, nothing that can be accurately defined, nothing but an impression or

Digitized by CjOOQle
154

mental picture. This impression must be evaluated soon, for it will begin to fade at once. A painting or statue we can analyze slowly, human action we must judge almost instantly.

Countless studies in the field of psychology have shown that for all practical purposes, human judgments are nearly as accurate as measurements. Human judgments differ, but if a number of people, even laymen, were to judge a gymnastic performance, their combined judgment would approximate that of an expert. At gymnastic contests, there are usually three officials sometimes only two. If they are experts, their rating will differ little. It is a mistake, however, to assume that at times their judgment should not differ ten or twenty points out of a hundred. Such difference may not be a matter of inability, but honest expert opinion or conviction on the part of the judges.

The judges may rate independently or they may consult and agree on a combined judgment. The former method seems more impartial, but the latter also has its advantages. It facilitates scoring. Furthermore, it makes it possible for a fully experienced

S’ > to improve the judgment of the less experienced one. y expert judges are scarce, especially for large meets. Judgments are recorded in terms of excellent, very good, good, fair and poor, or in point values from 1-5, or 1-10, or 1-100. There is no essential difference. The limit of any scale which the average person can comprehend is five divisions or graduations. Figures are merely used to allow a finer differentiation within each division of the scale. In high class meets, the very finest graduations are sometimes needed.

It is important that the combined rating [never that of each judge] is flashed or announced as soon as possible after each performance. This keeps the competitors informed and enables them to discover clerical mistakes. It also compels the judges to strict attention at all times. Furthermore, this method keeps the spectators interested.

B.	The Qualifications for Judging From the nature of apparatus exercises it may be seen that their evaluation is no easy matter. A judge must have personal as well as technical qualifications.

I.	Personal Qualifications

1.	The judge must be reliable, punctual and practical, otherwise he may delay the meet.

2.	He must be strictly attentive while judging. At times this requires much will power.

3.	He must be just and impartial. This seems a matter of course, yet, it is not always easy for an official. He may know a certain competitor by sight or by reputation. There is then a slight danger of his being unconsciously influenced. He may sympathize inwardly if the competitor does not measure up to the standard which he customarily attains, or, on the other hand, he may unconsciously rate the competitor too severely in order to record his absolute impartiality. Sometimes subtle influences are brought to bear by others.

Digitized by t^ooQle
155

The Judge must steel himself, inwardly and outwardly, against all these influences and must render his ratings strictly objectively.

A judge may apply too high or too low a standard. This is a forgivable error. Even the best technically equipped man will express his personality.

Much more serious are the consequences if a judge has no definite standard or if he changes it, unconsciously, during the meet. This is usually the result of insufficient technical training and experience.

4.	A judge should be quiet but certain in his decisions. He must keep in mind that once his decision is rendered it should not be altered. Protests on the part of competitors, other officials or spectators must not rattle him. Tact and willingness to listen to others will help him over a difficult situation.

5.	A judge should be helpful and cooperative. Many a competitor will lose his nervousness if he encounters friendliness. Cooperation with the management, with squad leaders, scoring committees, or any other officials is essential. He should never leave his post until relieved by the management.

II.	Technical Qualifications

1.	A judge should, before all things, have rich experience and knowledge. He need not have been a successful competitor. However, having been one, he will arrive at a just rating by feel and experience where another will have to hesitate and deliberate. He can follow the competition better and more sympathetically. He can recognize more easily difficult and finer points, as well as unnecessary by-play. On the other hand, we must concede that there are intelligent persons who by study, interest, and participation in the management of this type of work have acquired the necessary qualifications.

2.	The judge must be familiar with all rules, especially with recent changes. He must know the obligatory exercise before the contest starts. He should also know the progress that has made in the invention of new movements and combinations. He should further know the main features of other contests as well as the nature and organization of the whole meet in order that he may cooperate intelligently.

[Continued Next Month]

AMERICAN AND JAPANESE SWIMMING STROKES

During a recent “Swimming Clinic”, Robert Kiphuth, Yale University and U. S. Olympic swimming coach brought out some interesting points concerning some American and Japanese swimming strokes. The following is a summary of his discussion.

The Japanese crawl stroke as generally understood by American coaches after the 1932 Olympic Games consisted of a high riding body position, emphasis placed on the down beat in the leg kick, a short arm thrust, and a quick recovery, causing a double arm pull during part of the stroke.

Digitized by VjOOQle
156

\

According to Matsuzawa, the Japanese Olympic coach, the latter part of that description is wrong. His ideal stroke is as follows: A high riding position, head and shoulders high with hips and legs low. The catch is short, the arm entering the water at 45 degrees from an imaginary vertical line at the shoulder, and leaving the water 45 degrees past this line. This is the most efficient range.

There should be a quick arm recovery, and the overemphasis of this caused, the error of the double arm stroke, which was taken by some coaches to be an improvement on the American crawl. The low position of the legs and hips allows a greater bending of the knees and an increase of whip action with the foot, without breaking the surface of the water and losing power. Makino and Kitamura have come nearer to ideally swimming this stroke than any other Japanese. Mr. Kiphuth believes that in their high body position, the Japanese have copied Weissmuller and Arne Borg, for Matsuzawa says the best exhibtion of swimming he ever saw was when Weissmuller swam in Japan just after the 1928 Olympics.

There has been some change in the American stroke since Weissmuller, Crabbe, Maiolo Kalili, and Medica, swim flat on the water with a long pull through. In this flat position their legs are naturally higher in the water than those of the Japanese, and they can not bend them to the extent that the Japanese do, without breaking water. Thus more power in their kick must come from the hips and abdomen.

To decide which stroke is the most efficient, experts on hydrodynamics must be consulted and experiments in this field are now being conducted at Washington. A large number of experts agree with Matsuzawa, although he has not arrrived at his theories through any studies in this branch of science. Kiphuth thinks that the American stroke is “all right” and that more emphasis should be placed on hard work.

The Japanese swim back stroke with a decidedly bent elbow in contrast to A1 Vande Weghe’s straight arm recovery. The catch is out to the side and the arm stroke is shallow. Kiyo-kawa, the Olympic champion, applies Matsuzawa’s ideas to the back stroke and does not begin his arm stroke at the full reach of his arms. Toshio Iriye, who placed second in the Olympics, swims on such an angle that his kick is entirely under water. The Japanese use the old overwater turn but showed great interest in Vande Weghe’s somersault turn, which he has developed himself.

In the breast stroke, the Japanese have six men capable of defeating all Americans. The marked superiority in this event is due, as with the Europeans, to its being taught to them from childhood up. Ninety-eight per cent of American child swimmers are taught the crawl. The Japanese use the conventional stroke with a high body position and no underwater swimming. —Turners Bulletin, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

Digitized by

Google
157

The Relation of Physical Stature to Ability in the Running High Jump

Abstract	Of Thesis—Submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for

the degree of Doctor qf Philosophy in the School of Education of New York University, 1934

A. Consideration of the Problem

I.	Statement of the Problem

The problem has been that of investigating the relation of physical stature to ability in the running high jump. This relationship has been investigated with the purpose of bringing to light scientific data that bear upon the selection of men for the running high jump in terms of their physical stature.

In this study physical stature refers to those anthropometric measures, that, in the opinion of track coaches, have the greatest bearing on ability in the running high jump. The investigation has endeavored to determine the extent to which the measures selected are related to high-jump ability.

II.	Limitations of the Problem

The anthropometric items that were measured were determined as a result of the consensus [of opinion] of track coaches. The items they selected were weight, height, length of legs, breadth of foot, and girth of hips.

The criterion was height of jump, and there was no attempt to control the style of jump; the subjects were allowed to use any style of high jumping.

The subjects considered in this study were divided into two groups. The first group, hereafter referred to as the nontrack group, consisted of 561 men who had never received any specific training in the running high jump as members of high schools or college track teams. The second group, the track group, consisted of 16 men who had had specific training in the running high jump as members of college track teams.

The following limitations apply to the members of the nontrack group:

All the subjects were from one institution; that is, the College of the City of New York, School of Business and Civic Administration.

All the students were city bred, residing within the metropolitan area. Approximately ninety per cent of the students were native bom, but about eighty per cent of the total number qf students come of parents both of whom were foreign bom.

Skeletal measurements were taken of all the male students reporting for physical-education activites.

The high-jump test was held indoors. The subjects jumped from an ordinary wooden floor and landed on a mat.

By Hyman Krakower
158

The following limitations apply to the track group:

The track group consistedof nigh jumpers, throughout the eountry, who had attained the height of six feet or over in the running high jump. No attention was paid as to whether this mark had been made indoors or outdoors.

The members of the track group were measured by the track coaches, in accordance with instructions sent them by the investigator.

III.	Criteria of the Problem

In the consideration of the factors covered in the investigation, it is recognized that if there is a relationship between physical stature and ability in the running high jump, there should be evidence:

1.	That there is a relationship between certain skeletal measurements and high jumping ability.

2.	That combinations of these skeletal measurements will give a higher relationship with jumping ability than any of the single measures.

3.	That a regression equation can be developed from the data of the nontrack group to indicate the height to which an individual may be expected to jump, in terms of certain skeletal measurements.

4.	That when the prediction or regression equations of skeletal traits, as formulated from a study of the nontrack group, are applied to the track group they will reveal special symmetries peculiar to the expert jumpers of the track group.

B.	Technique of the Investigation

I.	Collection of Data, of the Nontrack Group

The investigation involved the taking of the physical measurements that resulted from the consensus [of opinion] of the track coaches, securing the best high-jump record of each individual, and the recording of the data.

All measurements were made with the subject wearing a track suit, that is, running trunks, sleeveless jersey, and supporter; no shoes or socks were worn. The measurements were recorded in metric units.

In order to check the objectivity of the measures, a test group of 25 students were measured and remeasured. The coefficients of correlation between the two sets of measures were found to range between .9995 + .0001 and .9684 + .0084, indicating a high degree of objectivity of measurement.

In the high-jump test, three trials were allowed at each height, the bar being raised one inch at a time. Failure to jump over a given height after three attempts terminated the test for the subject.

II.	Collection of Data of the Track Group

The measurements of the track group were supplied by the track coaches, in accordance with instructions sent them by the investigator. The track coaches recorded, on the forms supplied, the best jump made by those members of their track squads

Digitized by v^ooQle
159

who had attained the height of six feet or over in the running high jump.

III.	Organization of Data—Statistical Technique

The present study has sought to investigate the relation of physical stature to ability in the running high jump. The relationship of certain skeletal measures to the high-jump ability of the nontrack group was determined. The skeletal or physical measures were then combined in various combinations. From the data of the nontrack group, that combination of skeletal measures was secured which had the maximum relationship with high-jump ability with a minimum number of measurements. The members of the nontrack group who jumped highest were compared with those in the lowest percentile to see if the combination of skeletal measures selected was prominent in the men who jumped best.

Regression equations were developed from the data of the nontrack group to predict, in terms of certain skeletal measurements, the height to which an individual might be expected to jump. Regression equations were also formulated to determine the expectation of skeletal symmetry. The skeletal regression equations were applied to the data of the track group to see whether the expert jumpers had any special skeletal symmetries.

The skeletal regression equations were also applied to the members of the nontrack group who were like the track men in gross measurements, to see if they had the symmetries found among the track men. In this way, the skeletal symmetries peculiar to the track group were determined.

C.	Summary of Findings

1.	There is no real difference in the relationship of the skeletal traits to high-jumping ability between the freshman group and the sophomore group. Also, there is no real difference in the relationship of the skeletal measures to one another, thus permitting the use of the two groups of data as an aggregate.

2.	In the freshman-sophomore group and in the junior-senior group, the three skeletal measures having the greatest rank-order relationship to high-jump ability are length of legs, height, and breadth of foot.

3.	The means of the freshman-sophomore group are lower than for the junior-senior group in height of jump, weight, and girth of hips; and are higher in height, in length of legs, and in breadth of foot.

4.	The junior-senior group have a smaller measure of variability or a greater concentration around the mean in all the variables, with the exception of girth of hips.

5.	The skeletal variables have little influence on the height to which individuals jump, but in so far as there is a relationship, it is best reflected by a combination of height, length of legs, and breadth of foot.

6.	In the nontrack group, the men who jumped highest were

Digitized by L^ooQle
160

taller, had longer legs, and broader feet than those in the lowest percentile.

7.	The expert jumpers who make up the track group have skeletal symmetries that are peculiar to them. They are above the mean of the nontrack group in height, in length of legs, and in breadth of foot. Their height is below the expectation for their length of legs and breadth of foot. The length of their legs is extremely above the expectation for their height and breadth of foot. In breadth of foot, they do not vary distinctively for the expectation from their height and length of legs.

8.	Members of the nontrack group who are above the mean in height, length of legs, and breadth of foot do not have the skeletal symmetries found among the track men.

9.	The type of individual that succeeds in the high jump has long legs, a short body, and broad feet.

D.	Conclusions

The concensus [of opinion] of the track coaches as to the physical measures that have the greatest bearing on ability in the running high jump has been partially verified. The judgment of the track coaches has been justified for three of the five skeletal measures they suggested. The coaches overrated the importance of the measures they selected, however, since the relationships found are lower than might have been expected. The three-variable combination of skeletal measures which best predicts the height to which an individual may be expected to jump is that of height, length of legs, and breadth of foot. All the expert jumpers considered in this study were taller than the average of the nontrack group, and had longer legs and broader feet than the average of the nontrack group. This was substantiated within the nontrack group, since the men who jumped highest were taller, and had longer legs and broader feet than those in the lowest percentile. Moreover, the nontrack men who were like the members of the track group in gross measurements did not have the skeletal symmetries peculiar to the track group.

E.	Recommendations for Further Study

1.	This study involved the students of one institution, many of whom were of the same derivation. It is suggested that, if possible, a study be made in different types of schools; i.e., urban and rural schools, located in various parts of the country, rather than one restricted to one area, as the nontrack group.

2.	There should be some way of measuring the amount of work done, in terms of foot pounds raised, with the foot as a lever. The pressure exerted on the ground in the take-off might be recorded. Some sort of leg-pressure device might measure the amount of muscular contraction.

3.	A group should be given specific training in the running high jump for a definite period of time, and a learning curve secured, indicating the difference between the maximum jump before and after training. When the plateau in the learning

Digitized by L^ooQLe
161

curve had been reached, there would be an elimination of the unknown variable attributable to training. The three measures of length of legs, height, and breadth of foot might then be used as the starting point for futher investigation.

Posture Habits in the Public Schools

Following is a copy of a letter dealing with posture which recently was mailed to elementary school principals in one of our large cities. A similar letter was received by principals of higher schools. Before sending the letters, meetings of the principals were held to consider the entire project.

Later a meeting of all teachers was held in each school for the purpose of bringing the matter clearly and directly to the attention of the people who are most important in the successful execution of such a project. At the teacher meetings physical educators played a prominent part. Motion pictures were used as a valuable adjunct.

Emphasis was placed on the fact that the project was to be in no sense a short campaign, but a continuous and consistent effort on the part of all concerned to produce the desired results.

To the Principals of Elementary Schools:

It is of vital importance that the schools shall recognize fully their responsibility in the building up of habits of correct posture. Good posture habits are primarily important because of their relation to health. In addition to this vital relationship, however, it is important that we recognize that good posture has important social implications: the impression we make upon others is to a very large degree determined by our habitual modes of standing, sitting, or walking. There is also a relation between posture and character: self-respect, courage, and dignity are vital character traits, each of which is influenced by posture habits.

Much can be accomplished in the matter of posture habits in the public schools through coordinated and concentrated effort. On this account, I wish to urge that at the opening of the school term every school in Philadelphia organize a definite campaign to improve the posture habits of its pupilage. The first step to be taken should be through an organized assembly program particularly devoted to the problem. As part of this program the principal of the school should explain fully, emphatically, and clearly the importance of the movement. Explanations suited to the varying ages of the pupils should point out the hygienic, the social, and the character implications of the problem. The pupils should be informed of the fact that simultaneously in every school and in every classroom in the city definite efforts are to be made during the year to bring about better posture habits. The city-wide character of the movement should be stressed.

Digitized by LjOOQle
162

The success of the campaign depends particularly upon the development of “posture consciousness.” It must be kept in mind, however, that tendencies toward unnatural, «strained, or rigid postures are to be carefully avoided. The establishment of good posture habits is not inconsistent with proper relaxation. The danger in all movements of this sort is that there may be a tendency toward unwise exaggeration, which will defeat our very purpose. A good standing position should give the appearance of vigor and ease. It should not be rigid and strained and the result of obvious effort. The body should be considered as a whole, and viewed from the side, it should appear as one segment and not three. In general, in our discussion of the problem with the children, emphasis should be given to “standing tall” with head up, chin in, abdomen flat, and the weight of the body carried slightly forward on the arches of the feet.

In a good sitting position, the individual sits firmly with the hips pushed back in the seat as far as possible, and the weight borne by the thighs throughout their length. As in the standing position, the trunk should be straight but not rigid. However,

C' »dic twisting of the trunk and other movements of the , trunk, and legs are normal efforts to find relief from the fatigue and other ill effects resulting from sitting long in one position. Such relief movements should be permitted and encouraged, provided only that extreme positions be avoided or that they be held for one or two minutes only. Two examples of such extreme positions are [1] sitting on the end of the spine after sliding forward in the seat, and [2] sitting on one leg with the legs crossed and the trunk bent to one side, the head resting on one hand, and the elbow of the same arm resting on the desk. When writing, drawing, or doing other work on the desk, the trunk should lean forward at the hip joint, the spine maintaining its normal curves, and the pelvis moving with and as though it were a part of the spine. As indicated in the Course of Study in Health Education every care should be taken to provide pupils with desks suited to their size.

The teacher will find the following basic statements helpful in her understanding of the problem:

1.	Good posture expresses vigorous physique and potential energy, along with a reasonable measure of self-respect and self-confidence. It allows and in a large measure results in [a] the vital organs maintaining their correct relative positions, with consequent adequate blood and nerve supplies and sufficient space for functioning, [b] free and unhandicapped growth, [c] an alert, easy, graceful manner of moving, with a conservation of nervous and muscular energy, and [d] a confident and buoyant out-look.

2.	Poor posture, on the other hand, suggests physical weakness, fatigue, weak will, and lack of self-confidence and courage. Apart from the matter of appearance, it is uneconomical of energy. It takes considerably more nervous and muscular energy to stand badly habitually than to stand well. One

Digitized by (^.ooQle
163

of the common results of bad posture is a contracted flattened chest and a protruding abdomen which encourages increased susceptibility to respiratory diseases and to poor functioning of abdominal and pelvic organs.

3.	Posture is influenced by many factors, most important among which are [a] health habits, especially those related to food, sunshine, exercise, rest, and clothing; [b] muscle tone, which is the result largely of proper health habits, and [c] habitual walking, standing, sitting, and lying positions. Mental atti-tudes are both responsible for, and the result of,‘'physical conditions in the body and environment. To be sure, illness and physical defects are responsible for many cases of poor posture, but in this discussion we are concerned primarily with the average person who is not affected by these contributing influences.

Proper standards should be set up by reference to available pictures illustrating good standing and sitting positions. In addition, demonstrations by selected pupils should be frequently utilized, both in the classroom and assembly.

Pupils remaining in one place during a large part of the session naturally become fatigued and properly seek the relief that comes from change of position. The teacher, however, must be on her guard against the tendency toward over-relaxation or slouching. The best corrective for this situation is to provide, for fairly frequent “relief” exercises, consisting mainly of stretching and trunk-bending movements. Such exercises should be provided at the close of a lesson period and before beginning the next. In primary grades, three or four relief periods should be provided in the course of the day. The Division of Physical and Health Education has prepared the following outline of relief exercises. As much of this outline is to be used in the “between lesson period” as time may permit. The exercises are to follow one another in rapid succession, with the classroom windows open.

At this point a series of six simple exercises are listed.

Extreme cases of pupils with poor posture should be referred to the school medical inspector so that the cause of faulty posture may be discovered in each case. The diagnosis should be followed up by a notification to the parents. The teacher should bring special cases to the attention of the visiting supervisor of Physical and Health Education who will make provision for special corrective exercises.

The teacher by her own posture should set a constant good example. By incidental references to the subject, she should develop posture consciousness in her class, at the same time carefully avoiding the setting up of exaggerated standards. Frequent interruption of lessons and activities should be avoided. Recognition of individual improvement and an expression of commendation where it has been earned by the group or by individuals is one of the most effective means at the teicher’s disposal. Comments should usually be personal and individual and made quietly

Digitized by <^.ooQle
164

to the pupil concerned. Periods devoted to health education should also make definite provision for instruction in those basic facts of anatomy and physiology which will make clear the reasons for the establishment of good posture habits. The Course of Study in Health Education will be found to include provision for specific instruction on the subject of posture.

The success of this movement for better posture will depend largely on the enthusiasm and force with which it is launched in the respective schools and classrooms. Even more, however, will it depend upon the steady, consistent, and sustained effort of teachers to keep the facts of the problem and its vital importance before the minds of the pupils. The schools and teachers will undoubtedly plan procedures suitable to their particular situations. Properly organized faculty committees and pupil committees are possible adjuncts in certain situations. Dramatizations, motion pictures, posters, and class discussions will obviously be of great value. The Division of Physical and Health Education is in a position to render much practical help. Full advantage should be taken of the periodic visits of the supervisors of this division in formulating and carrying through effective posture programs. Early in the term a meeting of the teacher group with the visiting supervisor should be arranged for a discussion of standards and procedures. Probably more important than any other one element will be the continued and evident interest of the school principal.

Yours sincerely,

Superintendent of Schools.

IMPORTANT MEETINGS

Department of Superintendence, N.E.A., February 23-28, Atlantic City.

National Education Association, June 29-July 5, Denver. American Physical Education, April 24-27, Pittsburgh. Midwest A.P.E., April 3-6, Milwaukee.

Health, physical education, athletic holiday meetings in New York, December 26-29.

NATIONAL MEETINGS, NEW YORK, THIS WINTER

Wednesday, December 26th, American Football Coaches Association.

Thursday, December 27th, American Football Coaches Association. American Student Health Association. College Physical Education Association.

Friday, December 28th, American Student Health Association. College Physical Education Association. National Collegiate Athletic Association.

Saturday, December 29th, National Collegiate Athletic Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	November, 1934	No.	423

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools, and Professor in Indianapolis Normal College.

Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Health and Physical Education, Boston,

Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis;

Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education at Wisconsin University Charles J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of H.alth and Physical Education

Connecticut

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon, St. Louis;

formerly a teacher of physical education Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia; Sports Official

and Coach

Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles

Public Schools

Lelia V. Guenther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School,

St. Louis, Mo.

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editon 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Miim.

Entered at second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

It is with a great deal of pleasure and pride that we announce the addition of a staff of associate editors. The personnel has been selected carefully with a view to obtaining expert and active guidance in connection with each of the various phases of physical and health education. We know that our readers share our confidence that the cooperation of this able group of editors will assure interesting and practical treatment of our professional problems. We take this opportunity to introduce each member to you.

Digitized by Google
166

Charles J. Prohaska, M. D. Dr. Prohaska has had a very varied and extensive experience, some of the most important phases of which will be mentioned here. He served first as a playground teacher in Philadelphia and then as a teacher and supervisor of physical education in the Chicago public schools. Next he took over and filled in notable manner for several years the position of head of the Department of Health Education, Teachers College, Temple University. Under his direction the department developed into one of the largest and best in the country. In 1929 he accepted the position of State Director of Health and Physical Education in Connecticut, a position which he still hold&. For some time he has been a special representative in First Aid for the American Red Cross, and Chairman of the Department of Child Health, Connecticut Congress of Parents and Teachers. Within the last year, Dr. Prohaska has received outstanding honors on two occasions, first by being elected a Fellow of the American Public Health Association and second by his election as President of the Society of State Directors of Physical Education. He has been well known in dancing, swimming, and camping circles over a long period For several years he has been the owner and director of a summer camp.

Emmett Rice, A. B., A. M. Mr. Rice is an educator with wide interests. He has taught in a rural district school as well as in several Indiana high schools. Since 1926 he has held the position of assistant principal in the largest high school in Indianapolis. He has served the Indianapolis Normal College as Lecturer on the History of Physical Education, Anthropology, and Educational Sociology since 1924; and in 1928 he was a member of the summer session faculty at Teachers’ College, Columbia University. He is best known to our readers as author of “Brief History of Physical Education”, a book which has gained recognition as an outstanding and authoritative work, and for articles which he has contribtued to professional journals. His training, experience, and progressive outlook assure.us that subjects of a historical and of a general educational nature will be treated in an able manner.

Rudolf Hofmeister, M. D. Dr. Hofmeister is at present a prominent practising physician and surgeon in St. Louis. For years, however, he was an outstanding teacher of physical education in that city. In his position as teacher in the Tower Grove Turnverein his popularity and ability resulted in such great increase in number and size of classes that it became necessary to employ assistants to conduct the work properly. During the past year he failed of election to the St. Louis Board of Education by onjly a few votes, although he conducted no active campaign. Dr. Hofmeister will serve us primarily by givii^j guidance in the more purely health and medical aspects of our field, as well as by contributing occasional articles.

Robert Nohr, Jr., M. P. E., M. S. in Ed. Mr. Mohr has had much experience as a teacher of physical education in public school^ and in teacher training institutions. His present position is that of Associate Professor of Physical Education in Wisconsin University. As a student in college Mr. Nohr ranked high in both theory and practice. He is recognized as a progressive educator who is continually moving forward. His membership on the staff of Mind and Body is assurance that much material of practical value will be provided.

Mrs. Clara S. Hester, B.P.E. Mrs. Hester is the first of a group of able women to join our staff. For several years she has been a member of the faculty of Indianapolis Normal College where she not only teaches various

Digitized by
167

phases of the theory and practice of physical education but supervises the practice teaching in the public elementary and high schools. Mrs. Hester was educated in the Indianapolis city Normal School, the Indianapolis Normal College, and Indiana University. She studied for one summer in Columbia University. Her teaching experience includes five years as a regular classroom teacher in elementary grades and six years in playgrounds and community centers. Her contributions to Mind and Body will deal primarily with physical education for children, girls, and women.

Martha A. Gable, B. P. E. Miss Gable has won recognition as a teacher and leader of high schpol girls. Her successful experience embraces most phases of physical and health education, but it has been especially pronounced in sports and athletics, fields in which she is well known in the East as a teacher and official. It is mainly in connection with these types of activity that Miss Gable will serve our readers. Miss Gable has taught eight years, principally in junior and senior high schools. For many years she has directed swimming, canoeing and life saving activities in summer camps. Last summer she organized and administered a Phi Delta Pi camp for underprivileged children which will be recorded to the everlasting credit of that fraternity for women and its active leaders. A number of articles on hockey and on the last Olympic Games have been written by Miss Gable, and her work as a member of the contributing staff of the “Sportswoman" has been noteworthy. She is chairman of the Umpire Committee of the Philadelphia Field Hockey Association and a member of the Southeast Sectional Umpire Committee; chairman of the examining board of the Philadelphia Board of Women's Basketball Officials; and she holds a national rating for officiating in both of these sports.

Leila V. Gunther, B. P. E., B. S. The rare combination of practical ability, varied teaching experience, and theoretical and scientific knowledge which is found in the person of Miss Gunther will prove to be a great asset ta Mind and Body. Readers will be interested to ^now that she is now a teacher in the Cleveland High School in St. Louis, and that she has taught in the* Buffalo high schools and in thf summer sessions at State Normal Schools Emporia, Kansas, at State Normal School, Buffalo, and for ten years at the; State Normal School of Physical Education in Cortland, N. Y. She has held various offices in physical education associations. We look forward to many fine contributions from this new member of the editorial staff.

Martin Trieb, B. P. E., M. S. What has been said in introducing Miss Gunther in the preceding paragraph may be repeated with equal force in connection with Mr. Trieb. He is best known for his outstanding practical knowledge and ability, and for his level-headed, common sense manner of evaluating and supervising the work in his field. He has served for many years as in the Los Angeles Public Schools. We feel honored to have him as an associate.

Fred E. Foertsch, B. P. E., M. S. in Ed., and Howard L. Conrad,

M. S. in Ed. Neither of these men need an introduction to our readers inasmuch as both have been regular contributors for some time. Henceforth, they will be members of the newly created staff of associate editors. The high quality of their contributions in the past is sufficient evidence of what may be expected from them in the future. Mr. Foertsch will direct his attention primarily to book reviews, while Mr. Conrad will concentrate on articles and notes

Digitized by ^.ooQle
168

in the field of health education. Both of these men have a rich educational background and each has had extensive professional experience.

It will be the policy of Mind and Body to add other associate editors from time to time whenever it appears that such additions will insure a greater amount of good material for the journal.

The September-October issue of Mind and Body carried an editorial on posture in which it was stated that an article on the same subject was to be found on other pages of the same issue. Through an unfortunate error that article was not printed. Accordingly, we are publishing the article in this issue.

What Profits America ?

There is grave danger that in our present frantic desire for immediate economic recovery that we will do our country future irreparable injury if we make our children today pay the price. This is an adult world, built by adults, for adults. So in these trying days, we are liable to forget the needs of the youth of the land.

Wise economy in education is as essential as in business or government. However, there is destructive as well as constructive economy. We mu3t be sure in our school budgets that we pursue real and not false economy. Youth has two inalienable rights—The right to an adequate education and the right to safe, clean, wholesome plqy. Drastic cuts in essential school subjects, such as music, art, handcraft, and recreation, will deprive youth of his birthright to an adequate education. We must provide the cultural and. recreational subjects which will make life worth living in this hectic, industrial, machine age.

Our children constitute the nation's wealth. Education is the nation's investment in future values. The school budget is democracy's insurance premium. Pay today for tomorrow's capital return. A modern, progressive school system that prepares boys and girls for the problems of tomorrow is a sound business investment that will pay dividends in national health, leadership and well being. An adequate education meanp national assets, in good citizenship. An inadequate education means future liabilities in inefficiency, crime, and discontent.

The old-fashioned traditional subjects of the 3 R's are not sufficient for this country today. Chlidren are living in a different America than their fathers. The tool subjects are not sufficient to meet the perplexing problems that boys and girls will have to meet tomorrow. New conditions demand a new school curriculum. With the decrease of work and the increase of free time, education for leisure becomes as important as education for labor. With the machine doing the work of the world, avocational education is as vital as vocational education. The arts, the crafts, and the recreational school subjects are not fads and frills, but essential subjects to a complete, adequate, modern school system.

What profits a nation if it gains the riches of the world but loses the souls of its children. In our desire for economic recovery let us not penalize our boys and girls by preparing them inadequately for the life that they must live. Human beings are as important as things. The welfare of the human machine is as vital to the future prosperity of this nation as is the automatic

Digitized by ^ooQle
169

machine. We must give as much attention to polishing man as we do to polishing brass. This is the challenge to America.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the fifth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Rings for school grades 9A and 9B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by Google
D

c9.

CD

CL

cr

•<

o

o

o

Fair	Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At the end of the forward swing raise the knees forward. During the backward swing the knees are held forward. Lower the knees at the end of the backward swing. Then swing forward, touch-off on the floor and at the end of the forward swing repeat the knee raising. The knee raising is to be taken at least three times.

Good	Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging forward and backward. At the end of the second forward swing raise the knee forward. Then hold the knees forward for the next two backward and forward swings.

Excellent Reach high

Pendulum swinging forward and backward with a half turn at the end of each backward swing. [All swings are backward after the first half turn.]

Rings—Girls—Grade 9A Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Straighten the legs to an inverted balance-hang [legs horizontal, hips bent]. Return to a stand through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Return to a stand passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Slightly above head high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Bend hips and knees to a nest-hang. Return to an inverted balance-hang. With straight legs lower to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang [legs horizontal, hips bent]. Place the left knee over the left forearm with lowering the right leg to a horizontal position [hand-knee-hangleft]. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a stand through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Jump high

Jump to a hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turn-over backward to a nest-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang [legs straight]. Drop to a stand.

Reach high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward and turn over to a free inverted hang. Bend hips and lower slowly to a hang rearways. Return to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.
g

eg'

o

o



Fair

Good

Excellent

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with half turn at the end of each forward swing. The feet are together when touching off from the floor. [All swings are forward.]

Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging forward and backward with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. [All swings are forward.]

Reach high

Pendulum swinging forward and backward with a whole turn at the end of the forward swing.

Grade 9B

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Place the feet against the ropes and straighten legs upward to an inverted hang. Return to an inverted squat-hang. Return to a stand through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Reach high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. From this position bend hips and knees to a nest-hang. Return to a stand passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Slightly above reach high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Short swing [from the hips] and turn-over backward to a free inverted hang. [Legs straight during the turn over.] Bend the hips and knees to an inverted squat-hang. Lower to a hang rearways with straightening legs. Release grip and drop to a stand.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return to a free inverted squat-hang. Straighten legs to a free inverted balance-hang. Turn-over backward slowly and lower to a stand.

Jump high Jump to a hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and forward with a turn-over backward to a free inverted squat-hang. Straighten legs to an inverted balance-hang [legs horizontal]. Return to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Reach high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, and backward and with the second forward swing turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang, hips bent and legs horizontal [legs straight during the turn over]. Return and in doing so cut-off left to a bent-arm hang. Turn over to a free inverted hang [legs straight during turn over]. Bend hips slowly [legs straight] and turn over backward to a hang rearways. Release grip and drop to a stand.
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



Shoulder high

Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging. Touch-off with feet together.

Reach high

Pendulum swinging. During touch-off of second forward swing pull up to bent-arm hang with knees raised forward. Retain bent-arm position during next backward swing. Lower to straight-arm hang and stop swinging.

Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At end of second forward swing pull-up to bent-arm hang. Swing backward in bent-arm hang. At end of backward swing lower to straight-arm hang and swing forward with touch-off on floor. At end of forward swing repeat pull-up and backward swing in bent-arm hang. Repeat 3 times then stop swinging.

RINGS—BOYS—GRADE 9A Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings, and turn over backward to a hang rearways [hips and knees bent during the turn. over]. Release grip and drop to a stand.

Reach high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Bend hips and knees to a nest-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang. [Legs straight while lowering.] Drop to a stand.

Head high

With a jump and turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Bend hips [legs straight] and lower slowly to a hang rearways, toes touching the floor. Return and in doing so cut-off with the right leg over the left hand dropping to a stand with regrasping the left ring before landing. Repeat right.

Slightly above head high

With a jump turn over backward [legs straight] to an inverted balance-hang. Lower backward slowly to a hang rearways. Release grip and drop to a stand.

Reach high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings forward and backward and turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Lower slowly to a hang rearways. Release grip and drop to stand.

Jump high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Bend hips and lower to a hang rearways. Return and in doing so cut off with the right leg over the left hand to a bent-arm hang. Raise the legs and repeat the cut-off with the left leg over the right hand to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.
Fair

Good

Excellent

CQ

CD

Q.

cr

o

o

n

Shoulder high

Upperarm hang. Pendulum swinging with half turn at end of each forward swing. Touch-off, feet together.

Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At end of second forward swing pull up to bent-arm hang. [Legs and body straight]. In bent-arm hang swing backward and forward. Lower to straight arm hang, stop swinging. Reach high

Pendulum swinging. At end of second backward swing pull up to bent-arm hang. Swing forward in bent-arm hang. At end of forward swing lower to straight-arm hang and swing backward with touch off on the floor. At end of backward swing repeat pull-up and forward swing in bent-arm hang. Repeat 3 times, then stop swinging.

GRADE 9B Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings and turn over to an inverted hang, feet against the ropes. Return through a momentary bent-arm hang, and drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings and turn over to a free inverted hang. Lower the knees to the chest and turn over to a hang rearways. Return with lowering the straight legs slowly and drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Three short [hip] swings and turn over backward with straight legs to a free inverted hang. Lower backward with straight legs to a hang rearways. Return and in doing so cut-off left to a bent-arm hang. Raise the legs and cut off right to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Slightly above head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted hang, feet against the ropes. Bend hips and knees and lower to a nest-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang [legs straight while lowering]. Drop to a stand. Reach high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted hang. Bend hips to a free inverted balance-hang. Return slowly into a bent-arm hang and lead immediately in to a short [hip] swing backward and forward and turn over backward to a free inverted balance hang. Lower backward to a hang rearways. Release grip and drop to a stand.

Slightly above shoulder height

Jump to a support in the rings. Turn over forward slowly into a bent-arm hang [legs straight, hips bent. Turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Return and in doing so cut off left to a bent-arm hang. Turn over backward to a hang rearways and lower to a stand releasing grip.
174

Mimetic Games

Grover W. Mueller

In the May issue of Mind and Body we briefly discussed Story Plays and pointed to a common weakness in their make-up. We also referred to a series of Mimetic Games which had been evolved in one city in an effort to eliminate the common objectionable feature of story plays while at the same time retaining their most valuable characteristics. Two examples of mimetic games were included. In the Sept-Oct. issue two more examples were printed. Following are additional mimetic games. In subsequent issues other examples will appear.

THE CIRCUS CLOWNS

The circus clowns do many difficult as well as funny stunts.

The children take great delight in trying to imitate them.

1.	Entrance of clowns

Enter tent proudly, running with high knee raising.

2.	Stunts

a.	Jump upward and turn in the air so that pupils are facing in another direction upon landing. Repeat four or five times with a slight pause between jumps. The down does not always turn in the same direction.

b.	Walk with stiff legs, feet in the side stride position, and hands grasping ankles.

c.	In a side stride stand with the knees grasped, move the head downward and backward between the knees with several dipping movements of the trunk. Repeat several times.

d.	Walk forward with the knees bent deeply.

e.	Hop several times on the left foot while holding with the right hand the ankle of the right leg which has been raised backward. Repeat same stunt on opposite side.

f.	Tight rope walker. Walk forward on the toes on a straight line, with the arms raised sideward. Turn around while remaining on the toes and keeping them on the line, and then walk forward again to the starting point.

g.	In a side stride stand with feet far apart, touch the left foot with the right hand, and then touch the right foot with the left hand. Repeat several times in alternation.

h.	Raise the left leg backward and the arms forward to a balance stand. Then bend forward slowly, keeping the left leg raised, and touch the ground with the finger tip of both hands. Return slowly. Repeat with the rignt leg raised.

3.	The circus being over, the clowns run out of the tent.

Digitized by Google
175

AT THE AMUSEMENT PARK

There are few occasions to which children look forward with greater pleasure than a day in an amusement park. Such a day has arrived and the children of the class are now entering the park.

1.	The Carrousel

The boys and girls have not proceeded far when they come upon a carrousel. The music and movement are so appealing that none can resist taking a ride.

In circle formation, grasp hands and gallop left sideward. Start slowly and gradually increase the speed as the carrousel gains momentum. Then decrease the speed just as gradually until a complete stop is reached. If the class wishes to take another ride, permit them to do so. In this event ask the operator to make the carrousel turn in the other direction.

2.	Baseball Throw At Stuffed Images

Nearby a man is conducting a target hitting contest. A number of small stuffed images are lined up on a shelf a short distance from the throwing counter. The children are invited to throw, each child receiving five baseballs for this purpose.

Throw vigorously five times at targets designated by the teacher. The activity will be more interesting to the children if the class is quickly divided into two lines facing each other approximately fifteen feet apart, one line taking the part of the images and the other line throwing the balls at them. The “images’” bend the knees quickly and deeply in connection with each of the five throws to indicate they have been knocked down. The images now become the throwers and vice versa.

3.	Swings

Now for a ride on the swings. In a wide side stride stand with the trunk bent forward and the arms hanging downward, hands clasped to form a seat, swing the arms vigorously from side to side with trunk twisting. The swing will work best if the iron frame which supports it [the legs] does not move.

4.	Aeroplanes

Amusement park aeroplanes are suspended by means of long chains from the top of a very high pole, so that when the man makes them go they fly around and around the pole high in the air. This is how they look.

Rim in a circle with the arms held sideward to represent the wings.

5.	The Strength Testing Machine

In this sport the person holds a big heavy hammer with both hands and swings it vigorously downward to strike a target which is only a few inches above ground level. If the target is hit hard enough it causes a bell to be rung.

In a side stride stand with both hands grasping the end of a long handled hammer [mallet], raise the hammer by swinging arms foreupward. Then swing the hammer vigorously

Digitized by AjOOQle
176

foredownward with bending trunk forward to strike the target. Repeat until the bell has sounded. At the conclusion of the seventh or eighth vigorous hit, the teacher may make the sound “Bong” to indicate the bell has been struck.

6.	The Picnic Grove

The class now goes to the picnic grove to have some races and play games before eating lunch,

a.	Hopping Race

Eight or more pupils hop to a designated point a short distance away and return, the teacher designating the winner. Repeat until all pupils have taken part, b Running Race

This race is conducted in the same way as the Hopping Race, except that the distance may be made greater,

c.	Game

The class plays “Did You Ever See A Lassie?”

FIELD DAY FOR “SPECIAL HELP” AND “DEAF” CLASSES

Finding the regular annual sports day which is conducted in the Rochester, Minnesota public schools to be inadequate for “special help” and “deaf” classes, Paul Schmidt, supervisor of physical education, has inaugurated a plan which should be of help and interest to colleagues in other cities. The competition is purely intramural.

Early in spring the children in the six school grades in each building were given instruction and practice for a month in forty different events, including stunts, runs, jumps, throws, leaps, tosses, and vaults. During instruction periods tests were given and achievements were recorded. On the basis of the best performances of each pupil, each boy was assigned to one of five groups whose designations are A, B, C, D and E, and each girl was assigned similarly. The average ability of each group for each event was computed and this served later as a basis for scoring in the field day.

Neither the teachers nor the pupils knew which of the forty events they were practicing would be chosen for each group for the field day until two days before the affair. Accordingly, they prepared for all.

As stated before, the average achievement of each group was computed. That average was given a value of three points. To secure four or five points on field day certain better attainments had to be reached. On the other hand, if the attainments on field day were less than average a score of two or one was given. Teachers and pupils were informed of this fact. An example of the procedure used in arriving at the number of points to be given is as follows. Assume that Group A girls were assigned bean bag toss as one of their events. In practice the average score of this group was four bean bags tossed into the ring in six trials. Four successful tosses thus equals three points. An additional point’was given for five successful tosses,

Digitized by LjOOQle
177

and two additional points for six tosses. One point was subtracted if only three trials were successful, and two points were subtracted if only two tosses fell into the ring.

Special stimuli in the form of a pennant for the group having the greatest aggregate score, and three ribbons for the highest individual scorers in each group were provided.

THE CAMEELOUS HUMP

A Dramatization Of Posture For Elementary Schools By Ethel Gault, Emlen School, Philadelphia

CHARACTERS

Cameelous Hump—boy dressed to represent the Cameelous Hump of Kipling’s “The Camel’s Hump”

Group of football players

A number of boys and girls with record charts, balls, etc. to represent physical education teams Safeties—a number of children from the Safety Patrol Posture Club—remainder of class

Scene I

School sings “The Camel’s Hump” [Kipling’s Just So Song Book] —Kipling—Edward German Curtain rises—Cameelous Hump seen sitting to one side all hunched up in a chair

C.	Hump—Oh dear! Oh dear! I don’t know what to do with myself. I’m so tired [yawns and stretches]. My stomach feels queer too. I wish I had someting to do.

[Enter boys with football, etc.]

Let me play with you?

Football Team, First Boy—Who ever heard of a football player who did nothing but yawn. You’d be asleep when the ball came to you.

Second Boy—Besides who wants a stoop shouldered boy on a team. You wouldn’t be able to run 20 yards.

Third boy—You must be the Hump we sing about at shcool— Cameelous Hump!—We want boys on our team!

All—Cameelous Hump! [Laughing they go off.]

[Camel’s Hump sits down very disconsolate. Enter group wth balls, records, etc.]

C. Hump—Where are you going?

First Boy [Leader]—Out in the school yard. We want to improve our records!

C. Hump—Let me go with you.

First Girl [Leader]—What could you do? You’d only spoil our team’s record!

Leader of Boys—Why you don’t even stand straight. How could you jump far?

Leader of Girls—Who ever heard of an athlete looking like a camel?

Digitized by LjOOQle
178

Leader of Boys—Nothing doing. Get rid of that hump. We might consider you!

[They pass out.]

C. Hump—I don’t care! Who wants to jump and run anyway.

I wouldn’t play with them if they got down on their hands and knees and begged me to. [Yawns] But I do wish I had something to do and someone to play with. Here come the Safeties [Watches the drill] Let me be a Safety?

Captain—Well, if you want to be a safety, you will have to get rid of that hump. You never see soldiers stand the way you do. We try to be like soldiers.

[Safeties march off]

C. Hump—Nobody wants me!

[Enter Posture Club in small groups]

C. Hump—They say I have a camel’s hump. What shall I do?

[Posture Club members gather around C. Hump]

First Posture Club member—Why don't you get rid of that hump?

C. Hump—How can I? I don’t know how I got it!

Second member—I know how you got that hump! You always sit hunched over books, all huddled in a ball in your seat!

Third member—You never stand up straight.

Fourth member—You’re all crooked cross and crabbed. Nobody likes a cross crabbedy boy.

Fifth member—Don’t you know when you sit like that the little cushions between the bones of your back get packed so hard that after a while you can’t straighten up. Then you get the cameelous hump—the camel’s hump!

Sixth member—Poor posture makes you weak and hollow chested! Seventh member—If your posture is good your muscles will be hard. Your sleep will be sound and your digestion good! Good posture means good health!

C. Hump—How can I get to have Good Posture?

Everyone—Join our Posture Club!

C. Hump—What must I do?

Eighth member—You must get into the habit of always sitting, standing, and walking correctly. Our physical education teacher says Good Posture is largely a matter of Good Habits!

Ninth member—Let’s show him how to sit.

[Get chair, etc. . . .]

Tenth member—Put your hips back against the back of the seat! Eleventh member—Hold your head up with the chin in—let your backbone rest on your hips and not on the desk. Twelfth member—See that you cannot put your hand between your hips and the seat.

Thirteenth member—See that both feet are on the floor.

C. Hump—Oh dear! That’s hard and I’ll get tired.

Digitized by Google
179

Fourteenth member—When you get tired try this—[does arm upward and rising on toes]

Fifteenth member—We told you it would be hard. But if you want to lose your hump, you’ll just have to work and persevere.

Sixteenth member—We haven't time to tell you how to stand and walk correctly. Come along with us to our Posture Club Meeting. But if you practice what we tell you, you'll finally lose your hump.

C. Hump—I’ll try it. I must do something no matter how hard it is. I’ll go with you!

Curtain Next Scene—Front of Curtain

Group meets C. Hump, who is in a big hurry.

First girl—Where are you going in such a hurry?

C. Hump—I've just come from a Safety Patrol meeting where I’ve been elected Captain. Now I must hurry or I'll be late for football practice. By the way our team made the highest score in running. 'Bye—See you at the Posture Club Meeting tomorrow. [Goes off]

First girl—To think that is our old friend Cameelous Hump!

How he has changed since he joined the Posture Club. Look how tall and straight he is!

Second girl—Just see what exercise and thinking about posture will do for you!.

First girl—Wouldn’t it be wonderful if all the children of Schools could stand like that.

First boy—They should join our posture club.

[Group walks off stage talking together]

COMPANION EXERCISES WITH THE MEDICINE BALL*

Heinrich Petri, Muenchen. Translated by Fred E. Foertsch

The following exercises may be used suitably for exhibition purposes. They will fit easily to slow waltz time. [One count to each measure of the music.]

Formation: Front line in circle formation all facing inward. Each individual is provided with a medicine ball. Where not enough medicine balls are available for each individual, one medicine ball for every second member will suffice. In this case the alternate members of the group execute the movements as free exercises.

Each exercise may be repeated 4, 6, or 8 times.

Each exercise ends in such a way that the next exercise may begin without interruption.

'Reprinted after translation from “Leibesuebungen v. kSrperliche Er-siehung.”

Digitized by Google
180

Exercise 1

The ball is held in both hands at the left side of the body below the hips. Counts 1-2. One and one-half double arm circle forward at the left side of the

Counts 3-4.	body with a dipping movement of the knees during each count. Repeat counts 1-2 but on the right side.  [The movement continues from the left to the right side without interruption]
Counts 6-6. Count 7-.	Repeat counts 1-2 [left side]  Pendulum swing left [the arms swing downward to the right, then downward in front of the body and to the left] with tossing the ball to the neighbor on the left.
Count -8.	The arms without the ball swing upward and to the right receiving the thrown b^ll from the neighbor on the right.

Exercise 2

With the last count of the previous exercise after catching the ball, jump to a side stride stand with 1-4 turn right to form a flank rank.

The ball is held in the upward position.

Counts 1-4. Four uninterrupted circles forward with the ball. The first

Count 6- .	circle on the left side of the body, tKte second on the right, then repeat left and right. With each circle execute a knee-dip. Trunk bending forward with swinging the ball downward and backward between the legs.
Count -6. Count 7- .	Straighten trunk and swing the ball foreupward.  As count 5 but roll the ball backward between the legs to the member in the rear.
Count -8.	Catch the ball which has been rolled backward from the one in front and straighten trunk with raising the ball foreupward.

Exercise 3

With the last count of the previous exercise execute 1-4 turn left on the ball of the left foot and swing the right leg around so as to assume a side stride position facing the center of the circle, and at the same time raise the ball to the left [both arms raised to the left].

Count 1. Swing the ball downward, to the right, and upward. [3-4 circle

Count 2. Count 3. Count 4. Count 6-6. Count 7.	left]  Bend trunk left.  Straighten trunk and execute a 4-4 circle right Bend trunk right.  Repeat counts 3 and 4 but opposite.  Straighten trunk and execute a 3-4 circle right with tossing the ball to the partner on the left.
Count 8.	Receive the throw from the partner on the right and pendulum swing downward and to the left.

Exercise 4

With the last count of the previous exercise jump to a stride stand with the right foot forward and raise the ball to the upward position.

Count 1. Bend knees deeply with bending trunk forward and lowering

Count 2.	the ball foredownward touching the floor in front of the right foot.  Straighten the knees and trunk, swing the ball upward and pivot on the balls of the feet with 1-2 turn left.
Count 3.	Bend forward again placing the ball in front of the left foot.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
Count 4. Count 5. Count 6. Count 7.	181  As count 2 but turn right.  Repeat Count 1.  Repeat count 2 but without turning.  3-4 double arm circle right with tossing the ball to the partner on the left.
Count 8.	Receive the ball from the partner on the right and raise the ball upward.

Exercise 5

With the last count of the previous exercise jump to a side stride stand [facing the center as before] and lower the ball forward.

Count 1-2. Double arm circle forward on the right side of the body and the

Count 3.	same on the left'side.  Turn-bending of the trunk right placing the ball in front of the right foot.
Count 4.	Raise the trunk slightly and carry it horizontally through the forward position to the left side with swing the ball to the left and placing it in front of the left foot.
Count 5. Count 6.	Straighten the trunk and swing the ball to the upward position. Bend the right arm and right knee lowering the ball over the
Count 7.	right shoulder [both hands on the ball] to a shot-put position. Toss the ball to the partner on the left in the manner of a shot-put [but without jumping].
Count 8.	Receive the ball from the neighbor on the right.

Exercise 6

With the last count of the previous exercise swing the ball downward and to the left sideward position.

Counts 1-3. Two and one-half double arm circles left with knee dipping and

Count 4. Counts 3-7.	toss the ball vertically into the air.  Catch the ball in the right sideward position.  Repeat counts 1-3 but opposite and toss the ball to the partner on the left.
Count 8.	Receive the toss from the partner on the right and swing the ball downward and to the left sideward position.

Exercise 7

With the last count of the previous exercise jump .with 1-4 turn right into a side stride position.

Count 1. With 1-4 turn left and with bending the left knee deeply swing

Count 2.	the ball to the left and backward with trunk turning left. Return movement to a side stride stand bringing the ball to a forward position.
Count 3-4. Count 5.	Repeat counts 1-2 but opposite.  Bend trunk forward and swing the ball downward and back-
Count 6«	ward between the legs.  Straighten trunk and bring the ball in front of the chest, arms bent.
Count 7.	With a slight trunk bending backward push the ball upward and
Count 8.	toss it to the partner in the rear.  Receive the toss from the partner in front and hold the ball in the forward position.

Digitized by v^ooQle
182

Exercise 8

With the last count of the previous exercises jump and dose feet to the fundamental position holding the ball forwaxd.

Counts 1-2. Swing the left leg forward and execute a loop-toss of the ball

Counts 3-6.	from the right hand under the left leg retrieving the ball with the left hand.  Repeat counts 1-2 but opposite [under the right leg and repeat again under the left leg].
Count 7.	Bend trunk forward and swing the ball downward and backward on the left side and roll it to the partner in the rear.
Count 8.	Catch the ball which has been rolled backward from the partner in front and straighten trunk.

Exercise 9

With the last count of the previous exercise execute 1-4 turn left with jumping to a side stride position fadng the center at the same time swinging the ball in front of the body, to the left, and upward.

Count 1. A 4-4 double arm-circle left with the ball Count 2. Turn-bending of the trunk left over the left knee with lowering the ball over the left foot.

Count 8. Straighten trunk ai*l repeat Count 1 to the right.

Count 4. Count 6-6. Count 7.	Repeat count 2 but right.  Repeat counts 1 and 2.  A 3-4 double arm circle right with tossing the ball to the partner on the left.
Count 8.	Receive the toss from the partner on the right and 1-2 double arm circle to the right bringing the ball to the left sideward position.

Exercise 10

With the last count of the previous exredse execute 1-4 turn right on the toes so as to assume a stride position with the right foot forward [flank rank— left side toward center].

Count 1. Swing the ball downward and foreupward [from a backward

Count 2.	position on the left side] and toss it upward and slightly backward following immediately with 1-2 turn left on the toes. Catch the ball in front of the body and swing it [with deep knee bending downward and backward along the right side.
Count 3.	Swing the ball forward and upward again tossing it upward and follow immediately with 1-2 turn right on the toes.
Count 4.	Catch the ball in front of the body and swing it downward and backward along the left side of the body [with deep knee bending].
Counts 6-6. Count 7.	Repeat counts 3 and 4 but opposite.  Swing the arms forward and toss the ball to the partner on the left.
Count 8.	Receive the toss from the partner on the right.

Digitized by v^ooQle
183

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

VII. Teaching Procedure in Health Education. Types of Lesson Plans: The Skill Lesson

[Continued from September-October issue]

The Skill Lesson, probably the oldest technique of teaching known, derives its name from the fact that the exposition of the subject matter is subordinated to the acquisition of a desirable skill. Students of Education will recall that a skill is defined as an ability which is performed with great facility. Examples of some desirable skills in health education for high school pupils adapted from the Wood and Lerrigo* scales follow.

Topic: Nutrition—Is able to prepare and serve well balanced nutritious meals for a family.

Topic: Big Brain-Muscle Activities—Takes part and skillfully participates in some of the following: track and field activities, team games, dancing, gymnastics, swimming, etc.

Topic: The Healthy Home—Increases proficiency in certain skills involved in care of the home; e. g., [a] selection of hygienic furnishings, [b] methods of keeping home clean, [c] control of ventilation, heating and lighting, [d] care of children.

Topic: Safety—Acquires increased skill in controlling machines when operating, especially automobiles.

Topic: First Aid—

[a]	is able to make first aid carries

[b]	is able to carry out life saving procedures

[c]	is able to apply simple first aid treatment, bandages,

and dressings

[d]	is able to apply artificial respiration for drowning or

other suffocation

It will be seen from the foregoing list that in health education the phase of instruction most likely to call for the skill lesson is first aid.

The method steps in the skill lesson are based on the century-old formula of “yon show me and I will try to do it”. Imitation of the performance as demonstrated is the keynote of this procedure. All of us perhaps have learned more by this method, from childhood onward, than by any other single teaching device. Shop work, penmanship, the arts, home economics, physical education, and science [laboratory technique] are just a few examples of subjects which use the skill lesson fundamentally.

The method steps are [1] approach, [2] presentation of the model [demonstration], [3] practice, and [4] checking results. The “Law of Readiness” begins to operate in the approach step,

•‘‘Health Behavior”—Thomas D. Wood and Marion 0. Lerrigo, Public School Publishing Co., 1928.

Digitized by LjOOQle
184

and should be fully established at the completion of the demonstration step. Practice and checking results should give many opportunities for pupil participation and thence the application of the Laws of Exercise and Satisfaction.

The following lesson plan may aid in understanding the teaching procedures of the Skill Lesson as applied to First Aid.

ILLUSTRATIVE SKILL LESSON

Topic: First Aid—Lesson 2

Teachers’ Reference: American Red Cross Textbook On First Aid

Materials: 1. Emergency material for splints

a]	Flat boards

b Hard roll of newspapers or magazine c] Umbrella

d Sweater or boy’s coat

2.	Triang lebandages, 2” or 3” roller bandages [optional]

3.	Clean handkerchief, material for padding.

I.	AIM

General

1.	To develop in the pupils the right attitude toward emergency aid

2.	To teach the skills and procedures necessary to meet certain emergency situations

3.	To give the pupils sufficient information to meet these situations promptly and intelligently

Specific

To explain, demonstrate, and check the skills necessary to the adequate first aid treatment of certain common fractures.

II. CONTENT

Types of fractures and their recognition [cf. lesson on Bones] Description of simple fracture Note: Mention ‘greenstick” as an incomplete simple fracture

Description of compound fracture

Treatment

For simple fracture Handling the injury [cf. shock Emergency splint material Support [examples-clavicle, forearm, leg, upper arm and ] thigh	]

For compound fracture

Treatment of wound [cf. shock]

demonstration and personal practice

emergency compress material

Note: See also injuries in which skin is broken Note: Among other things, warn against attempting to ‘set’ any fracture

Digitized by v^ooQle
185

III.	METHOD Approach

a]	Review rapidly the kinds and uses of bandages as cov-

ered in Lesson 1

b]	Describe a situation in which a group of boys or girls

are playing and through carelessness an accident occurs Picture one of the group as being injured in manner that suggests a simple fracture. Question class concerning the following:

How would you recognize or suspect a simple fracture? What type of fracture is apt to be overlooked or treated as a sprain?

What general condition is usually met in all serious injuries?

Demonstration

a]	Select a pupil and have class imagine a simple ulnar or

radial fracture.

Proceed to demonstrate using the following technique:

1]	Place patient at ease [cf. shock]

2]	Select emergency splint material, padding if necessary

3]	Apply splints to both surfaces of forearm

4]	Support by sling

b]	Have first pupil remain at front of room in conspicuous

place and proceed to demonstrate the following first aid appliances on various other pupils [presentation of models]: support for fractured clavicle, upper arm, leg, and thigh.

c]	Explain how careless handling, or trying to ‘set’ a

fracture by an unskilled person may result in ‘compounding’ the fracture. Show how sterile dressing should be applied to a fracture where the bone is protruding through the broken skin. [Treat briefly as this type of wound is covered more extensively in another lesson]

Practice

a]	Distribute splints and bandages [if pupils are not al-

ready supplied] and apportion class into teams of two members.

b]	Assign the various teams to duplicate the technique

as demonstrated on the several models, taking turns bandaging each other. As soon as any team has shown that the skill is acquired in handling any one type of injury have them proceed with another project as demonstrated.

Note: [In assigning practice projects, keep in mind space of room, sex of pupil, and seriousness necessary in efficient procedure]

Checking Results a] Inspect the technique of the various teams; permit the

Digitized by VjOOQle
186

more facile pupils to proceed rapidly; and repeat the demonstration for the benefit of the slower ones, b] Ask certain pupils who have had prior training or who have shown unusual aptness to aid you in inspecting and correcting the work of the various teams. Assignment

a]	For slower members of class, home practice of the

bandaging done in class.

b]	For the advanced pupils, practice in the more unusual

types, i. e., fractured nose, fractured ribs, and crushed foot.

Dental Caries.—Some of the most common ills to which man is heir are the least understood and the most refractory to control. The outstanding instances are the common cold and dental caries. In spite of the fact that large sums of money have been spent on research, and that capable clinicians, laboratory workers, and dietitians have been studying dental caries for years, it must be said that we are far from knowing its cause, and this means that we do not know the prevention. In spite of tooth brush drills, lectures on cleanliness, and cocksure statements that a clean tooth never decays, caries still afflicts the great majority of people.—American Journal of Public Health.

Studies of Health and the Depression to be Continued.

—The inquiries into the prevalence of sickness and malnutrition and into changes in economic status and standard of living of sample populations known to be seriously affected by unemployment, begun early in 1933 by the United States Public Health Service with the cooperation of the Milbank Memorial Fund, are to be continued next year, according to present plans of the sponsors of the studies. The proposed program includes surveys to round out certain phases of the investigation, such as family expenditures for health purposes and medical care received by these families on relief, and an inquiry into the effects of the depression on mortality rates among these groups. The investigators hope to make the reports of these further studies available within the coming year.

Physical and Health Education Is Vital In New Age.—

If, from the primary school to the university, we would concentrate on the health of the student, there is no reason to doubt the improvement in health and wealth and character that would result, Calvin T. Ryan points out in “Man of Tomorrow,” an article in the October Hygeia.

Too many schools and colleges have no physical and health education; they have only a football team or a basketball team. For those students who are not on the team there remains only the foolish notion that their health education comes from “supporting the team.”

If this sort of thing continues, there is no predicting the con-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
187

sequences when these boys and girls become men and women in an age of much leisure, in an age requiring trained minds and bodies and nerves of high resistance. Leisure unwisely spent is worse than no leisure at all. Health education for the new age is charged with a large responsibility; on it rests the success of the next generation.

Yesterday man had plenty of time; he did not have to hurry or to move rapidly while at his work. He took on the tempo of the oxen, the mules and the horses which he worked. Today man must speed up, must hurry, must move quickly. He works harder for a shorter time' but the work is of another kind. In reality it is a greater consumer of energy than the older forms, and therefore man needs a new kind of physical education. Statistics show that the nerves of modem man are too ready to snap, too many are at the point of breaking under the nervous strain. In short, he has not adjusted himself to modem conditions.

Kerosene and Vinegar Will Banish Head Lice.—A reliable procedure in eradicating the head louse, according to Dr. Claude Iillingston, whose serial, “Our Parasites," continues in the October Hygeia, is to wash the head and hair thoroughly with equal parts of kerosene and vinegar. The head is then kept wrapped in a towel for several hours. The kerosene having killed the adult lice, and the vinegar having detached the eggs from the hairs, all that remains to be done is to remove the dead lice and the eggs with a fine-toothed comb and to wash the kerosene and vinegar out of the hair with soap and hot water. It is well to comb the hair, strand by strand, with a special comb made of thin blades of toothed steel or brass, riveted together in such a way that the space between the teeth allows the passage of only one hair at a time. If such a comb is not available, any fine comb will do.

Proper Tooth-Brush Is Small and Has Fairly Stiff Bristles.—Most tooth-brushes on the market are too large for efficient brushing, according to W. M. Gardner, D.D.S., who continues his series of articles on “Common Sense in Mouth Care” in the October Hygeia. The use of a small brush with fairly stiff bristles is logical and advisable. The length of the working end should be about six rows of bristles, or about 1 1-4 inches, and the width should be about two or three rows of bristles. The bristles should be of unequal lengths, and the groups of bristles should be far apart. The handle should be about 6 1-2 inches long and sufficiently heavy to overcome too much flexibility when pressure is applied.

The elongated tuft found at the end of some brushes does not work as efficiently as is theoretically supposed and advertised. Its conformity to the dental arch on the outside becomes a distinct disadvantage when one wishes to brash the inside surfaces. Strictly speaking, no tooth-brush can conform itself to the dental arch both on the inside and on the outside. The smal-

Digitized by CjOOQle
188

ler the brush, however, the closer is the adaption to the arch, because only a small portion of the arch is covered at one time:

Food-Value of Dandelion.—The humble dandelion, hated by homeowners, but occupying an important place in the spring diet for generations, was not prized as an article of food simply by accident. Studies made at the Massachusetts State College, and reported to Science by Emmett Bennett, show dandelions have a high protein content, very little fiber, and contain in abundance such minerals as calcium and phosphorus.

Mr. Bennett found the dandelion to contain more phosphorus than any other common leafy vegetable.

When to Revaccinate.—Immunity conferred by a single vaccination usually lasts longer than the traditional 7 years. The protection lasts for 20 years in most individuals.—Dearing, W. P., and Rosenau, M. J. Duration of Immunity following Vaccination against Smallpox. J. A. M. A. June 16, 1934.

Aging of the Population.—Typical of the aging of the population in the United States is the example of New York City where the proportion of persons over 45 years of age is now one-third greater than it was only a generation ago.

Eye Hazards of Industry.—The eye hazards of industrial occupations have come to be among the most serious of all causes of blindness. While no extensive authentic statistics are available it has been repeatedly estimated that at least 15 per cent of the blind of America lost their sight because of occupational hazards.

News Notes

Mr. N. P. Neilson, former State Director of Health and Physical Education of California, is now Associate Professor in the Departments of Education and Physical Education at Stanford University. Mr. W. H. Orion, Director of Physical Education of Santa Barbara, has been appointed State Director to succeed Mr. Neilson.

Girl Scouts.—In March 1912 there were eight Girl Scouts; today there are over 1,000,000. This represents at once a great credit and a challenge to adult leaders.

Financial Assistance From P.W.A.—More than half the public school construction now going on in the United States is being financed through PWA, Administrator Harold L. Ickes announced recently.

Digitized by CjOOQle
189

The construction now under way includes new schools, additions, gymnasiums and auditoriums, swimming pools, libraries, dormitories and shops. More than 500,000 man-months of employment is being provided on the non-Federal projects alone.

What Is a Normal Pelvis?—Herbert Thoms, New Haven, Conn., [Journal A. M. A., June 23, 1934], believes that the following four facts have a bearing on what constitutes a normal female pelvis: 1. The superior strait of the fetal and of the infant pelvis in the two sexes is similar. It is round or even presents a longer antero-posterior than transverse diameter. 2. The adult male pelvis retains much of the fetal shape, the pelvic inlet being round with diameters of approximately equal length.

3.	The adult female pelvis of many aboriginal races retains much of the fetal conformation in the shape of a round pelvis. 4. In white woman in the United States the incidence of the round pelvis and oi pelves whose longest diameter of the inlet is the antero-posterior [the so-called anthropoid type] is far greater than has been hitherto suspected. Because of these facts it appears that possibly the material for study, from which the definition of the so-called normal pelvis has been derived, has been insufficient for proper evaluation and that the so-called normal or oval pelvis is the result of the influence of civilization rather than those of race or sex. The fact that aboriginal races have easy labors is well established. If it is true that these women in general possess the round type of pelvic inlet it is at once clear that the round fetal head fits such a pelvis to far greater mechanical advantage than obtains in the “oval” pelvis of their civilized sisters.

The Influence of Food Upon Race and Class.—The influence of foods upon the stature and structure of differing races and upon history is a fascinating topic and deserves a wider and deeper study than has yet been given to it.

Peasant as contrasted with aristocratic physique conotes differences that are largely dietetic. The proletarian type derives from the consumption over the centuries of particular foods. The master class derives from a specialized dietary, wider in its scope than that of the plebeian class.

In this country, with its high standard of living and wide diffusion of dietetic knowledge, racial and class differences, in so far as they depend upon food, have tended to be ironed out but with the trend toward regimentation and toward collapse of the middle class we may yet witness great differences between the rich and the poor.

If socialization of medicine comes, look for changes of the sort intimated in the great groups falling within its domain, for such a social phenomenon will imply mass degradation, with dietetic connotations.

The thesis of Bernard Shaw, in his play Pygmalion, was that the upper classes maintained their distinction entirely through the technic of their speech. A vulgar young woman is pains-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
190

takingly taught to speak the English of the master class and finds herself within the magic circle.

There is much in Shaw’s thesis. Supplement it with our food thesis and an adequate equation can be formulated.—Med. Times and Long Island Med. J’l.

IMPORTANT MEETINGS DURING THE CHRISTMAS

HOLIDAY

Our good friend, Mr. W. L. Hughes, President of the College Physical Education Association, writes the following paragraph which tells the good news of the splendid organization that has resulted in the combined meetings in New York during the Christmas holidays:—“You would be interested to know that the four national organizations including the College Physical Education Association, the American Student Health Association, the National Collegiate Athletic Association, and the American Football Coaches Association are all meeting in the same hotel [Hotel Pennsylvania] this year and we are confining our program to two days, December 27 and 28. On the morning of Thursday, December 27, our College Association will have section meetings on intramural athletics, required physical education and teacher training. Those interested in health problems will meet with the American Student Health Association, and those interested in intercollegiate athletics will meet with the round-table discussion of the N.C.A.A. In the afternoon the four organizations will have a joint program with each group supplying a speaker. This should be a very interesting and helpful meeting. Thursday evening we are arranging a Founders’ Dinner for the old-timers and past presidents in our organization. Friday morning each organization will devote its program to technical discussions and business meetings. In the afternoon we tentatively plan a program which will be of interest to members of the N.C.A.A. and perhaps to the other groups as well.”

FOREIGN NOTES

Child Health Measures In Europe.—In Europe child hygiene is considered a definite part of the public health and is integrated with every other health function in the community. The trend abroad in administration of all welfare measures is decidedly in the direction of public control, concentrating authority in the hands of full-time, technically trained, public officials. Voluntary organizations may, and do, carry on certain phases of maternal and child health work, but always in close cooperation with official agencies.

It is recognized that the first duty of the state is to protect its mothers and children and to promote their welfare. This has been done abroad largely through some form of social insurance, which is undoubtedly one of the strong points of the European system.—American Journal of Public Health

Digitized by L^ooQle
191

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

Official Touch Football Rules, compiled by the National Rules Committee On Games, N.RA. Published by the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave., New York City; mimeographed, 7 pages^ price 10 cents.

These rules are the result of a study of the “57” or more varieties touch football rules used in various parts of the United States during the past three years. It has been felt by the sponsors of these rules that a standard set of rules should be drawn up to serve touch football enthusiasts in much the same way as standard rule were devised for soft baseball. A standard or uniform set of rules for touch football it is believed will:

1.	Tend to stimulate interest and participation in the

game

2.	Tend to eliminate many personal injuries so common

to regular football when played by unskilled players

The rules as now formulated represent the judgments of a great many teachers of football and touch football in many widely distributed locations in the United States. The rules incorporate the policies and principles which the teachers have found to be best for the player and for the game.

In formulating the rules the committee endeavored to keep them as brief as possible but in spite of their efforts the rules are perhaps still too lengthy. Great care was taken to make the game as safe as possible without sacrificing the inherent appeal of the game and its fundamental skills. An attempt was also made to keep the rules as consistent with regular football as possible.

It is hoped by the committee that the rules will be used extensively and that constructive criticism will be forthcoming from those who have sincerely tried them.

JOHN C. KIEFFER Chairman, Rules Committee

An Introduction To Sex Education by Winifred V. Richmond, Ph. D., published by Farrar and Rinehart, New York, 1934; bound in cloth, 5 1-2” x 8 1-2”, 312 pages including an index; illustrated [in the first half of the contents], price $2.50.

Dr. Richmond has again contributed an excellent volume to join the company of “The Adolescent Girl” and “The Adolescent Boy”, those highly interesting and informative texts in the field of Education for Parenthood. Her rich background and wealth of first hand experience as a practicing psychiatrist and associate of Dr. William A. White [“Mental Hygiene of Childhood”] have done much to secure authoritative treatment of the subject.

An idea of the scope of the volume is gotten by reading the chapter headings that follow: General Biologic Considerations,

Digitized by ooQle
192

Biology of Reproduction, Sex in Primitive Society, The Historical Period, The Psychology of Sex, Problems of Sex, Sex and Society, and Sex and Education.

The author is at her best in the biologic and psychologic foundation of normal and abnormal sex development. It is to be regretted that she has so little [9 pages] to say about Sex and Education. The use of double quotations for hackneyed words and phrases seems to indicate a freedom from the traditional sentimentality of much of the sex literature in the past.

HOWARD L. CONRAD

The Theory of Play by Elmer D. Mitchell and Bernard S. Mason, published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York; 6 x 9”, clothbound, 547 pages including an index; price $2.80.

For those interested in a book giving an understandable and comprehensive picture of play in all its aspects this one should prove to be a real treasure.

The first part presents a historical background. The second discusses theoretical explanations of play, definitions, and the influence of age and sex on plav. The third part considers the need for play in modem life; the benefits of play; and play as related to mental growth, character formation, and citizenship. The last part is devoted to the administration of play with particular reference to the play center; boys and girls clubs; summer camps; athletics in high schools and colleges; organization of play; the promotion of play; administration of public recreation; and the play leader.

This book is not a mere revision of its predecessor “The Theory of Organized Play”—it is an entirely revamped and expanded treatment of the whole subject. It is based on a philosophy gaining wider and more universal approval. It is highly recommended to teachers and students in recreation training courses and to all teachers and administrators engaged in play, recreation, or physical education activities. It is a book that is second to none in this field.

JOHN C. KIEFFER

Legends And Dances of Old Mexico by Norma Schwen-dener and Averil Tibbels; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., 1934; clothbound, 9” x 6”, 111 pages; price $2.00.

This is a collection of twelve dances. Each dance is given in its original historical setting, including the legend behind the dance, the musical instruments usejj for accompaniment, and the authentic musical composition. Tne steps and figures as well as the costumes are described in detail. Graphic symbols add much to the clearness of the descriptions. Reproductions of primitive drawings lend a great deal toward portraying thte original spirit of these dances.

These dances will find their best use in connection with special programs.

FRED E. FOERTSCH

Digitized by LjOOQle