MIND AND BODY

VoL 30	JULY, 1923	„	No.	320

PUBUSHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachussetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phils. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Bntered ms second-class matter October /^, 1916, mt the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

<■ ------------------ ■■■...... .............

Qriginal articles and REPRINTjg

0------------------------------------------••

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY AND THE LIMITATIONS OF EFFICIENCY TESTS.

By Edward C. Schneider, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

A wave of interest in methods of measuring mental and physical capacity of mankind is passing over America. Standards of fitness and the tools for making the measurements are called for on every side. The psychologist, busy with intelligence tests, has almost persuaded himself that he can so accurately determine mental capacity with his yard sticks that boys and girls may be wisely guided into certain vocations on the basis of these tests. Some believe that the physical working capacity and the physical efficiency of the individual can likewise be measured. The mechanical efficiency of the human machine and the conditions which modify and control it are topics that appeal to different persons from different points of view. The athlete, trainer, physical educator, physiologist,

Shysician and employer of labor are each calling for standards of tness and methods of measuring the degree of fitness. Some are interested in the maximum possibilities of the human machine;

Digitized by v^ooQle
146

others would ascertain fitness for special tasks on land, in the air, or under the water; while the physician desires to measure the stages of a patient’s convalescence and his response to a course of treatment.

All of these interests center around physical condition. What, therefore, is involved in physical fitness and how can it be attained? In attempting to answer these questions we turn to physiological and anatomical observations on the effects of physical exercise.

Something of the character of the changes wrought in the body by exercise is to be found in a comparison of anatomical, functional and composition differences observed in active and inactive animals. Such a comparison (6} has been made in England of the wild hare which lives an active life in the open and the wild rabbit which lives an inactive life in seclusion. The hare feeds in the open, runs long distances and when pursued by an enemy saves itself by running away; the rabbit, on the other hand, feeds quietly near its burrow and saves itself from an enemy by hiding in the burrow or in some other near by retreat, and is incapable of running long and far. For the work of running a large supply of oxygen must be furnished to the muscles and this the inactive type of animal is not equipped to supply. To provide the required oxygen the wild hare has a larger oxygen reservoir; that is, its blood volume is larger and contains about 30 per cent more hemoglobin than that of a wild rabbit of the same weight. The organ that pumps the blood is stronger in the active animal. The heart of the hare has a larger reserve power, with three times more muscle than that of a wild rabbit of the same weight; it beats more slowly, or about half as frequently as that of the wild rabbit whose rate is about 200 per minute; and it works more economically.

The breathing, by means of which oxygen is pumped into the lungs, is slow and deep in the hare and rapid and shallow in the rabbit. The rate for the hare is about 20 and for the rabbit about 50 times per minutes.' Deep breathing ventilates the lungs more adequately than shallow breathing; while the habit of slow breathing provides, in part, the ability to compensate to the increased demand for oxygen during exertion. Even the color of the muscles of the two types of animals indicates a difference that favors an increased supply of oxygen to the muscle of the active animal; the flesh of the hare is dark and that of the rabbit light in color.

Still other differences result from the life of action. When a large hutch rabbit is held for a few minutes in the vertical position with its head uppermost and limbs stretched out the blood collects in the flaccid abdomen and does not return to the heart, thus causing unconsciousness and sometimes even death from lack of blood in the brain. An animal like the wild hare with taut abdomen is not affected in this way and can only be brought into a like state by an anesthetic, which interferes with the normal regulation of the size of the blood vessels. It is able to maintain an adequate circulation under quite adverse conditions, while the inactive animal lacks this power of compensation.

Digitized by v^ooQle
147

The increase in the frequency of heart beat produced by exercise is ordinarily more gradual in the active than in the inactive animal (8). The center in the brain which slows the heart is more effective in the active animal, the degree of the tone of this center, known as the vagus center, bears a relationship to the “staying power” of the animal in prolonged muscular effort. The domestic rabbits lack a marked vagus tone and therefore lack “staying power/’

A study of the influence of exercise on the growth of organs of the albino rat at the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology (7) showed that long continued exercise (equivalent to a period of 7 to 14 years in man) produced many alterations in the organs. Among them the following were most striking: In the animals allowed to exercise the heart, kidneys and liver had an average excess of about 20per cent; whilethe spleen showed a similiar amount of deficiency. The brain weight was increased about 4 per cent, while no change was noticed in the spinal cord. The ovaries gave an exdess of 84 per cent, and the tests only 12 per cent. The ductless glands, such as the hypophysis and suprarenals, responded by changes which differed according to sex. The exercised rats were either entirely free from lung infection or but slightly infected, while the unexercised rats had badly infected lungs. Long continued exercise did not significantly modify body length and body weight. Attention is called to an observation made by Darwin which showed that the cranial capacity of wild rabbits is noticeably greater than that of domesticated inactive varieties.

Recently, Broun (5) of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research has shown that in a sedentary animal the blood forming centers of the body get sqmewhat out of the habit of forming red blood corpuscles. Hence a day of vigorous muscular activity, which causes a destruction of blood corpuscles, will for a day or so be followed by reduction in the normal red corpuscle and hemoglobin content of the body.

The above comparisons clearly show that active and inactive animals differ physiologically. Both, biology teaches, are adapted to the kind of life they live. Can we say which is best fitted to the environment and the life it leads? Judging from the evidence of evolution each type is well adapted to its environment, otherwise extermination would quickly occur.

The history of the human race indicates that during the unnumbered yearn of evolutionary times muscular activity constituted one of the major elements of human experience and that the survival of the race depended upon superb development of the neuromuscular equipment. May it be that man, unlike the animal, is not intended by inheritance for a particular kind of life and may choose to live either the inactive or active type? His present structure indicates that he is adapted to a life of considerable muscular activity. This is seen in the proportion of the muscular sys-

Digitized by LjOOQle
148

tern, in the amount of nervous tissue given over to the initiation and control of muscular movements, and in the size of the heart and lungs which have far greater capacity than is needed for a sedentary life. The modem trend has been to make man more and more a \ sedentary animal. If invention continues to remove the need for \ exercise, as it has in the past fifty years, the man animal will not 1 of necessity have to run to his hiding place; but, instead will be carried there by a machine when his enemy appears. And yet we know that if tne evidence of evolution as gathered for the animal world means anything at all, it clearly shows that man cannot with impunity neglect to develop and maintain those parts of the body that have adapted him for muscular activity. An undeveloped or atrophied organ is a place of weakness and is vulnerable to the attacks of disease organisms.

Ithas been well said that the benefits of muscular work cannot be overestimated; that exercise is a necessary condition of a healthy existence; that it js a physiological need of a primitive kind wficn cannot safely be eliminated by civilization. There can be little doubt that exercise, especially that which calls into action large muscle groups, strengthens the organism and therefore tends to prolonglife. It is difficult to find men who have been injured by muscular exercise, but easy to find many who have failed of normal development and been ruined by the lack of it. It is common experience to find that a man in poor condition is easily exhausted by mental and physical exertion; he is irritable, likely to have morbid thoughts, petty ailments and a low morale; he has a sallow com-

Elexion and dull eyes; and he frequently complains of constipation, eadache, nervousness and insomnia. On the other hand it is equally common to observe in a man of good physical condition evidences of mental and bodily vigor, such as alertness, cheerfulness, high morale, bright eyes, elastic step, firm muscles, healthy complexion and capacity for arduous mental and physical work. These are but the outward expressions of the internal working of the body.

Let us now find what changes have been observed within the body of man during periods of physical training. Many of these features are quite like those found in animals; however, others have also received attention which add to our understanding of fitness.

During a period of consistent physical training the gain in strength and efficiency is the product of two processes that go hand in hand (1). The muscular system as a whole improves, and there is an increase in the range and delicacy of the adjustments of the circulatory and respiratory systems, whereby the supply of oxygen to the body is assured. The muscles grow larger; show a gain in power which is out of all proportion to their gain in size; fibres, formerly inactive, come into use so that eventually probably every fiber of the muscle contracts when the muscle works; also the nerve impulse, which causes the muscle to contract, more readily and completely enters the muscles and spreads into each fiber so that the muscle is more effectively controlled by the brain; and lastly,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
149

the several muscles finally come to work together irt the best combination, so that a better economy of force is secured, a “knack” of movement is acquired. These changes, along with nutritive alterations not yet understood, make the oody a more efficient machine, in that the energy of the fuel, food, is more fully converted into work and less dissipated as heat. In work on a bicycle ergometer the net efficiency of untrained men averaged about 20 per cent, trained subjects 25 per cent and a very strong athlete between 38 and 41 per cent (2). Because of the improvement in the efficiency of muscular contraction there is a smaller expenditure of fuel and oxygen by the trained than the untrained man when equal amounts of work are accomplished. It costs the body less to do work.

Parallel with these changes in the voluntary muscles, the mechanisms that supply the oxygen needs of the body develop increased capacity and improve in facility for making quick adjustments in response to suddenly increased demands. The respiratory apparatus and the breathing are modified both during rest and in physical exercise. The expansion of the chest is increased, the rate of breathing is slowed; and the depth of breathing is increased. In the sedentary man large portions of the lungs may be closed off from the air inhaled, while with training the entire lung volume becomes accessible so that the blood is exposed to oxygen over 100 square meters of surface instead of a fraction thereof. The trained man breathes much less air for the same accomplishment and withdraws from it slightly less oxygen than the untrained man. During work the expired air of the trained man contains a higher percentage of carbon dioxide and a lower percentage of oxygen. Usually the fit man tolerates a higher percentage of carbon dioxide and a lower percentage of oxygen in his lungs than the unfit man performing the same task, since he makes better use of the air inhaled and, therefore, requires less of it. It is obvious that the trained man ventilates his lungs, both during rest and in exercise, more economically than does the untrained.

The changes of training in the mechanism that circulates the blood are equally saving in character. The resting heart rate of the athletic man in condition is usually 6 to 8 beats slower than when he is out of condition. In the performance of the same task the trained man’s heart accelerates less and afterward returnsmore quickly to normal than does that of the untrained man. The heart rests only by beating less frequently and less vigorously, so the slower rate of the fit man is a real advantage. In addition the arterial blood pressure increases about the same amount in the trained and untrained during the performance of an equal task and since their normal pressures are approximately equal the resistance to be overcome is about the same for both types. The heart muscle of the athlete becomes larger and stronger just as do the arm, leg and body muscles, the circulation of blood through the walls of the heart is improved and the general nutritive condition bettered so that in the end the heart is increased in mechanical efficiency equally with the body muscles. The stronger heart of the athlete will empty itself

Digitized by LjOOQle
150

more completely at each beat than the weaker heart of the sedentary man. As the venous blood pressure rises during exercise the inflow of blood to the heart increases, causing the heart to dilate more and more and sometimes even to stretch to its physiological limit. In the trained man, with a heart in good condition, the stretching is less, the contraction more vigorous and the margin left for adaptation by increased activity in response to a further demand for oxygen by the body is greater than in the untrained man. Frequently the output of the heart per minute is less in the trained than in the untrained man when performing an equal task. It is obvious, therefore, that the heart is spared effort as a result of training.

Just what happens to the oxygen reservoir, the blood, of man has not been determined. It is known that the blood is richer in hemoglobin, the constituent that carries the oxygen, but whether the blood volume is increased is not known.

The changes of training render the mechanism more capable of meeting the call of the tissues for oxygen. The muscular efficiency of a man is measured by the extent to which he can call upon his body for increased effort. In a normal individual the extent of the response may be 600 per cent. This can be further increased by training and decreased by sedentary life and disease. Sometimes as a result of disease the adaptive mechanisms, which supply the requisite oxygen, are so enfeebled that even the act of changing from a recumbent to a standing position overtaxes their capacity. It has been found that untrained men, when called upon to do a heavy work, will work faster and with less fatigue when an extra supply of oxygen is administered; while a trained man, called upon to do the same work, receives no benefit from the extra oxygen supply. This difference is due to the fact that the trained man has so developed his adaptive mechanisms that they fully meet the call for oxygen. A man does a load of work comfortably so long as he maintains an approximate equilibrium between the oxygen which he uses and that which he absorbs; under this condition his oxygen account, so to speak, balances at any given time. When these conditions obtain Briggs (3) calls the load a normal load. A man is carrying an over-load when he overdraws his oxygen account and expends energy at a greater rate than he takes in oxygen. Under such circumstances he sooner or later becomes ineffective and fatigued. According to Briggs a crest-load is one in which the oxygen supplying mechanisms are working at full capacity, and the supply of oxygen is just sufficient to maintain a balance. Any increase in the work beyond this, no matter how slight, converts the work into an over-load. The crest-load is raised by'training and lowered by disease. Zero fitness may be defined as the condition in which the slightest load is an overload and when oxygen want becomes serious when the least exertion is made.

Still another oxygen adaptive change is a result of training. The trained man more completely withdraws the oxygen from his blood than the untrained. Just how this is accomplished is not

Digitized by v^ooQle
151

known but as a result each fraction of blood flowing through the muscles loses more oxygen and so is more venous as it returns to the lungs than normally. This adaptive change is another that lessens the strain thrown upon the heart and diminishes the amount of work that organ is called upon to perform.

Having now considered what is involved in physical fitness and how this can be attained there remains to ask, can fitness be measured and, if so, what meters are available for making measurements.

In attempting to answer these questions it is necessary to recall that there are many degrees of fitness and that the most satisfactory meter would be one that measures all of these, from zero fitness to maximum capacity for work. A meter that measures only maximum capacity would not serve the ordinary requirements. Most of us are interested in fitness only in so far as it helps us to avoid illness and postpone death. The ideal goaf is to be fit enough to accomplish each day’s work with a minimum of fatigue and to remain vigorous to a good old age. Some must be fit for heavy labor and others for light sedentary work.

At present there are many fitness tests, not one of which can entirely fulfill the above requirements. Some of them are in no sense fitness tests. In order that some help may be available in evaluating these it is well to have a system of classification and for the purpose Muscio’s (9) classification of fatigue tests will serve. All of the proposed tests of fitness can be classified under two main heads; viz., performance tests and non-performance tests. The performance test requires the subject to do something in which the amount and character of the work is regarded as the measure of fitness. In the non-performance test measurements are made of certain involuntary phenomena, the characters of which are regarded as indicators of fitness. The non-performance test usually requires some effort from the subject, but the observer’s attention is centered upon the involuntary response and not the character of the effort. The performance tests should be abandoned since none of them yield results that do not require interpretation and correction for interfering factors, such as "knack”, practice, alertness, interest, willingness to undergo discomfort and effort, co-operation and incentive. While the non-performance tests are, as a rule, not affected by the above interfering factors, yet they too are subject to the influence of disturbing conditions, especially those of the emotions. It should be noted that while present indications are that the non-performance tests are the most trustworthy, yet none of them give promise of being simple, short, and at the same time reliable, since they require considerable care and time for the elimination of known disturbing factors.

It was formerly the custom to estimate the muscular power and general condition of a person by endurance tests, such as weight lifting and running to exhaustion. These revealed maximum capacity for the particular kind of effort but were not found trustworthy as health guides. Good performances were registered by men ap-

Digitized by kjOOQle
152

proaching nervous breakdown. In fact athletes, who had shown improvement in such tests during the training period, have been known to collapse nervously in mid-season.

Later muscular strength tests came into popularity. The dynamometer was used as a means of testing the power of certain groups of muscles and the result was employed as an index for estimating general condition. Physiology then showed that physical exertion overtaxes the circulatory mechanism ’ong before it exhausts the skeletal musculature; and that, while it is not easy to overwork the muscles, the heart can quite readily be overworked. The convalescent from infectious disease is limited in his exercise not by what his muscles can do but by the strength of his heart. Hence today the general opinion is that strength tests do not permit us to draw satisfactory conclusions regarding the efficiency of the entire body.

With the advance in physiological knowledge it was but natural that the seeker after an efficiency test should next turn to the heart for evidence of physical condition. Among clinicians the cardiologist has also felt the need of a test that would determine the heart’s working capacity or reserve power. He, recognizing that the capacity for physical exercise is undoubtedly a valid criterion of the condition of the heart’s efficiency, because the capacity for exercise depends very largely on the heart’s ability to increase its output, has led the search lor a heart capacity test. While it is true that a man’s ability to take exercise is, as a rule, determined by the functional capacity of his heart and the stress of exercise usually falls more heavily on the heart than on any other part of the body; yet our knowledge of crest-load and over-loads shows that the body is often overdrawing its oxygen account while the heart is still far from being overtaxed. Investigations on the effect of lack of oxygen indicate that the heart tolerates a high degree of oxygen want and that the nervous system is the more sensitive to a deficiency in the oxygen supply, in fact it is the most sensitive tissue of the body to a lack of oxygen. A capacity test of the heart would be useful for determining the maximum capacity of the whole body to endure a heavy load for a short period of time, but it is questionable if a capacity heart test can ever be standardized in terms of general fitness of the body and used to predict the approach of nervous exhaustion. It should be added that many of our best cardiologists believe that a test which would definitely determine the functional capacity of the heart is still an accomplishment for the future (4).

In the search for a meter of fitness are we not in danger of finding that in most cases the instrument offered is unsatisfactory, that k is measuring the wrong thing or that it is measuring, so to speak, a by-product of fitness? It seems that many of the proposed tests of physical capacity are not even measuring what they claim to measure. When, therefore, it is further assumed that physical capacity and physical fitness are one and the same thing and then some one

Digitized by v^ooQle
158

without a clear understanding of the problem involved, but who knows in a general way what fitness means, attempts to apply these tests for the selection of workmen for a particular kind of job, or athletes for a special kind of game, faith in the tests is certain to receive a rude shock. In judging the value of a test it is first necessary to learn just what it measures and then use it to measure only that particular thing. If muscular strength and heart capacity are synonymous with physical fitness then w® oust oowok for a. o« polity test of one or both of these ana standardize the findings so that they may read in terms of fitness. But of all the multitude of changes wrought in the body by a period of physical training are we justified in claiming that the power of the muscles and the heart alone set a limit to the performance of the body? We must ask ourselves, what is it that sets a limit to our capacity for doing work, is it the strength of the muscles, the heart or something else? The answer to this question will differ according to the load the body is required to carry. If the demand is such that its maximum power wall be exerted for a few minutes, the answer is one thing; if the demand requires sustained powerful effort for one or two hours, it is another; and if the demand is such that the body should carry a load steadily day after day without a loss in efficiency and health, it is another.

The fitness that the world at large is most interested in is that of being in condition to do the day’s job without experiencing unhealthy fatigue and in being in condition to enjoy life to a good old age. Different jobs will require different degrees of fitness, but so far as the workers at each kind are concerned the work must be a “normal-load” for them.

I believe that our best definition of fitness is found in our understanding of a normal-load, a crest-load and an over-load. With a normal-load the oxygen account balances; with the crest-load it still balances but the adaptive mechanisms, the breathing, the circulation, the blood, and the unloading of oxygen, are all working at top notch capacity and are unable to increase further the delivery of oxygen; and with an over-load the oxygen account does not balance, it is overdrawn. An overdraft of oxygen may be made good during a period of rest that follows the work if it has not been too large. If the overdraft, which on final analyses affects not only the oxygen but also other nutritive resources of the body, can not be made good during a night of sleep there is unhealthy fatigue and if each day’s loss is only partly made good during the following night of sleep and this goes on day after day for a long period, bankruptcy is in sight; the resources of the body are gradually being exhausted and the body passes into a bankruptcy that we, for the want of a better term, call staleness.

The body or some group of muscles of the body can, during a period of a few seconds, exert the maximum power by the use of stored energy without at that time heavily calling upon the oxygen supplying mechanisms. The supreme effort, or the spurt as it is

Digitized by v^ooQle
154

sometimes called, is of short duration. Afterward the body repairs the damage by the use of oxygen and nutriments. A general call, like the hundred yard dash, makes a terrific after demand on these mechanisms so that they, especially the breathing, work at top capacity for a short time following the effort. The longer a supreme effort is sustained the greater is the immediate demand on the oxygen supplying mechanisms. If the heaviest possible load is to be carried lor an bour, tliat load can nut be equal to the maximum load that was carried for a few seconds. For work extending over an hour the limit is largely determined by the adaptive capacity of the oxygen supplying mechanisms and apparently the brunt of this load is borne by the heart, so that in sustained effort the endurance of the individual is limited by the capacity of h's heart. However, in last analysis it will be found that the work is cut short by an overdraft of oxygen.

It is obvious that for the steady work of day after day such overdrafts as the above are impossible. The maximum load of daily work can not steadily be an over-load. Theoretically it might be equal to the crest-load but practically it very likely is something less, that is a normal-load. As yet there have been no investigations to determine how near to his crest-load a man may work, day in and day out, and still remain fit for his task. Each worker requires some margin of reserve below the crest-load so that he may be ready for “spurts” that are certain to be called for in the natural course of events of any day’s schedule.

By physical training the position of the crest-load may be raised. So a man may hope to fit himself for a heavier work. Just how much he can shift the crest-load upward is not known. We can test actual accomplishment, but as yet there is no means of determining the capacity for further development. He who desires to reach the maximum crest-load must resort to physical training. Many things other than physical exercise will tend to shift it. It will be shifted downward by fatigue, inadequate diet, adverse environmental conditions such as high humidity and excessive heat, bad habits and other causes. Some margin between the load that is carried and the crest-load should be allowed to off set these adverse factors.

It is possible to determine the crest-load, that is the maximum number of foot-pounds of work per minute that can be accomplished with a maintenance of oxygen balance, for any individual by a method developed by Briggs (3). The test requires the use of methods of calorimetric metabolism and can, therefore, only be made by experts in gas analysis. For this reason it very likely will never be applied as a routine test by physical educators, physicians and employers of labor. Hence we are compelled to ask if some simple test may be substituted for this more elaborate and difficult determination of the crest-load.

There are simple gages of an over-load which may be found in the subjective symptoms that are experienced during and immediately following physical exertion; suen as the expression of the face,
155

the color of the skin, especially the flushed face, the degree of breathlessness, palpitation of the heart, the degree of fatigue, and pains in the lower part of the chest. When one ceases after carrying an easy normal-load the after effect is The influence of a severe over-load is in marked contrast to this in that after the work is stopped some or all of the above subjective symptoms are present and the heavy breathing continues for some time, in fact in the case of a hard spell of work the breathing may not return to normal for many hours. This is accounted for by the fact that when muscles are insufficiently supplied with oxygen lactic acid is formed and soon floods the blood and must then be eliminated by the kidneys before the breathing can return to normal. After a very heavy over-load there may be added to the above symptoms, exhaustion, headache, giddiness and even fainting. Many physicians j'udge heart and physical conditions by merely “sizing up5’ a patient after prescribing several dozes of exercise. Satisfactory “sizing up” is only possible for the physician who has had a wide experience with a large variety of cases; it is of but little help to the ordinary student of physical fitness in grading condition. Many people are so constituted that no amount of experience with subjective symptoms will enable them to become good judges of condition.

Our search for a fitness test has now been narrowed down to the possibility of using the changes in the blood, respiration and the nervous system. Until our good and reliable methods of determining the hemoglobin content of the blood are simplified more than at present, blood tests are not likely to be widely employed as fitness tests. Tests based on the respiration are likely to be unpopular because they require a highly trained gas analyst and because most of us alter our rate and depth of breathing when we are being watched.	fj

It appears that some of the easily observed physiological changes that result from a sedentary life are associated in large part with a modification of nervous stability, especially of the automatic nervous controls. As a result of poor physical condition, the brain center which regulates the frequency of heart beat less effectively restrains the heart; the breathing Drain center shows mild symptoms of fatigue, manifested in shallow rapid breathing; and the vaso-motor center which controls the distribution of the blood is decreased in tone, as is evidenced by subnormal arterial blood pressure and inability to make quick and adequate adjustments in the redistribution of blood for changes of posture and exercise. The war experience with “effort-syndrome,” or “shell-shock” as it was also called, a condition brought on by overwork, either suddenly by a single short overdose of exercise, or more gradually by a period of daily slight overwork, or by a day or two of prolonged severe effort, indicated that the nervous system was the seat of injury. It is believed that the nervous system suffers from a slight deficiency of oxygen (1) so that even mild exertions, such as standing and walking, cause exaggerated responses of the oxygen supplying mechanisms as is evidenced by changes in pulse rate, blood pressure and breathing.
156

Such conditions, it seems, indicate a low position of the crest-load. It has been natural therefore, for many workers in the problem of fitness to use the pulse rate and blood pressure to determine the degree of injury to this group of automatic brain centers. Whether tkoy «an W usod more effectively as a measure of physical condition than other factors is yet an unsettled question.

There are subjective symptoms that give useful information regarding the condition of nervous control; such as poor co-ordination of movements of balancing, fine tremors of the hands, eyelids and tongue, greatly increased reflexes, apprehensive starts with slight noises, and cold and poorly colored extremities. These may be of use in “sizing up” an individual but are not susceptible of standardization in terms of physica' fitness.

If use is to be made of the condition of automatic nervous controls it appears that observations should be made on the pulse rate, arterial blood pressure, and respiration during rest and after a mild form of exertion. The results must then somehow be standardized in terms of phys cal fitness.

It is evident, if these reactions are to give data of value as a measure of fitness, that all temporary disturbing factors such as the effects of eating, exercise, baths, smoking, temporary fatigue, etc., must be guarded against. It is too much to ask of any measure of fitness that the test be applied at any time of day without regard to previous activity.

In conclusion let us remind ourselves of the fact that there is a disposition to demand more of a fitness measure than is demanded of a mechanic who provides the engine for the automobile or airplane. The mechanic can measure the maximum load that a machine may carry, but how long this can be carried he does not undertake to state; a minimum endurance may be predicted, but never the maximum. So must it be with the human machine. We have methods of measuring the maximum effort that may be tolerated for a short time, we can determine what constitutes an overload, we can even determine the presence of poor adjustments in the machine, but we are unable to predict how long the human machine will be able to carry a norma -!oad, we can not even say how long it can carry a moderate over-load. The best we can hope for is a measure for actual accomplishment and present perfection of adjustment. There is no prospect that we shall ever be able to determine the capacity for further development nor even the capacity to resist untoward experiences.

Literature.

1.	Bainbridge:	Physiology of Muscular Exercise, New York, Long-

man, Green and Co., 1919.

2.	Benedict and Cathcart:	Muscular	Work,	Carnegie	Institution of

Washington. No. 187, 1913.

3.	Briggs: Journal of Physiology, 1920, 64, 292.

Digitized by Google
157

!

4.	Brittingham and White:	Journal	of	the	American Medical Asso-

ciation, 1922, 79, 1901.

5.	Broun:	Journal of Experimental Medicine, 1923, 37,113 and 207.

6.	Flack and Hill:	Text-Book	of Physiology, Longman, Green & Co.,

1919, 79.

7.	Hatai:	Anatomical Record, 1916, 9, 647.

8.	Madeod:	Physiology and Biochemistry in Modern Medicine,

Mosby and Co:, 4th edition, 227.

9.	Muscio:	British Journal of Psychology, 1921,.12, Part 1, 31.

By Naomi E. Geprge, Instructor of Corrective Gymnastics, State Normal School, West Chester, Pa.

Classes for special instruction in gymnastics were organized in January. As a result of the physical examinations which were given during the first semester, many students have been assigned to these classes.

The aim of the classes is three-fold. First—To provide exercise in some form for students who have permanent excuses from the required gymnasium course. Second—To provide exercise of some land for those who may need a special or temporary excuse. Third—To help correct remediable defects in posture including: weak feet and ankles, faulty positions of the spine - antero-posterior or lateral deviations, prominent abdomen, fiat chest,.round shoulders, drooping or forward head; also other defects including constipation, painful menstruation, and the inability to relax.

This individual work is given when there is a girls’ class in regular gymnastics. A limited number from each class is entered upon the records. They meet regularly - Seniors two hours per week, Juniors two hours and three hours per week. (Alternating). In addition to those having defects of posture.are the permanently excused students, and those taking a regular monthly excuse.

The content of the work: Some of the class time should be given to a brief discussion. It is a great help to talk over the values of Good Posture - hygienic, economic, social and esthetic. To quote Lillian Curtis Drew: “It is useless to try to correct inefficient posture by imposing a routine of exercises without interest - few individuals will do work of this sort just because they are told it is good for them. We all like to be ‘shown a reason’ for doing. Nagging does more harm than good - the reiteration of ‘stand up straight' soon becomes annoying or monotonous and arouses either antagonism or indifference. This method does not carry out! Individuals should be directed, not forced. If we talk more about poise and personality and less about ‘posture,’ we should reach the goal more surely. If we could arouse the individual to consciousness of the fact that poise (posture) is the outward expression of

CORRECTIVE OR INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE.

Digitized by
158

personality, we shall have gone a long step forward in the solution of the difficulty.

The interest having been aroused, then the ‘will to do’ should follow and the performance of the necessary program of exercises will be carried out purposefully with desirable results.

Individual gymnastics should be a purposeful activity.

Following the discussion of the values of Good Posture, time is given for a thorough explanation of each student’s defect and the effect of that on the human mechanism.

“Until a person understands good bodily mechanics and has gained the correct muscular co-ordination, chiefly of the abdomen, chest, and back, exercise is of little benefit and often is harmful.”

Exercises are prescribed for the defects found, followed by an explanation of the proper mechanical use of the affected part in contrast to the improper mechanics with which we are dealing.

In discussion we take up the fundamental positions - lying, sitting, standing, walking, etc., and the progress that should be carried out, starting with exercises in the lying position and working on up to the erect carriage of the body.

The various types of exercises are practiced - passive (touching upon massage), active with assistance (passive action), active, ana resistive - active.

Now we enter upon the practice of the corrective exercises. The aim is to gain, “first a muscular sense (feel right), second -muscular strength (to hold the correct position).”

Some of the typical exercises for each of the mechanical defects

are:

1.	Weak feet - Ground gripping.

2.	Hollow back - Abdominal retraction exercises. Stand against wall - feet four or five inches from wall - contract abdomen -back and head against wall.

3.	Round back - Hanging to stretch and elevate the ribs. Lying with pad under dorsal spine to hyper - extend that region. Shoulder raising with hands back of head.

4.	Forward Head - Prone lying - do breast stroke as in swimming. “The slender type needs - Emphasis on pelvic tilt to correct lordosis. The heavy type needs - ribs-stretching and chest raising.’ ’

For chronic constipation we give massage and exercises - lying leg raising in various ways.

Painful menstruation - Dr. Mosher’s Exercise also the “knee-chest position” for sagging viscera or prominent abdomen.

Rest periods and complete relaxation figure quite extensively in our work. The value of relaxation and its place in the program are discussed. Thomas & Goldthwait* say - “The value of rest periods should be appreciated sufficiently to make them part of the

* Body Mechanics end Health, Thomas & Goldthwait, Houghton Mifflin.
159

school day program and should be continued over a course of two years or even longer.”

From time to time posture tests are given to see who is ready to be sent back to the regular gymnasium classes. We use the straight line test for standing. To qualify for the complete test one must be able to assume the correct sitting and standing positions as “the ability to assume the correct position is more valuable than the exercises.” After assuming the correct position one holds it with good control for a period of two minutes. The same test is given for a comfortable, efficient, sitting position. Then the posture while walking is tested, by viewing carefully from all angles.

After the students have acquired a knowledge of the proper mechanical use of the body, all members of the class are required to criticise the posture of their fellow members in the slightest detail. They prescribe exercises for the defects as they are found.

A grade of E., G., F.,[or P. is given to each person.

The girls are instructed to apply what knowledge they may acquire to their pupils when they enter the teaching profession.

One hundred and thirty-eight girls in all have received instructions and practiced exercises of a corrective type, since the middle of January. About thirty-seven girls have been dismissed with corrections or so improved as to permit them to go back to the regular gymnasium classes with instructions to continue their prescribed exercises and good postural habits.

When a few are dismissed, a few more are enrolled so as to give as large a number as possible an opportunity for instruction. The classes must be kept small so that individual instruction, attention and criticism may be secured.

Such questions arise in your minds “Have these exercises actually helped? Is such a class necessary? Are the girls really interested?”

Without the slightest hesitation “Yes.” Not a day passes, or scarcely a lesson, but that some one or another tells of the benefit they have realized, or are realizing, as the work progresses.

To be concrete, the girls having permanent excuses due to recent operations, deformities, chronic appendicitis, functional heart troubles, etc. say they would much rather do some form of light exercise that they know is by no means harmful to their condition than to sit on the side lines of the regular gymnasium classes.

Several have been absolutely relieved of menstrual cramps, owing it to the careful and regular practice of Dr. Mosher’s exercises.

I have in mind a girl, who, when entering the class was very discouraged, having been assigned corrective exercises for chronic constipation. She said she always had been constipated, had been to doctors many times, took a laxative every day because she had

Digitized by LjOOQle
160

to, as she knew no other means of relief. I said, “Let us try at any rate." She entered the class not more than six weeks ago. Last week I asked her about her condition, as I usually ask each one almost eveiy time they come to class, and she told me that during the previous two weeks and a half she had taken only one laxative, and soon hoped to be entirely free of taking medicine, substituting daily exercises.

I have cited a very limited number of cases not to speak of the vast improvements in posture which the least interested observer may detect while mingling with our girls in every day school life.

The most important thing is for each to form good postural habits, and practice them wherever they are and in whatever they are doing, and not to compare it with a new gown which one puts on and takes off for certain occasions.

It is true “that with the ideal posture and practiced control the physical powers are at their best, the mental functions performed most easily, and the personality or spirit of the individual possesses its greatest strength. ’

Corrective Exercises.

Lordosis (Hollow Back)

On Mats.

I.	Complete relaxation from standing position.

II.	Lying on back.

A.	Knee bending up to chest (Pull high with hands).

1.	One at a time, alternating.

2.	Both knees.

B.	Knee J>ending up to chest. Hands on hips.

1.	One at a time.

2.	Both.

C.	Knee upward bend. - Extend. Lower. (Slowly).

2.	Both (very slowly).

D.	Leg raising and lowering.

1.	Alternating.

2.	Both.

All exercises should be done slowly and carefully.

III.	Bicycle Exercises (Lying on back - legs against walls).

One leg extended, other knee bent up to chest.

Arms in upward bend position.

Reverse the position of legs and stretch the arms upward. Return and repeat.

IV.	Lying on back - arms at sides.

1.	Knees up to chest.

2.	Knees overhead with toes touching floor.

3.	Return legs slowly.

Round shoulders On Mats.

I.	Complete relaxation from standing position (onmat).

Digitized by

Google
161

II.	Prone lying.

A.	Raise chest from floor - rotating shoulders backward and pull chin in. Relax. Repeat.

B.	Same as A - Arms upward bend. Upward stretch and do swimming movement.

III.	Passive-Stretching of shoulders backward by operator.

IV.	Pushing head backward or chin in against resistance.

V.	Standing (face wall).

Arms length from wall.

Hands against wall, shoulder width apart and at height of shoulders. Feet parallel.

Lean forward toward wall, bending at elbows and ankles -body perfectly straight.

Push to erect position.

Repeat several times.

Free arm exercises in standing position.

I.	Relaxation

1.	Arms.

2.	Head.

3.	Trunk from hips up.

II.	Breathing

1.	Arms forward, bend.

2.	Breathe in while flinging arms sideward.

3.	Return to bent position and exhale.

4.	Repeat! Position!

III.	1. Arms upward-bend. Sideward-stretch. Repeat several times.

2.	Arms upward-bend. Upward-stretch. Repeat several, times.

3.	Arms upward-bend. Backward-stretch. Repeat several times.

(Insist upon elevating chest and good poise and control while executing these exercises.

IV.	Abdominal retraction exercises

1.	Arms forward, diagonally upward - raise.

2.	Heels raise.

3.	With strong abdominal contraction walk several steps holding the position.

V.	Back

A.

1.	Hands on hips and feet apart - place.

2.	Trunk forward - bend-

3.	Raise! Repeat.

B.	(See end of list*).

VI.	Side

1.	Arms sideward - raise and feet apart - place.

2.	Trunk to left - bend. Return.

3.	Trunk to right - bend. Return.

4.	Repeat alternating.

Digitized by LjOOQle
162

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII

*YI

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

Trunk circumduction.

(With hands on hips and feet apart.)

Abdominal - including balance for development of poise.

A.

1.	Hands on hips - place.

2.	Left kpee upward - bend.

3.	Pull knee high to chest.

4.	Return.

5; Repeat alternating.

B.

1.	Left knee upward - bend,

2.	Straighten.

3.	Lower.

4.	Repeat alternating.

Foot.

1.	Toes in.

2.	Heels-raise.

3.	Return and repeat.

B. Walking.

1. With toes in.

Posture test.

Assume best possible position and retain it while counting twenty-five.

West Point breathing.

Walking test or posture.

B.

1.	Arms sideward, upward and feet apart - place.

2.	Trunk forward bend and touch floor - bend.

3.	Return and repeat.

Bench Exercises.

Walk to benches with good posture carrying wand in right hand and sit equidistant on benches.

Wands forward and upward raise.

Deep breathing, return and repeat.

Wands forward and upward raise, back of shoulders place. Wands upward raise. Position (4 counts.) (Keep chest high and back as straight as possible.)

Wands on chest place. Trunk to left twist and return. (Repeat 6 or 8 times.) Trunk to right twist, and return. Wands forward and upward raise.

Trunk to left - bend. Return.

Trunk to right - bend. Return.

Rest (Do foot exercise, Passive and Active.)

Wands back of shoulders place. Trunk forward bend. Return. Repeat.

Wands forward, upward and legs to long sitting position-raise. Wands back of shoulders place.

Return to starting position, repeat 5 or 6 times.

Digitized by v^,ooq le
163

IX.	Wands forward upward and legs to long position, raise.

Trunk forward bend and touch toes with wands.

Return to starting position. Repeat (5 or 6 times.)

X.	Wands forward upward raise. (Long sitting position.)

Left knee upward bend. Return.

Right knee upward bend. Return.

(Repeat 6 or 8 times.) Position.

XI.	Breathing exercises. Same as II.

XII.	Relax for a few seconds before leaving.

XIII.	Wand in good position and walk off floor with best posture.

(Move quickly.)

NOTE: By Chas. H. Keene, M. D., Director, Health Education, State Department of Public Instruction, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

The paper by Mrs. George seems to answer the question so often asked by Normal School instructors in physical education, and by Normal School Principals, 'what shall we do with the pupils who hold a physician’s certificate of excuse from physical education?' The answer is that any person in such a wretched physical condition that they can not do some type of gym or corrective work, is in such a position that the state is not warranted in expending money for their technical education as teachers. The purpose of conduct* ing State Normal Schools is to prepare teachers for service. To prepare teachers mentally, whose bodies are in such condition that they can not render service, is a waste of public funds.

References:

1.	"Body Mechanics and Health," by Leah C. Thomas and Joel E. Goldthwait, M. D. Houghton-Mifflin.

2.	"Individual Gymnastics," by Lillian Curtis Drew, Lea & Febiger.

3.	"American Phys. Ed. Review - Page 3, (Jan. 1923), “Ways and Means of Overcoming Inefficient Posture.”, by Lillian Curtis Drew. (This article was read before the Therapeutic Section American Phys. Ed. Assoc. Convention. Detroit, Mich., May 5, 1922.)

4.	Mind and Body (Journal) Page 332. (Dec. 1922). (Notes and Comments.) "To Teach Health, Be Healthy."

6.	Popular Science Magazine - Feb. 1923, (or Jan.), "Upside Down Exercises for Keeping Fit."

6.	“Posture of School Children." - Bancroft. MacMillan & Company.

DUTCH INVESTIGATE PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By P. A. Diels, Headmaster in Amsterdam.

Now when it seems that civilization and culture in Europe are more in danger than at any other period in the past century, and now that the cry for economy in State expenses arises everywhere to the

• Reprinted from School Life.

Digitized by

Google
164

detriment of education, the question repeatedly asked in the course of the history of education, “What knowledge is of most worth?” seems to change itself into, “What knowledge costs least?” Some of our foremost scholars and philosophers, seeing the Old World tracing its steps to that dangerous path of cultural suicide, warn our Nation in eloquent appeals to guard their ancient civilization.

But every cloud has its silver lining—the necessity to economize on our teaching leads us again to an inquiry into the purpose of our teaching and education. We are compelled to ascertain whether we are on the right track, and once more we come to face problems as old as the hills, which have puzzled those who have worked and thought before us and will go on puzzling, I fear, our children and grand children, too.

Thus the old question whether the training of the mind must needs be of greater, equal, or less importance than the training of the body comes once more to the foreground. For a long tune physical training was not a branch of teaching in Holland. Even at the present moment most country schools (“rural” schools, I think you call them in America) pay little attention to it, owing to the lack of interest of the local authorities and the incapability of the teachers to instruct it. In the larger centers physical instructors are employed in elementary and secondary schools.

This unsatisfactory state of things by which a great part of the population receives no special physical education has been the subject of very animated discussions in educational circles and in Parliament. On the whole, we may say that the matter meets with two great difficulties—the lack of capable teachers and the lack of sufficient funds. Of the minor difficulties I only mention here the necessity of providing for playgrounds, rooms, etc., and the question whether physical training must prepare for army service.

Generally speaking, Dutch physical education is based upon the German system, of which Gutsmuths was the creator. “Tur-nen” was for long years the principal feature, and though our gymnastic unions had no such political aims as the German “Tumverein,” they enjoyed a great popularity among part of the nation. The other side of physical education, sports and games, was almost neglected; in facft, some 20 or 30 years ago practically no open-air games were practiced in Holland. This has totally changed, and for the better, I think; at present every young man or woman has some sport or sports of his own choosing, football being foremost in favor, but a great many practice swimming, boating, cycling, and several ball games, too. Cycling is very popular in Holland owing to the level roads. Of the Amsterdam population of 700,000, about 100,-000 possess bicycles. It is one of the sights of Amsterdam to see the hosts of cyclists running through the streets during the busy hours of the day. Strange to say, your baseball is almost unknown in Holland, and the endeavors of some to introduce the game in ear country have led to next to nothing. Yet the interest in matters

Digitized by v^.ooQle
165

dealing with physical training is steadily increasing, and there is a strong feeling in Holland that much more attention must be paid to it m future; at all events, we feel that we are on the right track now, and that the old saying “Mens sana in corpore sano” holds good for our own sad times, too.

But, as I have hinted, the field is very extensive and touches so many vital national interests that a closer scrutiny into these problems became urgent. Our Dutch Government understood the importance of it and appointed a committee of able and experienced men to report about the necessary organization. That committee, of which our colleague, Mr. P. Otto, at present head master at Amsterdam, formerly a Member of Parliament, was the secretary, have published a report, of which the following is a brief summary:

In their general introduction the committee say that it is of eminent importance to the nation that all powers existing in the people—moral, intellectual, and physical—be developed. That is why physical training must run parallel with mental and moral education. That training must be given to the children in elementary schools by the common class teacher, while for secondary schools the Danish system is recommended.

Denmark students for the secondary-teacher certificate may choose gymnastic? (physical education) as one branch of study, together with two others, one of the latter being the principal part of study, e. g., history as chief study branch with English and gymnastics, or Latin with French and gymnastics. Those teachers are thus certificated for three branches of study, and the Government favors those who choose physical training as one of them, by appointing such persons before others.

Special attention is paid in the report of the Dutch committee to the needs of children between 13 and 18 years of age. According to trustworthy estimates, the number of those boys and girls k about 800,000. Of these only a sixth part receive any tuition in vocational schools, in secondary schools, etc. It is of great social importance that the workmen, who enjoy at present the eight-hour working day, use part of their leisure in training their bodies in some way or other. But here the difficulty arises whether this physical training must be at the same time a preparation for the military service. One can easily fancy that politics, especially that part touching the peace ideals, plays a great part in the discussion of thk matter. I shall not go into details here; my American readers know better than I do in what light true educationalists ought to consider this problem. I shall only mention that physical education is of great importance to girls as well as to boys, and that preparatory military physical training, which would exclude the girls, is nothing short of treason to the progress of the nation and of mankind. Therefore the committee strongly pleads an organization whkh shall include as many of the adolescents as possible. Unfortunately

Digitized by boogie
166

neither the teachers nor the rooms, playgrounds, etc., are found in sufficient number.

The best time for physical training is the afternoon. The committee proposes to transfer all intellectual school labor to the morning hours, thus leaving the afternoons to gymnastics, games, etc. This means a complete revolution in the curriculum of the elemental and secondary schools, and the inspectors of teaching (something like your superintendents) oppose this plan strongly. It is to be feared that this reform will not come about in the near future. Dutch education attaches too great worth to intellectual training to permit reducing the time devoted to it.

For an ordinary number of pupils (24 to 32) the proper measurements of the gymnastic rooms are given in the report as follows: Length, 18 meters; width, 9 meters; height, 5 meters. A partly covered playground of 1,600 square meters is considered to be necessary.

An item to which the committee devotes a considerable part of their report is the training and the qualifications of teachers. They propose to create three finds of teachers—for elementary schools, for secondary schools, and for universities. The last named are thought to become the leaders of the physical-training movement in Holland and the possibility of obtaining a university degree in physical education is advised.

As we stated, the German system, slightly altered to Dutch conditions, was for long the principal system in Holland. But of late many experts advocate a system which is popularly called the Swedish system because Sweden is the country that has adopted it as the leading principal in physical education. A short exhibition of the principles of the two systems follow here:

The body serves man as a tool and as an organism. As a tool it puts him in a condition to move, to seize, and to make objects, etc. As an organism it is a collection of organs, lungs, heart, kidneys, etc., which organs enable man to keep the body in a condition fit to do its work as a tool.

The aim of the physical training should be to develop the body systematically in such a way that the two functions of the body can be properly exercised. Thus, gymnastic exercises must be of a twofold character—a hygienic part promoting the right function of the organs and a practical part developing the tool-functions of the body. The first must be based upon a thorough knowledge of physiology, the second finds its justification in the actions of the daily life of the common man. Therefore each movement must be analyzed in order to examine which part of the body is influenced by it. It is clear that such an analysis can not be made with intricate movements—that is why the genuine Swedish exercises are localized; that is, they are restricted to one or two joints. The physical exercises must be classified according to their physiological value (their influence on the organs) and to their intensity. That

Digitized by Google
167

is why a Swedish lesson in physical training must be divided in such a way that the right function of as many organs as possible is promoted.

Thus, are briefly stated the principles of the Swedish system as it is known in Holland. A gymnastic room in Swedish style contains several wooden racks and a collection of bars but nothing more. All the other well-known articles of furniture of a “Turn-saale,” the horse, etc., are, generally speaking, not found and when found used very sparingly.

Physical education should not restrict itself to the physical part of the human being, but should also have an intellectual and a moral character. Those three sides of an all-round education should always receive attention; and so the basis of physical training must appeal to the physical, the psychological, ana the pedagogical part of a harmonious education. The advantages of the Swedish system, which are especially found in the analyzed and localized exercises, are not denied, but those in favor of the German-Dutch system assert that the same advantages are found in the more complicated exercises. But the principal argument is found in the fact that the German-Dutch system, with its variety of interesting exercises, is exceedingly attractive for the pupils and develops ana strengthens moral powers, as presence of mind, self-confidence, love of work, etc. Thus in most Dutch schools the ordinary attributes of a “Turnsaale” are found and very frequently used.

An interesting and animated discussion is at present taking place between the followers of the two systems. I venture to remark that, without regard to the system employed, the personality of the teacher plays such a great part in all tuition that both systems can boast of excellent results.

In Dutch schools coeducation is the rule, and the question comes to the foreground: "Should there be a difference in the physical education of boys and girls?" The report insists upon separate tuition on several grounds. In the first place, the future of the boys is generally very different from the future of the girls. In the words of Schiller, “Der Mann muss hinaus ins feindliche Leben, Muss wirken und streben, das Glttck zu erjagen," and the task of woman is largely confined in the spheres of the home. The boys need more muscular strength than the girls, in whom we must always see the mothers of the coming generation.

Miss A. F. S. van Westrienen, M. D., medical school officer at Rotterdam, wrote about the problem as follows:

"Owing to historical causes girls did not receive any physical, training until some years ago. The past 26 years have revolutionized the condition of woman totally and this has also influenced physical education. Now that perfect political equality between the two sexes has done away with the old prejudice that woman is inferior to man some hotheads forget that this equality does not

Digitized by LooQle
168

mean that they are not created differently. And as there is a decided difference between the physical development of boys and girls, it stands to reason that their physical education must be different.”

This statement of an eminent woman physician clearly expresses the Dutch view that coeducation in physical training is not advisable.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AN ESSENTIAL ELEMENT IN THE EDUCATION OF THE MIND.* *

By Rev. V. W. Pearson, (Late Principal Sheffield, England, Training College.)

When he first proposed the founding of a course in Physical Training at the Sheffield College, Sir George Newman said, "We want to get at our boys through their bodies.” He makes, you see, a distinction in thought between the boy and his body. The body is to be the medium of training the boy, that is the spiritual nature of the boy. We are so accustomed to think of body and soul as opposed—and they will infallibly be so if the body is given the chief

Elace—that it is strange to think of the body as the soul’s helper, >ut this is exactly the view I want to put before you. Browning has caught the idea and expressed it in words that are familiar:

" Let us not always say,

'Spite of this flesh to-day

I strove, gained ground, made head upon the whole.

As the bird wings and sings Let us cry, ‘All good things

Are ours, nor soul helps flesh now more than flesh helps soul.’ ”

Mens Sana in Corpore Sano. I am not maintaining that the "mens sana” is guaranteed by the "corpus sanum.” There must also be the direct mental training of school and other educative influences: Music, in the wide Greek sense of the word, extended so as to include other studies of proved educational value, must work together with Gymnastics, in the enlightened modern interpretation of that term. The position is put with the greatest possible clearness and definiteness in the Prefatory Memorandum of the Syllabus: "It is beyond argument that without healthy conditions of body the development of the mental and moral faculties is seriously retarded and in some cases prevented. In a word, healthy physical growth is essential to intellectual growth.” When one makes tins claim the objection is at once raised that many of those who have been distinguished in the realm of mind were below the standard of their fellows in physical health and fitness. My answer to soefc arguments is that to base our principles of education on the ex-

*	Reprint from Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education.

•	Paper read at the	Conference,	Association of Organisers of

Physical Education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
169

perience of men and women of exceptional genius would be a fallacy, and I am not sure that it is not the fallacy which is responsible for so much ineffective education in past times. I believe a horse has won the Derby with a bandaged leg: all the same, trainers act upon the principle that for such a contest a horse needs to be sound. I will not press the suggestion that those who have done so much in sickness might have done more in health, but fall back on the answer which I have already given: We do not frame our theories on exceptions. We are thinking in terms of a nation, and are justified in taking the example of Ancient Greece whose intellectual eminence is evidenced not simply by the masterpieces of Art and Literature which have come dowm from them to us, but also by the still more significant fact that these masterpieces were understood and appreciated by the nation as a whole to a degree which has had no parallel in any other country. This highly educated race made Physical Training an integral part of general culture, and if we would emulate them in the realm of mind, we should copy them in the realm of the body. We must regard, then, the “corpus sanum” not merely as the casket of the “mens sana” but as an important element in its development.

(1)	Special ways in which Physical Training helps mind . Let us consider how that element in Physical Training which is, in itselj, definitely and purely physical is also, in a secondary sense, an aid to mental life. The question is, how can such actions as bending or stretching the arms, raising the heels, placing the feet astride, affect the intellect; I mean the actions in themselves, apart from the mental effort of attending to the word of command. The answer is found in a consideration of the relations which obtain between body and mind. The relation is two-fold.

In the first place, the body is the medium through which the mind receives all its impressions of an external universe. We may not go so far as to say, though it has been said in Latin (which has an air of giving finality to any dictum), “There is nothing in the intellect which was not first in the senses,” because there may be elements in a thought-complex which are purely mental, but the thought would not have been there at all if its foundation had not been offered through the senses. The senses that chiefly minister to mental life are hearing, sight, touch, and the sense of muscular movement; and of these the one which concerns us most to-day is the last, the sense of muscular movement. Have you considered how fundamental is this sense in the building up of mind? How the baby's first notions of form, size, distance and direction come through this medium? The distance to the coal-box, his usual goal, is measured by the amount of muscular energy expended in getting there. As he gets older he interprets these attributes in terms of sight; but even here, what is the conception of the form of an object Dut the interpretation of the movements of the eyes over its contour, and what is the conception of distance but a reading of those movements made in the alteration of the convexity of the lenses and the con-

Digitized by Google
170

vergence or divergence of the axes of the two eyes, according as objects are near or far? And not only is this sense of muscular movement important at the beginning of life, but it is of vast importance in all the arts and crafts; m skilled craftsman, painter, sculptor, and musician, the delicate discrimination of muscle is brought to the highest pitch. Where the muscular sense and the sense of touch are trained you have the possibility of a wonderfully full intellectual life, even though sight and hearing De lacking; witness the marvellous case of Helen Keller.

The	Mind’s	Dial. In Modern Educational Gymnastics you

have that normal and ordered stimulation of brain centres which results in the growth and development of this important organ by which the thoughts and purposes of the mind are expressed in the activities and services of life. And it would appear that this development is general and not merely special, that other brain areas share in the quickened vitality of those which are specially concerned with motor activities. The physical basis of intellectual life is Health; and especially health in sense-organ, nerve, brain-centre and muscle. It is somewhat inaccurate to speak of "sense-training;" the training is that of mind, and the essential is that the portals of mind shall be cleared of all the obstruction that deficient health causes, that the physical attendants on mental life shall be sensitive, alert and vigorous, so that they shall accurately bring in their messages from without and effectively discharge the duties that are laid upon them from within. It is this Health which Physical Training claims to promote. The business of the world, its commerce, its education, its charities, its mutual converse, is carried on through the agency of the body. The body is the mind’s dial, its revealer, that which shows what is working within. Is it not important, then, that, for the service of man, the agent shall be efficient as well as the director? Surely this admits of no doubt. But this is not all. My present point is not so much to urge that the agent be made effective as to contend that, by doing so, we make the director more efficient. Muscular action leads to quicker and fuller response to nerve stimulus, and therefore to growth of mind, since mind feeds on that which comes to it from without through nerve stimulus.

(2)	Mental effort called forth by the ordered scheme of Physical Training. Nothing strikes a lay observer of a course of training more forcibly as marking off the new from the old regime than the discouragement of automatic action and the encouragement of thinking. In the old school, where prowess was the goal, the important element was skill, and skill is only attained when attention to process ceases. In the new school education is the end, and mind action concurrently with bodily movement is essential. As swiftly as a movement, through repetition, becomes automatic, new material is given on which the mind can work. Though a wholesome physical effect may still be produced when the exercise is learned, the direct educational value lies wholly in the learning process.

In Modem Educational Gymnastics the command calls for attention and the process for thought. It is true that any system

Digitized by Google
171

demands this to some extent, but the old methods made an initial demand, whereas the new requires continuous attention. Yes, and the demand is a rigorous one: the pupil has to think of the organ to be moved and the direction, force, duration and limit of the movement. 1 know that all this comes in the initial stages of military drill, but the ideal towards which the sergeant-major works—and for the purpose he has in view his theory is quite nght—is such a degree of practised skill that the word of command is the immediate stimulus, thus eliminating thought to the utmost possible extent. That is not your way: you seek to arouse thot; though your immediate object is performance, your final goal is education. Again, the mind is not merely a thinking-machine. It has other functions connected with active life. Alertness, decision, courage, are as necessary as reason. Reason must ever direct, it is true, but direction is not propulsion. Who does not know the type in which:—

"The native hue of resolution is sicklied o’er with the pale cast

of thought.”

Gymnastics was Plato's remedy for this, or rather his prophylatic against it, and our modern bodily training has the effect of turning out a more robust and strenuous race than one nourished on a purely boolash regimen, not merely because it produces stronger bodies, but also more vigorous spirits.

(3)	The third way in which Physical Training affects the minds of those who undergo it is by fostering healthy morality and developing helpful social ways of thinking and acting. To take the first of these. It is hardly possible to exaggerate the effect on a boy (I say "boy” because I know most about them) of a habit of regarding his body with respect. I was greatly disappointed to find, in Mr. Alec Waugh’s “Loom of Youth,” that devotion to football and cricket seemed to be compatible with unbridled impurity of speech and action. A revelation like this certainly gives us pause. My experience has been that the pre-occupation of mind which these school-sports create is one of the best safeguards of young life, and I am still of opinion that this is a general tendency. All occupation garrisons the soul, for while the devil tempts every man, a lazy man tempts the devil. School lessons are one such form of occupation, but the advantage of games is that they fill up the really dangerous period, that is, the time of leisure. I feel sure that the healthy, strong and disciplined body is a less fertile soil for evil sowings than one that is unhealthy and inert. This is not to deny the possibility of the healthy brute, sensual though vigorous, but my opinion that a sound body makes for a clean mind, provided that the due relations between body and mind are observed, is not shaken by Mr. Waugh’s distressing examples.

Team Spirit. I hasten on to speak of what is, to me, the crowning glory of modem Physical Education (a term used in a wider sense chan Physical Training), namely, the creation of the team spirit. Not lost sighr of in the formal exercises, this finds its fullest

Digitized by v^ooQle
172

fruition in the Games that have come to be, not an adjunct merely, but an integral part of the whole scheme. While not esteeming lightly the individual prowess of the champion, in that his deeds both instruct and stimulate his fellows, you have, by your admirable system of team work, been paying attention to that much overlooked person, the boy with two talents, and have even done something to rob the most humbly endowed of his napkin. We have to face the question of the transference of these excellent social habits into the wider sphere of life; but the boy’s present life is your concern, and you may be sure that the way in which you are teaching boys to “play the game” is re-acting on their character. In Pittsburg, at the Elm Street School, after the introduction of a well-equipped playground under a competent director, it was found that corporal punishment dropped from 99 cases in the year 1901 to 21 in 1905, and truancy from 281 to 33; while in Chicago it is found that the authorities can reckon on a 44 per cent reduction in juvenile crime in any district in which play-centres are provided.

I have thus endeavored to show that Physical Training is an essential element in the training of the mind on the grounds:—

(1)	That ics activities, regarded merely as activities, apart from any mental co-operation, aid in the healthy functioning of the senses, which are "the gateways of knowledge.”

(2)	That it does also make such an appeal co mind as co constitute a disciplinary aid to thought and a strengthening influence in the development of those mental qualities that lie at the basis of action, such as alertness, decision, courage.

(3)	That it promotes the formation of clean habits of life and helps to foster such social tendencies as fit a person to play his part in human society.

The work has its issues in untold gains for our national life; not only in healthier and more active bodies, but in minds more alert and nobler characters. It is well for every man to glorify his calling; the very reverse of glorifying himself. To glorify one’s calling is to look up: to glorify oneself is to look down. To justify and stimulate this attitude let me remind you, in conclusion, of the words of the mystic poet, Novalis:—

“We touch heaven when we lay our hands on a human body.''

SUNRISE BASEBALL LEAGUE.

By E. V. Howells, Athletic Director, Roosevelt Junior High School, Salt

Lake City, Utah.

The Sunrise League was organized to meet the needs of the large mass of boys not playing on the school team, many of whom otherwise would not have had an opportunity to play in an organized school game of baseball. Also, incidentally, some excellent material was discovered through it.

Digitized by v^ooQle
173

As the grounds were usually in use, and the teacher's time after school was taken up for other things, it was decided to play the

nes in the morning, when there would be no conflicts. According-_	:30 A. M. became the appointed time, and as it meant getting

up at sunrise for us all, “Sunrise League” was the name adopted.

Each class played several tryout games and then made its selection of captain and manager. They were responsible for the organization and training of tneir team, which in most cases was done in a most creditable manner. Several teams became definite organizations, holding practices, and arranging and playing games with other schools. As an incentive to competition, a pennant was procured and hung in the hall, space being reserved on it for the name of the class whose team finally should win.

Counting all tryouts and practice games as well as the league games, and games with other schools, at least seventy-five games resulted.

The effect upon the morale and interest was remarkable. In the tryouts more than three hundred boys were given an opportunity to compete. Finally the ten teams were made up of one handred boys, each eager to do his bit in support of the honor of his class.

As the eliminations commenced the interest reached a fever heat, and it became the topic of general interest for discussion at neon and out of school periods. In but a few cases did a boy fail to meet the responsibility resting upon him as a member of his team, and those cases resulted in severe reprimands from his team-mates. We feel that it was indeed a “worthy use” of what would otherwise have been leisure or more likely, wasted time.

Rules For “Roosevelt Sunrise League.”

1.	The inter-class league will be known as the Roosevelt Junior Sunrise League.

2.	Games will be played each school-day commencing at 7:30 A. M.

3.	Each of the ten physical education classes will be entitled to enter one team.

4.	Any boy in good class standing and not a member of the first team will be eligible to play.

5.	The games will consist of six innings. Provided however that, the game may be called after the fourth inning if in the judgment of the physical director it is necessary to do so.

6.	The official baseball rules will govern the game.

7.	The necessary materials with the exception of finger mitts, will be furnished.

8.	Each series in the schedule will consist of the general matching of the teams followed by the elimination games played among the losers.

Digitized by v^ooQle
174

9.	Two defeats within a series will eliminate a team from the league. All losing teams in the series will thus be eliminated except the one team which succeeds in defeating all the other losers. By so doing it will clear its record to commence the new series.

10.	The last two teams remaining in the league will play for the best two out of three games between themselves.

11.	The name of the team winning in the finals, will be placed on the school inter-class baseball pennant.

COMPULSORY GYMNASTIC EXERCISES FOR THE VIII OLYMPIAD, PARIS, 1924.

PROGRAMME

The International Gymnastic Federation will conduct the Gymnastic Contests in connection with the Olympic Games at Paris in 1924, and has decided upon the following apparatus:

Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Side Horse (vaulting), Long Horse, Pommeled Horse, Flying Rings and Rope Climb,—seven events in all.

Prizes:

1—	There will be a first, second and third individual medal awarded for each apparatus.

2—	A first, second and third All Around medal awarded to individuals.

3—	A first, second and third All Around medal awarded to teams.

Teams:

Each country will be allowed to nominate one team of 8 gymnasts and four substitutes.

Requirements:

Each competitor will be required to perform one compulsory

exercise (published herewith) and one optional exercise on each

apparatus.

For the first time in the history of any Olympic Games, gymnasts will be on the same plane as other athletes, swimmers, track and field men, etc., i. e., prizes will be awarded the individual winners on each apparatus or in each separate event, making a total of 27 gymnastic medals against the tnree awarded to first, second and third All Around Contestants at past Olympic Games contests.

This condition is the result of work by our delegates to the Lausanne (Switzerland) Conference stnd in support of their demand at that meeting for such revision of rules the United States will be expected to send a strong team of gymnasts next year to Paris, as proof that we have advocated correctly.

The Amateur Athletic Union of the United States as the governing body for gymnastics therefore issues this booklet of information and urges every organization or club which features gymnastics in this country to aid ih the development of such team or individuals, by holding local contests in which these Olympic Compulsory exercises will foim a part so that when the final try-out is held, the most

Digitized by LjOOQie
175

capable men can be selected to compete against the best talent put forth by our worthy opponents.

Additional information or corrections on all points governing the Gymnastic Competition herein referred to, as received from the International Gymnastic Federation, will be promptly forwarded by this office to all those organizations which have signified their interest.

Additional copies of this booklet and further ihformation will be supplied upon request.

ROY E. MOORE, Chairman Gymnastic Committee.

Amateur Athletic Union of the U. S.

NAMING THE EXERCISE.

NOTE:—Translation according to the Manual “Kuenzli and Panzer,” Macmillan, Publishers.

The following will assist in understanding technical terms:

If the line from shoulder to shoulder is parallel to the longest line of the apparatus, the competitor will find himself in lateral or side stand, side mount, side rest or side hang position. In cross position (cross mount, cross rest, cross hang) the line of the shoulder runs vertically to the longest line of the apparatus.

When the Competitor in side Standing position faces the apparatus, he finds himself in side stand position forward: 180 degrees turn will place him in side stand position backward. In the same sense we also speak of fallhang position, the narrow side of the body is turned toward the apparatus.

The rest and suspension (hang) can be executed with stretched arms or bent arms as can the swinging. When in an exercise, we speak of rest or hang, it is always understood to rest and to hang with stretched arms. The same applies to swinging forward and backward—foreswing and rearswing with stretched {extended) arms on the parallel bars; swinging always begins, with few exceptions from the cross standing position. *

* Translation from the French text by Henry Panzer, President, Newark (N. J.) Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene.

EVENTS AND APPARATUS Compulsory HORIZONTAL BAR

Dimensions: Height 2m. 30.—Length 2m. 20—Diameter 32m. (Polished steel or wood)

Commencing Position—Straight side hang upper grasp:

1.	Fore and backward swing, back uprise (Stemme) and flank (Right or Left) (passing both legs under Right or Left hand) to rear rest, circling backward to same rest, then circle backward

Digitized by L^ooQie
176

to the semi-reversed dorsal suspension (Cut 155), bend legs and pass them between the arms, extend legs to the semi-reversed facial suspension (Cut 154), upstart (Kippe) to front rest and underswing with 1-2 turn right, in deplacing the left hand and by straight swinging (mixed grasp) uprise with the back swing to facial horizontal rest on the right elbow (Cut 116).

2.	Lift the left arm forward and turn to the right in this rest position (1-2 turn) and change to straight front rest (left hand grasping the bar) (upper grasp) lower body slowly backward to facial horizontal supsension (Cut 163).

3.	Bend legs, pass them between arms to dorsal horizontal suspension backward (opposite to previous position).

4.	Rolling the body slightly on one arm, pushing alternately

to sitting position and to rear rest.	•

5.	Change grasp (under grasp), fling the body forward to dorsal suspension, in swinging backward, release the .left hand (or right), in making 1-2 turn to left (or to the right) left hand (or right), regrasp the bar (upper grasp) and upstart (Kippe) to front rest; (upper grasp) circling backward (without touching) to reversed straight rest (handstand), circling backward through straight suspension to the same rest (giant swing), crossing right hand over kft, swinging forward with 1-2 turn right to reverse straight rest (bandstand), in changing immediately left hand to under grasp, cireHng

N«' 166

No. 163

Digitized by

Google
177

twice forward (giant swing) and at the end of the second circle by 1-4 torn to right vaulting over the bar and landing with semi-flexed knees, arms sideward, stretch to normal position and right face.

Parallel Bara.

Dimensions—Height lm. 50—Space between bars cm. 42.— Diameter—50mm. x 48mm.—Length 2m. 80.

(Starting position—Cross stand before the bare, normal grasp of the extremities.)

1.	Jump, in straddling legs laterally (passing legs under hands) to straight rest, swinging backward then forward in passing closed legs under the right hand, swinging backward then forward in passing legs under left hand, swinging backward to handstand on the right bar (left hand grasping right bar); deplace right hand to left bar (two successive 1-4 turns during the handstand); flinging body backward and down to upper arm hang and two circles backward, the first ih suspension on arms, the second in bent rest, swinging forward and 1-2 turn left to straight cross rest, legs lifted forward (1-2 lever position).

2.	Pushing, bent body, arms and legs straight to handstand.

3.	Lowering to horizontal facial straight rest (Cut 120) except arms must be straight.

4.	Swing forward to momentary semi-reversed suspension and by a vigorous extension of the body circle backward in leaving the grasp (back flip undo1 bar) to the suspension on upper arms, swinging forward to semi-reversed position (Kippe position), swinging backward through upper arm hang, to roll forward with straight body, swinging backward in suspension on upper arms and forward m passing the legs from left to right under left and right hands to dismount over the bare to cross stand, landing with semi-flexed knees, left hand on the bar, right arm extended sideward, stretch to normal position.

(Remark)—The dismount of this exercise is called "circle rear vault, right”).

Rings.

Dimensions—Height 2m. 30—Inside diameter 175mm.—Thickness 22 or 23mm.—Space between cm. 50. Commencing Position—Straight suspension:

1.	lifting to semi-reversed suspension (Cut 156) swinging backward to straight rest and circling backward to handstand.

Digitized by ^ooQie
178

No. IS

2.	Lowering to horizontal facial rest (Cut 120).

3.	Stretching arms laterally to straddle rest in lowering the legs Cut 111).

No. Ill

4.	Change to horizontal facial suspension (Cut 163).

5.	Swinging backward in straddling arms to horizontal dorsal suspension.

6.	In rolling the body on one arm, pushing alternately to straight rest, legs forward, straight body, to handstand.

7.	Bend the arms and (the body remains in vertical position) lowering to reversed straight position; swinging backward and in straddling the arms laterally, circle forward (all in all 11-2 circles) and in passing the legs straddling above the arms, dismount to position with semi-flexed knees, arms sideward and finally stretch to normal position.

Rope Climb.

Dimensions—8 meters from ground—Diameter 28 millimetres. (Standing position, straight suspension.)

Climbing against time, without aid of legs—position of legs optional but must be straight.

At arrival on the top, touching the gong or bell announcing without any doubt the height attained.

Digitized by toiOOQLe
179

Points: 12	seconds—0 Points

114-6	44	—1	44
113-5	II	—2	44
11	44	—3	44
10 3-5	-4	44	
10 3-5	a	—5	44
94-5	44	—6	44
9 3-5	44	—7	44
92-5	44	—8	44
91-5	44	44	
91-5	44	—9	44
9	44	-10	44

Long Horse

Dimensions—Height lm. 20—Length 1.90m. Diameter .40cm. Beat board—Width .60cm. Height 13cm. front.

Two jumping stands are placed exactly at the posterior extremity of the horse, the stick being placed at a determined height above the horse.

Exercise:

Straddle vault with push-off at the neck in passing closed and straight legs over the stick without touching.

The stick will be placed 10cm. above the horse.

Raise the stick progressively, the beat board can be p aced according to desire of contestants. The height of the stick cleared determines the mark.

Points:

The stick being at 1.30 from ground —2 points “	“	“	1.40	“	“	—4	“

“	**	“	1.50	“	“	—6	"

“	“	“	1.60	“	“	—8	“

“	"	"	1.70	“	“	-10	“

Side Horse—No Pommels

Length lm. 90—Diameter 40cm.—Height lm. 30.

Beat Board to be placed according to contestant's wish.

1.	With a run and push-off on the saddle, vaulting over the side horse, in turning, straight body, around the broad axis of the body to position with flexed knees, arms sideways and finally to normal position (Handspring.)

Pommeled Horse

Length 1.90—Diameter .40—Height 1.40—Distance between pommels 42.cm.

1.	The gymnast being placed laterally in front of the horse facing forward has to his eft the neck and left pommel, to his right the croup and right pommel.

2.	Commencing position:

Side standing behind neck (facing backward) left hand on left pommel, right hand on neck.

Digitized by Google
180

Jump to free rest over the neck and fling closed legs over right peaamel (1-2 turn to left) right hand grasping right pommel to momentary rear rest (facing forward), fling left leg under left hand, under right (circle outward) fling right leg under left hand, and under right hand (circle inward) fling both legs closed under left hand, under right hand, under left and under right (2 circles)—flinging left leg under left hand, flinging the body to the left, join legs above the neck, then straddle transversely left forward (scissors), fling the body to the right under the right hand join the legs above the croup, then straddle transversely right (scissors); flinging the body to left under left hand, join legs above neck, then straddle transversely left forward (scissors), flinging left leg backward under right hand, flinging right leg under left hand, under right hand, flinging closed legs under left hand, under right hand, put right hand on left pommel, left hand on neck—flinging closed legs under left hand, under right hand, under left hand and with 1-2 turn to right fling them over the croup to side rear rest—fling left leg under right hand, under left hand; fling closed legs under right hand, under left hand, under right hand and over to croup and in making one-half turn to right put left hand on the neck and pass the legs under the left hand to dismount to the rear side standing position behind the horse (flank vault to the left.)

NOTE—This whole exercise must be done continuously without pause.	____________________

N. B.—At the time of publication we are without information as to what will be required of the contestant for an “optional” exercise on Rope Climb and Long Horse—which events seem to be marked by the International Gymnastic Federation on a “time” smd "height” basis respectively.

As soon as definite word is received, it will be sent to all organizations which have signified their intention to nominate candidates for the United States Team.

HELIOTHERAPY IN TUBERCULOSIS* *.

By Horace L. Grosso, M. D., Superintendent, J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital,

Perrysburg, N. Y.

Heliotherapy, in the words of Dr. Rollier, is as old as the sun itself. Its value was recognized by the Greeks as far back as 484 B. C.

The history of the modern evolution of the sun-cure dates back to 1889, when Uffelman recognized the value of sunlight as a curative agent. Five years later Dr. Poncet proved that insolation could be used effectively in the treatment of chronic ulcers and bone and

"Preapntefd at the Annual Conference of Sanitary Officers and Public Health Nurses at Ithaca, September, 1921.

• Reprint: Health News, Albany, N. Y.

Digitized by L^ooQle
181

joint diseases, and in 1903 Dr. Bernard of Samadan reported on the remarkable value of the sun’s rays; but it remained for Dr. Rollier of Leysin to apply heliotherapy extensively and in a systematic way.

In view of the numerous favorable results obtained by sun-cure in socalled surgical tuberculosis at the J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital and by Dr. Rollier at Leysin, Switzerland, it must be admitted that solar radiation, even though its scientific basis has not as yet been fully established, is becoming recognized as the rational treatment for this woefully neglected and misnamed type of tuberculosis.

In anything that I may say it is far from my intention to belittle the importance of orthopedics and surgery which must always remain two very important branches of medioine. I simply wish to bring out the point that in the seven and one-half years of my experience in the treatment of this form of tuberculosis, we have become convinced that it is a grave mistake to look upon it as a purely surgical condition.

That this mistake has been commonly made is evident from the fact that although a large percentage of our adult cases present also a lung lesion, very few have had a diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis made before admission,, even where the disease had advanced to the infectious stage.

The fact can not be too strongly emphasized that this type of tuberculosis is not a local disease, but a general one with local manifestations and with complications which occasionally may require surgical interference. It is a disease where resistance plays a most important role. Most orthopedists and surgeons admit today that the knife has been too frequently used in these cases, and the majority fortunately are now becoming fully alive to the curative value of the sun’s rays. We do not condemn the occasional conservative surgical interference, for surgery at times may be not only useful, but necessary: but we certainly believe that it should be an adjunct to heliotherapy and not vice versa.

It is our firm belief that most of the failures in giving sun-treatment have come about from not following out any definite system. Practicing heliotherapy in a haphazard way is not only useless but oftentimes dangerous. For this reason, at the risk of being tiresome, I make use of every opportunity to describe Dr. Rollier’s method in detail.

Before commencing the treatment it is best that the patient be made thoroughly but gradually accustomed to the out-of-door life. During this preliminary period a record is made of the temperature, pulse, blood and urine findings. Cases with high temperature and those showing considerable weakness must be watched very closely, as it may be necessary that the sun be given less intensely, or at a time of the day when it is least depressing.

Radiation may be carried on in bed, couch, or even on the floor. It should be discontinued at least one-half hour before meals and

Digitized by L^ooQle
182

should not be resumed until an horn* or more after. During the hot summer months it is better to give sun dining the early and late hours, as the heat of the middle of the day is very depressing and is likely to cause reaction, such as temperature, headache, nausea and vertigo.

A very important point in the method of giving sun-cure is that the feet must be exposed first without regard to the site of the lesions which at first are Kept covered and are the last to be exposed.

Care must be taken that no breeze strikes the body. This is an absolute requirement in cpld weather, for a slight breeze is sufficient to chill the patient—this making sun-cure dangerous. Therefore in choosing a location it is best and almost necessary that it be protected from prevailing winds, and that the buildings be placed so as to get a southern and eastern exposure. Screens and wind-breaks are a necessity during the winter months even where there is natural wind protection. At present we are experimenting with a bed that protects the patient from the winds by means of a canvas on two or three of its sides.

It is best to guard the head with a linen cap, an umbrella or an awning at the head of the bed. The eyes must be shielded with colored glasses or with a cloth placed over them.

The following schedule is used at the J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital in giving the sun bath:

First day—The feet are exposed and bathed in the sun’s rays for five minutes, three or four times at hour intervals.

Second day—The feet are insolated ten minutes and the legs from ankle to knee five minutes, three or four times at hour intervals.

Third day—The feet are insolated fifteen minutes, the legs from ankle to knee ten minutes and the thighs five minutes, three or four times at hour intervals.

Fourth day—The insolation of the previously exposed parts is increased by five minutes, and the abdomen and lumbar region are exposed five minutes, three or four times at hour intervals.

Fijth day—Again the insolation of the previously exposed parts is increased by five minutes, and the chest and back are exposed five minutes, three or four times at hour intervals.

Sixth day—Increase the exposure by five minutes.

The time of exposure is increased daily according to this ratio till three or four hours of sun bath is given. If the patient's condition does not allow this schedule to be carried out, we insolate the front of the body first, and on the sixth day, or as soon as he can be turned conveniently, expose the back in accordance with the above schedule.

If, for any reason, during the preliminary treatment, the sun baths are interrupted, insolation should be resumed at a stage a

Digitized by LjOOQle
183

little earlier than that at which it was stopped. When the rest of the body has been insolated and it is time to expose sinuses and ulcers, these should be covered with a wire screen to keep off flies and at the same time allow the sun and air to play upon the lesions. The only covering worn after complete insolation is a loin cloth.

After each sun bath the patient may be vigorously rubbed with spirits of camphor. If the skin is very sensitive, a rub with some vegetable oil, such as olive or cocoanut oil, may be given. See that the patient’s skin does not peel as this will retard tanning.

Great care must be taken while the patient is becoming accustomed to the sun and during the formation of the first pigment, as it is at this time that he is likely to become too enthusiastic and overexpose himself. If any reaction is observed, such as high pulse, rise of temperature, vertigo, nausea, headache, or other constitutional disturbances the exposure must be stopped or the time shortened.

After sun baths have been taken for some time, if weather conditions become unfavorable for exposure an air bath may be given, the length of time depending upon the general condition and resisting power of the patient. During the winter months robust patients may be exposed to the air for fifteen minutes at a time without any ill effects. In cold weather, regardless of sun conditions, if a patient complains or shows signs of being chilly, he must be taken at once to a warm room and rubbed down and the treatment discontinued for the time being.

Throughout the warm summer months, our children wear only their trunks, not only while taking cure, but at play and at meals as well; while on pleasant winter days when the sun is not strong enough for a bath, those who can stand exercise, play naked in the open, often for an hour at a time.

When no sun has been available, we have in the past used the Alpine Sun Lamp, but our results have not been as startling as some of the reports we have read lately.

A valuable adjunct to the sun treatment that is being used at Perrysburg is the “Thezac-Porsmeur Lens,” a twelve inch biconvex lens, having a focus of seventy-two inches. This lens should be focused on the lesion sothatit makes a circle of six to eight inches in diameter. If the lens is focused to a much smaller circle, the patient is likely to be burned. Care must be taken that the lens is covered when not in use as it will ignite any combustible material if it happens to be focused to a fine point. The duration of the treatment is five minutes for the first day, and this is gradually increased to half an hour. Stubborn cases of ulcers and sinuses that have failed to yield to the ordinary sun treatment show very marked improvement with the use of this lens. It is, moreover, very effective in relieving pain and assisting drainage. We have nineteen such lenses, and these are being worked overtime.

In using sun-cure on joint cases, it is considered advisable to discard all casts. This has led many to believe that immobilization

Digitized by boodle
184

is dispensed with in heliotherapy. This is not the case, however. On the contrary, with sun-cure immobilization is one of the requisites, and this is accomplished by absolute rest in bed, while deformities are gradually reduced by posture and extension. In fact, it can not be too strongly emphasized that the Rollier method of treatment is not mere insolation, but a combination of the sun treatment along with a specially devised method of fixation and extension by tractions—a combination which increases the resisting power of the patient, preserves or restores the natural function of the joint, and prevents or corrects deformity.

The promptness with which the sun treatment begins to take effect is veiy gratifying to patient and physican alike. Pain as a rule is alleviated within two weeks and before very long disappears entirely; high pulse and temperature gradually come down to normal; appetite returns; weight and strengtn increase; the blood condition improves. These changes are registered iirthe patient’s appearance; the haggard and spiritless look gives way to one of cheerfulness and animation. Looking at his entrance photograph, he can scarcely believe that it is a likeness of himself as he once was.

The action of'the sun upon the bone tissue is one of repair. There is a separation and painless, spontaneous expulsion of sequestra and an intense recalcificatioil. The effect upon ulcers and sinuses is one of reaction as shown by the profuse discharge at first, followed by sloughing, the formation of healthy granulations and the gradual drying and healing of the lesion. Abscesses, as a rule, become calcified or are absorbed. Oftentimes they have to be repeatedly aspirated. Glands are gradually reduced in their size, and when broken down, the contents are frequently absorbed. The effect on effusion, in joints, peritoneum and pleural cavity, is one of absorption.

The outstanding local result in joint disease is the gradual partial or complete restoration of motion in the affected joint. Where in the classical treatment the aim is to destroy the function and bring about ankylosis, in heliotherapy the aim is to restore the full function of the joint.

Another point worthy of notice is the effect of the sun and air upon the musculature. With heliotherapy there is little or no atrophy of the muscle of the affected part. Although some of our patients have been in bed for three or four years, as the lantern slides will show, their musculature is that of those who have been doing physical training.

The favorable progress of the cure is in direct proportion to the pigmentation of the skin; in fact, tanning is used as an index to prognosis.

Dr. Rollier attributes pigmentation and the curative property of solar radiation to the ultraviolet ray. A few experiments recently

Digitized by boodle
185

carried out at Perrysburg are inclining us to the belief that too much has been attributed to the ultraviolet and very little to the other end of the spectrum. We shall content ourselves for the present with the known fact that sunlight has a favorable therapeutic action on the treatment of various diseases, without assigning its beneficial effect to any particular ray, but to the spectrum as a whole. We hope later to be able to present a preliminary report on work that is being done at the J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital on the action of light on the human body.

Some authorities maintain that heliotherapy can not be carried out in low altitudes. Our results at Perryburg should dispel such an impression. Solar radiation can be carried out wherever there is sun to be had.

Perrysburg, situated 1630 feet above sea level, only forty-two miles from Buffalo and fourteen miles from Lake Erie, is not any better climatically than any other locality in the State; still, our results compare favorably with those of Dr. Rollier.

What has led in some quarters to the disparagement of heliotherapy lies in the manner of carrying out the treatment. Since Dr. Rollier’s work has been made known, many physicians in this country have attempted to give solar radiation without first thoroughly acquainting themselves with the correct mode of procedure. Some expose only the affected part, instead of gradually exposing the whole body; others insolate the whole body at the first treatment instead of reaching complete insolation by slow gradations. Then when bad effects follow, heliotherapy is condemned as useless or dangerous, whereas the whole trouble lies in a lack of system and common sense.

While sun-cure is effective and beneficial for patients of all ages, it is especially adapted for children. Not being hampered by troublesome conventionalities, they can have the tonic effect of the air on their uncovered bodies, not only during the sun bath, but practically all day long, except, of course, during very severe weather. Then, too, the length of time required to effect a cure means very little to a child. He lives in the present, one day at a time, and has only a hazy conception of what two or three years mean and he does not worry; whereas the adult patient often feels that he is losing so many months out of his life and submits to the treatment only when he is convinced that it is his only hope. A child soon accepts the new way of living as a matter of course; and, under the care of nurses of good sense and character, and with the advantages of open-air schools or bedside teaching, his mental and moral development go hand in hand with the healing process. Children whose home environment has been unfortunate leave the institution not only healthier and happier, but usually better fitted in every other way for future good citizenship.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
186

■*

News, notes and comments

We wish to call special attention to the valuable article entitled “Heliotherapy in Tuberculosis” reprinted in this issue by kind permission of the New York State Department of Health. While reading the article the thoughts continually present with us were “why do so many physical training teachers still conduct their work in gymnasiums when they have an opportunity to do so in the open air? If the sunlight is good for tubercular patients why should it not be equally beneficial for persons who are not tubercular but who for other reasons need to be rebuilt physically? If exercises are good when given in a gymnasium why wouldn’t these same exercises be still more valuable if performed in the sunlight?”

Miss Margaret C. Ward, secretary, reported that the Northeastern New York Physical Educators Association held eight monthly meetings during the year 1922—1923. The meetings were held in Albany, Schenectady, Glens Falls and Troy, all well attended. The registration for the year was 77 members, consisting of Physical Directors and others interested in the work, from cities and towns in northeastern New York.

The meetings have been of a practical nature with a few lectures and a great variety of practical material. The work was presented by members of the Association at the majority of the meetings, one exception being Mr. Carl Schrader. The second meeting of the year was a demonstration of the value of motion pictures in carrying out Physical Education programs. The fifth meeting was in the nature of a week-end party with Mr. Schrader as guest of honor.

The question whether a course in Physical Education should be included in the Evening School classes of Albany was taken up and a resolution requesting such a course was sent the superintendent of schools, the president of the Board of Education, the mayor and each member of the Board of Education.

The election of officers took place at the April meeting. In May the Association was invited to Nassau Lake for a picnic. In June the Association enjoyed a week-end party at Singing Cedars Camp on Lake Champlain.

Wisconsin school children will have their bodies trained, as well as minds, starting this fall.

A new law just signed by Gov. J. J. Blaine requires in all public schools above kindergarten, a minimum of two and one-half hours a week of “physical education,” which is defined to mean "practice in the art of physical exercise and hygiene.”

4

o

•a
187

Recesses don’t count, so the time will have to be taken out of the class hours. The law provides that medical examination shall not be included in physical education.

All state schools training teachers for the public schools will hereafter be required to give courses in playground exercises and games, to prepare the teachers for the new work.

------o-------

Wisconsin has gone further than stating her position in resolutions. Its Senate has agreed with Governor Blaine and the joint finance committee that the National Guard appropriation shall be cut from $600,000 to $225,000 annually. Finally, by a vote of 18 to 7, the the Senate has followed the Assembly in abolishing compulsory military training at the University of Wisconsin. No man should be forced to learn how to kill other men in the name of education.

------o-------

The Tenth Recreation Congress under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America will be held in Springfield, Illinois, October 8—12, 1923. There will be in attendance delegates from all parts of the country who are interested in the leisure time movement. In addition to workers directly from the recreation field, many representatives, of school boards, park boards, women’s clubs, Parent-Teacher Associations, boys’ and girls’ clubs, Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs, community centers, settlements and other social work agencies are expected. Details relative to the Congress will be mailed to all who apply. Address 315 Fourth Ave., N. Y. City.

------o-------

Our readers will be interested to know that Newark, N. J. has decided to have all municipal recreation carried on under the direction of the Board of Education, and has voted approximately $100,000 for this purpose. The work has been put under the direction of Mr. Randall D. Warden who now holds the position of Director of Physical Education and Recreation. Mr. Warden writes:

“There are twenty-four playgrounds open this year and we are inaugurating a program looking towards gradual development and equipment of ideal playgrounds. We are preparing to surface our school yards and playgrounds according to the latest approved methods and to introduce wading pools, shower baths and the best apparatus.

“Eighty-two teachers are employed in the playgrounds and the Executive force consists of a Director, Assistant Director, Director of Athletics, and a Director of Manual Arts.

“The course, as at present outlined, consists of organized games, folk dancing, athletics, manual arts, play-room occupations, which, in the regular schools would be kindergarten work, quiet games and the use of playground apparatus. The average attendance per day runs around 350 per playground.”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
188

THE GERMAN fURNFEST AT MUNICH.

Mr. William Reichelt writes to the Bulletin of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde that “a Turnfest in Germany is a far greater undertaking than in the States. As soon as one alights from the train he is aware that something unusual is going on in the city. The station is filled with people who have just arrived, or are welcoming newcomers. The streets also are crowded with people in a gay and festive mood. Nor need a stranger ask what this is all about, for it is soon evident by the “Gut Heils” heard, and Turner insignia everywhere conspicuous, that a Turnfest is to take place.

“The main Fest Platz in Munich is a large place, and there is activity everywhere. Directly in front of the grand stands is an oval running track, each side of which is arranged to accommodate a 100 meter dash. On the opposite side of the track is a large area for mass drills. Inside the track are jumping pits, about twenty parallel bars, horses and horizontal bars. On the right of the track are fields for soccer, and a game called “Voelkerball” which has elements of Baseball and Schlagball. To the right more fields are laid out for soccer and for a game similar to volley ball but played on a larger field.

"The competitive work on apparatus and most field events are held at a neighboring place. The apparatus is set up in long halls. In place of mats there is a deep layer of loose earth and shavings. Individual free exercises, fencing and wrestling also take place in one of the halls.

"In the 100 meter dash ten men (or women) are run in one heat. The timing is by an electrical device. Each lane has its individual finish tape, which is connected with wires to the recording wagon. When the tape is up, there is an electrical contact. The starte- starts the timing electrically at the pistol shot. As each runner breaks the contact at the finish his time is recorded..

“A relay team consists of ten men running in lanes around the track. A race consists of two laps, thus requiring five men for each turn of the track. Women run relays of one lap, there being five on their teams.

“The shot put in Munich is taken from a run. There is a similar event called the "stone throw.” The stone consists of a cube which is about the same weight as a shot. This is also preceded by a run. .Javelin, discus, running broad and high jumps as performed are similar to our methods. The individual free exercises are very interesting and instructive. They consist of long combinations of thirty-two or more movements, containing hand stands, cart-wheels, difficult balance stands and often finishing with a hand spring.

“Mass drills are numerous, several taking place each day. Turners from certain districts perform together in these exhibitions. It is interesting to note how well the alignment was kept throughout the exercises in spite of the fact that the body assumed various

Digitized by Google
189

directions, and changed place throughout an exercise. Nor are the performers all young men. Some could not have been more than fourteen years old, judging from appearances; some were quite stout and others had gray hair or none at all. The drills consist of calia-thenics and wand exercises, an iron wand being used. Women's mass drills are a combination of free exercises and dance seeps, as well as some club and wand drills. Some of the fair sex also are well up in years.

“The model numbers on apparatus are very interesting. In one case eighteen men worked on as many parallel bars, performing the same exercise simultaneously. Again the same thing was seen where nine side horses were used. Of course, the movements shown were not of the greatest difficulty, but again they were not ridiculously simple.

“In manner of dress the German Turners are quite sensible. For track events many of the men discard their shirts. In playing of games the shoes are left off and they play in bare feet. The fields are grass covered. The women, too, nave simplicity of dress. They are not hampered by flowing bloomers. Most have well fitting black track pants which button to the blouse. They do not wear stockings for track and field events. Others wear a costume that looks like a black swimming suit.

“The women’s work is far in advance of that done by women in America. The activities they engage in are of a far more strenuous nature. Their field events are relay race, 100 meter dash, shot put with a run, running high and running broad jumps. The apparatus work was especially notable because of the difficult stunts they perform. Some of the things noted were—on the parallel bar. upper arm kipps, slide kipps, upper arm and shoulder stands, hand stands, and hand-stand turn-over to a stand at the end; horizontal bar, swing kipps, hip circles, free hip circles and half giant circles. This article gives only a superficial viewpoint of the turn-fest. To go into detail would require much space and time. It is sufficient to say that American Turners, especially the women, have much room for improvement. It will take much practice to come up to the standard attained by the Turners of Germany.

-------o------

Creation of a post of director of physical welfare in the Cleveland public schools, with powers so broad as to make its incumbent responsible for every phase of athletic activity in the grade and high schools, was announced by the board of education.

With this announcement came word that Floyd A. Rowe, now assistant superintendent of education of the state of Michigan, had been chosen to fill the new pose.

-------o------

Dr. Henry T. Curtis has been appointed director of physical education in the state of Missouri and assumes his position in September.

-------o------

The Child Federation, Philadelphia announces the appointment of Mr. William C. Ewing as Managing Director and Secretary.

Digitized by LjOOQle
190

GEORGE SEIKEL'S FIFTIETH TEACHING ANNIVERSARY.

The Newark Branch of the American Physical Education Association, at its final meeting for the year, arranged a Jubilee dinner in honor of Mr. George Seikel, the dean of Newark’s Physical Education Department, commemorating his fifty years of service in the field of Physical Education.

Dining this period Mr. Seikel has taught in many varied organizations, including turners, private and public schools, normal schools and colleges. At present he is connected with the Newark Public Schools and the Newark Normal School of Physical Education. Dining his entire career he has been a student of his chosen subject and is well versed in the modern as well as the older forms and theories of physical education.

From a physical standpoint, too, he personifies the benefits of a rational, systematic training, and judging by his appearance he will be with us as a teacher for many years to come.

On June fourteenth, the members of the Newark Physical Education Association, Dr. Corson, Superintendent of Schools, Mr. Ball, President of the Board of Education; the principals and teachers of the Bergen street school; members of the Newark Tum-verein, Mr. Seikel’s relatives and many teachers from our neighboring cities met at the new home of the Newark Athletic Club to fete and honor our beloved fellow-teacher.

This dinner was one of the most delightful occasions ever arranged by the department of Physical Education, and its success was mainly due to Mr. Randall D. Warden, toastmaster.

After a short introductory address by Mr. Warden, explaining the purpose of the occasion, and reviewing and lauding the work of Mr. Seikel, a varied program of entertainment and sifter-dinner speeches was introduced. Miss Elizabeth West, of New York, formerly with the Morgan Dancers and the Fokine Ballet, smd Miss Rose Grossbsirt, a Newark physical director, entertained with several character and nature dances. Their charming and finished performances evoked considerable applause.

Mr. Lester A. Palmer, Assistant State Director of Physicsil Education, and a former associate of Mr. Seikel, rendered a number of songs to the great delight of the assembly, his true tone and interpretation being a revelation to many.

One of the surprises of the evening was the serenading of Mr. Seikel by a class of Bergen Street School children thereby showing the respect and esteem in which he is held by them.

Several telegrams and communications congratulating our honored guest were received.

Dr. Corson, in his address commended the fraternal spirit of the Physical Education Department, and emphasized the responsibility of the teacher in moulding the character of the children.

Digitized by L^OOQle
191

He reviewed the advance made in general education during the last fifty years and the great changes that have taken place during that time, among them the introduction of the so-called special subjects into the curriculum of our public schools, the changes in the methods of teaching, the emphasis in education centering now upon the child rather than the building, the introduction of junior high schools and the marked advance in teacher-training. He stressed the social value in education, and advised educating the child so that it may take its place in society as fully equipped a man or woman as possible.

He congratulated Mr. Seikel for work well done and his faithful service.

Mr. Ball, the President of the Board of Education stated that men, in the future, will be judged by what they put into this world and not by what they take out of it. Judged by that standard Mr. Seikel deserves all credit possible.

Mr. Dittler, President of the Newark Tumverein, after reviewing the work of that organization credited its high standards of success entirely to the efforts and ability of Mr. Seikel.

Mr. Bamberger, principal of the Bergen Street School, discussed the introduction of special subjects into the curriculum of the schools, in many instances this being traceable to the influence and efforts of laymen. This was noticeably so in the introduction of Physical Education into the schools. He brought out the fact that Mr. Seikel was the first playground director under control of the Board of Education in Newark and related several amusing incidents connected with the pioneer work of that time.

Mr. Ernest H. Seibert, in behalf of the Newark Department (the colleagues of Mr. Seikel), spoke of the inspiration furnished by Mr. Seikel’s diligence and work and read the following poem in honor of the occasion.

Half a Century.

And so, Friend Seikel, here’s to you\

It’8 known from sea to sea

What you have done in training youth

For this half century.

To those who serve in time of war,

Our country gives its best

Rewards in ribbons, stripes, and bars,

Gold medals and the rest.

As truly have you served our land By doing all you could To teach and train our boys and girls To grow up as they should.

Digitized by booQle
192

Their bodies, better servants, will Obey their minds’ behests)

Alert to answer every call

When come the	“acid tests."

And when endurance is the thing —

Perhaps that most avails, —

Their muscles, hardened, strengthened, wilt Not be the thing that fails.

And perfect posture, too, you’ve taught,

Which folks must have if they Are aiming to amount to much —

Impress with what they say.

The duty to be straight and true,

To give an honest deal

Is that which you have striven most

To make your pupils fed.

You live in many a heart today Because of what you’ve done To make the battles of their lives More easily met and won.

And who on earth can estimate

Your service to our	landf

Ten times ten-thousand patriots Prepared to make their stand.

In time of war — In days of peace,

As citizens they live

More sanely, calmly, nobly for

Such lessons as you give.

There are no golden stripes or bars,

No ribbons gay to speak Of service done in times of peace.

Still no reward you seek.

So if‘twere mine to give to you—

A giant D. S. C.

Would decorate the man who’s taught For half a century.

Mr. Seibert presented Mr. Seikel with a subsantial puree, the gift of his many admirers.

The following resolution, prepared by a committee of which Mr. Macherey was the chairman, was adopted by the assembly:.

Digitized by

Google
193

WHEREAS, our beloved friend and esteemed colleague GEORGE SEIKEL

has completed fifty years of faithful service as a pioneer organizer and capable director in physical education, and WHEREAS his efforts nave put health, sunshine and happiness into the lives of thousands of pupils and have helped greatly to promote the cause of physical education in our country and to gain for it ever increasing recognition, and WHEREAS the sterling character, genial personality and expert ability of our associate have made mm conspicuous in a useful profession and won for him a large circle of admirers and friends —

THEREFORE, he it resolved that we place on record our sincere appreciation of this noble work and our wish for his continued health, prosperity and success in the firm belief that the work by him begun and furthered will stand as a living memorial of his busy and useful career,

And be it further resolved that a copy of these resolutions suitably engrossed be transmitted to our beloved friend and colleague, GEORGE SEIKEL.

(Signed)

Mathias H. Macherey Guido Cavallaro Irving Levin.

Mr. Seikel in his reply reviewed the progress of physical education during his fifty years of teaching and recalled the many difficulties encountered dv the pioneers in introducing the work. This unusual and delightful celebration was brought to a close by social dancing enjoyed by the entire association.

Carl Hofer,

Secretary.

------o-------

Writing in the Daily Mail, New South Wales, “The Diver” reviews the ambitious plan by which, through American coaching and methods, the New South Wales Amateur Swimming Association will turn out world-beating swimmers by the hundreds.

The proprietors of the “Referee” have announced that they are prepared to donate 1000 pounds towards defraying the expenses of an American coach to visit Australia for a period of six months.

------o-------

Through the courtesy of the U. S. Forestry Department the Recreation Department of Los Angeles, Cal. this year opens its third municipal camp. The new site,- embracing over 200 acres, is in the High Sierra Mountains, 336 miles from Los Angeles. These municipal camps are only for permanent residents of Los Angeles. Readers interested in the details are asked to write to the Dept, of Recreation, Los Angeles, Cal.

Digitized by Google
194

Colonel Robert M. Thompson Outlines Committee's Plans for America's Participation in 1924 Olympic Games at

Paris.

That the athletes who will represent the United States in the Olympic Games at Paris next year will make the trip to France and will be cared for in a more satisfactory manner than any American Olympic team that has ever left these shores is practically assured, according to Colonel Robert M. Thompson, president of the American Olympic Committee, who sailed on the S. S. Paris, to make a study of the housing situation in France and complete all other arrangements for the comfort of the American Olympic athletes, the majority of whom will be engaged in competitions during the months of June and July next year. Major-General Henry

T.	Allen, former commander of the Army of Occupation, who is vice-president and Executive Officer of the American Olympic Committee, accompanied Colonel Thompson on the trip.

In discussing the committee’s plans just before sailing, Colonel Thompson said: “No doubt the American public will be surprised to learn that we have made such fine progress in our arrangements for America’s participation in the Olympic Games at Paris, a full year in advance of the games. The officers and Executive members of the American Olympic Committee have been hard at work for the past six months on the preliminary arrangements, and I am happy to say that the representatives of all of the organizations interested in the Olympic Games are working harmoniously and diligently to guarantee the success of our athletes in these world games. Only yesterday our plans for the chartering of an ocean liner for the transportation of our athletes to France, were con-sumated. We have taken over the S. S. America, of the United States Lines, the largest and finest cabin ship in the world, and every detail that will increase the athlete’s pleasure and comfort on the trip will be carefully attended to. The America has just been reconditioned at an expense of over a million dollars. I feel it is quite appropriate for the athletes representing the United States in the Olympic Games, to make the trip on a ship flying the American flag and owned by the United States Government and manned by American seamen. The name of the ship, 'America,’ is also very appropriate. The spacious decks on this ship will permit of the proper training and exercise that the athletes will be required to indulge in during the trip, and the large and airy staterooms will add to their comforts. An eight lap track with a 100 yard straightaway can be laid on the promenade deck.

“America will be represented in practically every sport on the Olympic program and the team will number close to three hundred and fifty men and women. Swimming is the only sport in which events for women are included.

"Just where we will house our athletes in France, is an important question that we will have to decide very soon. Accompanied by

Digitized by Google
195

General Allen, I will make a thorough investigation of the housing situation and a definite decision will be rendered when other members of the Executive Committee meet me in Paris in July.

“Within the next few days the complete list of members of the American Olympic Committtee will be announced, and it is expected that througn this committee sufficient funds will be raised to properly finance the team. I want it made clear that not one cent will be paid to anyone in commissions to help raise the required fund. This work will be handled by members of the Committee."

♦ -------------------------------------------

EFFECT OF TEMPERATURE ON HUMAN BODY.

Several common beliefs have been shattered recently in the scientific research conducted in Pittsburgh by the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, in co-operation with the

U.	S. Bureau of Mines and the Carnegie Institute of Technology. It was learned for instance that fat men endure high temperature and humidity better than thin men. Another fact brought out was that drinking ice water does not develop cramps in men after thev have been subjected to an hour’s exposure to high temperature.

The problem of the exact degree of temperature and of humidity to which persons should be subjected in a room was attacked several years ago but not until recently had the research reached a point where definite conclusions might be drawn. The society had also in these experiments the co-operation of the United States Public Health Service, and one of the first tests was to study the physiological effects of various temperatures and humidities on human subjects at rest in still air. A staff of physicians and others subjected themselves to great hardships in the course of the research work.

An important result of the experiment was the discovery of the great variations of external temperature which the human being can endure, and at the same time, retain his physiological efficiency. Another interesting fact disclosed was that increasing pulse-rate is more the cause of discomfort than is body temperature, when in a heated room.

Referring to ice-water tests, the report states:

“It has frequently been stated that workers exposed to high temperatures developed severe cramps after drinking ice water. A few of the subjects of these experiments volunteered to drink ice water after about an hour’s exposure to high temperature, and two of them, in one experiment, drank a quart of ide water in less than fifteen minutes without ill effects. Cramps did not develop in any of the subjects at any time."

P

,HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

E

Digitized by
196

Other experiments disclosed the fact that loss of weight varied with the individual on entering and leaving specially heated chambers, the heavier and stouter men losing more than did the light and thin ones. It was shown also that the lighter man, as a rule, could not endure the temperature conditions as long as the heavier one, and that he complained more of the exhaustion which followed the experiment.

National Health Council Issues Revised Report on the Children’s Bureau.—The National Health Council has issued a report on the Children’s Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, which outlines the legal authority, history and development of the bureau, its organization, current work, personnel, the federal Child Labor Law and the Act for the Promotion of the Welfare and Hygiene of Maternity and Infancy. The report on the Children's Bureau is one of five which have been prepared by the National Health Council. The others are on the Division of Vital Statistics of the U. S. Bureau of the Census, the Women’s Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, the Division of School Hygiene of the U. S. Bureau of Education and a general report covering the health activities of the U. S. government. These pamphlets may be obtained without charge from the Washington office of the National Health Council, 411 Eighteenth Street, Washington, D. C.

Hygiene of the Mind, L. Bianchi, in Riforma Medica,

Naples.—In this opening lecture of the course on nervous and mental diseases, Bianchi emphasized among other things the stabilizing effect of work on the mind, and deplored the prevailing conception that the fewer hours we have to work the better off we are. “This is the view which politicians and labor leaders—to promote their own selfish interests—are impressing on the public. The result is that the shortening of the hours of labor, instead of giving leisure for home duties and family life, is deteriorating character and mental health as the free hours are devoted to loafing. Work—the great stabilizer of the nervous system—is abhorred and shirked more and more—a sad perversion of the ideal aimed at in the early agitation for the eight hour day.” Nervous disease is becoming more and more prevalent, and the number of the insane has trebled in the last twenty years. Physicians should be on the lookout for anomalies in character as well as in the blood or tissues. He says that his forty years of practice have demonstrated that anomalies in character in children can be effectually combaced by wise management and hygiene, either in the home or with some wise and patient teacher. Those children that failed to get this favorable environment or were sent to a large school where all were treated alike, had their abnormal traits intensified, and grew up to be candidates for the reform school or asylum.

Digitized by Google