MIND AND BODY

Yol. 16,

FEBRUARY, 1910.

No. 186

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR, EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil,, Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNERBUND).

Meeting of the Athletic Research Society, New York, Dee. 29.

By W. A. STECHER.

In order to understand the problems of any organization its work must be understood. Since 1810 when Jahn first took his pupils to the Hasenhaide near Berlin competitions have formed a part of the regular gymnastic work of the Turners. One thought, however, has always remained predominant, and that was never to make competitions the sole object of gymnastics. Under the influence of this thought it was deemed wise not to have too many meets with other clubs and organizations, but when these did occur to make real festivals of them. This has resulted, both in Europe and America, in having national festivals every four years and district or local festivals once a year.

In order not to stimulate specialism too much group contests for individuals as well as‘ for teams have always been given first place at both district and national festivals. In the order of their merit contests for individuals rank as follows:

1st. The so-called Sextuple contest, consisting of three field events and exercises on three pieces of fixed apparatus.

2nd. The so-called Quintuple contest, consisting of five field events.

Then, first, came the competition in such single field-events spoken of above. The Grecian idea that in order to he a winner a competitor must be of more than ordinary ability in a number of events was always foremost in the minds of the men who made the laws governing our festivals.

In line with this thought was the endeavor to give prizes to teams consisting of at least six men. This thought was in recent years carried to its limit in America, and in Switzerland and in some parts of Germany by having whole societies compete with another, the points made by all the men deciding the contest. Recent years also saw the introduction into national and district festivals of competitive games and model exercises by societies.

Digitized by

Google
-370-

Having shown what was done the next question is, who can compete? The rule here is that every competitor must be a member of his society. The entrance into a society is regulated by national rules according to which a candidate must be at least 18 years of age, and must have passed a probation period of at least four weeks. If a person has once been voted upon and is a member he may take part in any competition, provided he is not a person who by vocation is a teacher of gymnastics or a professional athlete. According to the Turners’ rules a man who is a lawyer, doctor, or a clerk, or a student, etc., may devote a part of his time to teaching gymnastics, or games, and be paid for this without being ranged as a professional teacher of gymnastics or as a professional athlete. As a matter of fact every endeavor is made to get qualified men in other vocations to act as leaders or coaches in clubs, small societies, etc., 60 as to encourage the introduction of gymnastics and games into the masses. The Turners’ ideal, as I have said above, is that the preparation for competition is not the legitimate aim of physical training. Taking the stand that a man who devotes part of his free time to teaching gymnastics or in a playground and is paid for this, is thereby no more a professional than if he devoted the same time to teaching woodwork, history or any other thing he knows, the Turners have eliminated one cause for much legislation.

Reasoning from what has happened in other organizations in which there are no such liberal laws as to who may compete you may think that our problems of administration must be many. In fact they are very few. We have one rule that seems to keep us out of trouble. This is that we have no prizes of a monetary value. The award of success is a diploma, and to the fortunate few who stand at the head of the winners are given laurel or oak wreaths. This is the highest award.

The result is that our meets and festivals offer no inducements to the professional athlete who competes for money or to the so-called amateur athlete whp competes for the value of the medals, cups, watches, etc., plus his expense account. In my twenty years of experience in the technical committee of the Turnerbund I know of very few cases that we had to decide, and protests are so seldom made that they create a sensation whenever this happens.

Our problems of administration are along entirely different lines. They are how to give every competitor a fair chance to do his best in the many events that in our large meets must be crowded into two or three days. For example:	Last	June at Cincinnati 1369 men competed in the

class work. Each man had to show and be judged in six exercises on the fixed apparatus, besides putting the shot and being tested in the hop, step and jump. Later the men of each society simultaneously executed prescribed tactics and free exercises. Then came the quintuple contests, the individual events, the team competitions in relay races and games besides the model and mass exercises by thousands of men, women and children.

It would be a mistake, however, to imagine that the Turners do not care for your troubles. If we have stood for anything during the many years of our existence, it has been for clean sport. Perhaps our way of administering our affairs may offer some solutions to the problems before you. At any rate, you can always rely upon the Turners to help you enforce any rules to bring about fair play.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-371-

INTER-CLASS GRAMMAR SCHOOL GYMNASTIC CONTESTS.

By Philip G. Lewis, Philadelphia, Pa.

There is a growing demand for competition in gymnastics combined with track and field work, the whole arranged in such a manner so that it will appeal to every boy and girl in the grammar grades. Competition of this kind is very much needed in the upper grades of our public schools.

Inter-school athletic contests and games have both good and evil results, the evil results predominating because:—

1.	They cater to the stronger ones who are usually stars or champions.

2.	No provisions are made for the girls.

3.	A decidedly small percentage of the enrolled pupils participate.

4.	Pupils enter for the “prizes,” not for the benefit and pleasure derived therefrom.

The best and healthiest kind of “school spirit” can, however, be developed through “inter-class” competition. This competition should be of such type as to so interest the pupils that there is plenty of fun and amusement for them, and it should likewise appeal to the weaker as well as the stronger girls and boys. Girls, too, need work of this kind, and no opportunity should be lost to have them participate.

Prizes, especially prizes for individuals, should have no monetary value, in fact, prizes might be eliminated entirely* The average athlete goes into a meet only for the prize; that is his only consideration; he sees nothing but that gold medal or watch (which if he chooses, he can sell.) Any contest or game that is not worth going into for the fun or benefit one can get out of it is not worth going into at all.

In planning for an inter-class meet the question confronts us how to equalize the grades so that the fourth grade can compete against the eighth grade. This is a difficult problem which experience alone can solve. Handicapping the pupils according to their grade, rather than according to their age, weight or size, seems to be a feasible plan. Handicaps are the means for encouragement to the weaker and more timid ones.

Team work should play a very important part in these contests, many boys or girls will run, jump or play on a team rather than individually; they feel that less notice is taken of them. “Organization” counts for much and is the means of making contests self-conducting. Captains and lieutenants for both sexes should be elected by each class. These of course 7 will be “leaders,” who will be able to get their class-mates to follow their commands. These officers conduct the practice, and, with the teachers, select the names for the entries in the various events.

Much depends on the spirit manifested by the class teacher. Spirit and enthusiasm are contagious, especially among pupils. When once a teacher gets these, the pupils become very susceptible and are quickly infected.

Eligibility rules are in many cases of great value; for example:— Boys who smoke are not eligible to represent their class.

Pupils under discipline are not eligible to represent their class. Pupils below the average in class-standing are not eligible to represent their class.

Pupils not punctual are not eligible to represent their class.,

Digitized by v^ooQle
-372-

Pupils who fail to pass the medical examination are not eligible to represent their class.

Pupils are not permitted to enter more than V'7o or three events.

The following gymnastic competition took place in the yard of the John Hancock school, 12th and Fairmount avenue, Philadalphia, Pa., last spring. The principal, Mr. Abel J. Evans, a man very much interested in the playground movement, and who believes in plenty of play during playtime, was responsible for much of its success.

(“OFFICIAL NOTICE” posted in the school.”) GYMNASTIC COMPETITION—HANCOCK SCHOOL

EVENTS FOR BOYS.

March 16—100 yds. Dash; Handicap—5th grade 15 yds., 6th grade 10 yds., 7th grade 5 yds. (The running takes place in the rear street) (Olive St.) Goal Throwing (8 boys on a team.)

March 23—Calisthenics (response and exactness counting) (exercises directed by Mr. Lewis.) Dodge Ball (15.on a team) in a 25 foot circle.

March 30—Standing Hop, Step and Jump. Handicap—5th grade 3 ft., 6th grade 2 ft., 7th grade 1 ft. Tug of War. Handicap—5th grade 10 boys, 6th grade 9 boys, 7th grade 8 boys, 8th grade 7 boys.

April 6—Throwing Basket Ball for Distance. Handicap—5th grade 9 ft., 6th grade 6 ft., 7th grade 3 ft. (The ball is thrown with both hands over the head without moving the feet.) Relay Race. Handicap—8 boys on a team.

EVENTS FOR GIRLS

March 19—50 yds. Dash. Handicap—5th grade 6 yds., 6th grade 4 yds., 7th grade 2 yds. This takes place in the rear street (Olive St.) Goal Throwing (6 girls on a team.)

March 26—Calisthenics like for the boys. Dodge Ball (15 girls on a team) in a 25 foot circle.

April 2—Standing Broad Jump. Handicap—5th grade 9 in., 6th grade 6 in., 7th grade 3 in. Potato Race (6 potatoes, four feet apart.)

April 8—Throwing the Basket Ball for Distance. Handicap— 5th grade 12 ft., 6th grade 8 ft., 7th grade 4 ft. Relay Race (6 girls on a team.) Handicap.

The first place in any event counts five (5) points; second place counts three (3) points; third place counts one (1) point. The room, boys and girls together, scoring the most points will be awarded the prize, which will be in the form of a pennant in the school colors inscribed with the name “CHAMPIONS.” This will remain in the room until the next contest, when it will again be contested for.

There will also be a prize given to the room making the highest average in calisthenics. This prize will remain in the class room for one year.

Each class may enter but two (2) in each event and but one team in each event.

A boy or girl may enter not more than four (4) events outside of calisthenics.

The Captains and Lieutenants shall look after the affairs of their classes in this contest and make all reports to their teacher.

All entries must he in the hands of Mr. Evans at 12 o’clock upon on the day of each event. Every boy and girl is eligible to take part.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-373-

A FEW “DONTS.”

Don't try to do too much.

Don't laugh at someone else.

Don't say you can’t.^-“TRY."

Don’t give up.

Don't fail to encourage your team.

Don’t keep on practicing until you are tired.

Don’t fail to be at your place, when you are wanted for an event. Don't forget that your class honor depends on what you do; every boy and girl can help.

Abel J. Evans,	Philip	G. Lewis,

Principal.	Assistant in Physical Training.

RESULT AND NUMBER OF PUPILS WHO ENTERED THE GYMNASTIC COMPETITION (MARCH AND APRIL, 1909)

Grade	Teacher.	Average in Calisthenics.		Boys.	Girls.	Total.	Points  Scored.
5	Miss Freeman	80°	lo*	► 22	13	35	0
5	“ Lieber	89°	O	24	17	41	17
5	“ Mampe	92°	O	17	16	33	18
5	“ Ross	84°	o	16	17	33	1
6	“ Slemmer	90°	o	17	19	36	0
6	“ McKnight	85°	o	18	16	34	8
6	“ Seip	85°	o	16	18	34	8
7	“ Pfaflf	93°	o	14	23	37	16
7-	“ Ervin	91°	o	20	18	38	24
8	Mr. Adams	87°	o	21	15	36	43
	Total			185	172	357	

Number belonging in the Grammar Grades, March 31, 1909 : 209 Boys and 238 Girls, Total 447 pupils. Percentage of pupils who entered, Boys 88.5°|0, Girls 72.3°|0, Total 79.9°|0.

NUMBER OF POINTS SCORED IN TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS AND GAMES.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-374-

Resume. The following figures speak for themselves:	88.5 per cent

of boys and 72.3 per cent of girls enrolled in the grammar grades participated in the various games and field events. What is possible in one school is possible elsewhere. An encouraging feature was the large number of girls taking part, the spirit displayed by them was worthy of emulation.

Every boy and girl participated in the class calisthenics, which consisted of a number of exercises taken from the regular daily lesson, and they were given by one of the assistants to the Director of Physical Education. This gentleman and Mr. William H. Welsh, principal of the Lynd School, (a nearby public school) were the judges in this event.

Each pupil was examined by Dr. Henry G. Bruner, the regular school physician, who refused to four pupils permission to participate, owing to their condition.

It will be seen that the eighth year pupils won rather easily. This was due to the fact that quite a number of the pupils in that class were very large for their age; also their class was very well organized by their teacher (a man), who spent considerable time coaching them.

The object of having the contest spread out over several weeks was to give the pupils plenty of time to practice, thereby keeping them “busy out in the fresh air.” It took very little time after school to run off two events, thus bringing the fun to a close while enthusiasm was at its height.

In the game of Dodge Ball one hundred and fifty boys and one hundred and fifty girls took part, this making three hundred different pupils in one event.

In the next issue a report will be made of an inter-class contest of similar nature which took place in a boys’ grammar school.

THE PHILADELPHIA TURNGEMEINDE

(FOUNDED 1849)

A short address to the active members by Joseph J. Smith, M. D.

The founders of our society, like the founders of the United States, built better than they knew. Like the Union, our society has gone through a number of severe storms, the worst seemingly having been the period of financial stress during 1883. Having weathered this safely our society grew in strength and numbers until now we have outgrown our present quarters and must seek a new and larger home. The increased financial burden which this calls for we will gladly assume, knowing that by this transplantment into a different part of the city we will be enabled to conduct our campaign of education with greater success. Every institute, be it educational, political, or social, is judged by its influence upon the community. Let us see what influence the Turngemeinde as a member of our great Turnerbund has exerted upon the public at large.

The platform of the North American Gymnastic Union says:	“We,

the members of the Gymnastic Societies of the United States of America, endeavor to bring up a people strong in body and mind.” We recognize in the dissemination of culture and the fostering of ethical and moral principles the only means for a thorough reform of social, religious and political life.” We therefore look upon the rational education of youth, to har-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-375-

monious mental and physical education in order to produce good, self-reliant, men, as the first and most important duty of the North American Gymnastic Union. Section 2 of the constitution of our society says:	“The

object of the said corporation shall be the intellectual and physical improvement of its members by establishing and maintaining a library, by establishing schools and by furnishing instruction in gymnastic exercises.”

How far has the Gemeinde lived up to her obligation to establish our system of gymnastics throughout the land? I am sure the Gemeinde has done more pioneer work throughout our school and college world than any other society in the Union. Many of our actives have gone forth to all parts of the States, from the Atlantic to the Pacific oceans, to teach what they were taught in our hall.

To my personal knowledge the following members have done good missionary work. The earliest timers were Capt. Hildebrand and Louis Soestmann who under the, firm name of Hildebrand and Lewis kept a gymnasium at 9th and Arch Sts., where they taught young men and school children. Prof. Lewis, at the age of 79 was, until a few months ago, still in harness in the Girard College; and Bunz, who did the first parallel bar act on the stage and taught gymnastics in private, in his 70th year is still a hale, hearty man. Louis Winter taught the Independent Turn Verein, an offspring of the Gemeinde, in 1874. Coming up to the period of the later part of 1880 we have Earnest Baumgertel who taught the Southwark Turn Verein, followed in the next year by Aug. Arnold. During the years 1881-82-83 Joseph I. Smith was teaching the Central Branch of the Y. M. C. A., 15th and Chestnut Sts. He was the first one to introduce class work in this institution. He also was instructor at the University of Pennsylvania during the years 1889-90. About this time Theodore Toepel took charge of the Police Department of Atlanta, Georgia. At the present time he has charge of the public schools of that city. Wyndham Robinson went to. New Orleans to take charge of the athletic club of that city. William Haar was teacher of the Atlantic City Turnverein and also at La Salle College. About this period a new crop sprung up. Chas. Lewis started in the West Chester Normal School, then went to the Harvard Summer School, and at present has charge of Tufts College. Carl Schrader went to the West Chester Normal School, then to the New York State Normal School at Geneseo, and at present is teaching in Harvard University and Dr. Sargent’s Normal School. Dr. Geo. May was assistant teacher in Yale during his four years medical course and at present is director at Ann Arbor, Michigan University. In 1901 Hans Goetz went to San Francisco to take charge of a Turn Verein. He taught in the public schools of that city, and at present has charge of a Turn Verein and is assistant in the public schools of Milwaukee. In 1907-08 Rudolph Fuerle was gymnasium coach at the University of Pennsylvania. Phillip Kassel was at the Chester Military Academy. Paul Wendler was teaching in private schools and clubs. Earnest Reckeweg is teaching at Riverside. After 22 years of hard work by our teacher, Mr. Pertuch, and members of this society, especially of Dr. Paul Voigt, a member of the school board, we have at last succeeded in having gymnastics introduced into our public schools. Four of the new teachers and the director, Mr. William Stecher, are members of our society. Two of the men assistants, Phillip

Digitized by v^ooQle
-376-

Lewis and Carl Hierholzer, are pupils of the Turngemeinde. Henry Schmidt taught at the Bordentown Military Institute. Fred Rieth is at present teaching in the West Chester Normal School.

Fellow members this is a record that we may point to with pride as it shows that we have done our duty as expressed in our platform and constitution. This is why I say that the actives of a society are the Keystone of the Arch. But we must have other educational branches to complete the arch. The time has passed when a Turn Verein can successfully exist on the gymnasium floor. We must teach the young in the arts and sciences; we must offer the same inducements to our younger members that other institutions offer their members, especially instruction in the elementary branches of education.

In this progressive age every young man is trying to improve his condition in life and if we have nothing that will help him he will go elsewhere. I am convinced that this is the principal cause for the slight attendance on the floor during the winter months. Our endeavors for the future must, therefore, be to offer to our members all possible chances for mental as well as for physical improvement so that the Turngemeinde will continue to march in the front ranks as the most progressive Turnverein of the East.

A DEFENSE OF THE WARM AIR FURNACE.

By Charles P. Prizer.

At the meeting of the Federal Furnace League in Atlantic City an elaborate answer to the criticism usually leveled at warm air furnace heating was made in the address of the League’s president, Charles S. Prizer. The principal points in his address will be found in the following abstract:

The situation in the field of residence heating, which furnishes a mission for our organization and provides scope for its activities, may be summarized as follows:

Healthful heating necessarily involves ventilation.

Any method of heating which does not provide for or is not accompanied by adequate ventilation is unwholesome and essentially unsound in principle.

There is but one practical method of healthfully heating a residence, and that is by pouring pure warm air into its apartments. This method is accomplished in a more practical manner and at a lower cost by the warm air furnace system than by any other system in existence.

Direct steam or water heating is condemned by every competent heating and ventilating engineer, and by every physician who has given the matter even the most casual consideration, as being unsanitary and unwholesome, because houses heated by direct radiation cannot be properly ventilated.

To heat residences by indirect steam or water is so costly, both as to the expense of installation and as to that of maintenance, that this healthful and proper method of heating cannot be considered in connection with one house out of a thousand.

We are entering an era wherein hygienic considerations are assuming in public opinion that high position which their surpassing importance entitles them to occupy. As this hygienic awakening proceeds, intelligent

Digitized by
-377-

people everywhere will insist on having their houses so constructed and heated as to provide for formal, adequate ventilation, until finally ventilation of residences will become the vogue, and it will be considered a barbarous and uncivilized thing to construct a human habitation without providing for changing and renewing the air in it.

Furnace heating has been discredited in the past because of poor, unscientific, impracticable installation and the extensive use of cheap, flimsy constructions. Furnace heating can be rehabilitated in public esteem by strictly first-class installation and the use of high-grade apparatus. Furnace heating of the highest grade accompanied by formal ventilation can be provided for a residence at as low a cost as that of the inferior, unsightly and unsanitary method of heating alone, without ventilation, by means of a direct radiation system. Residence heating can be captured for the warm air furnace system if the installers of furnaces can be taught to do their work aright and to use first-class furnaces of sufficient capacity.

I venture to quote the objections to warm air furnace heating as set forth in a pamphlet entitled, “Home Sanitation,” published by a company engaged on a very large scale in the manufacture of heating apparatus and appliances, and to attempt to answer them:

Objection No. I.—That “the moisture of the air is exhausted by passing over a frequently overheated firebox.”

Answer.—The “frequently overheated firebox,, does not exist in a properly proportioned and properly installed warm air furnace plant, as the furnace has sufficient capacity to perform its functions without superheating the firebox or any other part of the apparatus. However, the atmosphere in a room heated by pouring into it air which has passed over very hot surfaces will show just as high a humidity as will be shown in another room heated by direct radiation, provided both rooms are unoccupied. If both rooms be occupied by a number of people, the room heated by direct radiation will show the greater relative humidity, but this is due to “moisture” deposited in the air from the lungs, respiratory passages and bodies of the occupants; and this additional moisture stays in the room heated because the air is not changed and renewed as is done in indirect heating.

The effect upon the relative humidity in a house of raising the temperature from zero or from any other temperature to 70° or to any other standard, is the same, no matter what method of heating is employed, provided the air is not in some manner charged with additional humidity after being heated.

It is much easier and more practicable to humidify the air in connection with a warm air furnace system than in connection with either a direct or indirect system of steam or water heating, and there are now on the market most excellent automatic .devices for providing a proper standard of humidity in connection with furnace heating, while there are no devices procurable which perform the same office in connection with direct radiation heating. Indeed, it is practically very difficult to impart an increased degree of humidity to anartments heated by direct radiation.

Objection No. 2.—“Poisonous gases come from the contact of organic particles with the superheated firebox.,,

Answer.—The “organic particles” referred to in this subtle assertion must be contained in the cold air supplied to the furnace. In good furnace

Digitized by

Google
-378-

practice this air supply is the purest obtainable in the space immediately outside the house, and we deny that it breeds poisonous gases when heated.

Objection No. 3.—That “sulphur escapes from the burning coal through the iron surface when overheated.”

Answer.—-With a proper furnace and properly installed plant the “iron surface” need not be overheated, but even if heated to 1,500° the sulphur will not escape through it into the air chamber, because, even if any gas or air can pass through the iron at that temperature, it would pass inward into the combustion chamber and not outward from the combustion chamber. In actual practice the objection referred to is never encountered because it has no existence.

Objection No. 4.—“Cellar air is drawn through the house if the cold air box is for any reason closed.”

Answer.—A properly constructed cold air duct is perfectly tight and cellar air cannot, under any circumstances, pass up through the furnace. However, it is far more healthful to use a cellar air supply in furnace heating than to heat a house by direct radiation, because the air in the cellar must be constantly renewed from outside or there would be no upflow of air through the furnace.

Objection No. 5.—“Unwholesome gases which lie near the surface of the ground are drawn upward if the cold air box is open.”

Answer.—So it appears that we get bad air from the cellar when the cold air duct is closed, and bad air from the outside when the cold.air duct is open; hence, the only logical conclusion must be that it is extremely dangerous to heat a house by air taken from outside and that the only healthful system is to use air that has been duly tempered by the breaths of occupants and other agencies, carefully preventing its contamination by any admixture with air from the outside. If the air near the ground is not of good quality in certain localities, the competent heating contractor would take the air from a plane high enough above the surface to avoid the contaminated stratum.

Objection No. 6.—“The dust from the cellar and the dust from the street.”

Answer.—There is no correct way to heat a building except to take air from outside, warm it and pour it into the apartments. If this air is liable to contain dust or smoke it should be thoroughly .cleaned, and there are a number of plans and devices which do most thoroughly clean the air of dust or smoke and which are in common use in many localities. To maintain a state of even tolerable freshness and purity, the air in a house must be renewed from the outside; there is no alternative.

Objection No. 7.-—“In a short time in the life of the firebox of the furnace, the cement of its seams becomes loosened, through warping, cracking or burning out, and dust and gases permeate the house.”

Answer.—Properly constructed furnaces do not have any “seams,” and they do not have any cement in their scientifically constructed joints. The joints of the best furnaces are thoroughly packed with asbestos gaskets or packing and are absolutely and permanently gas and dust proof.

To-day formal ventilation is not even considered in the planning of one house in a thousand, and where ventilation is secured it is usually an incidental feature involved in the method of heating the building.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-379-

In a few years no house will be considered complete unless the proper provision is made for insuring the constant freshness and purity of its atmosphere during the winter months.

While the construction of furnaces is probably to-day on quite as scientific a basis as is the construction of boilers designed for heating houses, there is undoubtedly great room for improvement. The furnace manufacturer should determine definitely the proper scientific relation that should exist in his furnace between grate surface, heating surface and free air space, in order to attain the best results in actual practice. With properly arranged heating surfaces and draft travel there must be a definite relation between the three construction elements named which is scientifically correct. This relation is certainly ascertainable, and it must be embodied in the actual apparatus before any manufacturer can justly claim to have a warm air furnace constructed on principles which are strictly correct and logical.

A number of the prominent members of this organization are earnestly in favqr of an extensive and costly advertising campaign for popularizing high-grade warm air furnace heating, using the magazines, periodicals arid newspapers for exploiting the merits of the furnace system. In doing this they claim that we would be meeting and offsetting the advertising along similar lines which has apparently been quite successful in promoting the hot water and steam systems of heating.

But these advocates of an extensive advertising campaign fail, I fear, to analyze the situation to ascertain whether or not we would be benefited as much by such advertising as are the manufacturers of boilers and radiators by the advertising which they have been doing.

The leading advertisers of boilers and radiators do this advertising merely as a part, and an incidental part, of a most complete and comprehensive sales system; and they so cover the entire national field with their representatives and agents that they can reap the* benefit of their advertising in every nook and corner of the United States. They are prepared to show any heating contractor in the country how to properly install his goods, and the heating contractors are usually glad to take their advice and install the heating plants in accordance with their directions.

With us the case is radically different. Let us suppose that our advertisement in the “Ladies’ Domestic Courier” convinces Mr. Jones, of Smithburgh, that he ought to heat and ventilate his house with a first-class furnace system. Mr. Jones calls on one of the local furnace dealers of Smithburgh and explains his wants. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, as the situation exists at present, this local dealer does not have any proper conception of the meaning of a first-class warm air furnace heating and ventilating plant; and he thinks that ventilation is only a foolish, fanciful fad anyway; and besides if ventilation does amount to anything, Mr. Jones will have all the ventilation he needs without installing a formal ventilating system; and furthermore, the dealer doesn’t know how to install a ventilating system and he doesn’t care to learn how to do so, and as Mr. Jones does not actually know much about the matter either, the upshot of the business is that the local dealer puts in for Mr. Jones the same old, defective, inadequate, rickety furnace job that he is accustomed to install, and Mr. Jones is dissatisfied with the heating of his new house

Digitized by C^ooQle
—380 -

and he believes that that seductive furnace advertisement and the whole furnace business are frauds, and as for him, he will have his house heated with water as soon as he can afford it.

Let it be a special feature of our work to educate the retail furnace dealers of the country to an appreciation of the great advantages of first-class furnace heating and ventilating, until they are enthusiastic advocates of the good cause, and let us drill and train them in the proper method of installing such plants. Our proper field for work is among the customers of each member of this Federal Furnace League, and this work should take precedence over any other, because it is more important.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

AN AUTOMATIC SYSTEM OF RAILROAD CAR VENTILATION.

GARLAND VENTILATOR APPLIED TO PASSENGER CARS.

An aroused sentiment on the part of the traveling public for better ventilation of railroad coaches has resulted in a number of methods for accomplishing this object, the movement of the train usually depended upon to furnish the necessary motive force.

One of the most interesting of these systems is that designed by T. H. Garland, general agent refrigerator service of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad. The extent to which this system is being applied to various classes of passenger equipment would seem to indicate that the problem of furnishing fresh and pure air to railway travelers has been successfully solved.

The device, as recently perfected, is a simple one, being constructed upon the aspirator and induction principles, which exhaust the impure air from the car, the arrangement being such that dirt, smoke, cinders, rain or snow cannot enter the car through the ventilators. As the ventilation of the car is accomplished by drawing out the air; the danger of drafts is eliminated.

By referring to the illustrations showing the construction of this type of ventilator, it will be seen that large openings in the ventilator face toward either end of the car, and these form the ducts through which the outside air passes. The course of the air is controlled by the right-angl-e bend which causes the air to leave the ventilator at the outer edge of the car roof. The suction thus formed draws the air from the interior of the car through the opening provided for that purpose. The ventilators

Digitized by

Google
-381-

are arranged so that they work equally well with the car going in either direction.

The air capacity of the average car is about 5,000 cu. ft., and the average number of ventilators installed in each car is usually ten. With this arrangement the following results of tests have been secured:

Speed of Train, Miles per Hour	Average Exhaust feach Ventilator per Hour, Cu. Ft.	Total Exhaust per Hour (10 Ventilators). Cu Ft.
30	15 000	150.000
45	20,000	200,000
50	27,000	270,000
60	36,000	360,000

The Garland system of car ventilation has been found equally applicable to refrigerator cars, where insufficient ventilation quickly results in great damage to such perishable freight as berries, peaches, oranges and other fruits. The upper tiers in the cars become soft and mouldy, due to the warm air and gases that accumulate in the upper part of the car. The only difference in the arrangement of the ventilators is their location in the center of the car between the doors, one ventilator being placed on either side of the roof. An average sized freight car contains about 2,000 cu. ft. of space, and tests have shown that at a speed of 30 miles per hour it is possible to exhaust 10,000 cu. ft. of air per hour, which would be equivalent to IO changes per hour.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Institute and Training School Young Men’s Christian Association

Chicago, III.

The Institute and Training School of Chicago has made rapid progress, during tht past two years, in the development of its curriculum for Physical Directors. The course is now three years in length (three years in Chicago plus two summer terms at Lake Geneva) and includes practically all the medical subjects with which a physical director should be familiar. In addition to the usual subjects in Normal Schools of Phpsical Training, courses are given in Bacteriology, Dissection (three parts), Examination of the Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat and Mouth; also in special Psychology, Sociology and Public Speaking. Plans for the summer term courses to be given at Lake Geneva are well under way and the promise is that the strongest course and largest attendance will be the record for the summer term of July 19i0.

BUTTERFLY DANCE.

By William A. Stbcher.

Music: “Eros”, Scherzo Valse by George Dudley Martin.*

Any number of pupils can take part in this roundel. The class is arranged in open order at arm’s length distance. The music is written	c	'T	'T'	c*

in % time. There are seven parts to both music and r<Amdel,	^	r	r	^

but parts 3, 5, 6 and 7 are repetitions.	T*	^	^	*7

* Published by Theo. Presser, Philadelphia, at 25 cents per copy.

Digitized by v^ooQie
-382-

INTRODUCTION.—8 Measures.

i—8. Pose:	Raise the arms sideward and hold them there.

PART I.—16 Measures.

I. Move the left arm down and right sideward (both arms are now right sideward.)

, ' 2—3—4 and 5. Cross-rocking-step left, right, left and right sideward (with arm-swings (in a half circle downward) in the same directions. When performing the cross-rocking-steps a slight trunk bending in the direction opposite to the arm swings takes place. (Both arms are now right sideward.)

6.	Swing the left arm down and left sideward, and at the same time swing the right arm down and up in a circle outward to a position right sideward (both arms are now sideward). This arm position is held during the 7 and 8 measures.

7.	Place the right foot crossed in rear (behind the left), bend the knees and slightly bend the trunk forward.

8.	Straighten the knees and trunk, and hold this position.

9.	Move the right arm down and left sideward (both arms are now left sideward.)

10—16. Repeat measures 2 to 8 but to the opposite side.

PART II.—16 Measures.

1—2—3. Three glide-rocking-steps left sideward. The arms are held sideward in an easy position and sway slightly during the sideward movement.

4.	Place the right foot crossed in front, slightly bend the trunk right sideward, place the right knuckles on the hip and raise the left arm in a half circle overhead.

5—6—7 and 8. Repeat measures 1 to 4 to the opposite side.

9—16. Repeat measures 1 to 8.

PART III.—16 Measures, Repeat Part I.

PART IV.—32 Measures.

1—2. Pose, with the arms raised sideward.

3—4. Cross-rocking-step obliquely left forward and right backward. When stepping left, the left arm is swung in a half circle overhead and the right knuckles are placed on the hip; (vice versa when stepping right).

5—6—7 and 8. Repeat measures 1 to 4.

9—10—11—12. Swing-hop forward (left, right, left and right) the knuckles placed on hips. (Execution:	On	count 1 step left forward, on

counts 2 and 3 hop once on the left foot at the same time swinging the bent right leg crossed in front of the left; on counts 4, 5 and 6 repeat right.)

13—14—15—16. Repeat measures 9 to 12 but step backward. (The leg-crossing while hopping is, however, executed in front.)

17—32. Repeat measures 1 to 16.

PART V.—16 Measures, Repeat Part I.

PART VI.—16 Measures, Repeat Part II.

PART VIII.—16 Measures, Repeat Part I.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-383-

If used as a costume dance, or at exhibitions, this roundel may be lengthened by repeating the whole in different formations as suggested in the dance published in January.

No.7647

EROS

SCHERZO VALSE

Vjvo	GEORGE	DUDLEY	MARTIN

Digitized by
Copyright 1909 by Theo. Presser Co., Philadelphia. Used by permission of the publishers.

Digitized by
		£-t-r 1	Tempo I	.		n^~	1	
	j-* *		^rriTtr	i -f-f~	f
imfci	Mi				mui

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 386—

A/Vnp and body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

ILr Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKEK PUBLISHING CD..

!M3J.-weu-u.lcee, Wlacormln.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W»» Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

A NEW SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS based upon natural forms of exercise, by Fritz Eckardt, Dresden, Germany. Mr. Eckardt is principal teacher (Oberlehrer) in the Annenschool in Dresden and has recently published a book embodying his ideas of how the physical training of boys (and girls) should proceed. He divides all gymnastic material into (a) active and passive exercises, and (b) voluntary and involuntary exercises.

Voluntary exercises produce, he claims, two effects, namely:—

(1)	“real” effects, tending to maintain, defend and enrich life, and

(2)	“formal” effects, tending to preserve health and to educate one’s

organs and capabilities.

Eckardt’s selection of exercises for gymnastic purposes leads to two groups which he calls “Life-forms” and “School-forms.” Under I—“life-forms— (natural forms) he places marching, running, throwing, jumping, climbing, etc. These are the “real” forms of exercise. They may be practised anywhere, and in case of danger are of greatest service. In competitions they are easily measured or judged by the watch, tape-line, etc. Because of these reasons they always hold the attention of the pupils. They fulfill the “real” requirements of a system of gymnastics, i. e., they make the pupil skillful and at the same time they may be used for formal work. All forms of sport are of this type of exercise.

Under 2—School-forms—Eckardt places all movements that are selected without regard to “real” aims or ends. They are forms selected exclusively for gymnasium use, e. g., like most forms of free exercises. Being entirely “formal,” he says that only the expert understands their use. A layman can not judge of their usefulness. In daily life they are seldom useable. They can only create interest if the pupil understands their effect upon his body. They fulfill the “formal” requirements of gymnastics, but if the “real” requirements are fulfilled remains problematical.

In the selection of formal exercises two “view-points” are distinguishable:	(a) To select such forms whose effect upon health or posture is

most pronounced, and (b) To take “life-forms” and divide them into their constituent parts using these disintegrated parts for formal work.

Eckardt then says that the correct procedure seems to be as follows: ,A11 gymnastics must be built upon the natural, “real,” forms of movement. These natural forms must, however, be developed by means of “school-forms.” As soon as these have been mastered the natural forms of movement again step in the foreground and must be developed to their fullest .extent. All gymnastic material must, therefore, consist of the natural

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-387-

forms of bodily movement. The school forms are simply helpful methods of instruction.

Well, like other systems that have been presented in recent years, much that Eckardt says sounds well. It partakes of that “Back to Nature” trend that is always bound to come whenever any movement has advanced too far in one direction. But isn’t Mr. Eckardt going too far in the other direction? Isn’t his system on a level with that other hygienic movement that (especially in Germany) favors the performance of all gymnastic exercises clothed only with a fig leaf Our mode of living and of thinking is entirely different than it was at the time of the Greeks or a few hundred thousand years earlier. We are not living in the woods nor on primeval plains. Changed environments and different climates necessitate changed methods. And if, during the last decades, many teachers of gymnastics have laid too much stress upon “formal” exercises and have found the exercising in halls, and in basement gymnasiums lighted by artificial means, satisfactory, this is no reason for us to discard formal work and lead our pupils out into the sun clad only in breech-cloths to practice “real” exercises.

Then, again, we think that Eckardt is wrong in saying that the so-called “life-forms” should be separated into their different parts, and that these parts should then be practised separately as “formal” exercises. Now, would it really make an exercise more interesting to a boy to tell him that a foot-placing was being practised because it is part of a step, or that an arm was being raised because it is part of a throw, or that a trunk is being bent because this occurs in rowing, or that the knees are being raised because you do this in climbing, and so on in hundreds of instances. Isn’t Mr. Eckardt trying to make a system by splitting hairs? Free exercises are valuable as such. They need no sugar coating to make them palatable if they are chosen by some one who understands his gymnastic material and who selects his material to suit the demands of his classes. We think it is a great mistake to dismember the so-called “life-forms” like running, jumping, climbing, etc., and teach their separate parts as free exercises. Eckardt even speaks of teaching running as a preliminary to certain games. You might as well try to teach chewing before giving a boy something to eat. Such procedure degrades these wonderful types of exercise and puts them on a plane with that other gymnastic absurdity which tells “real” boys to go to a corner, get an “imaginary” ladder, place this against an “imaginary” tree, raise their knees and “imagine” they are climbing up to some “imaginary” apples, etc., etc., ad nauseam.

We* fear that Mr. Eckardt would be horrified if he came to America and saw some of the “things” that pass here as gymnastics. He might then write another “system.” No wonder we hear of some people in rather prominent positions in America speaking of gymnastics in rather contemptuous terms. If they refer to what is branded as gymnastics in some places they are right. But if they speak of gymnastics in its real sense they are wrong. The mere fact that they do say anything against gymnastics is proof that they never knew what gymnastics is, for if they did their voices would be raised against such degradations and delusions as spoken of above, or such excesses as Marathon runs for school boys, football for high school boys, etc. There is a wide field for much enlightenment as to what gymnastics really

Digitized by v^ooQie
—388—

is when, as recently reported, the students in a normal school for physical training say that football and basketball takes up so much of their time that they haven’t much time left for “gymnastics.”

—THE ANNUAL MEETING of the Athletic Research Society was held in New York, December 29th. A number of gentlemen had been asked to present the administrative difficulties of the organizations with which they were connected. Dr. D. A. Sargent reviewed the administrative problems of the colleges as exemplified by the problems of Harvard. In a paper by Prof. Waldo, read by Dr. Phillips, the athletic problems of the colleges were presented from another view point. Mr. W. H. Ball in an admirable paper presented the problems of the Young Men’s Christian Association, especially as they exist in Chicago at the present time with the Amateur Athletic Union and the Athletic Federation, embracing the Y. M. C. A., the playgrounds, the Turners, etc., striving for the control of all competitive work. Mr. Stecher presented a short sketch of the Turner’s problems. Mr. Metzdorf spoke of the problems of secondary schools as typified by the troubles brought about by the high schools aping the college sports and standards. Dr. Crampton spoke briefly of the problems of the elementary schools, stating that they were few. Dr. J. E. Raycroft presented the playgrounds problems as they appeared in Chicago, and finally the problems of the rural districts were spoken of by the chairman, Mr. C. W. Hetherington. This surely was a most exhaustive presentation of the problems confronting the great organizations of the country. In the afternoon meeting the papers were freely discussed by many members. One characteristic remark by Mr. Ehler was that in some cities unregulated athletics had come to such a point that even boys in Sunday school leagues first wanted to know “what there was in it for them” before they would play. Dr. George J. Fisher thought that many of the ills complained of had grown up even in educational and religious circles because the Amateur Athletic Union on account of its organization either could not or would not attempt to bring about such reforms as would satisfy educators. On account of the enormous growth of the playground movement, the increased activities of schools of all grades, the evening social centers, etc., the problems now before the bodies governing competitive sport are entirely different than those presented by a number of athletic clubs whose whole interests were in athletics, while schools, churches, etc., had other ideals and interests which they placed as high, if not higher, than unregulated competitions. During the afternoon session a letter was read from the Amateur Athletic Union, which stated that a committee had been appointed by that body to investigate and report what measures can be adopted “to increase the activity and preserve the purity of amateur athletics, especially in church, settlement, playground and other developments.” The committee was composed of James E. Sullivan, Chairman; Bartow S. Weeks, Dr. Luther H. Gulick, Frederick B. Platt, and Dr. D. E. Wiber. This committee in its communication asked the Society of Athletic Research for the benefit of its experience and counsel, and asked the society to state what conditions in athletics it considered inadequately covered by athletic laws and organization, and asked also to suggest what recommendations the society had to offer which would further the interest of boys

Digitized by Gooq Le
—380—

and young men in athletic sports. When this letter was read Dr. D. A. Sargent offered the following resolutions, which were adopted:

1.	That a committee be appointed from each institutional interest in athletics represented in this society.

2.	That each member of this committee investigate the desires of his institutional interests as to the problem of administration and organization.

3.	That the committee confer with the committee appointed by the Amateur Athletic Union for the investigation of athletic conditions, and that they attempt to bring about satisfactory administrative adjustment.

The committee was appointed by the Executive Committee of the society and is as follows:	Colleges—Dr. R. Tait MacKenzie, University

of Pennsylvania; Elementary Schools—A. E. Metzdorf, Springfield High School; Secondary Schools—Lory Prentice, Lawrenceville; Y. M. C. A.— Dr. George J. Fisher, New York; Sunday Schools and Churches—C. E. Houch, Chicago; Social Settlement—George W. Ehler, Baltimore; Normal Schools—W. P. Bowen, Ypsilanti Normal School; Turn Verein Societies—W. A. Stecher, Philadelphia; Rural Schools—Myron T. Scud-der, Rutgers College.

—ILLUMINATING SIDE-LIGHTS are sometimes cast upon a perplexing problem. Just read the following card on the football problem sent to the editor of the Philadelphia “Bulletin” by a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania. “A frank confession is balsam for the soul,” and so this collegian frankly says “that the public wants a strenuous game which sometimes will produce death.” The gentleman1 is entirely correct in this part of his statement. If football is played for the benefit of the spectators the gate receipts will always be higher, if there is an opportunity to see a real fight with the added chance to see some one have his neck broken. But when the gentleman says that “Americans” do not want clean, safe and gentle games, we belifrve he is speaking without authority. It is, nevertheless, very illuminating when a college-bred man writes as ' follows:

Sir:	I have followed college football pretty closely for twenty years,

and there seems to me to be something essentially illogical in the attitude of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association, which is now voiding much superheated atmosphere. Theirs is a hopeless task if they hope to eliminate danger to life and limb from football. If they succeed in making things safe, the result will not be football, at least not the kind of game the American college public will accept as football. The public does not want danger or death per se, but it wants the strenuous sort of game which will produce these things occasionally. The difficulty is a far deeper one than of mere rules. Any game can be made rough if players and spectators so will it. The question is a racial one. Experience has proven that Americans do not want clean, safe, gentle games. Look at base ball, our national sport, as compared with cricket, the national sport of our sister nation across the Atlantic. It has been rightly said to play base ball well it is necessary to be dirty, physically and morally. No man can slide to base and remain immaculate and successful; hoodwinking and bulldozing of the umpire is universally applauded. Similar is the situation in football. Were

Digitized by L^ooQle
—390 —

there no tackling, no rough playing, were it not known that physical courage and recklessness is required of every player all the time, there would not be 500 spectators where there are now 5,000. Take away the element of danger, the spice of roughness, the excitement of severe physical clashes, and the public will have none of it. If, however, roughness is to be eliminated at all cost, it seems to me that the most logical position is that of those who favor the substitution of “socker.” Here is a ggme with practically no danger, which has been fully tried and developed, which draws in Great Britain assemblages of 100,000 persons at the final matches. If, as has been asserted, the American public demands a gentler brand of football, why. not take “socker?” Why fool any longer with an emasculated and meaningless hybrid? It will be found, however, that the public demands /10 such thing. There are only two logical alternatives, leave football essentially as it is, or abolish it and adopt some other game.

Penn ’94

—FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS there has been dissatisfaction with the manner in which the affairs of the American Physical Education Association have been conducted. One of the most active local societies, the Boston society, has repeatedly tried to bring about changes. At its last meeting this society voted to withdraw from the national association and to dissolve, intending to reorganize on a different basis. The charges made against the national organization and especially against the national council, so far as we can get information through private letters, are that the national organization is being used for the glorification of a small group of members; that an inner ring has had control of the council for years and ran things to suit itself; that there was no need for increasing the members dues to $3.00 in order to pay officials salaries, and to support a journal when there are enough publications whose owners would be glad to be made official publishers. (Members would then not be forced to pay for a journal that perhaps they did not care for). Further charges are that the council “managers” deliberately violate the constitution, with the result that the council at present is a figure head. Having decided that members not living at the meeting place, especially those who represent the members-at-large and who live some distance from New York, can not be represented by proxies, it has become a comparatively simple matter for the “managers” to do as they please; that the effort to put new life into the council by moving the headquarters had failed, as the president had not once called a meeting of the executive committee (although the council had held only two meetings, one on the last day of the April convention and another one on January first,) the result being that the association was not governed by the council as stated in the constitution, but by the president and the secretary. Another change is that at present the national organization is of no direct benefit to the individual members, that if it were to be discontinued the physical training interests in the country would not suffer in the least, as there are other live organizations looking after national issues, and that local organizations could be maintained at $1.00 per members* per year to look after local interests.

Well, this is quite an array of charges. But we are, nevertheless, sorry that the Boston society has withdrawn, as we believe that if one’s

Digitized by
-391-

position is correct more can be gained by staying in an organization and fighting for reform than to withdraw and leave others to do the fighting. We think that if the Boston society had stated its beliefs and backed them up by amendments to the constitution presented by their representative, this would have been the proper procedure. As there are rumblings in other quarters the outlook for the future suggests squalls if nothing worse.

—IN HIS ARTICLES on the Hygiene of Physical Training, Dr. William H. Burnham, in the Physical Education Review, quotes Prof. Mosso as saying that “German gymnastics, which consist largely in exercizes where the body is supported by the arms—or monkey gymnastics—is not suited to the physical training of women. Exercises for women should never be strength gymnastics, on the contrary, these should be the lighter and more graceful forms of gymnastics,” etc., etc. We often have wondered where Mosso got his knowledge of German gymnastics, and especially of German gymnastics for women? Any one who has any correct knowledge of the exercises used in Germany for the physical training of women knows that if they are to be criticized at all it must be from the opposite side. Women’s gymnastics is often critized in the German physical training journals as a waste of time. The whole reform-movement that during the last few decades has vivified German gymnastics, has had its greatest success in adding to the physical work for women.

Then, again, ’’Monkey gymnastics.” Did Prof. Mosso and some of his followers ever go to a gymnasium or playground before any children were allowed in and watch to see what happens when the doors are opened ? When that crowd of little and big girls rushes into their earthly paradise what do they do? Do they practice folk dances, or corrective exercises, or climb up imaginary ladders? “Not on your life,” as the slang expression so aptly expresses it. They do “monkey gymnastics”! The first things they rush for are the swinging and climbing apparatus of all kinds, i. e., swinging rings, giant strides, climbing poles, ladders, ropes, etc., etc., and here they swing, climb, jump and enjoy themselves to their hearts’ content. And any system of gymnastics designed for live children that does not take this natural desire of children for apparatus movements of this “monkey” kind into consideration and does not use it for its gymnastic ends, is on the wrong track. Dr. Burnham’s article is otherwise so admirable that we are sorry that he uses Mosso’s quotation without comment, and also incidentally leads his readers to believe that German gymnastics does not recognize sex differences.

—THE NEXT MEETING of the American Physical Education Association will be held March 2, 3 and 4 at Indianapolis. The program for the meeting, as well as an invitation to visit the public schools, is printed elsewhere in this issue. Visitors to the meeting will also have an opportunity to inspect the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union and see its inner workings, as Dr. Fischer’s invitation also includes this oldest training school for teachers of gymnastics in the country.

—THE INDIANAPOLIS MEETINGS March 1-2-3 and 4. Acting in accordance with the instructions issued by the Council of the Amer-

Digitized by CjOOQle
—392—

ican Physical Education Association, the local schools and other organizations have prepared no program of practical gymnastics and athletic work. Visiting delegates of the various associations meeting here March I-2-3-4, who desire to see the gymnastic work of the local schools, can do so by'going to the buildings and stating their request to the Principal. The regular daily gymnastic work will be demonstrated in any grade the visitors may desire to see. Schools doing good work and easy to reach are Public Schools No. 2, 3, 9, 11, 15, 18, 32, 39, 45, 60. A directory of schools and car lines leading to them may be obtained at the school office. The work in the high school gymnasiums is continuous from 8:30 A. M. to 2:30 P. M., girls and boys on alternate days. Gymnastics in the normal college of the North Gymnastic Union may be observed daily at any time from 8:30 A. M. until 5 P. M.

Respectfully

Robert Fischer.

PROGRAM.

Meetings! of the American School Hygiene Association, American Physical Educational Association,, Public School Physical Training Society.

WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 2

Joint Meeting with the Superintendents, Caleb Mills Hall, Shorttridge High School.

(1)	“Health and Education”—Thoma's F. Harrington, M. D., Director of School Hy-

giene, Boston, Mass. (Representing the Department of Superintendents.)

(2)	Subject to be announced—John H. Musser, M. D., Professor of Clinical Medici<ne,

University of Pennsylvania. (Representing the American* School Hygiene Association.)

03) “The Health of the Teacher”—Luther H. Gulick, M. D., Director, Department of Child Hygiene, Russell Sage Foundation. (Representing the Physical Education Association.)

(4)	“The Principle Underlying Modern Physical Education”—Prof. Herman H. Horn, Professor of Education, New York University. (Representing the Public School Physical Training Society.)

THURSDAY, MARCH 3.

Morning Session. Join-t Meeting of the three associations, Hall of Representatives.

(Room 55) State House.

(Subject to be announced)—M. G. Brumbaugh, Ph. D., LL. D., Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia, Pa. (Representing the Public School Physical Training Society.)

,2. ‘*The Teaching of Physical Education amd Hygiene in American Colleges”— George Meylan, M. D., Adjunct Professor of Physical Education, Columbia University. (Representing the American Physical Education Association.)

Z. “The Right Standards of School Hygiene and the Hindrances to Meeting Them” —Homer H. Seerley, President, Iowa State Teachers College. (Representing the American School Hygiene Arsociation.)

Afternoon Sessions. (Sectional.)

American School Hygiene Association, Hall of Representatives, (Room 55) State House. American Physical Training Association, Palm Room, Claypool Hotel.

Public School Physical Training Society, Club Room, Claypool Hotel.

I.	Public School Physical Training Society.

(1)	President’s Address:	“Folk	^Dancing”—C. Ward Crampton, M.D., Director of

Physical Training, New York City Public Schoo’s.

(2)	“German Gymnastics Adapted to American High School' Conditions”—A. E. Kindervater, G. G., Director of Physical Training, St. Louis, Mo.

(3) “The Educative Value of the Child's Recreative Life, and Systematic Provision for It”—George W. Ehler, Public Schools Athletic League, Baltimore, Md.

(4) “The Methods Applied to the Physical Training of the Abnormal Children

Digitized by U^ooQle
-393-

in the Public Schools of Milwaukee”—George Wittich, G. G., Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

(5)	"The Needs of Physical Training in Schools for the Deaf”—Robert L. Erd, Director of Physical Training at the Michigan School for the Deaf.

(6)	“Physical Training as ar Social Factor in School Life”—Joseph E. Raycroft,

M.	D., The University of Chicago.

II.	American Physical Education Asste«c4atdon.

(1)	‘^Fundamental Education”—Prof. Clark W. Hetherington, Professor of Physical Education, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.

(2)	‘Teaching, on the Basis of Nascent Instincts”—C. Ward Crumpton, M.D., Director of Physical Training, New York City Public Schools.

(3) “Racial Hygiene In Relation to Vigor”—W. W. Hastings, Ph.D., Editor of “Hygiene and Physical Education,” Springifteld, Mass. •

(4) “Shall Organized Play be Made a Regular Part of the Public School Curriculum”—G. W. A. Luckey, Professor of Education, University of Nebraska.

III.	Amereican School Hygiene Association.

(1)	President’s Address:	John	H.	Musser,	M.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine,

Univenity of Pennsylvania.

(2)	'delations between Physical Defects and School Progress”—Leonard P. Ayres, Associate Director, Department of Child Hygiene, Russell Sage Foundation.

(3)	“The Relation of the State to the Child”—C. O* Probst, M. D., Secretary Ohio State Board of Health.

(4)	“Experiences in Indiana in Trying to Secure Hygienic Schoolhouses’*—John

N.	Hurty, M.D., Secretary, Indiana State Board of Health.

(‘6) “The Comparative Effects of School Life and Other Social Media on the Growth of Normal School Girls"—D. P. McMillan, Ph. D., Director Department of Child Study, QJiicago.

Evening Session. Joint Meeting, Hall of Representatives, (Room 55) State House.

(1)	“School Hygiene In the Training of Teachers—the Organizing Principal”— W. S. Small, Principal, Eastern High School, Washington, D. C. (Representing American Hygiene Association.)

(2)	(Subject to be announced)—Dudley A. Sargent, M.D., Director of Physical Education, Harvard University. (Representing American Physical Education Association.)

(3)	(a) “New Principles in the Teaching of Hygiene.”

(b) “The Teaching of Sex Hygiene”—C. Ward Crampton, M.D., Director of Physical Training, New York City Public Schools. (Representing Public School Physical Training Society.)

FRIDAY, MARCH 4.

Morning Session. Joint Meeting of the three associations, Assembly Room, Claypool

Hotel.

(1)	“Extension Work in Physical Training in the Elementary Public Schools”— William A. Stecher, G. G., Director of Physical Training in the Philadelphia Public Schools. (Representing the Public School Physical Training Society.)

(2)	“Adolescent Changes in Heart Rate and Blood Pressure”—James H. McCurdy, M.D., Editor of “Physical Education Review.” (Representing American Physical Education Association.)

(3) “Whioh is Man’s Life—His Work or His Play?”—Woods Hutchinson, M..D., (Representing American School Hygiene Association.)

Afternocn Meeting, American School Hygiene Association, Assembly Room, Claypool

Hotel.

Reports of Committees.

(1)	“Status of Instruction in Hygiene in American Educational Institutions.”

(a)	“Instruction In Hygiene in Colleges and Universities”—George L. Meylan, M.D., Chairman.

(b)	“Report on Health Instruction in American Public Secondary Schools.”— Luther H. Gulick, M.D., Secretary.

(2)	“Status of Medical Inspection in America.”—John J. Cronin, M.D.,Chairman.

Digitized by

Google
-394-

Businees	Meeting*

(1)	Meeting	of	Association.

(2)	Meeting	of	new	Council.

(3)	Meeting	of	new	Executive Committee.

Evening Session. Social. Joint Smoker.

The Superintendents meet alternately in Caleb Mills Hall and in the Areetmbly Room at the Claypool Hotel.

HOTEL RATES.

CLAYPOOL HOTEL. HEADQUARTERS—European plan—Room without bath, single,

$2.00 and $2.50; double, $3.00 and $4.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $2.50, $3.0'0, $3.50, $4.50, $5.00 per day; double, $4.00, $4.50, $5.00, $6.00, $7.00, $8.00 per day.	'*

American plant—Room without bath $3.50 and $4.00 single; double, $7.00, $8.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $4.50, $5.00, $5.50, $6.50, $8.00; double, $8.00, $8.50, $0.00, $9.50, $10.50, $12.00 per day.

NEW DENISON HOTEL—European plan—Room without bath, single, $1.50. double, $1.00 per day, each person. Room with bat 14; .tingle, $2.00, $3.00; double, $1.00, $2.50 per day, each person.

American plan—Room without bath, single ,$3.00 per day; double, $2.50, $3.00 per day, each person. Room with bath, single, $4.00, $4.50; double, $3.50, $4.00 per day, each person. *

NEW ORAND HOTEL—European plan—Room without bath, single, $1.00 per day; double, $2.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $1.50, $2.00; double, $3.00 per day. American plah—Room without bath, single, $2.50; double, $5.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $3.50, $4.00; double, $-6.00 per day.

HOTEL ENGLISH—European plan—Room without bath, single, $1.00, $1.50, $2.00 per day; double, $2.00. $2.50, $3.00 per day. Room with bath, tingle, $1.50, $2.00, $2.50, $3.00 per day; double, $2.50, $3.00, $4.00, $5.00 per day.

American plan—Add to the above rates $1.00 per day, each person.

HOTEL EDW1ARD—European plan only—Room without bath, single, $1.00. double, $2.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $1.50, $2.00; double, $3.00, $4.00 per day. &PENCER HOUSE—American' plan only—Room without bath, single, $2.00, $2.50;

double, $4.00, $5.00 per day. Room with bath, single, $3.00; double, $5.50.

NEW OCCIDENTAL—European plan only—Room withctot bath, single, $1.00, $1.50;

double, $1.50, $2.00 per day.

{MAJESTIC—European plan only—Room withctut bath, single, $.75, $1.00, $1.25. double, $1.00, $1.50, $2.00, $2.50 per d*ay. Room with bath, single, $1.50; double, $3.00. ONEIDA HOTEL—European plait only—Room without bath, single. $.75, $1.00; double, $1.00, $1.50 per day. Room with bath, single, $1.50 .$2.00; double, $2.00, $3.50. Meals 50c each*

LINDEN HOTEL—European plan only—Room writhriut bath, single, $.75; double, $1.50 per day. Room with bath, single, $1.50; double, $2.50. Meals 35c each. LORRAINE HOTEL—European plan only—Room without balh, single, $.50, $.75, $1.00; double, $1.00, $1.50. Room with b&th* single, $1.50; double, $2.00, $2.50, $3.00.

RAILROAD RATES AND TICKET CONDITIONS.

The Central Passenger Association, The Trunk Line Association, The Southeastern Passenger Association, The New England Passenger	As:socia:tiom and	the Eastern	Canadian Association, including all territory east of	the Mississippi	River,	St.	Louis.

Peoria, and Chicago, have granted a rate of one amd one-half fare on the Certificate JPUan for this meeting. These certificates, showing	a full fare paid	on the	going trip,

must be obtained from the selling ticket agent	at the ctarting	point,	for	tickets

purchased at any date on or after February 25 to such date as will enable the holder to reach the place of meeting on or before March 2. These certtflorwtes must be signed by the Secretary of the Convention* and validated by the Special Railway Agent, who will be in Attendance at the Secretary's office In the parlor of the Claypool Hotel, during March 2, 3, 4, and until Sfx o'clock p. m* cf the last, date* A validation fee of 25c will be charged by the railway agent. These certificates must be presented for the purchase of return tickets on or before Monday, Mar'ch 8.

It should be ncted that 1000 certificates showing that a fare of one dollar or more was paid on the going trip must be presented before any certificates are validated fck the purchase of a ticket at one»haLf fare for the return trip.
-395-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

RABBITS.

By W. A. Stecher.

During the winter of 1903-04 several hundred Boers camped at an armory next to the Muegge Institute, St. Louis, Mo., preparing for the spectacular play representing scenes from the English-Boer war. Not having much to do they spent much of their spare time in the large field back of the armory in running, jumping, and playing.different games. A running game, “Hasi,” of the “Tag” order, was played daily and by the hour, ' called by them Rabbits. My informants told me that the game is played very much in South Africa. It is one of the few tag games that may be played by teams, and it has the further advantage that it may be graded and made easier for children.

The playfield is an oblong about 30 by 90 feet divided into 14 equally large parts, see diagram. , The two playing teams each have 9 men, one of whom is captain, the one team being guards (hunters) and the other runners (rabbits). The object of the game is for the rabbits to pass all the hunters and, after having reached the other end, to return again to the starting place without being tagged. At the start the guards are stationed on their respective lines near the center of the field. During the game they must stay on their own cross lines, but are allowed to run from side to side; the captain, number 9, can, however, run on any line (either lengthwise or across). After placing all his men, the captain calls “ready” or “rabbits.” The game is then started by one or more of the rabbits quickly crossing over into one of the upper fields without being tagged by a guard. Then, as the opportunity offers itself, they cross over and move forward evading the hunters (guards) who try to tag them. The others follow. Should a rabbit be tagged he is “dead,” and takes a place away from the field of play. Five dead rabbits bring about a change of sides, those being rabbits becoming hunters, and vice versa. Should a rabbit succeed in getting across the 8th line he starts back, and now the hunters must watch the rabbits coming from both ends. If, however, a rabbit succeeds in getting to the rear and back again to the starting point, he cries “Rabbit,” which signifies a game won for his side, upon which all the runners again start a new game without changing sides.

When playing with a greater number of players add a few cross lines, and use less lines for fewer players. See that the “fields” are large enough that the hunters can not tag a rabbit when one has safely entered the field. When played by children it is advisable to place two hunters at each cross line and to have no captain.

»	1
2	
	3
4	
	5
6	
	7 j

a

Digitized by L^ooQle
-396-

GYM NASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St„ New York.

—CHIEF IN INTEREST which the papers, read before the annual convention of the Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association held in New York December 28, had for the delegates, the yearly report of Capt. Palmer E. Pierce, U. S. A., President of the association, and the address of Dr.

D.	A. Sargent, of Harvard University, undoubtedly gained the greatest attention.

After outlining the causes which really gave birth to the I. C. C. A., Capt. Pierce said in part*

“The basic idea of our association is expressed in Article 8, ‘The colleges and universities enrolled in this association severally agree to take control of student athletic sports so far as may be necessary to maintain in them a high standard of personal honor, eligibility, and fair play, and to remedy whatever abuses may exist.’ The statement that any particular person or set of persons should assume such control was carefully avoided, as also that any change of existing methods was needed.

“The resulting organization has little governing force except by its influeneey which is, and always has been, most powerful—more so than most of you realize.

“There Has grown up, in the past five years, in consequence, a uniformity in the ideals of collegiate athletics and of methods of securing them that is very encouraging.

“This association carries on its propaganda for saner, purer collegiate sports by an educational campaign in which I urge every one of you to take an active part .

“The need of this organization is now being widely recognized and its methods and aims are meeting with approval; witness its growth in four years from thirty-nine to sixty-nine- members. It is believed that in time all of the institutions of the country, of any athletic prominence whatever, will become members and take their proper share of the burden of controlling collegiate sports.

“I think it is now well known that the purposes of this organization are good and the efforts of those carrying on its work disinterested. It is believed that the public in general is becoming convinced that the field upon which we have entered is an important one for the good of the Nation.

« “It is said that of the successful men of affairs in our land 50 per cent, are college-graduates. If these graduates get false ideals of life on the college athletic field, it must be admitted that they are apt to carry these same ideals into the practical affairs of after-life. Hence, it seems very important that the boys of the land should be taught, if they have not already the idea, that to lose fairly is better than to win unfairly.

“The object of this association is to improve amateur athletics among our colleges and universities. ‘Sport for sport’s sake’ is the motto that we have held up since the beginning of this organization.

“This association does not belong to the ‘society of muckrakers.’ It distinctly discourages the bringing of dissensions into the public prints. It does, however, undertake and encourage investigation into collegiate athletics for the purpose of finding a remedy for the evils that exist.

Digitized by U^ooQle
-397-

“Let me emphasize again that this is a home rule organization, based on a belief in the honesty of purpose of one another. The number of students enrolled in the various institutions represented by our members numbers about 100,000. To teach them right ideals on athletic fields will affect the life of the Nation itself, for they will carry these ideals into their after-life.,,

Dr. Sargent, while he handled his subject, “Competition in College Athletics,” from the purely academic standpoint, held his audience easily, and in the greatest attention. In part, he said:

“The interest in antagonistic games and personal encounters harks back to the primitive ages when life or death-and the possession of all that was held dear depended on the result, and the ordeals passed through by our ancestors have been engraved upon the memory of every nerve and muscle cell of our bodies. In college athletics as at present conducted competition is absolutely necessary. If there were no such contests there * would be very little practice of athletics as such, for athletics and competition in the minds of most students are synonymous terms.

“Team play not only gives one an opportunity for physical benefits, but it has certain intellectual, moral, and social advantages which one’s individual efforts do not supply. But one of ‘tfc-greatest evils*=£e§ultmg from the highly competitive athletics of to-day is the selection of thiTTest— man who can be found in a certain line of sport, and then confining him to this specialty.

“The best way to hold emotions in abeyance or to couple them with nobler qualities brought out in athletics is to arrange all contests in groups or classes and judge the result by the average attainment. This does away with the individual jealousy and envy engendered in striving for places on the team, enables the strong to help the weak, and the weak to contribute their parts to the victory of the group. This method does away with the evils of over-specialization, increases the number of contestants, and decreases the number of spectators. It developes comradeship, loyalty, generosity, good-will, and a spirit of mutual help and desire for co-operation.

“The group or class method of competition in my opinion opens up the most practical scheme of getting large numbers interested in athletics and of doing away with many of the objections that so frequently accompany the individual method.

“The crying need of the hour is not for more student athletes, but for more athletic students—men of brains and well trained intellects who can back up their mental ability with strong, well trained bodies, undaunted courage, and indomitable wills. Let us recognise the claims of the well trained mind as well as the finely trained body and educate them both together in the same individual. Let us encourage competition as a stimulus to activity, but let us put a check to competition when it is carried so far as to defeat the purposes for which it is employed.”

—CHANGE WATER POLO RULES. The Intercollegiate Swimming League decided at a meeting recently to change the rules for water polo so as to include one feature of the English type of game. It was decided that the goal should be widened and set up higher and that the ball might be tossed at it from outside the fifteen-foot mark to count for

Digitized by CjQOQle
-398-

a goal if the board were touched. A goal made in this way is to count two points, while one made in the old way, that is, through rushing and holding the ball against the board, is to count five points.

This means that efforts will still be made to carry the ball to the board, but they will not be so determined because it will be possible at any time to toss the ball to the goal, writh the chance of making two points rather easily. In the case of a free trial all the players may line up on the twenty-foot mark.

—A REMARKABLE BOWLING RECORD was recently made by Lee R. Johns in a Greater New York and Inter-city match. At the same time Johns created a new world’s record. In six consecutive games Johns made 59 strikes and 8 spares, no misses and no splits. His average for the 6 games was 271.3. The scores of the match were:

Johns:—279.	268.	248.	277.	277.	279.

Watts:—180.	212.	180.	255.	213.	155.

—EDWARD PAYSON WESTON, the veteran pedestrian who last year walked from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean in 105 days, has again announced his intention of covering the distance from the Pacific to the Atlantic in 100 days. He intends to leave the Pacific coast February 1 at 4 P. M. and arrive at New York city hall May 28. When Weston begins his long journey he will be in his 71st year and when ended he will be in his 72nd year. He will celebrate his birthday March 15 en route.

NEW RECORDS FOR 1909.

HURDLE RACING RECORDS.

60 yards high hurdles (indoors, boards), 5 hurdles, 3 feet 6 inches high, 8s.—F. Smithson, San Francisco, Cal., February 19.

80 yards low hurdles (indoors, boards), 7 hurdles, 2 feet 6 inches high, 9 3-5S.—F. Smithson, San Francisco, Cal., February 19.

120 yards low hurdles, 10 hurdles, 2 feet 6 inches high, 14 2-5S.—J. J. Eller, Celtic Park, N. Y., September 6.

THROWING THE WEIGHTS.

12	pound hammer, 207 feet 7^4 inches.—J. J. Flanagan, Celtic Park,

N.	Y., October 24.

16 pound hammer, 184 feet 4 inches.—J. J. Flanagan, New Haven, Conn., July 24.

16 pound hammer, unlimited run and follow, 180 feet I inch.—J. J. Flanagan, Celtic Park, N. Y., October 10.

THROWING THE DISCUS.

56 pound weight from stand, 31 feet 8£4 inches.—P. McDonald,

N.	Y. C., February 6.

SHOT PUTTING.

16 pound shot, 51 feet.—Ralph Rose, San Francisco, Cal., August 21.

THROWING THE DISCUS.

Throwing the discus, seven foot circle, 139 feet 10^ inches.—M. J. Sheridan, Montreal, Can., September 15.

Throwing the discus, Olympic style, 8 feet 2p£ inches, circle, 142 feet io}4 inches.—M. J. Sheridan, Celtic Park, N. Y. October 10.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-399-

RELAY RACING.

One Mile.—Team of five men, each man to run one-fifth of the distance—(R. Cloughen, S. C. Northridge, M. W. Sheppard, J. M. Rosenber-ger, W. C. Robbins), Irish-American Athletic Club, 3m. 17 1-5S., Celtic Park, N. Y., May 31.

One Mile.—Team of four men, each man to run 440 yards—(C. S. Casassa ,M. W. Sheppard, J. M. Rosenberger, W. C. Robbins), Irish-American Athletic Club. 3m. 20 3-5S., Travers Island, N. Y., September 25.

Four Miles.—Team of four men, each man to run one mile—(T. Collins, F. Reilly, J. Bromilow, A. R. Kiviat), Irish-American Athletic Club. 18m. 8 4-5S., Celtic Park, N. Y., October 10.

Medley Relay Race.*4 (J. J. Archer, 220 yards; J. M. Rosenberger, 400 yards; A. R. Kiviat, 880 yards, J. Bromilow, one mile), Irish-American Athletic Club. 7m. 44 2-5S., Boston, Mass., July 24.

THREE LEGGED RACES.

40 yards.—5 1-5S. (indoors, boards), H. L. Hillman, Jr., and Lawson Robertson, Washington, D. C., Feb. 20.

100 yards.—ns. (indoors, boards), H. L. Hillman, Jr., and Lawson Robertson, Brooklyn, N. Y., April 24.

220 yards.—27 1-5S., C. S. Casassa and S. C. Northridge, Celtic Park, N. Y., Oct. 10.

All around record, 7,385 points, M. J. Sheridan, Ceptic Park, N. Y., July 5-

DISTANCE RUNNING.

5^4 mile.—27m. 6 1-5S., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 6.

6	mile.—31m. 5 1-5s., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 6.

7	mile.—36m. 27 2-5S., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., *Nov. 6.

8	mile.—41m. 52 1 -5s., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 6.

9	mile.—47m. 22 4-5S., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 6.

10	mile.—52m. 34 4-5S., G. V. Bonhag, Celtic Park, N. Y., Nov. 6.

11	mile.—ih. im. 50s., J. J. Lee, Celtic Park, N. Y., May 9.

12	mile.—ih. 7m. 30c., J. J. Lee, Celtic Park, N. Y., May 9.

13	mile.—ih. 13m .20s.,	J.	J.	Lee,	Celtic	Park,	N.	Y.,	May	9.

14	mile.—ih. 19m. 12s.,	J.	J.	Lee,	Celtic	Park,	N.	Y.,	May	9.

15	mile.—ih. 26m. 57s.,	J.	J.	Lee,	Celtic	Park,	N.	Y.,	May	9.

SWIMMING RECORDS/

8 turns—2m. 25 2-5S. C.

320 yards, bath,

Pa., March 26.

550 yards, still open water,

Seneca Park Lake, Rochester, N.

660 yards, still open water,

Seneca Park Lake, Rochester, N

77° yards, still open water, 6 turns—10m. 51 Seneca Park Lake, Rochester, N. Y., August 28.

880 yards, still open water, 7 turns—12m. 18 Seneca Park Lake, Rochester, N. Y., August 28.

1,100 yards, still open water, 9 turns—16m. Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September 11»

4	turns—7m. 38 Y., August 28.

5	turns—9m. 15 Y., Augcst 28.

M. Daniels, Pittsburg, M. Daniels, M. Daniels, M. Daniels, M. Daniels, 23s. C. M. Daniels,

4-5s. C. 4-5S. C. 4-5s. C. 2-5S. C.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—400—

1,320 yards, still open water, n turns—19m. 40s. C. M. Daniels, Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September 11.

1,430 yards, still open water, 12 turns—21m. 23s. C. M. Daniels, 'Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September 11.

1,540 yards, still open water, 13 turns—23m. 5s. C. M. Daniels, Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September 11.

1,650 yards, still open water, 14 turns—24m. 46 4-5S. C. M. Daniels, Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September n.

One mile, still open water, 15 turns—26m. 19 3-5S. C. M. Daniels, Verona Lake, Montclair, N. J., September 11.

RELAY RACING.

400 yards (20 yards, bath), four men, 100 yards each—Illinois A.

C., 4m. 3 4-5S.	(R.	E. Frizelle, im. 2-5S.; Perry McGillivray, im. 3

2-5S.; Vosburgh, im. 1 2-5S.; H. J. Hebner, 58 3-5S.). Chicago, 111., May 20.

500 yards (20 yards, bath), five men, 100 yards each—Illinois A. C., 5m. 9 4-5S. (above and H. J. Handy, im. 6s.). Chicago, 111., May 20.

—DR. WALTER L. NILES, New York, in an article entitled “The Clinical Index of the Thorax Associated with Pulmonary Tuberculosis” and published in the “Journal of the A. M. A.” June 12, 1909, calls attention to some errors concerning the phthisical chest and says: “Until very recently all text-books on medicine and physical diagnosis have described the thorax associated with pulmonary tuberculosis as flat, and even now some of them persist in this. For example, this statement appears in a recent edition, ‘The paralytic or phthisical chest is abnormally small, long and flat.’ This is a curious survival of a medical fallacy which apparently grew up simply because in the past no one had measured any considerable number of such chests. Most of them do appear to be flat, it is true, but taking measurements on a few will show that in most cases the flattening is not real and the appearance is an illusion. This is produced by the shoulders being displaced more forward and downward than normal, which makes the anterior surface of the chest appear to be displaced posteriorly—the type commonly called “round-shouldered” or “hollow-chested.” There are two factors which tend to produce the displacement of the shoulders in this manner:	(a)	a	more nearly round

chest than the normal, and (b) relaxation or deficient development of the shoulder-girdle of muscles.

It remained for Hutchinson, while engaged in a development study of the human thorax, to measure twenty tuberculous chests which he found to be more nearly round than the average normal chest. This he reported in 1897, and subsequent investigation convinced him that the average tuberculous chest is not abnormally flat, but is, on the contrary, abnormally round.”

—I consider “Mind and Bodv” one of the best publications of its kind. I find it so helpful that I never fail to recommend it to all those whom I know are interested in physical education.

Yours very sincerely Kensington Y. M. C. A., Phila., Pa.	John	Putnam.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-401-

€XTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

FROM RED CROSS NOTES.

—DISINFECTION.—The laity are largely awakened to the necessity of disinfection in highly contagious diseases. It is now the imperative duty of the physician to teach them that the more lingering diseases of a communicable nature, such as tuberculosis, need equally thorough disinfection to diminish their spread. The disinfection of every house before its re-renting should be a known necessity.

—THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE.—Dr. Richard Cole Newton of Montclair, New Jersey, at a meeting of the section on hygiene and sanitary science of the American Medical Association, commenting on the lack of uniformity and efficiency which marks the hygienic system of our public schools, advocated the training of a special class of medical men to secure proper physical instruction and care for school children. Dr. Nicholas Senn recommended the foundation of hygienic institutes for the preparation of young medical men to assume the duties of health or sanitary commissioners. Dr. Newton said that the scope of such institutions should be ■sufficiently large to enable them to turn out properly qualified medical directors for schools. He advocated, also the creation of a national commission to control all matters connecting physical welfare with scholastic instruction.

(Wonder how long Dr. Newton thinks it would take a medical man to acquire the ability to teach and secure proper physical instruction for school children. Medical men forget the physical instruction is a profession of which medical men generally know very little.—Dr. K.)

—HYGIENE SANITATION.—Sedgwick believes that sanitation should mean the care of the environment and hygiene, the care of the individual, or of the group. Sanitation, he thinks, is the province of sanitary biologists, chemists and engineers; hygiene that of medical men. He thinks that the establishment of permanent, well-paid positions for trained men in the public health service and the 'total exclusion of politics from boards of health are imperative.

Dr. W. T. Wooten, in the Journal of the American Medical Association, suggests a “praise your brother club,” in which each member is pledged never to speak unkindly or in criticism of a brother physician to the laity except the physician spoken about be also present. He argues that if such a condition could be brought about, physicians would be held in much greater esteem by their patients and neighbors. Whenever a physician is condemned, maligned or criticized by another physician the ill-will •engendered in the minds of the laity is not against the one physician but the class. Individuals are forgotten and the profession is taken as a whole.

(Would it not be well to have such or a similar clause inserted in the ethics of physical education teachers?—Dr. K.)

Digitized by LjOOQie
-402-

After all it is experience and good sense that count, and a man who* has had no special training may be more alive to the needs of the body irt some ways than many graduates of medicine. As Locke said, only those who have known sickness and suffering will make the best doctors. We can welcome such non-professional teachers of health, especially when they keep within the proper province of emphasizing the maintenance of health,, and do not dabble in the cure of disease.—Dietetic and Hygiene Gazette.

—COURSE IN PUBLIC HEALTH.—Courses in public health are being given at the University of Pennsylvania for the first time as a separate series leading to a diploma in “Public Health.” The authorities of the university, recognizing the increasing demand for the services of trained men as public health officers, offer these new courses of instruction, especially designed for practical sanitation and include courses on sanitary engineering, public water supplies, theory of hydraulics, sanitary engineering of buildings, inspection of meat, milk and other animal products, practical methods used in sanitary work, personal hygiene, general hygiene, sanitarjr legislation, and the examination of social and vital statistics in the United States. The course of instruction covers a period of one academic year and twenty hours a w^eek during the second term. At the close of the term all those who qualify in the final examinations will receive a diploma and will be designated as “Certified Sanitarians.” Only persons holding the degree of doctor of medicine are eligible to the full course and entitled to the diploma.—Medical Review of Reviews.

THE GOSPEL OF HUMAN EFFICIENCY.

Dr. J. M. Taylor of Philadelphia, whose views, writings and speeches in the interest of physical education have been repeatedly mentioned in this journal, in an article in The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette of October, 1909, among other good things says:	“The most desirable human

possession is a perfect body. Assuming that a human being is equipped with so close a simulation of bodily perfectness as is practicable, there yet remains for cultivation a greater factor, the quickening influence of the spirit, through which alone the highest qualifications can be gained. Here education can effect much, but tfyere is finally to be applied the severest test; individual sincerity, oneness of purpose, centralization of effort.

The central aim of physicians, and teachers of youth is, or should be,, one and the same. This is to inculcate right principles of thinking, feeling and doing. Resolved into first principles, the purpose of all education is to fit the individual to become a more efficient citizen.

The largest problem in working efficiency is to acquire and maintain physical soundness. This underlies and conditions mental fitness. The fluids and cells of the body must be fairly normal for the mind to remain supreme upon its throne. The mind .must be kept clear to take care of the body, not only to preserve physical fitness, bodily integrity, but also mental equipoise. Mere robustness is not physical fitness—many most vigorous persons are not equipped with self-restraint, and through loss of balance, vitiated impulses, they drop into some pitfall always yawning. An injudicious act may be performed which shall maim or destroy powers, or

Digitized by L^ooQle
-403-

organs, or character, or it may be that appetites, normal and commendable in origin, get the mastery. Animal impulses at short range become despotic. To act well one must know. The education of the body is quite as important as teaching for the mind.

It is a mistake to assume that one’s own unaided, instinctive impulses can be safely relied on in this, or in any other, direction. The objection may be urged that it is not worth while to give too much time and care to the body. The answer is that no one should be content with a low degree of physical aptitude, because motion is the fundamental condition of intellection. Many areas of the brain deal only with motion, but each is intimately associated with the others. Systematic education of the body is essential to complete human efficiency, at least until the attainment of full growth. We may admit the needlessness of any one or other line of motor specialization, or degree of skill, or dexterity. Few will take exception, however, to the postulate that, for every reason, it is essential that a human being shall acquire full neuro-motor competence.

Let me cite an illustration of the value of accurate neuro-muscular co-ordination. Every year we hear of injuries among our friends due to falls, missteps, collissions with swift moving objects and the like, resulting in damage, pain, shock, curtailment of vigor for varying periods, loss of time, sometime loss of or great impairment of health, derangements of plans for the sufferer and others, and an enormous aggregate of petty mis* fortunes.

Here the nice adjustment of the eye, the brain and cord, the muscles, the elasticity of the ligaments, all contribute to the preservation of safety. All these “accidents” were preventable, wholly or in part. It is notorious that those who go about least are those who get hurt the most, why? Because the delicate co-ordination, the elasticity of tissues, the poise whereby action is made easy, coming of long habituation and practice, can only be preserved by use. If an old woman goes only rarely to draw water, by a perilous way, she runs the serious risk of coming to grief because of failing powers, stiffness, inattention, all motor degenerations. People differ in two directions, physically and mentally, and between the two is a great debatable ground interwoven of both.

The index of prosperity of any commuijjty consists of the degree of health maintained by the individual wage earner, not forgetting also that of his family, on which his own is conditioned. Health, as Emerson says, is not a right which all may claim to enjoy, but a priceless possession which must be earned. Instinctive impulses canpot be relied upon to carry us far on the right road ; they are all too readily side-tracked, obscured or nullified. Teaching—careful, thorough, accurate and persistent teaching— is shown to be necessary by all history and experience. Above all let the pleasures indulged in simulate primitive energizings, especially activities in the open air. They are always the most satisfying and educational.

For centuries this endeavor to perfect the body was conspicuous not only by absence but was frowned upon by church and society. The earliest English novelists extolled lackadaisical qualities in women and condemned, inferentially, athletics in men. To be sure, there was little then doing on which to comment in masculine activities except militarism and

Digitized by v^ooQle
-404-

fox hunting. The church from the time of the Dark Ages set its face against influences designed to elevate bodily achievements, commending only asceticism. Gradually encouragement was given to measures for enhancing corporeal betterment, until now “physical culture” has become rampant.

The history of all world-movements characterized by originality shows that opposition is too often engendered among thoughtful folk wholly irrespective of the intrinsic merits of the underlying forces. The Sunday newspaper, magazine literature bristles nowadays with recommendations for health measures calculated not only to amaze the superficial but to invite hostility from the thoughtful.

Nevertheless, this “physical culture craze” is not only commendable, worthy of encouragement, but a clear evidence of instinctive human needs. After the froth has subsided, the flood come and gone, we may critically estimate not only the impelling forces, take cognizance of the needs and possibilities thus exhibited, but also formulate principles of action.

The most unfortunate feature thus developed is that those who presume to teach are rarely fitted to do so. Too often they are only partially informed, possessing merely practical knowledge confined to narrow lines, such as professional trainers of track athletes, of rowing, of baseball or football teams, gymnasium masters, etc. I have come in contact with some such dangerous meddlers whom I am sorely tempted to name. Of the advertising teachers so plentifully in evidence some advocate methods radically wrong, some perilous, some positively hurtful.

It has been my good fortune, however, to meet many who display judgment and tact, a few of them most admirable. I have personally learned much from some of these men and women. They have given careful thought to their art, and when their aims fall within wholesome limits involving rational principles which will be outlined later, they are to be highly honored.”

—MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. “In view of the suggestion, presumably emanating from boards of education, that the medical inspection and care of school children should be controlled by the education department, it is interesting to note the more than lack of harmony on this subject existing in England.

Objections to school inspection have all been answered, and everybody agrees that the Government authorities should have a general oversight of the children who are to be the people themselves in a few brief years. The children should have good eyes and ears, be able to breathe without obstruction from adenoids and enlarged tonsils, have good teeth and be instructed in hygiene of the living-rooms, etc,, but the one great desideratum is the preventing of contagious diseases among them.

In England the boards of education are employing physicians and the local health officers of the local Government board are also looking after the school children, and, of course, their duties overlap and interfere one with the other to such an extent that “The Lancet” devotes an editorial to the subject.

They could find an ideal system in vogue in New York city. The

Digitized by kjOOQle
-405-

Board of Health has charge of all municipal health work, including medical school inspection and school nursing. All defective children are discovered, proper advice given, and treatment also if the parents f of the children are unable to secure it, and the school nurse sees that instructions as to all matters concerning health are properly observed in the home. All that is required of the Board of Education is an order to give free access of these officers to the schools. We know the work is well do^e and the general service inmproving steadily from added experience.

Above allthings should we insist that no division of medical re-* sponsibility should be tolerated in municipal school work, and we believe the New York public will never sanction a medical department, under the superintendent of schools, to foster such anomalies as now threaten to make serious trouble in England.”

Ed. Med. Review of Reviews.

—THE INFLUENCE OF DEEP’ BREATHING ON DIGES- • TION. The treatment of indigestion has generally been on the hypothesis that it is essentially a local disease, demanding only local treatment. It is only recently that we have come to realize—what vre have known for a long time—that good plain food, instead of medicinal drugs, makes good rich blood; and that without the fresh arterial blood in a constant stream, not a single organ in the body could perform its function. If one part of the body is weaker, naturally, than another, that part will be the first to give out. Medicine can do very little for these persons. Tonics and stimulants may enable them to keep at work a little while, but the inevitable reaction will soon come.

The stomach will bear the strain longer, but the penalties it exacts are in some cases wrorse than death. The digestive ferments cannot be made unless the organs which secrete the enzymes are supplied with sufficient arterial blood. Upon the quantity and quality of these ferments depends the degree of digestion and indigestion. One important condition of good digestion is, then, sufficient aeration of the blood in the lungs.

When one takes a long brisk w^alk in the fresh air, one almost always returns with a good appetite. One good reason for this is undoubtedly , that the blood receives more oxygen, which so stimulates the digestive organs that the food is thoroughly digested and passed on out of the r stomach and small intestines. The mor# the walking resembles work the better it is for the digestion. Walking that does not increase the depth and rapidity of respiration is not worthy of the name of exercise.

If our patients could be induced to take protracted exercise in the open air, we should have much less trouble in treating indigestion. In the . vast majority of cases this is impracticable. We can, however, instruct our patients in the art of breathing, and persuade them to practice it ■ in the freshest air obtainable by standing near open wrindowrs and doors. There is no doubt but that much less medicine wrould be required in treating this trouble if we should follow this plan.

Digitized by foozle
-406-

The involuntary holding of the breath in going upstairs, walking uphill, and in other forms of violent exercise is bad for everyone and especially harmful to persons having a weak heart or feeble digestion.

In making any powerful exertion, like lifting a heavy weight, going upstairs and running, the strength required by the act of inspiration is apparently needed for the heavy work. This is all right for a momentary action, but it is all wrong when the action continues for more than a very few seconds. In the latter case, respiration should be more frequent than usual, rather than temporarily suspended, in order to preserve the normal ratio between the pulsations of the heart and respiration.

When one is taking exercise that increases the pulsations of the heart to one hundred per minute, the quantity of air taken into the lungs must increase the cum pari passu, or a condition of breatlessness will ensue.	Dr.	C.	0.	Files,	Portland,	Me., in The

Dietetic and Hygen. Gaz.

—I would not be without “Mind and Body.” Every volume since it was first published is in my library. I value it as the best publication because it stands for and champions what is most sane and practical in physical training. Wishing your publication a larger measure of prosperity during the coming year, I remain

Yours truly	Louis	Leyerzapf.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“FOLK DANCES AND SINGING GAMES.” arranged and edited by Elizabeth Burchenal; 9^x12 inches, 88 pages, published by G. Schirmer, New York. Mailing price $1.65. This is a collection of twenty-six folk dances of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Russia, Bohemia, Hungary, Italy, England, Scotland and Ireland. Each dance, besides having its appropriate music, march or song, is described and illustrated by halftone engravings. The book is recommended to teachers. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“GAMES FOR THE PLAYGROUND, HOUSE, SCHOOL AND GYMNASIUM” by Jessie H. Bancroft; 6x8j4 inches, 456 pages; published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Mailing price $1.65. This is the most inclusive book of games so far published in America, as its table of contents will show. After an introduction (in which Mind	I

and Body gets credit for collecAig and translating many games) comes a	1

good chapter directed to the teacher of games. Then come methods of choosing sides. These are followed by the description and illustration of games grouped as Miscellaneous Active Games, Quiet Games, Feats and Forfeits, Singing Games and Games with Balls and Bean Bags. Pages 427 to 449 are devoted to a classification of the preceding games suitable for elementary schools, high schools, playgrounds and gymnasiums, boys'	I

and girls' summer camps; then follow the house-party and country-club	1

games, games for children's parties and seashore games. Surely this is a	I

wealth of matter arranged in a convenient form. We wonder why the

Digitized by GooQ Le
—407-

most highly specialized form of Captain Ball is not among the list of variations; or did the author think that like baseball, basketball and other highly organized games this did not need to be described. Then, again we missed a reference to the gentleman who originatad the game from which the different forms of Center Ball and Captain Ball descended, i. e., Dr. E. A. Poos, of the Hughes High School in Cincinnati. Then again, it is a mistake to credit Mr. Stecher with the game of Progressive Dodge Ball. All this gentleman did was to arrange the progression of the. three games. One good game described in 1904 in Mind and Body apparently escaped the attention of the compiler, i. e., “Rabbits,” a splendid running and tagging game brought to America by the Boers who exhibited at the World’s Fair.

The book can be heartily recommended to all teachers and parents. To be had from Mind and Body., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“GYMNASTIC DANCING,” spoken of in our December number sells at $1.00, not $1.10 as there quoted.

—“PERSONALITY AND EDUCATION” by James P. Conover, Master in St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H. 5^x8 inches, 265 pages, published by Moffat, Yard & Company, New York. Mailing price $1.35.

The book is a plea for character-building, for personality and not for book-learning. The writer, a teacher of over twenty years’ experience, shows that to produce the best results the personality of each pupil must be considered and his limitations of temperament and mentality taken into account. Incidentally this is also a plea for smaller higher schools, not the vast aggregation found at many universities. . Transposed to the physical training field these essays will set any earnest teacher to thinking, and to a questioning of his methods. To be had from Mind and Body., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

-“RIGHT-HANDEDNESS AND LEFT-HANDEDNESS” by George M. Gould, M. D.; 210 pages 5%x7*4 inches. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. Mailing price $1.35.

This is an interesting book which will certainly interest teachers. The chapter on the Origin of Right-handedness is of especial interest to teachers of gymnastics. We do not construe the warfare that Dr. Gould wages against those who try to teacher a child that is left-handed to use its right hand, to mean that in gymnastic work all exercises are to be done only to one side. In the teaching of skiM, in the development of endurance, and in trying to produce harmonious development teachers of gymnastics must exercise both sides of the body. But this, again, does not mean that where one is working for the best results in fencing, jumping, shot putting, etc., that this is gotten bv exercising both sides of the body. These are special exercises of skill and as such yield the best results if practised either right or left handed, when the gaining of the highest record is the object. Dr. Gould states that right-eyedness, right-footedness, etc., go with right-handedness. Well, here he is wrong, for we know of dozens of gymnasts who are right handed yet always jump off left when they try to make their best jumps. He also seems to be at variance with Mosso, who speaks of the attention first of one eye which is transferred to the other eye as soon as the first gets tired. The relation of right-eyedness and the writing

Digitized by v^-ooQie
-408-

posture to spinal curvature is set forth in an interesting manner. The-book is recommended to all teachers, as it raises many interesting questions^ To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“THE JUVENILE DELINQUENT AND THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.” A report of the last meeting of the Society for the Promotion of Social Service in the Young Men’s Christian Association. 76 pages, 6x9 inches, paper cover; published by the Y. M. C. A. Press, New York.

While the subject is treated with a view to the obligation of the Y. M. C. A. to the Juvenile Delinquent, there is much in the book that will interest all workers among boys, especially all teachers of gymnastics. We are all beginning to see that while bodily training is good for all boys there are many in our classes for which social service is of greater benefit. This booklet presents in a concise form the agencies that are working for better community life, and shows how they are accomplishing results. The book should be read by every teacher.

—“PSYCHIC PROCESSES AND MUSCULAR EXERCISE” by Professor Angelo Mosso. A lecture delivered by Professor Mosso at Clark University in 1899 and reprinted by Mr. W. W. H. Mustaine in 1909. This admirable little pamphlet of 32 pages ought to be in the hands of all teachers, especially of all teachers of gymnastics. Price 20 cents. To be had from Mr. Mustaine, Director Physical Education, State University, Lexington, Ky.

MEDART STEEL LOCKERS “ARE BETTER”

A very complete equipment of machinery, tools, gigs and dies, enables us to offer a steel locker of superior quality at a reasonable price. This is the latest pattern and most modern locker on the market. The three way locking device makes it impossible to pry open the door.

The adjustable legs provide for any uneveness of the floor.

The improvedH concealed butt hinges permit of opening the door to its full width.

The angle iron frames for fronts, backs and doors afford great strength and rigidity.

The black enamel finish baked on at a temperature of 400 degrees is everlasting.

And there are other advantageous features which our catalog tells about.	f

Let us try to convince you.

“MEDART LOCKERS ARE BETTER.”

FRED. MEDART MFC. CO. //

Gymnasium Outfitters	3535	DeKalb	St.,	St.	Louis,	Mo.

Digitized by

Google