MIND AND

Vol. 40	APRIL	1933

BODY

No. 410

Leisure Time Activities and Character

Building

Holman White, District Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia.

At the present moment the problems of leisure present themselves in most acute and menacing forms. Millions of men and women have been forced into involuntary leisure through change of economic conditions. Moreover mass production is so efficient that were business to be restored over night to the status which obtained prior to October 1929 not more than one-half of the persons who are now without employment would be able to resume gainful occupation. We must, therefore, look forward to a continuing condition where leisure activities, either sustained or intermittent, will occupy the entire lives of some men and a large part of the lives of all men.

Some of the most beneficent things in life have been fostered in leisure. Art and literature have, developed when men could give heed to things of the spirit, but out of leisure may also come physical and spiritual degeneration. The problem that confronts us is that of safeguarding the spiritual and moral life of the nation at a time when vast numbers have freedom without the restraints and compulsion# of daily tasks.

Nature has never intended that men should devote their lives to leisure. We are so constituted that atrophy of mind, will, and body begins when exercise stops. Biologically it is ordained that the activities of play shall function to keep us fit in the intervals when work is suspended. Throughout the lifetime of the race nature has made her impacts upon it intermittently. Fat years have followed lean years, the hard struggle for survival in winter has been followed by the ease and plenty of the summer season, and the fierce energy of war has always given place to the pursuits of peace. It is through the instinctive compulsions of play operating during these softer momehts than men continue in the full vigor of life; and physical strength, intellectual power, and moral stamina are conserved.

The implications of all this to those who are concerned in the upbuilding of character lie in the fact that play is carried on at many levels and that it tends to decline toward the lower levels. The leisure of one man may give us such a sublime epitome of the moral life as is contained in Wordsworth’s “My Heart Leaps Up When I Behold” and the leisure of another may manifest itself in wanton destruction. Play begins at levels of

Digitized by AjOOQle
2

sense and rises through an ascending scale to the highest levels of intellectual activity. Such leisure pursuits as games, conversation, music, art, reading, or the drama may find abiding places at any level. At its lower levels play has the support of human instinct; the more austere levels are only attained through persistent striving. Thus the tendency of leisure occupa- -tions to revert to sense levels is easily accounted for.

The problem is to prevent this reversion and to establish play activities which must engage us in our leisure moments at levels which will enable us to maintain the moral and cultural strengths which education has developed. To this problem the schools must address themselves, and in so doing they must vigorously resist those short-sighted reformers who in the name of economy would divorce education from play, health, creative activity, social adjustment, and aesthetic enjoyment and limit its function to mere instruction.

Character is fostered through rich experience and wider contacts. We are apt to think of it as consisting of certain fundamental traits such as courage, honesty, industry, perseverance, or honor which have intrinsic value for right living. These qualities, however, are only relative. Honor among thieves is nothing to be commended, it is too baffling to the police; nor should we exhort the light-fingered to greater industry. Fundamental traits of good character derive their virtue in proportion as they manifest themselves abroad. The most primitive of people practice the virtues among themselves but they remain predatory with respect to neighbor groups. One important function which the school exercises on behalf of leisure lies in the promotion of wider group responsibilities. Social teaching must not be conceived as limited to method. It is end as well as process for it is an agency for securing that sense of membership in and responsibility to a large group, which acts as a check upon primitive impulse and which is fundamental to right living in a community. The happenings of history, the facts of geography, the details of economics, even the creations of literature, are soon forgotten in adult life; but taught with the full consciousness of social aim, their residue, the sympathetic appreciation of other men’s lives arid the consciousness of human interdependence, will survive.

The most promising approach to the problem of the right use of leisure consists in the arousing of the love of beauty and in stimulating the creative side of human nature. One of the most significant contributions which the school is making toward wholesome leisure lies in the incorporation of creative activities into its curriculum. The urge to express oneself in some creative way begins in infancy apd, given opportunity, will function through life. The ability to create is man’s noblest attribute. It is significant that his fundamental conception of God is that of Creator. Creative skills lie at the summit of leisure activities.

In his delightful chapter on “The Science and Art of Leisure,” Dr. Lawrence P. Jacks has said, “If I had to write a motto over

Digitized by kjOOQle
3

the portals of leisure I would do it in three words: skill, creation, beauty. Bought pleasures are hardly worth having in comparison with those which arise in the exercise of the creative faculty.”

The reactionary reformer of the present moment often denounces the emphasis which present-day education lays upon play. He forgets, in his zeal to cut educational costs, that play in one form or another occupies the greater part of life. There is an old proverb that says “Man is a whole man only when he plays.” Not only are his leisure hours his play hours, but his work is largely with the spirit of play. Mr. Edison is reported to have said, “I think I have never done a day’s work in my life.” Even the most specialized and mechanical worker is at play with his fancies throughout his working day. His eyes, his attention, his thoughts are continually roving to no serious purpose. Part of the preparation that the school can give for living one’s later leisure at those high levels which call for cooperation, restraint, and self-control, is to provide for abundant play during which these qualities are developed. We live in a self-governing community apd eduation must aim at developing the self-control of the individual citizen. It is in the give and take of sports and games that this fundamental quality of all right living is first established.

It is obvious as we consider the foregoing aspects of education that the problem of leisure and the problem of education are one and the same. It is too much to assume, however, that a new social order in which the leisure of great masses of men and women is conducted upon an exalted plane can be accomplished merely by the education of children. That miracle can be achieved only by the education of the adult generation. The process of education must continue beyond the point where it usually leaves off. It must concern itself with the young adults from eighteen years of age and upward. They are young enough to learn and yet old enough to defend and maintain their learning and their ideals against the prejudice and inertia of an older generation.

Leisure has been somewhat playfully defined as “that part of a man’s life where the struggles between white angels and black for the possession of his soul goes on with the greatest intensity.’ We have only to observe the leisure activities of the crowd seeking the kind of amusement which offers no challenge to mind or will to realize that the black angels are having much the better of it. The crowd is now augmented by the millions whose leisure is enforced by economic circumstances. There is peril to our national life and. to our civilization in this situation. It challenges the thinking of church, state, and school. The stamina of a people cannot be sustained in chronic idleness. / Empty lives must be filled with sane and wholesome activities or there will follow an inevitable atrophy of the physical, mental, and moral powers of a large segment of our populations.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
4

At the conclusion of his “Outline of History” Mr. H. G. "Wells sums up the whole story of civilization and its vicissitudes in an arresting sentence, “Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe.” Unfortunately, education is still popularly regarded merely as a preparation for life. As we weigh the peril that lies in vast idleness we must think in terms of a broader education to combat it. This education must be conceived not as a childhood episode, but as a continuing process, running through the entire life of men and giving the sanctions, tastes, and equipments for work and leisure at higher cultural levels.—The frl orm, Philadelphia N ormal be hot I.

Thinking About Mr. Rath’s Core Activities

By Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D., Professor of Physical Education—Teachers College, Columbia University.

Sitting in my study this evening of Washington’s Birthday, I enjoyed reading again Mr. Rath’s article, “Core Activities in Physical Education”. I had read it earlier when the journal reached me in January, but tonight I read it again more thoughtfully. The Editor suggests that we might profit by a “friendly educational discussion.” I do not know how educational my comments may be but I do know that they are friendly. To sit opposite Emil Rath at a round table and watch his mind work is always a pleasure. So, Mr. Editor, sitting at my desk, I make the following observations regarding the article of Mr. Rath’s in the January Mind and Body.

1.	The logical versus the psychological.

Mr. Rath’s first point stresses the importance of an orderly and systematic approach to all learning. Thus, he argues that in music the “rudiments” are learned before compositions. Moreover, he says, “Certain basic activities, designed to train the pupil in - performing difficult passages he may need, must be mastered.” The three R’s are also cited to support the argument for the logical approach.

It is true that many teachers hold the view presented above, but the position is not ipso facto or de jure established. Today, in general educational attack it is more and more accepted that the psychological approach is better than the logical. Thus in teaching spelling, the old procedure of first following the A, B, C’s in proper sequence, then advancing to words of one syllable and finally to polysyllabic words, is superceded by one that teaches children to spell the words they are using at the time. Thus in the early grades a child may learn to spell Thanksgiving and Grandmother long before the spelling of world or lapse is mastered. The same psychological attack is used in teaching reading. Indeed, the teaching of music by the psychological approach results in the playing of "pieces” long before children know the rudiments of music. It is well kfiown, of

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
5

course, that the justification for this method resides in the tact . that technic can be best learned relation to an activity in which I the individual is interested; to assume that he will master the * "core" so that he can enjoy the apple later has been the delusion . against which the psychological approach has been directed. No one believes, of course, that one can learn to play the cello well without mastering some technic, but this acknowledgement does not concede a prior position to technic. Many persons have found that they can learn to play the cello without waiting until they have mastered the rudiments. Indeed, the experience of music teachers in the schools during the last ten years provides ample evidence of this. Playing and learning technic proceed simultaneously.

What I wish to stress, therefore, is the fact that in physical education participation in the activity should not wait until core activities have been mastered. Let simple activities of children in play forms be started early and let us in these early years begin to teach them how to use the arms, legs, and trunk in the various activities which are normal for these years.

2.	The second zone.

Mr. Rath argues: “—fundamental free exercises, intended to prepare the body thoroughly for life activities, are placed in the hub, or first zone, of this star-wheel and they are indeed the ‘hub’ of physical education around which all other activities group themselves." He then says. “They [fundamental exercises] should so condition the body that activities of the second zone, correct standing, walking, sitting, moving in the scores of ways of daily life, participation in innumerable activities of work and play, will be done in the smoothest and most economical manner."

It would seem from this ordeV of events that children should not stand, walk, sit, or move until they had been conditioned by the fundamental exercises. Of course, Mr. Rath would not so argue, and I may seem unfair to propound such an assumption. But, if no such assumption exists, the whole argument falls of its own weight because, then, developmental activities of walking, running, moving should go on under intelligent leadership to the end that these functions are efficient, orderly, and economical. On the other hand, if Mr. Rath does not mean what is implied in the paragraph above, he must be subscribing to a theory of “transfer” no longer acceptable in modem pedagogy.

Indeed, I should be disposed to use the word fundamental to mean activities that are really basic to the motor patterns of homo sapiens. I am sure that I do not know what these are in detail but I surmise that there are balancing technics, forms of opposition, and types of relaxation that may some day be evolved as the real fundamentals of man’s physical education.

3.	Making the work interesting.

It is argued that the core, activities are not drudgery because the work “can be motivated easily." The lumber that exists in all sorts of general curricula today from the elementary to
6

the professional school is largely justified by those who sponsor it, as needed for the mental training of youth. Thus, speak the advocates of algebra, trigonometry, Latin, and Greek. To get children to study these subjects teachers try to motivate the material and to make it interesting. It should be noted that whenever the material requires artificial motivation it is, in comparison with really interesting activities, of less value as material for learning. Whenever, a teacher has to dress up material, the evidence is clear that a poor selection has been made. In physical education, there are so many vital, vivid, and interesting activities for children and youth, it is not necessary to use core activities and make them interesting.

In the administration of the instructional period, Mr. Rath uses material that is apt to possess inherent interest. In short, if I understand the order, he drills first and plays afterwards, or may do part A one day and part B on another day, or even B may come first. But the “core activities receive the most attention.”

This is very confusing to me. If I am to believe the first part of the argument, I fail to understand the second paragraph on page 245. From my point of view, I should advise that children be led into activities in which they are apt to be interested and that drill of any kind should arise in relation to the deficiencies revealed by participation in the activiies. Thus whether “core activities receive the most attention” or not will depend upon the class and its needs and not upon a principle set up a priori.

4.	The Law of Effect

The laws of learning are being clarified all the time. Recent studies by Thorndike, for example, show that learning takes place faster with rewards than with punishments interposed appropriately in the process. It is well known that some children are not interested in certain activities and generally introvert types prefer sitting, reading, and day-dreaming to vigorous play. But for most persons it is true that the experiences which satisfy are repeated and those which annoy are avoided. It is this general truth which has led to the statement of The Law of Effect. The satisfying activity may be carried to extremes, but under wise supervision, this does not occur. Children may not be permitted to do everything in which they are interested nor at all times that which they wish to do, but it is the hope of every teacher that the things asked of children are those in which they may be interested.

Obviously there is no essential conflict between the desire to provide interesting and worthwhile activities and the mood that Professor Bagiev is urging upon all educators. [The notion that J children are to be permitted to do anything they please has only: been held by a few extremists in education.^ The quotation of my colleague Professor Bagley to the effect that conduct should be controlled with reference to "relatively remote ends and in the face of immediate impulses, interests, and whims, whenever and wherever these are inconsistent with the ends or ideals in

Digitized by kjOOQle
7

question”, should have the hearty approval of all teachers. The notion, howeVer, that education should be annoying, lacking in satisfaction, or uninteresting is hardly to be concluded from this position.

I	argue then that it is not a matter at all of either yielding “to the whim of a child” or following “the sound advice of Dr. Bagley.” The problem is much more difficult. It involves the training of teachers who will know the whole range of desirable activities of children, who will understand the social outcomes of selfish conduct, and whenever the “ideals in question” are in jeopardy will lead children to forsake the immediate, thrusting appeals of the movement for the larger goal. But because there is this comprehension of the possibilities in educative situations, it does not follow that one is to train the horse to eat less by feeding him on sawdust, or the child to enjoy less by providing him with annoyance.

5.	Enduring values

Values are worthwhile per se and not because they require perseverance and effort. The winner of the 100 meter dash may make less effort apparently than he who finishes last. I saw a Japanese at the Olympic Games this summer exhibit perseverance and effort of an almost superhuman kind until he dropped completely exhausted and nearly paralyzed at the tape long after the others had completed the course. Such conduct was foolish. Futile effort is not a great virtue. More important is the question raised by the Polish man of letters, Sienkiewicz, when he wrote, Quo Vadisl To teach children to endure, to persevere, to struggle may be the worst possible education for our world that seems to lack high purpose, ideal ends, spiritual goals, endurinig values. The doctrine of effort proposed by Mr. Rath is old. It has been held out to the masses by those in power hoping to lull the commonalty to peace by promise of a future dnthe other side of Jordan in the sweet fields of Eden, where there is no struggle, no effort, and nothing but peace.

Thus have I thought about the provoking questions raised by Mr. Rath’s interesting article. I know he and I will have to discuss these points more at length later, but it is important to present the other side of the shield that he held up so clearly to the readers of Mind and Body.

Motivation in Health Education

Benjamin C. Gruenberg.

Health education we may take to mean the sum of all efforts to modify human conduct and attitudes so as to raise the '• health level of individuals or of the community. It includes the education of the diabetic or of the tuberculous in his personal regimen, propaganda for immunizing children against diphtheria or smallpox, and the promotion of sales of cod liver oil or tooth

Digitized by <^.ooQle
8

pastes. In such education the most frequent appeal in the past has been to fear. If you eat green apples you will get the gripes. If you don’t brush your teeth the goblins will get you. Horrible pictures of smallpox victims, horrible statistics of deaths from preventable diseases, horrible reminders of aches and pains, horrible portraits of rickety children—horrible devices of various sorts to arouse horror.

We could make out a good case for the appeal to fear on strictly logical grounds. We can still hear the reverberating echoes of the solemn dictum that “seli-preservation is the first law of nature,” even if we are not exactly clear as to what it means; and with that first law as a major premise we can rationalize taking the easier way of trying to scare people into being healthy. But that would hardly be a demonstration of the effectiveness of the technic. Of course, people are influenced by fear; of course a burned child- dreads the fire; but we still have to answer the question—How can we most effectively influence people’s conduct in the direction of maintaining or of improving their health?

To demonstrate the effectiveness of the appeal to fear we can point to the thousands who no longer shake the hands of tho.>e they meet, who never kiss those they love, who polish the tableware in hotels and restaurants with their napkins, and who shield their babies not only from the evil eye but from the false lips of lady friends and politicians. We can also point to the entire armies that boil all the water they take internally, as well as to entire counties or larger governmental units in which the inhabitants always close their windows at night to avoid malaria —a practice which is said to account for the salubrious atmosphere of country districts. Granting that the various practices and avoidances are desirable in the interests of health, it is still questionable whether they can be best established at the risk of cultivating phobias and hypochondrias. We can learn to sterilize water or wipe our soup-spoons in public places as standard practice without encouraging the imagination to dwell upon the frightful possibilities of neglect, just as we can establish routine vaccinations and routine Wassermanns without making the flesh creep.

A state of panic is itself undesirable, from a health point of view. Moreover, it interferes with our purposes when considerations of health demand the doing of something rather than the avoidance of dangers—as for example, taking exercise, maintaining erect posture, breathing deeply, chewing thoroughly. We may learn from the manufacturers of soaps and antiseptics and tooth brushes, who have at stake large capital investments and other overhead expenses, and who presumably are searching for the most economical uses of their advertising appropriations—these people have been redirecting the attention of their prospects from the danger of losing teeth or of having them ache, to the satisfactions of handsome teeth or lasting teeth, for example. They have shifted the emphasis from the fear of repejling po-
9

tential admirers of the opposite sex through body odors or foul breath to the satisfaction that may ensue from making oneself attractive.

It is perhaps significant that when the reliance upon fear in health education was questioned or criticised, the only positive motivations that we could think of were those related to competitive self-aggrandizement. For many years the only alternative to the horrible examples offered young people as inducements to sobriety were in the form of keeping fit campaigns; and keeping fit was commonly glorified as the sure and only means of excelling others in athletic contests.

The solemn inculcation of good rules of conduct designed to maintain health still proceeds over large areas on the assumption that the one grand goal of youthful aspiration is the urge to run faster, jump higher, hit harder, or sit tighter—as in a tug-of-war —than the other fellow. This is supplemented frequently with appealing pictures of two-fisted he-men and, for the girls, pictures of champion 'golf or tennis players, hurdle riders and channel swimmers. It is only the stupid boys and girls who fail to grasp the connection between observing the rules of health and winning championships. Now while the establishment of this connection in the minds and hearts of young people is not only legitimate but highly desirable, we have to realize [1] that many of these young people do not care in the slightest degree for the prowess or distinction of athletic achievement; and [2] that most of those who do care never attain to championship status and therefore are either going to be discouraged and disillusioned by their failure to reap the promised benefits of their efforts and sacrifices, or, being wise enough to see the catch early, are going to avoid the disappointments by dismissing the contest in advance. There is the need, in other words, of recognizing the fallacy of promising, as an inducement to adopt our health programs, either what our prospects do not want, or what we cannot deliver.

On the other hand, keeping fit has values that are unrelated to the competitive strivings, whether in athletics or business. It is worth while for the man or woman of independent means, and for the solitary genius, to be in good health, although these individuals never come into competition with anybody, although they are without care for achieving “more” of anything, although they do not seek to advance themselves. It is worth while to be well, to make some effort toward attaining health, regardless of the particular rivals that have been introduced to stimulate us—health is a factor in the pursuit of arty purpose. It is the fact that human beings have such purposes, that they do set themselves goals, which supplies the motivation, not the fact that in many of the relationships we find ourselves adopting competitive attitudes. People want to be effective: sleep has some bearing on one’s effectiveness; elimiriation of refuse from the tissues and from the body has some bearing on one’s effectiveness; a steady hand has some bearing on one’s effectiveness.
10

Health is of value in play as well as in work, in the contemplative life as well as in the life of action, in the solitary strivings as well as in the joint struggles against others. But again it becomes unnecessary so to emphasize the various health measures that the rituals and practices obscure their purpose: it is not necessary or desirable to make the pursuit of health a major objective of life.

That there is danger of doing just this appears when parents and teachers and physicians put a premium upon eating spinach or breathing through the nose: There must be something deep and mystical about these performances to make adults so awfully solemn. A little boy whose parents had impressed him with the utter goodness cf George "Washington, with his perfect compliance with all that is right and proper, startled his mother one day by asking, after a period of silent meditation, “Mums, did George Washington have good bowel movement?’'

It is not rare for parents to pay children for being “good,” for saying their prayers, for taking the afternoon nap, for gulping the cod liver oil. Perhaps it is not fair to blame the parents for using the easiest way to get done what we have assured them it is well to get done: but while these procedures teach their lesson we can hardly consider them as sound parts of health education. They are instead part of the confusion of values which does so much to break down health—mental health. A little girl who had been treated for enuresis by means of graded rewards succeeded in increasing her control satisfactorily. After several months had passed, she was again brought to the clinic because of a serious regression. The doctor asked the child what the trouble was. She replied very simply and directly that she needed a certain doll which she had seen in a shop window.

Paying a child a nickel for taking his nap may be effective, just as paying him a nickel for jumping out of bed promptly may be effective, in insuring the desired conduct. However, it is not health education; it is no more health education than is rewarding care of the teeth with candy or penalizing refusal to take cod liver oil by confinement in the dark. Such procedures establish merely a technic of buying and selling, with a corresponding scale of exchange values—a scale and a technic that do not promote health, that rather injure health.

A questionable use of irrelevant inducements to comply with prescribed usage for the sake of health may be seen in the awarding of lollypops and buttons and laudations in connection with a diphtheria immunization campaign. A community which uses lollypops to induce children to come, to the clinic can probably get a higher percentage of attendance than one which uses merely a newspaper announcement that "the clinic will be held. A clinic which rewards each child with a star for accepting the prick of tiie needle will perhaps show a larger percentage of submissions than one which overlooks each child in the line beyond applying the needle, or which merely pats his head and murmurs, “That’s a fine boy ”—or “girl,” as the case may be.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
11

Undoubtedly the physiological effects of the immunization procedure are uninfluenced by the methods used for inducing the children to come and to submit. There may be by-products, however, that also have significance for the health of the community. There is, for example, the potential snobbery of the star-bearers toward the untouchables. There is further the potential inferiority and envy and resentment of the children who, for whatever reason, fail to be gathered into the charmed circle of the elect. A promising research problem would be to follow up a successful sales campaign of this kind with an inquiry as to the number of anti-vaccinationists produced by the establishment among children of invidious distinctions between those who did and those who did not. Urging people to buy what they do not know they want may make some of them at least refuse to get what they really need.

There is, nevertheless, an economic aspect to the preservation of health and to the practices designed to further health. Illness, aside from pain or suffering, means loss of time; it means reduced efficiency and poorer workmanship; it means burdening the budget with enforced payments for drugs, doctors, and hospitals, and incidental expenses that are seldom met with relish. Even without illness, lowered physical or mental tone, lowered endurance, flabby performance, and high fatigability are substantial handicaps in the economic life as well as in the enjoyment of life, regardless of competitive pressures. Moreover, there is substantial economy in the prevention of illness and in the maintenance of health, as against curing illness. There is economy in overhauling and anticipating, in prompt attention to irregularities that do appear, as against holding out until forced to quit. Such things people can understand and appreciate and act upon, even children, without demanding a premium for looking after their recognized interests.

A more subtle source of motivation in health education, and one that we have not used as extensively and fully as we might, is just the reverse of out common appeals. Instead of assuming that Old Devil Selfishness is the most powerful drive among the children of Adam, we might consider the fact that there is something inside these children that makes them gregarious, not to say social. They care enough about the companionship of others to make substantial sacrifices in the form of curbing impulses. They learn to count ten before striking, to bite their tongues, to wait for the cake to be passed instead of reaching over. In the same way they learn to bathe, to paint their cheeks, whether from the inside or from the outside, to dance and swim, to play tennis and skate, and to do dozens of other more or less artificial stunts for the sake of getting and holding the attention and esteem of their fellows; they discover, that is, that it pays to be healthy, it pays to observe the rules of health, on purely social grounds. Incidentally, too, the same rules have value in a specialized area of social adjustment, for the children of man are sexual as well as vegetative and social.

Digitized by Google
12

Still more subtle apparently, since it is largely overlooked, is the fact that human beings really do care about others. Mothers, for example, do care about their children in the vast majority of cases—so much so that they have been known to sacrifice their own comfort, their own convenience, their own health, for the health of said children. That is, mothers are eager to keep their children well, or to make them well in case of illness. They do indeed resist the teachings of doctors and nurses and dentists. They do misapply such health education as comes to them. They do neglect important details; but their hearts are still in the right place. It is not necessary to resort to special inducements to improve their technic. They will not do measurably better if we offer them a silver spoon with each bottle of cod liver oil, or a ticket to the movies with each recovery from whooping cough, or the privilege of seeing their names in the social column if they get rid of the mosquito breeding opportunities on their home premises, or cf nits on their children’s heads. The mothers, generally speaking, want to do what is suitable under the circumstances, for the sake of their children’s health. The need is not so much for better motivation on their part as for suitable motivation on the part of doctors and nurses and teachers—motivation to get at the mentality and the prejudices and difficulties of the parents in question.

Similarly, I feel that we could accomplish more in health education if we recognized that young people care about others. There is a real appeal possible to the responsibility which each can be made to feel for the well-being of the community. Instead of saying to the young fellows, “Sleep nine hours and lick the Hockey team,” we might say, “See that the folks in your home, in your town, get a chance to sleep properly and make a happier home or town.” That sounds rather cold, but there is something there we have not been using. Many of the young fellows, at least would rather have a short life and a merry one; that is, they would rather continue to have a good time their own way than modify their program, sacrifice their good time, on the promise of having more time. I submit, in other words, that for healthy young folks health is no object. They are willing to sleep more if that will help the team, but they are equally willing to go without sleep if that will help anybody. They are ready to engage in most unwholesome occupations and risk their necks, just for the adventure; but they are equally willing to engage in such unwholesome occupations for the sake of other people’s health—war for example, or epidemiology, or bacteriology.

Young women too can be interested in health matters quite as effectively by appealing to their desire to be of service as by appealing to their vanity, or the desire to stand higher in the History class, or in an athletic contest. The girl is often more eager to learn about suitable diet and regimen for her younger brothers and sisters than to improve her own practices for the furtherance of her own health. Health is no object; but the prevention of suffering on the part of others may well be. More-

Digitized by t^oosLe
13

over, there is not merely the sympathy and considerateness of others that may be made effective in health education, but the growing sense of responsibility for the welfare of others, of the whole community.

Much of our effort fails to produce proportionate results because we assume too great a uniformity [1] as to human motivations; and [2] as to desirable objectives.

It is necessary to accept the fact of individual variation not merely in the physical traits that are measurable, but also in the interests, the concerns, and the desires of men and women. We must therefore take into account the dispositions and goals and purposes of people when making our attempts to influence them. We cannot proceed as though one set of motives could be generally relied upon to produce results. We have to differentiate our work according to age and sex, perhaps according to social and geographical areas, or to cultural background, according to occupational interest or place in the family. For young children it is sufficient to establish standard practice. The chief difficulty here is not that of making people accept pur rules and doctrines; it is the fact that rules have to be changed with the increase of knowledge, whereas good indoctrination obstructs further learning. At one time protection against night air was sound teaching; or terminal disinfection; or the avoidance of water with meals, or of ice in water. For young and untrained people the solution is to be found probably not in confusing our teaching with excessive qualifications, but [a] in establishing practices with a minimum of preaching; and [b] in a continuity of guidance and reorientation.

With younger children and untrained adults, there will arise resistance to our efforts to modify habits, or overcome inertia, or inhibit impulses, thwart desires. Here we have to rationalize our recommendations as contributions to their health or well-being. With older children and with adults generally, our recommendations have to be rationalized as resting upon experience, or upon scientific research, or upon statistical generalizations. What good does it do a healthy person to get a medical examination? What good does it do a sick person to have his case recorded with the board of health? What good does it do a dead person to have the cause of his death reported? These questions cannot be answered in the terms assumed; health education has to recognize in each case that there are significant categories beyond the individual under consideration; and it has to proceed on the assumption that the individuals are both [a] able to appreciate these other categories, and [b] disposed to be concerned with them.

As to objectives, we know that we cannot promote health in the abstract. Although we look upon the organism as a unity, although we think of health as somehow related to wholeness, our efforts are directed toward concrete and specific objectives—diet and air, sunlight and water, elimination and cleanliness, exercise and rest, and so on. We set up standards as to nutritive condi-
14

tions, musculature, skills, controls, endurance. We then call upon each individual to come up and match himself a-gainst these abstract norms, or against selected models of perfection. Now this is essentially unwholesome. It calls for comparisons, and comparisons are odious because they are invidious. They invite people to take pride in the gratuitous gifts of the gods, which is humiliating to any self respecting individual; and they demand of people a mortification for things beyond their control, which must arouse the resentment of any self respecting individual. As those whom we urge thus to attempt the impossible become aware of the futility of aspiring to the 100 per cent score, they become indifferent or even hostile.

In many cases too the individual must resist all efforts to relieve him of his health handicap or disadvantage, for the handicap may be one of his chief assets. One’s “abnormality” may serve as the principal source of attention and consideration, not merely for exploitation in the sideshow of the circus, but in the daily relation with others. Flat feet will save one from being the family fetch-and-carry. Susan is so nervous, she has to be spared at every turn. The weak heart, whatever that may mean, may be worth two strong ones. People will hug their defects, for these serve often as powerful weapons in their conflicts with the so-called "normal.”

Since most individuals have various sorts of aberrations, in more or less serious degree, it may turn out that our health education can be more profitably based upon a program for attaining optimum general well-being than upon the hope of having all individuals attain the maximum. That means for the individual such help as we can muster toward adapting him to live with his troubles and deficiencies—with himself, in short, for people have to live with themselves even if they retire to the wilderness or take a trip around the world: mechanical appliances for a short leg, spectacles for refractive abberrations, insulin or specialized diet, a change of residence from seashore to mountain or	vice versa,' a	change of occupation for some, perhaps even

a change of religion or of the spouse. It means an education in the acceptance of the unavoidable and the irremediable, without repining, without self reproach, but also without supine submission to all ills, without futile misdirection of our protests and defiances. And, for all of us, it means increasingly an appeal to group consciousness and group responsibilities, as against an appeal to individual advantage. Although it is always the individual who is sick or well, hygiene as a form of thought, as a technic, or as an effort toward health, is essentially social.

The educator is usually concerned with all the people rather than with this one or that. The individual starts out perhaps concerned only with himself; but through advancing maturity he sees his own health so intimately tied up with that of his fellows that he finds it more economical and more effective to concern himself increasingly with the community or social activities, content to share in the common gains. In so far, at any
15

rate, as those engaged in health education and those exposed to it have common purposes, they will reenforce each other through their efforts. It is part of the technic of health education to recognize and to utilize the motivations of the public at large. ' It is part of the aim of health education to get more and more of the public—in schools, in homes, in industry, in government— to adopt the motivations of those engaged in health education.— This article appeared in February, 1933 issue Oj American Journal qf Public Health.

Mental Hygiene Guide-Posts in the Treatment of the Handicapped Child

By Frederick L. Patry, D. M.,Neuropsychiatrist State Education Department, University of the State of New York.

1.	As early as possible, we should size up the individual’s assets and liabilities and his ability to balance them. Tests of intelligence, educational achievemerit and aptitude may be of much value if we consider them in the light of the facts of the medical examination, emotional, volitional and temperamental equipment, constitutional and environmental factors. Before intelligent planning ca,n be done, the above essential facts must be at hand and evaluated.

2.	The school program should be individualized and modified so that the child will experience a sense of achievement, satisfaction and security. Provide adequate outlets and opportunities for satisfying his emotional strivings and pent-up energy.

3.	Maintain a healthy emotional and ideational atmosphere for the handicapped child. We must sensitize ourselves to give these children as many lifts as possible in assisting their delicate powers of social adaptation. Remember, children are not only sensitive to their handicaps but are very suggestible to implied as well as to direct behavior, overt or implicit functioning exhibited. in others. Do not make gratuitous remarks about his handicap or discuss his symptoms in the child’s presence. ■ Implantation of unnecessary fears, anxieties and conflicts might thus be avoided.

4.	Treat the atypical child as you would a normal child, rather than baby him with over-concern and over-protection. Be objective in your relationships, but sympathetic and eager to fan sparks of personal interest into joy through developing good habits of work, study, play, relaxation, sleep, diet and elimination.

5.	Prevent occasions giving rise to unhealthy comparisons with other individuals and groups since such a tendency often creates failure reactions. Even his own ideals on the basis of real or fancied relationships must be kept in close contact to what he can do comfortably and well and with a sense of satisfaction.

6.	Remember that our main job is the obligation of reintegration of each child’s emotional and intellectual life into a

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
16

successful, and if possible, marketable social adjustment. It is very important that wholesome patterns of social behavior be developed and desirable personality, character and citizenship traits be cultivated for each child’s own age arid social status.

7.	So guide his 24 hour schedule that work, play, social and relaxation outlets will give rise to the cultivation of feelings of security and personal adequacy. Proper elastic grouping and individualized work assignments will do much to further these ends.

8.	Reduce home conflict and strain to a minimum. Parental fears and disharmony are very infectious and unless eliminated will likely be carried over by the child into the school. Thus the teacher, if she would understand her pupil, must obligate herself to know the facts of the home Situation. A personal visit to the home of each of her pupils should never be neglected.

9.	Repeated examinations are desirable if we are to forestall pitfalls of lay diagnosis of various pupil problems and the factors entering into them. Medical and psychological re-checks on progress are essential in shaping the course of treatment. Teachers and parents should learn to accept competent medical advice without quibbling or casting doubt into the matter of pupil reconstruction methods. Be frank and honest in your relationships. Shun bribing, threatening, scolding and coaxing. Insist only on what is really essential for child welfare and social adjustment. Do not misrepresent facts to the child, or cultivate a sense of mental dishonesty in yourself.

10.	Seize every opportunity to effectively integrate the positive contributions of home, school, church and community social and civic agencies in promoting the welfare of such children. Harmonious teamwork is essential if we are to live up to our opportunities in transforming personal handicaps into social assets.

Handcraft in Playgrounds and Recreation

Centers

John C. Kieffer.

II.	Projects Involving Artistic Use Of Asbestos

Everyone is familiar with the sight of the small child puddling in a mud hole. He delights in squeezing the mud through his fingers, in fashioning miniature animals and houses, and in “plastering” it over boxes and other things. This activity of children is so common that it has come to be recognized as an expression of a fundamental urge.

With this in mind playground leaders have spent much time searching for suitable modeling and covering material

♦This is the second of a short series of articles on relatively little known handcraft projects which may be made at little or no cost.

Digitized by CjOOQle
17

having some of the attractiveness of mud, yet without its undesirable characteristics. Several commercial products have been developed in response to this need, but they are still rather expensive. In the Philadelphia Public School playgrounds it was discovered that the ordinary asbestos used in covering heating boilers and heating pipes offered a very inexpensive and suitable product for this purpose when properly mixed with water and powdered paste. This insulating asbestos when purchased in 100 pounds bags costs approximately three cents per pound. Although it will adhere to almost anything and will model well without paste in it, much better results can be obtained if some kind of powdered paste is mixed with it. It has been found that Dextrine which costs nine cents per pound when purchased in large quantities, has given satisfactory results in this connection. Stecko which is slightly more expensive to use than Dextrine, will also give good results.

As compared with other modeling and covering materials, asbestos has the following advantages:

1. It is comparatively inexpensive.

,	2.	Left	over scraps can be mixed with water and used

over again even after they have hardened.

3.	It. is not dirty. It actually leaves the children’s hands cleaner than before they started to use it.

4.	It can be purchased at reasonable cost in any neighborhood hardware store.

Preparation of Material To get the most successful results it has been found advisable to mix ten parts of asbestos and two parts of powdered paste [by volume]. Mix the asbestos thoroughly with the powdered paste. Satisfactory results cannot be obtained unless the asbestos and paste are first thoroughly mixed dry and all of the little lumps of paste and asbestos are thoroughly pulverized. If one wishes to color the asbestos, add one part of powdered paint and mix thoroughly with the asbestos and paste. When the mixture is thoroughly pulverized and is of uniform color and texture, slowly mix water with .it until the desired consistency is obtained. In coloring objects made of asbestos many prefer to paint them after they are dry and hard. A final coat of shellac will make the object moisture proof and will keep the color of the paint from fading.

Practical Projects and Technique To insure the asbestos sticking to the object being covered, it is important that the surface be free from grease, dust, or dirt. Where a covering of more than a quarter inch in thickness is required it is advisable to put on a foundation coat first and then build on that with successive thin coats to the desired thickness. Otherwise, when applied too thickly, the asbestos in drying will crack or check. It is also advisable to dry the object slowly to prevent the asbestos from cracking.

Vas«s—One of the most popular covering projects tried in the playgrounds has been that involving the use of small glass

Digitized by CjOOQle
18

mayonnaise j^fs. When covered with a thin coat of asbestos and painted with bright colors they make very attractive flowei or bud vases. The 'first step in the process should be the removal of dirt, grease, and labels from the surface of the jar. Then apply the soft asbestos [which has been mixed to the consistency of a soft paste] with a table knife or flat piece of wood. Care should be taken to apply the asbestos as evenly as possible over all surfaces. A common tendency is to ‘pta” or smooth down the corners of prominences of the object too much, making the asbestos too thin at these points or even causing the under surface to show. After the object is completely covered with a uniformly thick coat, a smooth finish may be obtained by dipping the knife in water frequently while smoothing the surface. If a surface resembling the bark of a tree is desired,, a comb or fork may be drawn vertically over the surface. Very attractive surfaces can be obtained by in-laying small brilliants or colored bits of glass while the asbestos is still soft, or by painting designs on the asbestos after it has become hard and dry. Other finishes may be obtained by patting with a wad of crumpled paper, picking with a sharp instrument, or roughing with the fingers or fork while the asbestos is still soft.

Handles—Frequently handles are desired on the vases. These may be added by winding thin wire around the neck of the jar once or twice and then bending it to the desired shape and size on the sides of the jar. The lower ends may be fastened to the jar by another wire wrapped around the jar, or with pieces of adhesive tape. In order to give handles a thicker surface to which the asbestos may cling, it is advisable to wrap them with tape or cloth. [See Diagram I]

Jewelry or Pin Boxes—Very pretty little jewelry boxes or pin boxes can be made by covering small cardboard or cigar boxes with asbestos finished like bark. This-bark finish may be obtained by drawing the points of a comb or fork vertically over the surfaces. To make the effect more realistic, small pieces or cross sections of twigs a quarter inch long and a quarter inch thick may be stuck' here and there in the asbestos. [See Diagram II]

Pendants—Considerable interest is displayed by girls in the making of small pendants. Most of them are made of cardboard rings covered with asbestos. After cutting out a ring of cardboard about a quarter inch inside diameter and three-quarter inch outside diameter, a small photograph or picture is pasted over the back. Then the ring is covered with a thin layer of asbestos leaving the photograph or picture exposed. A hole punched through the edge of the ring while the asbestos is still soft permits a string or cord to be attached. Other pendants can be made by modeling pretty designs on a small piece of circular or oval asbestos covered cardboard or by covering a small piece of cardboard with asbestos and in-laying brilliants or bits of colored glass.

Digitized by kjOOQle
Oh

•lk»HkH xc





Curtain pulls—In much the same manner cardboard rings can be covered with asbestos and used as curtain pulls. Solid curtain pulls can be made by covering with asbestos various sizes and shapes of beads which have been threaded on a string.

Modeling—For older children or those who have developed some skill, modeling figures or other objects on pieces of stone, brick, or wood is very attractive. Paper weights of various shapes and sizes can be made by covering an old door knob with asbestos. In covering the door knob, piece of brick or stone, tiie asbestos may be shaped to represent a woman in an old fashioned hoop skirt, a building, a pyramid, an automobile, or animals of various kinds. The use of stone, brick, iron, etc., as a base for the molding not only gives weight but strength to the object.

Ash Trays—An attractive ash tray can be made by first cutting a circle about four indies in diameter out of cardboard. [See Diagram III] Then make half inch [or three-quarto inch, if a deeper tray is desired] cuts into the rim at itervals of a half inch. Next bend up the flaps or pieces thus formed at right angles to the rest of the cardboard. 'Wind a piece of string around the outside of these upright pieces to hold them in position. Now cover the whole thing with asbestos to a thickness of a quarter inch. When dry, paint with a bright four hour enamel.

Book Ends—Book ends can be made by nailing pieces of half inch wood together at right angles to each other. JSee Diagram IV] These may then be covered with asbestos which is finished rough, smooth, or inlaid with bits of tile or bright colored glass. Figures may also be molded on the base or upright. A small celluloid doll may be cut vertically in half, and the front half filled with asbestos and stuck against the outer surface of the upright piece. When the asbestos is dry the celluloid form is removed and an attractive model of the doll adorns the upright end of the book end.

Flower Pots—Flower pots covered with asbestos and then painted with bright colored enamels are not only practical but ornamental. Various designs may be molded or painted on the sides of the pot thereby enhancing the beauty of the plant it contains.

Digitized by Google
20

Evolution of Human Races Past and Present

In a lecture at a meeting of the Anthropological Society, Sir Arthur Keith discussed the evolution of human races.

The differentiation of mankind into races is a continuous source of trouble. Peace is disturbed by the friction engendered when race meets race. In Palestine, the Jew and the Arab cannot live in harmony. In South Africa, Boer and Briton who have everything to gain by working together, find themselves thrust apart by some impulse stronger than their individual wills. If men in all parts of the world had been cast in the same mold and if nature had dressed them in the same racial livery, the establishment of harmonious settlements in East Africa would have been easy. As it is, the problem of planting in the same country peoples wearing three different liveries—white, brown and black—is taxing the resources of our statesmen to the utmost. The Balkans and India constantly suffer from disorders due to nationalism. In North America there are the problems of the Red Indian, the Negro and the Asiatic races. Racial divergence disturbs not orijy social and political peace but also the human conscience, for when men of one race occupy the territory of another they find it impossible to frame laws that give equal justice to all. If men had all been of one race and dressed in one common fleshy uniform they would have been free from these ever present racial difficulties and from the most potent cause of war. ‘Why has nature introduced into human life this ever disturbing factor?

From remote times, to be reckoned only by the geologist’s calendar, the continents of the old world have been inhabited. The further back one goes, the greater does one find the degree of racial differentiation. These ancient types were more pronounced in their characteristics and apparently more restricted in their distribution. So far less than a dozen ancient types have been discovered; there were probably hundreds. This organization of mankind into diverse types was nature’s way of evolving higher types. The word “higher” here merely indicates that the races which replaced others, whether by evolution or by substitution, were the better adapted to the time and locality. They need not have been larger brained. Throughout the last geological period nature had on foot hundreds of experiments in human production and so evolved the races in possession of the world at the dawn of the historical period.

The dawn of the historical period found four vast and successful experiments in race production—the Mongolian type north of the Himalayas [represented today by the natives of Tibet, China and Japan, with variants extending across the world from the North Cape in Europe to Cape Horn in South

Reprint Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
21

America]; the brown type south of the Himalayas [now broken up into a great but uncertain number of races]; the black type in Africa south of the Sahara [of which the negro of the Congo is now the most differentiated type]; and the white type from Afghanistan and the Arabian peninsula in the east to Ireland and the Shetlands in the west. In the white type innumerable racial differentiations have occurred and no doubt there was immense racial disturbance before the historian arrived on the scene.

For the concentration of racial types in particular areas, early man must have been subjected to strong influences which bound him to his homeland, and this must have been kept intact over long periods. Only thus could a racial type be preserved and advanced. The first and chief influence was the emotional reaction known today as patriotism, but this would not have prevented man from extending his territory at the expense of his neighbor. Secondly, for coordinate action the members of the primitive community must have been endowed with “herd instincts” which would cause them to act together in the face of danger from within or without. Susceptibility to public opinion is a survival of this ancient factor in the evolution of races. Thirdly, early man had an instinctive preference for those who wore his own livery of flesh and spoke and acted as he did. The importance of patriotism in nature’s machinery of evolution is shown by the plans of that acute thinker Mr.

H.	G. Wells for universal peace. He realizes that the first thing to be done is to eradicate the spirit of patriotism as well as the old instincts of recognition of kind—race prejudice. A boy must not be allowed to think, as he is apt to do, that his country is the best.

Toward the end of the period of paleolithic culture, 10,000 or more years ago, a change was introduced into human life which now threatens nature's scheme of evolution. Man discovered how to sow and reap, probably in southwestern Asia. The discovery brought about a revolution, for the command of a steady food supply permitted peoples who had been hunteis to build villages, which in time became cities and city states. With the rise of cities came commerce, and the old tribal territories, tiie cradles of evolution, were broken down. Then came the most momentous change of all. A tribal people in considering any change would ask merely. Will it ejhhmme the prestige, unity and freedom of our tribe? but with the rise of the city the paramount, question became, Will the change be good for business? The outlook became economic. Tribal boundaries were found to be bad for trade and were, broken down. Then came empire building: a prosperous city state became dominant over surrounding states and united a conglomeration of peoples, many still in the tribal state.

Huxley thought that a nation was an artificial production and this view is still held by most anthropologists. He said that the only scientific method of studying races was the zoo-

Digitized by

Google
22

logical. Peoples who could be distinguished by physical markings were races. Applying this method, he concluded that the four nationalities of Britain were compounded of three races, each nationality in different proportions. Huxley’s method would have answered admirably 8,000 years ago but did not in the nineteenth century. He went wrong in believing that when Europeans of different racial stocks became planted in the same land they 'became permanently deracialized. It did not occur to him that deeply implanted in them there remained the instincts and tendencies of race building. When a land is planted with a mixture of old races, a new effort at race building begins sooner or later, just as a wren’s nesting instincts are reawakened as soon as the first nest is destroyed. So strange peoples who settle in a foreign land begin at the bottom of the racial ladder and work toward first complete racial fusion and then further differentiation. A nation, be it ever so young, is an incipient race. Politicians have been wiser than anthropologists. For them variations in the shape of heads have no tensors, but they recognize the potency of national spirit. Let this be once engendered in a people, let it continue over many generations, and a race answering Huxley’s definition will appear. A nation always represents an attempt to become a race; nation and race are but different degrees of the same evolutionary movement.

Scoliosis

In a paper read before the Milwaukee Academy of Medicine, Dr. Carey has the following to say about Scoliosis that should be of interest to our readers.

Scoliosis is a spinal sign of the muscle-bone imbalance of the back and is not a specific disease entity. There is, therefore, no single etiologic agent producing scoliosis. Multiple factors may cause comparable spinal curvatures by upsetting the dynamic equilibrium of the motor system of the back, just as different pathologic conditions may produce the symptom of fever. The kind and degree of scoliosis are dependent on the extent of imbalance caused by the possible multiple combinations and permutations of the paralyzed muscles of the body as a whole.

In both the functional and the structural types of scoliosis, there is a reaction of the spinal indicator to the normal and abnormal dynamic balance of the bilateral body muscles. The degree of rotation about a vertical axis and the extent of the lateral deviation of the spine from the midline are direct indications of the degree of imbalance of different groups of body muscles. There is no direct correlation between the rotary and the lateral deviation components of the rotary lateral curva-

An abstract of a paper by Dr. Eben J. Carey.

Digitized by Google
23

ture of the spine. In one individual the rotary element may predominate; in another, the lateral deviation is dominant. These changes are dependent on the involvement of different combinations of muscle groups.

The dynamic equilibrium of the muscle and bone of the back, leading to permanent structural changes in the bodies of the vertebrae, intervertebral disks, ribs, shoulder and pelvic girdles and lower extremities, may be upset by different pathologic conditions in the following systems of the body: [ljdigestive; [2] blood and lymph vascular; [3] respiratory; [4] excretory; [5] nervous; [6] osseous; [7] joint, and [8] muscular systems. Congenital changes that are the result of arrested growth or overgrowth of certain bones or muscles cause alterations of normal balance of the motor system of the back.

Variot has demonstrated the frequent dissociation of statural and ponderal growth in the human infant during chronic infantile inanition.

Any agent that upsets the normal dynamic equilibrium of the motor system of the back will be evident in the spinal indicator of muscle balance and imbalance. The motor system of the back is maintained in normal balance by the functional integrity of the blood, nerves, muscles, tendons, bones and joints. These six anatomic phases form a physiologic system of motion. During the first decade of life, even under apparently normal conditions there is found by Gaker an undernourishment in 25.2 per cent of school children before 10 years of age. This results in a dystrophy of muscle and bone growth. The dominant muscular atrophy is focal and asymmetrical. This dissociation of muscular and skeletal growth is more dominant in girls than in boys.

This focal muscular atrophy and paralysis of undernutrition will upset the muscle-bone balance of the normal spine and may well be the insidious cause of idiopathic scoliosis. The problem of scoliosis is then a problem of prevention of all conditions that upset the normal balance of muscle and bone during growth. This has been proved by Mueller and myself on experimental animals in the production and prevention of myogenic scoliosis. Steindler has a similar point of view in preventing structural scoliosis by the elimination of those generalized debilitating conditions that he designates prescoliosis.

1.	Scoliosis is a spinal sign of the imbalance of muscle a,nd bone growth of the motor system of the back and is not a specific disease entity. The kind and degree of scoliosis are dependent on the extent of the imbalance, caused by the weakening and possible paralysis of multiple combinations and permutations of the muscle groups of the body as a whole. Accurate anatomic and physiologic knowledge of the motor system of the back as a functional whole is necessary for an understanding of pathologic changes in the spine.

2.	In chronic infantile inanition and malnutrition there is a decrease in muscle weight and a persistence in skeletal growth in

Digitized by
24

length. The muscles do not degenerate uniformly. This asymmetrical focal muscular atrophy and localized muscular weakness or paralysis of the undernourished child are more pronounced in girls than in boys. This results in unequal pull on the spine and the striking of an abnormal muscle-bone balance. This inequality of muscular atrophy and paralysis upsets the normal dynamic equilibrium of the muscle and bone growth of the spine. Chronic underfeeding or malnutrition of the child during the first decade of life is, therefore, suggested as the insidious cause of idiopathic structural scoliosis.

3.	The convexity of the laterally deviated spine may be toward either the stronger or the weaker muscle side.

4.	The convexity is toward the weak muscle side when the parallel bowstring muscles are dominantly weakened on the side of the convexity of the primary curve on the scoliotic spine.

5.	The convexity is toward the strong muscle side when the superficial transverse-traction-torsion muscles are dominantly weakened on the side of the concavity of the scoliosis.

6.	There is a definite lateral deviation of the spine with relatively slijght rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae when the large superficial muscles of the body are dominantly imbalanced.

7.	There is definite rotation or torsion of the spine with relatively slight lateral displacement when the deep intrinsic muscles of the spine are dominantly imbalanced.

8.	In clinical practice there are all combinations of imbalance involving eventually both the superficial and the deep intrinsic muscles of the spine where scoliosis is found.

9.	Concave and convex sided rotations of the bodies of the vertebrae are resultants of the imbalance of different groups of muscles of the body as a whole.

10.	These facts have been proved experimentally on animals and are demonstrated on the muscle-bone-balance model of the human spine, which -visualizes the normal and abnormal dynamic equilibrium of the bilateral body muscles, recorded in the spinal indicator.

11.	The problem of scoliosis is, therefore, fundamentally one of prevention of all conditions which upset the normal dynamic balance of muscle and bone during the period of growth, such as chronic inanition and malnutrition, and the various types of chronic diseases, which lead to undernourishment of the growing

12.	During growth and maturity the components of the motor system of the back differentiate and function as a physiologic, interactive whole and not as a mere mosaic of passive, autonomic and independent anatomic parts. This dynamic point of view is opposed to the static one, which holds that the bone of the spine or any other bone in the body is originated and maintained independent of environment.—	From Journal of the American

Medical Ass’n.

child.
MIND AND BODY

Vel. 40	APRIL,	1933	No. 412

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MOELLER, Editor. 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class mailer October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment.

The timely article on “Leisure Time Activities And Character Training” by Dr. Holman White in this issue is a splendid contribution to the literature in this field. It represents the thought of a rapidly increasing body of educators who are recognizing the great influence of so-called extra-curricular activities and of leisure time activities in the building of character.

Physical educators are in a strategic position to influence the quality and value of leisure time activities. They should take their places with other community leaders in organizing and guiding a suitable program for adults and for children. Now is the time.

One of the problems confronting all teachers is that presented by the mentally and physically handicapped child: how best to modify the regular school program of activities and the usual procedures so that the child may “experience a sense of achievement, satisfaction, and security”. The problem is great enough when, as is the case in some communities, the handicapped children are grouped in Special Classes; it is much more difficult when one or more of such children are members of classes comprised almost entirely of ‘normal* pupils. Good will on the part of the teacher is not sufficient. He must have a thorough and sympathetic understanding of the peculiarities of handicapped children. In the article written by Dr. Frederick L. Patry, Neuropsychiatrist, State Education Department, University of the State of New York, we are given ten “Mental Hygiene Guide-Posts** which should be helpful to teachers of physical education in dealing with problem cases.

This is the big month of conventions for teachers of physical and health education. A convention is being held in each district in this country. Teachers owe it to themselves and to their profession to attend at least one of them.

Digitized by v^ooQle
26

Programs Based Upon Individual Needs

By James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service.

This is the third paper in the series of articles discussing the general topic, “Putting Education into Physical Education". In the January number of MIND AND BODY we presented the general topic, stating the five criteria necessary to the job of putting physical education into education which is largely the task of the educational administrator. We also stated the five criteria necessary to do the second task, namely, putting education into physical education. This depends also upon five criteria. In the February number we discussed the first criteria, “The Need for a Well Balanced Organized Program"; in the March number the second criteria, “A Graded Physical Education Program"; and now we discuss the third, “Programs Based Upon Individual Needs”.

All teachers, but especially the physical education teachers, should ever be aware that we are dealing with living human material—growing, developing boys and girls. This is especially important for physical educators because we teach a dynamic program of activity in which students are in active not passive recitation. This is our great advantage and we should grasp it. All modem education is now based upon the two fundamentals, [1] the interest motif, |2] the activity project. These two we have right at our hand ready to be used. Hence the need to adapt our programs to the individual needs of growing changing boys and girls.

We know that all children are not the same—in fact they are all different. However, they easily divide themselves into homogeneous groups. We should be well acquainted with these differences. Academic teachers divide pupils into homogeneous groupings. We certainly should do this considering the many physical differences in boys and girls. We know that each individual child has his own mental, physical, emotional and social inheritance, background and capacity. We should know the many factors that enter into these differences such as age, sex, physical capacity, strength, motor ability, previous training, neuro-muscular skills and the like. Much progress has been made in the regular school subjects and much progress is being made in physical education in this direction. The Winnetka and the Dalton systems are famous in the general education field; likewise, we in physical education are working along the same lines. Our literature is full of material on this topic. We are familiar with the writings of Cozen?, Bovard, Rogers, McCloy, Brace and others. We have many fine programs over the country with homogeneous groupings based upon individual differences. However, much is yet to be desired.

Besides those stated above there are other factors that enter into determination of individual differences, such as the medical

Digitized by VjOOQle
27

and physical examination, the intelligence test, physical incapacities and defects. Some children have physical defects that make certain activities difficult or impossible just as the academic teacher in the subject of reading should realize that little Nellie who is doing a bad job in reading is doing so because she needs a pair of glasses—she does not see the printed page. In the same way we should know that there are some students who cannot perform some of the activities that we hand out to the whole class. They are physically unfit or unprepared or untrained. We should know the condition of the heart before we place students ih active, high powered competition or request them to do maximum physical exertion and strength stunts. The problem of puberty is one that we should watch carefully during the changing years, and we should not exact overdue exertion and effort. As we know, certain parts of the body are developing during certain cycles. Strength is a variable thing and especially during crises in ever changing periods. We klipw that due to certain physiological reasons boys and girls at certain ages are very awkward and lack in coordination and therefore need neuromuscular skill training. We also know that girls between the ages of six and eleven are superior to boys in some physical activities, that boys and girls can mix and romp and play together. So, therefore, on the playground they play until the ages of ten and eleven and later. We have separate programs for boys and girls in junior and senior high schools. We also know why girls can climb before puberty and why later chinning and climbing become more difficult for them. This is largely because the center of weight drops below the waist line and they have little arm strength.

In brief, because of anatomical and physiological changes that take place during the twelve years of school, we should certainly have programs based upon individual needs.

We must here remind the principal that it is a mistake to put a freshman in English in senior English—he certainly should not do it in physical education because there is a vast difference between a pre-pubescent boy of thirteen and a post-pubescent man of eighteen. Besides the age, sex and physical differences, pupils vary in their capacities and abilities. Therefore, how foolish it is to put "all of them into one class ranging from fifty to one hundred and then give all of them the same dosage. Yet in some places this is being done.

Unfortunately, however, ofttimes there are extenuating circumstances why the physical educator cannot do a decent job of homogeneous grouping and of developing programs adapted to individual needs. One is that he has no staff. He or she is all alone to handle the whole program of curricular physical education, intramurals, athletics, hygiene teaching, etc. He also in many places lacks the proper facilities, the proper gymnasiums, and corrective rooms. Program scheduling and time allotment does not give him any opportunity to do a decent job, so he is compelled many times to teach a common program to

Digitized by LaOOQle
28

all. However, in spite of these difficulties and, in some cases, of almost insurmountable problems, much can be done through [1] pupil leadership, [2] squad organization, [3] an organized rotating program, and [4] activities arranged for three groups. Everything should be done to divide the class into homogeneous groupings. At least three are possible; [1] superior group in capacity, ability and experience who can act as squad leaders and activity pupil leaders, [2] the average which will make up the large bulk of the class, and [3] the few who need special corrective attention. In spite of the handicaps, if one has the willingness to do something about it, much can be done in this simple way. Nothing that we cah do would please the general educator more than this development of homogeneous groupings and programs. We can get his interest and cooperation in this matter. He will respect our program more. To him this means putting education into physical education.

The reason for programs based upon individual needs is so obvious that it is unnecessary to proceed further; yet there is a need for emphasis because there are still many who are teaching in the old way—prescribing the same program for all alike. There is also no need to further describe in detail the different tests, standards and measurements for finding the differences and determining the homogeneous groupings. We are all- familiar with the outstanding studies in this direction. A very fine practical book, “Tests and Measurements in Physical Education” by John T. Bovard and Frederick W. Cozens [W. B. Saunders Company], covers this field.

We all believe in this educational dictum and we are familiar with the different procedures. The problem, however, is not what to do but how to do it. It is a matter of organization and administration. A frequent question is, “What can I do and what can be done under the circumstances? Here is the situation—I am all alone and busy from eight in the morning until five at night. I have no help; there is a small gymnasium; I must take these students as they are assigned to me, etc.” This is true, yet much can be done in a simple way. In our large ci^jes with ample staff facilities and time allotment, programs based on five homogeneous groups—A, B, C, D, and E— have been arranged through a system of medical and physical examinations, tests and measurements. Many factors such as age, physical capacity, strength tests, motor ability, etc., enter in determining the homogeneous groupings. In some schools with a single instructor and a small gymnasium without special rooms, a highly developed system of homogeneous grouping is impossible. Yet a simple program for a three-fold division— A, B, and C—based upon a medical and physical examination and ability achievement ought to be possible for anyone. The superior boys and girls in the upper levels—1A—group can act as squad and activity leaders. They should be organized and trained. They should be carefully selected and can be organized into a leaders’ group. With a well developed program laid out on a

Digitized by
29

daily, weekly and monthly basis, group A can very well take care of much of the program dealing with group B, while the instructor gives much of his attention to group C. Throughout the country there has been a splendid development in squad and activity leaders. At the start all of this organization and administration will mean extra hard work, but once organized, the program will function much easier than under the old plan. After the first year it is not a difficult problem. .

Therefore, organization is the basis of success. At the start it will mean'extra work, but once set up your program will carry itself through your leaders. What we need most in our physical education work is organization. The problem of developing such programs is not an insurmountable one, even with the teacher with extenuating conditions. All of us can do something about it. However, I agree with some who say that the danger is that we shall become lost in the machinery of organization and set-up and forget our programs of activities. There is this danger and we must avoid it. Our main job with the brief time allotment and facilities we have at hand is to furnish safe, wholesome, socially satisfying activities to growing boys and girls. The test and measurement program is an auxiliary to help us in doing this. The setting up of machinery must not become the program itself.' Tests and measurements are aids and devices and helps to do a better job—let us use them for this purpose.

381H ANNUAL CONVENTION OF AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION PROGRAM

In less than a week all eyes in the physical education world will be centered on Louisville where the American Physical Education Association Convention will be held. The program as listed below gives an outline of the most interesting features.

Tuesday, April 26 All day—Registration at the Brown Hotel

Visits to public schools, other educational institutions and

points of interest.

1:30 P. M. Women’s Division N.A.A.F. Prof. Mabel Lee, University of Nebraska.

4:30 P. M. Celebration in honor of Tenth Anniversary of the Women’s Division.

8:00 P. M. Reception. Address—Dr. Frank L. McVey, Presi-sident, University of Kentucky.

Wednesday, April 27 Morning—Visits to schools and places of interest.

Afternoon—’Society of State Directors of Health and Physical Education—12:30-4:30 P. M. Chairman—W. G. Moorhead;

1. Research Section—2:00-4:30 P. M. Chairman—Prof. E. C. Howe.

2.	Women’s Athletic Section—2:30-4:00 P. M. Chairman—• Prof. G. B. Daviess.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
30

3. Dance Section—3:00-5:00 P. M. Chairman—Prof. H. N. Smith.

4. General Session—8:00 P. M. Presiding—Dr. Jesse Feiring Williams, President of The American Physical Education Association. Followed by a reception and dance.

Thursday, April 28 Morning—The President’s Breakfast—7:30-9:00 A. M. Women’s Division N.A.A.F. Breakfast 7:30-9:00 A. M.

1.	Teacher Training Section—9:15-10:30 A. M. Chairman—• * Prof. Harry A. Scott.

2.	Therapeutic Section—9:15-10:30 A. M. Chairman—Dr. G. Deaver.

3.	Public School Section—9:15-10:30 A. M. Chairman—Miss Jessie R. Garrison.

4.	Research Section—9:00-10:30 A. M. Chairman—Mr. V. C. Hernlund.

5.	Dance Section—9:15-10:30. Chairman—Prof. Helen N. Smith

6.	Physical Education for College Men Section—9:15-10:30 A. M. General Section—10:30-12:30 A. M. Presiding—Miss Marjorie Bouve.

Afternoon:

1.	Men’s Athletic Section—2:00-4:00 P. M. Chairman—Mr. T. H. Hines.

2. Recreation Section—2:00-4:30 P. M. Chairman—Dr. Raymond A. Kent.

3f Women’s Athletic Section—2:00-5:00 P. M.

4.	Camping Section—2:00-4:00 P. M.

5. Health Education Section—3:00-5:00 P. M. Chairman— Miss Fannie B. Shaw.

6. Women’s Athletic Section—5:00-6:00 P. M. Chairman— Prof. Helen C. Smith.

7.	Southern District Meeting—5:OO-6:00P. M. Presiding—Dr.

D.	K. Brace.

Banquet and Dance—7:00-1:00 A. M. Presiding—Dr. Jesse Peiring Williams. Toastmistress—Prof. Mary Channing Cole. Friday, April 28 Morning—American Academy of Physical Education. Breakfast —7:30-9:00 A. M. General Section—9:00-11:00 A. M. Presiding—Mr. Strong Hinman.

1.	Physical Education for College Men Section 11:00-12:15 A.M Chairman—Dr. E. S. Elliot.

2.	Women’s Athletic Section—11:00-12:30 A. M. Chairman— Miss Caro Lane.

3.	Therapeutic Section—11:00-12:30 A. M.

4. Camping Section—11:00-12:30 A. M. Chairman—Dr. L.

B.	Sharp.

5.	Y.M.C.A. Section. Chairman—Dr. John Brown, Jr.

6.	Administrative Directors Section—11:00-12:30 A. M. Chairman—Dr. Harry B. Burns.

Afternoon—Convention Luncheon—12:45-2:25 P. M. Presiding— Prof. Paul R. Washke.

Digitized by ^ooQle
31

1.	Public School Section—2:30*4:00 P. M. Chairman—Mr. Julius Kuhnert.

2. Research Section—2:30-3:30 *P. M. Chairman—Dr. Helen D. Denniston.

3.	Women’s Athletic Section—2:30-4:00 P. M. Chairman-Prof. Grace B. Daviess.

4.	Therapeutic Section—3:00-5:00 P. M. Chairman—Miss Marian Williamson.

5.	Dance Section—3:00-5:00 P. M.

“Burgoo”—5:00-8:00 P. M.

Saturday, April 29

1.	Student Meeting—9:00-10:30 A. M. Chairman—Emil Rath.

2.	Women’s Athletic Section—10:00-11:00 A. M. Mr. Michael Peppe.

3.	Therapeutic Section—10:30-11:00 A. M. Chairman—Miss Josephine L. Rathbone.

4. Panel Discussion—11:00-12:30 A. M. Presiding—Dr. Jesse Feiring Williams.

Racing at Churchill Downs—2:00 P. M.

The committee has been very fortunate in securing outstanding authorities in its own field as well as outside.

Louisville’s location, its nearness to places of interest to every one and the proverbial welcome of “Old Kaintuck” awaits you.

NOTES ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN BENGAL.

James Buchanan, M.A., Director of Physical Education, Bengal.

Official organization. Director of Physical Education, and Assistant'Director of Physical Education, maintained by Government. The latter has control of East Bengal, while the former controls West Bengal and supervises generally. The Young Women’s Christian Association is subsidised by Government in return for the services of the Physical Directress, who tours throughout Bengal, and organises Physical Education in Girls’ Schools.

In Government colleges and high schools there are nine Madras-trained graduates, 41 full-time drill-masters, and six part-time drill-masters. As each drill-master retires his post is converted to one for a fully trained graduate physical instructor, on a salary scale of Rs. 75—200 per month, which is equivalent to that offered to graduates with the degree of Bachelor of Teaching.

Regulations jor Government and Aided High bchools. Every class must have systematic physical exercise at least two periods weekly during school hours, and games at least once weekly after school hours. Sports fees are compulsory in all schools.

Unaided High bchools. The University of Calcutta, which controls these, has not made physical education compulsory, but is considering thle matter. Five years ago all schools were notified that provision for systematic teaching of physical activities should be introduced, and most schools have adopted this.

Digitized by CjOOQle
32

Middle and Primary schools. Of these there are nearly 50,000 in Bengal, and physical activities are, nominally, compulsory at least twice weekly in all. But many class teachers have a limited knowledge of what to teach, and neglect the work. Improvement will be gradual as the training of teachers improves.

Colleges. The University of Calcutta has not yet agreed to compulsory physical education for students, but has brought the importance of the subject to the notice of college authorities. As a result, every college has a sports club with sports fees, and only two or three out of 42 have not a physical instructor or drill master, a games secretary, and a playing field, and a gymnasium.

Government physical education grants. From 1926 to 193U Government distributed to colleges through the University Rs 89,000 for the improvement of facilities for physical education. In 1931 it was found impossible to continue these grants, but it is hoped to resume distribution in 1933.

From 1928 to 1932 High and Middle Schools received Rs. 1,00,-000 in grants for the purchase of games and gymnastic apparatus.

Plans for the future are of a more extensive nature but, although the schemes have been approved, their completion will be dependent on the financial situation.

Independent organisations. In addition to the Football, Hockey, Cricket, and Athletic clubs affiliated to their various central organisations, there is a very widespread movement in Bengal towards the development of voluntary organisations which promote small area games, gymnastics on apparatus, exercise with light apparatus, etc. Already there are over three hundred independent clubs, representing a membership of over 10,000, all over the province. The wofk of associating these clubs so that mutual assistance may be provided through literature, training courses, lectures, discussions, etc., has been taken up recently by the Bengal Physical Education Association, but so far little has been done.

Inter-School Sports Association. This association has organised annual athletic sports for Calcutta schools for the past twenty years but, during the last two years it has gradually extended its scope, and now controls Football, Hockey, and Swimming competitions. The aim of the association is to develop into an or-

Emisation regulating and controlling inter-school contests of all nds throughout Bengal, and to organise provincial championship leagues and other competitions. Already six mofussil school associations have been formed, and there is every prospect of a special Government grant to enable the association to develop its work.

Calcutta Corporation. A visit to the Corporation parks in Calcutta shows the strength of the movement which has been fostered by the Corporation, which, during the past few years, has deputed a number of young men for training at Madras. Every park is fully occupied in the evenings by hundreds of boys,

Digitized by v^,ooQle
33

all participating in organised activities. The paid play-leaders of the Corporation receive the assistance of voluntary workers, and all are kept very fully engaged.

* Extracts from Article in Vyayam, India.

FOREIGN NOTES

Italian Women Athletes —Italy has rid itself cf fear that sports have a detrimental effect on motherhood. The nation has done an abrupt about face and henceforth will encourage athletics for women.

For this land of rosy-faced Bambinos, the idea of physical exercise might reduce the number of babies held a terror. The Italians want many children, and it was not until a thorough scientific investigation dispelled their fears that the Government agreed to drop its old uncompromising attitude.

It formerly was held that sports allowed women and girls too much liberty, which was contrary to Italian tradition. Now Leandro Arpinati, head of the Italian Olympic committee, finds this freedom will help rather than hinder women in a moral sepse. He rules out such things as the discus throw and 8UU-meters race as too strenuous, but approves of swimming, light athletics, tennis, skiing and fencing.

A systematic development program is to be instituted shortly to prepare Italian women for the next Olympic games at Berlin. —Amatuer Athlete. ___________________

The first all-Jewish “Makkabiade” took place from March 29 to April 6, 1932. Three thousand Turners and sportsmen from Egypt, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Danzig, Germany, England, Greece, Jugoslavia, Austria, Poland, Palestine, Rumania, Syria, Tschechoslovakia, Hungary, Esthonia, Latvia, and the United States took part.

Jehuda Makkabi [Judas Maccabaus] was the leader of the Jewish war for freedom against the Greeks, 168 B. C.

Health Education Comes to Children of Manchuria.—

“The desire to be educated is not a new ambition among Manchurian young people; but the fervor for clean unblemished bodies and sanitary surroundings is sweeping across the land like a fresh sea breeze blowing sweet across drained moors which hitherto have been miasmic sloughs of putrefying ditch water,” Dr. Arthur Torrance narrates in an article in the March Hygeia which shows the tremendous advances that have been made in health education in Manchuria. The school children in that country now receive the benefits of the most approved modern methods of training and are given excellent medical and dental care.	______________

Increased Tuberculosis Mortality in Young Women in England.—A noteworthy feature of the latest London mortality statistics is the lack of decline in recent years in mortality from pulmonary tuberculosis among young women.

Digitized by v^ooQle
34

Dances Representing Periods in American

History

One of the outstanding demonstration numbers in the Philadelphia Convention, A.P.E.A., was a group of six dances representing some period in American history. The first five dances in that group, Indian, Colonial, Cowboy, Early Twentieth Century, and Syncopation, were printed in previous issues. The “Modem Dance” which follows on this page is the sixth and final dance in the group.

MODERN DANCE “EVOLUTION”

Arranged by Mrs. E. E. Aagerman.

Participants—40 to 50 girls.

Area—Approximately 40 by 60 feet.

Note:—The dance may be modified so as to involve fewer participants in a smaller area. ' The number of participants, of course, has a bearing on the effectiveness of the portrayal.

Interpretation

Earth:—A rumbling, rolling movement, orginating at one spot, which rouses the remaining parts to slight movement; as the movement graudally increases, the torso includes a wider, slightly raised and almost spiral action to represent:

Crawling Things:—There is a doubling up of the body and a stretching out in various directions, more of rolling and twisting to emphasize the impression. Gradually [ail changes in movement here are gradual], the doubling up results in a kneeling attitude as that of:

Four-Footed Animal Life:—This movement continues in various directions, and includes not only an impression of creeping, but movement of entire torso, head, and arms.

Two-Footed Animal Life:—A half standing, monkey-like attitude is seen in the next movement; definite pattern noticeable.

Ape-Man:—Arms dangling, head bowed, trudges heavily in a circle following his fellowmen. As his position becomes more erect, his step lightens, his pace increases, the impression becomes that of:

Man:—Man stretches up to unheard-of height; finding himself a being of intelligence as well as one of tremendous strength and variety of bodily movement, he departs from the herdlike animal movements; he expresses the superiority he feels in individualistic movements of victory. At first strength in movement predominates, then speed. The fast movements develop into, a whirl; all whirl and whirl, faster and faster until the peak is

Digitized by CjOOQle
35

reached; the end comes suddenly; a momentary hesitation, all the body terise, stretched up to its greatest height—forming a final figure exemplifying Super-man.

PART A

Accompaniment:—Tom-Tom, beaten at first very slowly; the rate of beat increases, and type of beat changes to suit changing movement^.

Position at start —Dancers are lying on floor, some lying rear-ways, others frontways. The arms are outstretched above the head, all pointing toward one general direction. The dancers are scattered in an irregular manner. The individuals are about three to four feet apart.

I.	A rolling movement from side to side commences at one spot, like a wave, affects nearby bodies, and in the return roll of the first group, the nearby group accompanies. This movement continues first in one direction, then in the other, until gradually all the mass has joined in this slow rolling movement. • Eight rolls in all,

4 counts per roll............................ 32 counts

II.	A circling of the slightly raised upper part of body, arms extended straight in front, as before. Body is in prone lying position for this.

The movement appears to be a stirring to life in the upper movement, and a dying down and relaxation in the' return to floor. Repeat three

times more, four counts each ................ 16 counts

III.	A drawing up of the body, trunk to knees, the extended arms and upper trunk remaining on floor, and a slow return to the lying position, to convey impression of a differentiating of the mass into separate beings.

8 counts each, four times in all ............ 32 counts

IV.	A drawing up of the body to the crouch posi-

tion, then an extending of body with lowering backward to a lying position rearways; then a return roll to lying position frontways [4 counts for each part—12]. This is repeated 5 times more, increasing in speed with each repetition, showing further development and some variation in movement ............................ 72 counts

V.	Drawing up of body to forearms and knees, and -a swaying movement left and right sideward; repeated. Then a growing forward on forearms and knees with much sideward swaying. Up to this time, the movements have been in an indiscriminate mass. Now, some move toward one circle, others toward another, as their movements change from crawling to a walking on all

Digitized by CjOOQle
36

fojurs, then to lunging with bent, rounded backs, hands hanging low to just escape the floor. The beat for part IV is still 4-4 time, but beats are coupled, pauses between.

About ten or twelve measures required for this development from crawling to ape position....... 48 counts

VI.	In the ape position, continuing to form two circles which move in opposite directions, a definiteness of step is noticed in this: three loping steps left, right, left, knees slightly bent, arms dangling to floor, trunks drooping; then a turn right about in place and a step right. Repeated seven times more. [The last beat of

every four—for turn, is double] ...............  32	counts

VII.	More definiteness of steps takes place, with differentiation of structure in the use of arms and heads and legs as definite parts. Steps are as follows: lunging sideward, followed by a stamp in place, left and right, the arms overhead, and there is a relaxation of trunk and arms toward the side of the lunge. A lunge left forward—relaxation forward [followed by an extra stamp].

A lunge right forward, with a backward relaxation of arms, trunk and head. The beat for each movement is double. [Four double beats per measure]. Repeated nine times. [The beats are very slow at first, and increase gradually to reach a fair rate of speed without any strength of movement being lost.] .............. 40	double

counts

Note:—During this movement, the bodies move in two circles until about the fifth repetition. Then all move in two masses toward the rear. The two masses merg*, by moving in a circular fashion, and in one large mass the movement is toward the front. In the last two repetitions the arm movements change as follows: instead of relaxations on the last two counts of each combination the arms are stretched upward and tensed, head ttrown back.

VIII.	Profound strength is the impression conveyed here.' The drum rumbles three counts as individuals in the mass, fists clenched, [arms tensed] extend arms upward slowly, head down. Suddenly the arms are pulled ddwn, heads jerked backward, as in some great strong pulling movement. Next a forceful throwing up and circling out to right with right arm and knee and finishing in a forceful lunge right. [Fists are still clenched.] Repeat left. A momentary placing of weight

Digitized by ^ooQle
37

on the right foot, arms, head, and left leg swung to rear and right, [one count], with the body tense. Then a fall out left diagonally forward, head and arms .relaxed forward. 3 counts.

12 counts in all.

Repeated 3 times. The beat accompanies the

movement with accents where needed ........	48	counts

Slowing up of the beats.

Amos are lifted to side, and there is a slow swaying left and right sideward, the whole body taking part in this movement. The movement of the swaying seems to come from the ankles.

The swaying is repeated twice, becoming more and more profound. [The music used for part B, follows, begins on the last two swaying movements.]

PART B

Accompanied by music, “Clog Dance”, by Howard H. Hanson published by Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y.

Here are portrayed movements not only of the animal with strength and speed and variation, but movements of the man, motivated by intelligence and varying mood and emotion.

The music begins on the last two swaying movements of Part A .......................................Meas.	1-	4

I.A step hop, step knee swing, turn right, followed by a three step turn right and stamp; finish with both arms right upward [8 counts]

Repeat left [no technique stressed.]. Merely an impression of masses moving together in same

direction, stretching toward same goal .........Meas.	5-12

II.	A sudden turn right about, a tensing of the whole group as it moves toward rear and to the

left, arms tensed upward........................Meas.	13-14

Complete relaxation as the body turns right to face front and starts all over again from a relaxed low position toward an erect position, using jerky, mechanical movements of hands, and beating out a steady rhythm with feet 8

counts.................................................Meas.	15-18

A receding; same movements as in measure

13-14 4 counts .................................Meas.	19-20

Forward again .................................  Meas.	21-24

Backward again ...........:.....................Meas.	25-26

III.	Suddenly turning to face center of mass, all move toward center, gradually tensing upward,

arms upstretched ..............:................Meas.	27-28

A turn to face outward, backs to center, relaxing at same time, and swaying from side to side [3 sways]........................................Meas.	29-32

Digitized by
38

IV.	All facing front: A low turn right, at same

time straightening body upward, arms stretched high, and finishing in a sway right. Sway left and right while in this upstretched position ..........................................Meas.	33-36

Repeat to the left .............................Meas.	37-40

V.	Slide, close, and arabesque to right, moving left arm in circle inward toward right; same

left, circling right arm .......................Meas.	41-44

Repeat right and left ......................... Meas.	45-48

A whirl to right in spiral, starting low, arms low, gradually being raised to overhead 8 counts...............................................Meas.	49-52

VI.	A sudden change to mechanical movements as in part 2, but toward the center of the

group ........................................  Meas.	53-54

Finish with arms up, and hands joined. Re-	Mi

treat, still beating the rhythm with feet ....Meas. 55-56

Form two circles, hands joined. [By joining certain hands, two circles may thus be formed,

one inside the other] ..........................Meas.	57-58

Inside circle continues running to right, outside circle to left. Circles alternate, one runninjg with heads up and back, while the other runjs with heads relaxed forward. They change this for the second group of four

counts..........................................Meas.	59-62

VII.	The mass moves toward same corner, right front, inhaling, tensing body, stretching arms

up toward that same goal. 4 counts .............Meas.	63-64

They turn and recede in opposite direction, relaxing and drooping in their failure .......... Meas.	65-68

Repeat first part again ........................Meas.	69-72

Another return, arms covering faces ............Meas.	73-74

Then:—

VIII.	Suddenly all commence to whirl again to right, using spiral movements of arms. Continue whirling, arms upstretched until the second last note of the music. Pause, all tense, and arms upstretched; then, some fall to the earth; others fall partway to knees, or hips; others remain tall, still reaching upward, all forming a very natural, but unconventional grouping......Meas. 75 85

COSTUME FOR THE MODERN DANCE “EVOLUTION”

Material: 3 yards of green cheesecloth and 6 inches of orange cheesecloth are required for each costume.

Waist:—Waist is tight fitting.

Skirt:—Skirt is square, made from a straight piece of material. A hole is cut in the center, which fits around the waist.

Digitized by UjOOQle
39

At this point the waist and skirt are attached. The skirt falls in folds, the points extending below the other parts, and the longest ends of the material being in the front and back. The skirt is brushed irregularly with brown paint.

Sleeve:—The costume has only one sleeve,—on the left side. It is bell shaped, open along the top. The front tip of the sleeve is lined with a long triangular strip of orange cheesecloth.

' Sleeve may be worn with only the rear tip attached to the wrist thus allowing the front lined tip to hang down, or with both front and rear tips attached to wrist.

The Spine and Nerves in Diagnosis

J. S. Lankford, M. D., San Antonio, Texas.

No diagnostic study of chronic disease can be complete without careful examination of the spinal column and the cerebrospinal and great sympathetic nervous systems. The bony system, the posture, the gait, the musculature, the nerves and the reflex centers all mean much in the diagnosis of various diseases.

Kyphosis in moderation may show no sign of disease except the deformity. If extreme the organs of the chest may be cramped and displaced, function impaired, and pressure upon nerves may cause pain and soreness. If attended by scoliosis in the dorsal region neuritis of the intercostal nerves may occur, closely simulating intercostalneuralgia or pleurodynia. Scoliosis may cause a similar pinching of the nerves lower down the spine, disturbing the cord reflex centers and interfering with the function of the abdominal and pelvic organs. Lordosis, when extreme, not infrequently causes pressure upon the genitocrural nerve and produces great soreness and pain along the distribution

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
40

of the nerve, even into the head of the penis or into the labia majora. The primary cause of these abnormalities is commonly found in tuberculous or syphilitic inheritance and faulty postural habit in childhood. Of course the condition is favored by bad ventilation, insufficient sunlight, infections, and especially by a diet poor in vitamins and defective nutrition.

Osteoarthritis is most likely to be found in the lumbar or sacral region and is of varied etiology: infections, tuberculosis, rheumatism, syphilis. Tuberculosis of the bone may develop either in the dorsal or lumbar region. These diseases of the bone are not difficult to diagnose with the local tenderness, pain, deformity, rigidity of muscle and possibly pus with constitutional symptoms.

Loose sacroiliac joints, from impaired health and general weakness of supports, sometimes cause much backache. The location of pain and the systemic condition of the patient make the diagnosis clear. A very obstinate form of neuralgia may become fixed in the coccyx and be extremely troublesome and intractable for years.

Of course lumbago is always with us; myositis, fibrositis, usually due to strain; traumatism in a patient with weakened structures and pain habit. Poor kidney function and other toxemias, especially "those coming from the colon, often complicate this condition.

Syphilis of the spine and cord and the various cerebrospinal inflammations with pain, tenderness, girdle and. garter sensations, exaggerated or lost reflexes, spastic or flaccid mucles, ataxia, Romberg, Kernig’s sign and other symptomatology are easy enough to differentiate.

Hysteria and other neuroses may lead to general hyperesthesia of the whole spinal column with great tenderness and stiffness, and extreme nervousness with many reflex symptoms. Congestion and inflammation of the pelvic organs may cause agonizing aching pain in the sacral region, in some cases the fourth and fifth lumbar being involved. Rectal disease frequently causes reflex aching in the lower spine, and pathology of the rectum should be sought in such suffering.

So called railway spine is largely a mental traumatism, usually mingled with apprehension of grave disease, and anxiety concerning compensation. But the suffering is none the less real. There is tenderness, stiffness and much radiated reflex suffering with serious distress of nervous character. It requires the most ingenious diagnostic skill to separate the real from the imaginary and to give these patients and their employers justice.

Renal calculus may cause pain located very close to the spine in the region of the kidneys, but the pain is more likely to take a downward direction along the ureter toward the bladder and generative organs. A floating kidney may pull on its attachments and create backache. Other diseases of the kidneys, especially where there is severe inflammation or increased size, stretching the capsule, may cause pain in the b&ck.

Digitized by kjOOQle
41

Most interesting and instructive of all the pains related to the spine are those that depend upon the cord reflexes. All the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic organs and many others, especially the endocrines, have their spinal cord reflex centers, and the association in the normal functioning and in disease is very intimate. Nothing is more clearly demonstrated in the whole field of medicine than this interlocking arrangement of the cord and its reflex centers with the organs and their work, especially in relation to the great somatic mind that controls organic life, moving unnoticed in the mysterious realm of the unconscious until pathology interrupts and disturbs the smooth running relationship. The spinal cord and its reflex centers and the great sympathetic nervous system associated with the vital organs perform even more remarkable work than the dome of thought itself in the vast field of mind and imagination.

When disease appears and the functions are upset, then the close association is revealed by signs and symptoms. When the lungs are diseased the sensory nerves about the lung center of the cord in the cervical region become tender, and the sensory nerves in certain parts of the chest may become hypersensitive. The heart center is about the seventh cervical, and the first, third and fourth dorsal, and in important disease of the heart the superficial nerves at these points become tender and painful and very likely the sensory supply may become hypersensitive in the region of the heart, particularly about the fifth interspace in nipple line, the fourth at the sternum, and the third above. Violent angina pectoris is referred through the cord to the sternum, across the cheist, down the inner surface of the arms to the wrists. Ahginous suffering may be referred to the teeth, the throat, the stomiach, the upper back, the kidfieys and other places.

The stomach reflex center is at about the fifth to the seventh dorsal, but some fibres art closely related to the cardiac and other centers. It is this close relation of the cord reflexes of the heart and stomach that causes so much cardiac pain and disturbed heart action from the stomach, and in some cases leads to agonizing suffering from gastric angina in advanced heart disease. Grave nephritis not infrequently causes a similar reflex pain about the stomach.

Ulcer, or other important pathology at the cardiac end of the stomach, will cause reflex superficial tenderness at the end of the sternum if the stomach is in normal position; at about midstomach the tenderness would be one and a half inches lower; at the pyloric end about the same distance lower still, the McKenzie points. Stomach ulcer frequently sends a reflex pain to the back between the shoulders, the stomach reflex center. The overworked or diseased spleen may send a pain through the cord to a point underneath the left shoulder blade, and the diseased liver or gall-bladder to the right in the same way; in some cases to the right shoulder and right lateral chest. The inflamed appendix may refer pain through the cord to the gall-
42

bladder and in many cases to the epigastric region. Excruciating reflex pain about the stomach is a common symptom of gallbladder disease, either cholecystitis or stone, a reflex through the cord.

The colonic reflex centers are from the ninth dorsal to the second lumbar. The superficial spinal nerves will be found hypersensitive at these points according to the part of the colon involved. Ptosis, stasis, and especially spasticity cause much suffering in this way. The spastic colon will invariably send its sensation to the cord centers and they are reflected back as pain in the hepatic and splenic flexures, and on either side of the umbilicus; and into the chest to the heart and occasionally to the brain, disturbing the mind; and to other points according to the location of the most important spasticity. Many other spine and organ reflexes might be mentioned.

The spinal cord centers of the endocrine glands are of vast importance in diagnosis; the pituitary in the mid-cervical rtgion; the thyroparathyrcids about the seventh cervical; the adrenals, the liver and the pancreatic, the eleventh dorsal to the second lumbar; and the gonads, the lower lumbar and sacral region.

Interlacing fibres form an intimate connection between the spinal cord with its important reflex centers and the great sympathetic system, linking up in the closest relationship these systems with the organs of the chest, the abdomen, the pelvis, and all the endocrine glands. These centers and relationships are now fairly well understood. "With some knowledge of these facts in the normal, it is easy to see how profoundly pathology of any organ might upset natural law and give rise to important reflex symptoms, and how prompt treatment might set things right.

Two great influences are constantly operating in the spine in disease, both easy enough to discover in diagnostic study; one is that disease of the bone or bad postural attitude may compress the nerves, cause pain and interfere with the function of the organs; and the other is that organic disease may send powerful messages to the spinal reflex centers, producing changes with contraction of muscle and reflex disturbance of various organs.

Careful attention to the spine and especially to the reflex centers of the spinal cord and their close association with all the organs in health and disease will prove a wonderful aid to diagnosis and will do much to point the way to curative treatment.

BEEF TEA,

It is an old, persistent and widespread delusion that beef tea is a good food, especially for the sick. Nearly all of civilized mankind believes this 'myth. Beef tea or a similar animal broth is a first thought for diet in disease with most people—“Shall I give him beef tea, Doctor?” “Can he have chicken broth?”

The scientific fact is that beef tea has practically no food

Digitized by <^.ooQle
43

value. It is more of a poison than a food, although it may be a medicine.

What is beef tea? It is an aqueous extract of the soluble substances in lean beef, and is prepared by soaking out of the beef the soluble substances with the aid of heat. What are those soluble substances? They are waste products of nitrogenous metabolism remaining in the tissues after the animal is killed; waste substances which, if the animal had lived, would have been eliminated in the urine. These waste substances are chiefly creatin and the purin bases, the so-called meat extractives. They are similar to the waste products of the nitrogenous metabolism of the human body; and when taken into the human body in beef tea they add by so much to the eliminative burden of that body, besides being disadvantageous in other ways. The utiliz-able food constituents of beef tea are the water and the trifling amounts of mineral salts and the almost negligible amounts of vitamins which it contains. The popular notion that beef tea is an extract of the “good” of beef is erroneous. The “good,” that is, the assimilable protein, remains in the tasteless lumps of boiled tissue and the flakes of that tissue which are carefully strained out. Beef tea is an extract of the “bad” of beef.

But a myth which has persisted so long and so widely and so strongly as the beef tea myth must have something to recommend it. Beef tea is not altogether without dietetic value, although it is deficient in food value. It has a pleasant taste. The meat extractives in it, some of which have a composition similar to that of caffeine, stimulate the nerve centers. They also stimulate the secretion of the gastric juice. And here is seen a reason for the custom of beginning a heavy meal with a meat stock soup.—E. E. C. in Med. Times and Long Is. Med. J’l.

Insulin in Obliterative Lesions of the Blood Vessels—S. M. Beale, Jr. [American Journal of	17:413,	Sept.,	1932],

notes that recent studies of insulin indicate that it not only regulates carbohydrate metabolism but also stimulates the combustion of fat. On this theory, he has used insulin in the treatment of certain obliterative lesions of the blood vessels in which fat plays an important role in the occlusion of the vessels. These conditions include: Atherosclerosis in both diabetics and non-diabetics; bed sores in old people; angina pectoris; deep and extensive leg ulcers; chronic nephritis; and thrombo-angitis obliterans. In the cases treated symptoms were definitely relieved by the insulin; gangrenous and ulcerative lesions healed. The theory of this treatment is that in these conditions in which insulin is effective, the vascular occlusion is not due to fibrous tissue or calcareous deposits but primarily to the presence of fat-laden cells that gradually narrow and finally occlude the terminal vessels; the insulin acts “by the burning of fat-laden cells in the flame which consumes the blood sugar,” thus increasing the flow of the blood stream.
44

Infantile Eczema.—In skin tests with various proteins in 132 cases of infantile eczema, L. W. Hill [New England Journal of Medicine, 207:655, Oct. 13, 1932] found that 76, or 57 per cent., gave positive reactions; 39 per cent, to egg, 15 per cent, to milk, and 9 per cent, to wheat. Of 52 cases that gave positive reactions to egg protein, 30 had never eaten eggs, and were not getting egg protein through breast milk as they were bottle-fed. If these cases are excluded, 47 per cent, gave positive tests to some protein that they were taking in their food. When very definite sensitization to one or two foods exists, and when the skin tests are supported by the clinical history, very good results may be obtained by withdrawal of the offending food. This is particularly true of infants on an exclusive milk-diet.

Book Reviews.

Fred E. Foertsch.

The Measurement Of Athletic Power—[Some Achievement Standards in Track and Field Athletic Events for Boys from Ten To Twenty Years of Age]—by Charles Harold McCloy; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1932; clothbound 7” x 10”, 178 pages; price $3.00.

In attacking the problem of measuring athletic power the author points out that “in the physical education field, no sufficiently adequate tests of original motor capacity that correspond in validity to the tests of original mental capacity have been made. This is partly because of the wide difference in experiential background in physical activities of pupils of the same age. Pupils vary in physical education background from city to farm, from tenement to playground. In addition, the element of bodily size complicates matters in a way not found in the case of intelligence testing. Also, there are elements involved in track and field athletics success for which we have as yet no sufficiently adequate measurement, such as muscular viscosity.”

“The methods presented in this volume represent an attempt to improve and refine the measurement of these activities [running jumping, and throwing] and to present them in both gross and equalized, yet comparable, forms. The events chosen are measured in units of power [or time rate of work].”

The author presents a carefully worked out Classification Index to be used as a method of classifying, handicapping and for equalizing maturity and sizes. In addition he presents his Athletic Quotient as a method of measuring quality of performance as distinguished from simple, normal growth. The author states “knowledge of the Classification Index and the Athletic Quotient should assist the teacher to focus his program so as to help and encourage the individual boy to bring his motor ability up to its proper level”.

Digitized by AjOOQle
45

In presenting the scoring tables “a type of universal scoring tables that are applicable over a large age range has been devised. These tables have a progressive increment in the number of points added for each increase in the performance; this increase is based on an approximation to the relative horsepower developed by expert athletes at each velocity, distance or height. These scoring tables make possible an indirect comparison of records in totally different kinds of events; the same point values in each event are of approximately the same mechanical difficulty.”

One of the supplementary problems of this study was the selection of a suitable battery of tests. Fifteen different track and field athletic events together with four events of strength and endurance were considered for inclusion in a set of "standard” events for an all-round test. After being evaluated the ones most suitable on the basis of twelve criteria were the sprints, the “Reilly” type of potato race, the standing and running broad jumps, the running high jump, and the shot-put.

A supplementary problem considered in this study was that of devising a method of classification and handicapping by age, height, and weight. In this connection studies were made of the relative contributions of chronological age, physiological age, school grade, height, and weight to the prediction of normal track and field athletic performance ability. Among the most significant findings were these:

1.	Height at ages of fourteen and below seems to contribute very little, when several events are combined, that is not adequately cared for by age and weight.

2.	Weight is of great significance at ages of fourteen and below, and of relatively less significance above this age. It should, however, be included at all ages.

3.	Body build seems to be of no significance when chronological age, height, and weight are included according to their “best” weightings.

The author believes that, while not primarily an indicator of strength, the Classification Index is apparently at least as good a predictor of athletic performance as is strength. At the same time he states “it should be emphasized that the Classification Index is only one of the elements that should be taken into consideration in classifying homogeneous groups for physical education. It does treasure reasonably well three of the essentials to be considered in such a grading of pupils [size, maturity and strength] and should not be overlooked”.

The final supplementary problem in the study has to do with the Athletic Quotient. This is presented as a measure of individual achievement in four standard track and field events that is relative to the normal or average achievement of his peers in size and maturity. “This quotient is not analogous to an educational achievement quotient that scores the pupil’s attainments in terms of his intelligence, but to one which scores it in terms of

Digitized by Google
46

his chronological age. It has the disadvantage of neglecting measures of original capacity, but has the advantage that the standard —the Classification Index Form—cannot be cheated, a matter of no small importance iti strongly motivated competition.”

The following uses of the Athletic Quotient are claimed by the author:

1.	The organization of group competition based upon a comparison of averages of Athletic Quotients.

2.	As a method of devising individual standards.

3.	As a measure of improvement.

The author hopes that these tests and measurements will be used “as a means of motivating all boys and men in physical education groups to develop adequate skills and abilities as a means of attaining the educational objectives of the teacher and of furthering the richness of living of the individual himself”.

This book is without doubt one of the most valuable in the field of tests and measurements in physical education. Although rather technical in its derivations of formulae and in the use of statistical methods, its summaries and general content should prove to be invaluable to teachers and administrators.

JOHN C. KIEFFER

Improvised Equipment in The Home Care of the Sick by Lyla M. Olson, R. N., Second Edition; published by W. B. Saunders Company, 1933; Clothbound, 4” x 6 1-2”, 197 pages with illustrations; price $1.25.

This appears to be a very handy and valuable reference for nurses who are compelled to meet emergency situations in homes and communities with very limited equipment. As a reference text for students of health education in senior high schools, it has a very limited value unless the course is devoted entirely to [or in part] home nursing. The first aid material is better handled in the Official Red Cross Text.

HOWARD L. CONRAD

How Men Have Lived by Charles V. P. Young; published by The Strafford Co., Boston, Mass., 1931; Clothbound 7 l-2”x5”; 313 pages; price $2.50.

Although this book has been on the market a couple of years its content is of such a nature that many teachers in physical education will welcome the opportunity of becoming acquainted with it.

The book contains a brief historical review of the physical activities and the social life of various peoples. It begins with the Egyptian period and continues in chronological order through the Mosaic, Persian, Greek, Roman, Early German, Early Medieval, Knighthood, and Sixteenth Century English periods and leads into the Present Day Tendencies in the United States.

[Book Reviews continued on inside back cover]

Digitized by LjOOQle
A CORRECTION

A printer’s error on Page 345 of. the March issue should be corrected by those who keep their copies for permanent reference. The word “Opelika” in the first line of the headline on that page should be stricken out. It belongs in the line with the author's name, just below the headline but has nothing to do with the title of the article.

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE!

Last month we notified all our subscribers whose subscriptions were not paid in advance that owing to the failure of the bank, in which Mind and Body deposited, to reopen after the bank holiday made it imperative that each delinquent should come at once to our aid in order to make it possible for us to continue publication. To the many who responded promptly and generously we are more than grateful. And still more grateful for the words of praise and encouragement which accompanied some of the payments.

However, our situation is still very difficult and were it not for the indulgence of our printer we could not complete the year’s issues. We therefore urge all who have not paid within the past three months to heed our urgent need and send in renewals now that are due—or will be due by the first of June. Your address label will tell you to what date your subscription is paid. If it reads Apr. 33 or earlier it means that you should at once send in your payment. The price is $2.00 but if you send in two years at once we will be glad to allow a price of $1.75 per year.

The index for volume 39 would ^ ordinarily appear in this issue but the shortage of funds makes it impossible. We hope to be able to include it in the May issue.

[Over]

Digitized by LjOOQLe
In making your remittance use this sheet. Tear it out where indicated and fill in name, address as shown on your present label, and attach to it your check of $2.00 for one year or $1.75 per year for two or more years.

Name ... City

State

Street

Amount sent $.

for 1-2-3 or—years.