Eoitoriai Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Gcneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Directcr, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Ww.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ATHLETICS IN THE SCHOOLS

AN ADDRESS AT THE SIXTIETH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE

MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS’ ASSOCIATION AT BOSTON, MASS.,

ON NOVEMBER 25, 1904.

Mr. President and Ladies and Gentlemen of the % Massachusetts Teachers' Association :	In	1890	I	came	over to Worcester and made an

address to our Association. The agreeable memories of that occasion added some special satisfaction to your recent invitation. But I must admit some surprise at the theme you set me. In answer to an expression of my surprise your president has said that it was because you wished the subject treated from the viewpoint of the general administrator rather than from the specialist in physical work or an enthusiast in athletics. So it must be. I know little about the structure of the body except that work seems to be good for all the parts. I would be the last man in the world to teach a boy how to walk on his hands or to turn an air spring or to do the giant swing, and I would run as fast as I could from any peril I could decently avoid. I shiver as much as I admire when I see a deed of physical daring, and if the crowd I

Digitized by C^ooQle
—34—

am with gets trounced on the field, it is not in me to hear the excuses or sonsole the losers or aid the injured.

Something like an idea that the theories and contentions of the physical training teachers go down deeper into unscientific uncertainty than the subject warrants, might as well be admitted; and a fugitive thought that physical training or athletics is not a vital cornerstone of the school system ought hardly to be denied. On the other hand it is not too much to assert some confidence that I bring as much appreciation of the relations of flesh and blood to mind and morals, as much admiration for the strength, the skill and the courage which can do things, and as much sympathy with those qualities in life which incline the boys and girls of the schools to open-air sports, as any one else would be likely to bring to the discussion.

The belief that physical training is entitled to only a subordinate place in our scheme of popular education is certainly persistent, but assuredly that is not because of any indifference to physical symmetry, strength and skill, or any doubt about the value of legitimate sport in rounding out the characters of men and women. Nor is it associated with any misgivings about the advantages which must flow from the new and gratifying tendency to bring, so far as there is any real call for it, the training of the body and field sports into some definite relations with the commonly accepted work of the schools.

We know well how a perfect body gives effectiveness to moral impulses, and how a handsome man adds the highest charms to a manlv one. And we know, also, how strength and suppleness balance minds, enlarge the resources of the home, and steady the course of the state. But we know, too, that the interdependence of the physical, mental and moral attributes is not even. We recognize the attractiveness and the forcefulness of one in whom they are balanced, but we ought not to fail to see that the intellectual and moral faculties are not as helpless without the ptn’sical as the physical is repugnant without the intellectual and the moral. A mere pugilist, even with the skill of his senseless art, is an offense to balanced men and women, while some of the finest gifts which minds and hearts have brought to the world have come from men and women who had no charm of physique with which to sustain them, and no strength with which to bear them to the unbelieving and the incredulous.

Society needs not do everything for its members and it is not bound to do all things in equal measure. Much must be left to individuals, and on the whole and in the long run the more that is left to individuals which they may well do, the better. The strength of the American nation has perhaps come from these two principles more than from all else together; namely, that we have assured for every child the fundamentals of an education and then put upon him the burden of freedom—a chance to make the best of himself, or the responsibility of gravitating to the underside.

We may well invoke the doctrine of the simple official and the simple administrative, as well as of the simple personal life. Officialism—the tendency to make more public work and spend more public money, particularly in view of the aggressive public spirit and the abundant

Digitized by CaOOQle
—35—

prosperity and ample resources of this country, may well be attended with some thought if not with some apprehension. Surely this is not an unreasonable suggestion in view of the quite apparent enlargement of the demand for added support from the state and the no less manifest willingness to concede this by powerful and influential factors in the state. Without assuming a too confident attitude upon all the phases of a great political philosophy concerning which the more advanced thinkers are but just feeling their way, it can not be too much to say— in view of the enourmous cost of the public school system and the greater expenditures that must surely follow—the men and women of the schools would better not anticipate public opinion and the definite authority of the people in adding any features which are not clearly essential to a program of work which is already overloaded, to an administrative responsibilty which is already overweighted, and to an expense account which is alredy very long.

The schools are not lacking in essentials, and they are liable to find some more. A school may have some nonessentials, but it should not unless the community is abundantly able, and the people understand the matter thoroughly. If more things are to be added to the work of the common schools, they should not be added by teachers or ambitious superintendents without ample discussion and free approval by the people. Private schools may do whatever their patrons will support. But the free and state-enforced schools of the masses must assure to every child such rudiments of knowledge as are necesssry to his free participation in free government and to his fair opportunity in the world. In all towns of any size in this country, high schools form a consistent part of the public school system. But the elementary schools will not be so good, nor the high school so good or so universal, if in either case they are weighted beyond the means or the desires of the community with burdens not integral to their generally accepted plan. All beyond that must wait upon special circumstances and the willing support of the people. Happily, our American educational system is unique in the flexibility and adaptiveness which afford opportunity to special conditions and carry the schools along with the intellectual advance.

Physical training is one of the foundation things which the schools must everywhere assure. It is not as needful to the making of a perfect man as either mental or moral training. It is desirable, but one may do without it better than without one of the others. The state leaves the moral training, except so far as it is inevitably and incidentally associated with the mind, to the home and the church, because the different denominations of Christians do not agree upon how much or what distinctly moral or religious training may be carried on by the common schools. There is no such exception to it on principle and therefore it is permissible and desirable in communities where public sentiment will sustain it. But it is not so urgent anywhere as either the training of the mind or the training of the conscience because youth naturally helps and promotes its physical self more than its mental or moral self. Very often its physical properties get on very well indeed if left rather largely to themselves.

Digitized by CjOOQle


No indoor training is to assume to take the place of open-air play in the elementary schools. Calisthenics are unobjectionable, but with little people they are no substitute for natural play. Playgrounds may cost more, but they are worth more. No matter what they cost, it is the public business and function to provide them. Happy is the town which does it early, when it may do it well.

If the buildings are hygienically pure, if there is sufficient air space and sunlight, if the mechanical appliances and the possibility of their refusing to work are kept at a minimum, if the grounds are ample and dry, and if teachers are sane about the relations of work and of freedom in children, there need be no fear for physical training in the elementary schools.

This is not saying that special teachers who will quickly see the special needs of multitudes of children in the city schools and who will aid the class teachers to see the need of artificial exercise, which must often be substituted for real work or natural play, are not desirable in large systems of schools. I think they are; but the special circumstances ought to govern.

It is not necessary' to discuss the advantages and disatvantages -of different systems of physical exercise. All have advantages and are practically beyond criticism. Adaptation to conditions is the paramount and not very serious question. Enthusiasts will not agree with me; it is their mission in life to stand up for their own and thcv generally do it well. If we let them do that and give them their chance, they ought to be content without expecting that we will let any “system” own our schools.

Passing from the elementary up to the secondary schools, we come upon different stations, both as to the schools and the pupils. The schools are likely to be almost exclusively in congested districts. The pupils have gotten over the kind of play that is best for them. They have become more constrained and a trifle more conventional. They resent leading strings—and they know a lot that is not so. They are at a critical stage in the bodily development. They do need less care but a little more guidance, sympathetically and unostentatiously given. If the population is not dense there is little trouble for they get about all the help they require in this connection in their ordinary work and natural play, but at the centers of the cities it is hardly so. There a gymnasium is well and often practicable. There is no doubt whatever of the advantage of regular work in a gymnasium, both for young men and young women. If they do not commence it at the high school age, they are not likely to do so at all.

Whether the public high school should supply this desirable addition to the opportunities of youth is not so much a question of educational necessity as of neighborhood feeling and expedieney. Often there is no local need for one, and no local appreciation for the uses of one. Often, private enterprise or associated enthusiasm, like the Christian associations, the Turner societies or the athletic clubs, provide them. While the high schools are not bound to provide them, still, if the deliberate sentiment of their constituencies will sustain them in doing so, it may be done without invading any sound principle of the educational system.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-37-

The difficulty is that when one school does it the others think they must, in order to be up to the times, and they undertake it upon a basis which cannot succeed. A gymnasium is worthless unless thoroughly equipped and made inviting and unless managed bv specialists who are themselves not only able to use the apparatus in attractive ways but are also sympathetic and inspiring teachers. Gymnasium work will be without result unless very regular and very persistent. With all these it will be with splendid result. Without a ready and popular support and a clear understanding of all the conditions which alone can assure results worth the while, it is safe to say that the establishment of a gymnasium in a secondary school is a move not to be encouraged. It must at all times be had in mind that so long as pupils live at home there are some things concerning them which may well be left to the homes to see to.

When we come to the colleges and universities the conditions are again different. The students are away from home, with all that implies. Much closer mental application is exacted. The need of regular exercise is much ignored. Youngsters dare Fate senselessly when they are free to do so, and in college they are likely to come into a larger freedom for the first time. The need of a complete gymnasium with ample instruction, and required attendance at least in the freshmen or the freshmen and sophomore years, is manifest enough. Here gymnasiums are both necessary and practicable. Ready and sensible medical supervision of all the students and all the affairs of the institution is also very desirable.

The physical training of the whole body of the students evenly is better than the training of a few elaborately. But inevitably some will excel and such will have special ambitions, and they will gain special attention. Good rivalries will ensue, not only between individuals in the same institution but between experts in different institutions. Then of course there will be the utmost effort and the most exact and complete preparation.

I am not now referring to sports or games or to “teamwork” at all, but to the strength, endurance or skill of the individual man and to competitions where they are put to their highest tests. They are wholesome and quickening in every way—nothing short of a spur to the schoolboys and an inspiration to the educated manhood of the country. If the notable contests are narrowed down to a few men in any one year, the opportunities are open to all, and very large numbers get the uplift which goes with them. The conditions of the competition are well settled, the management is exact, and the opportunities for fraud are very slight and the temptations hardly perceptible. The boys manage these contests themselves and beyond all doubt the)' manage them upon a plane so high that it ennobles the managers, pleases the contestants and satisfies all. The dissappointments are not deep. All honor the victor, and none more than his closest competitors, for none know the cost of the triumph so well as they. If the achievement is noteworthy, it is at once known in every part of the country. There is not a college boy worth to the country the salt he eats who does not know that in 17 of 19 recognized athletic events the world’s

Digitized by CjOOQle
88-

record is held in this country. Most boys of that kind can tell you that in April last, Rose, of the University of Michigan, put the IB pound shot 48 feet, TVs inches, and that on the same day Dole, of Stanford University, cleared the bar in the pole vault at 12 feet, l32/ioo inches, and that no one in the world had ever done so much before. They can tell you that in the eighth, quarter, half, mile, and 2 mile runs and in all the jumps save one American boys have beaten all the other boys in the world. It makes some of us sedate ones dizzy, if it also makes us proud, when one American boy stands still and then jumps 11 feet, 4% inches, and another stands still and then clears a bar at 5 feet, 5 inches from the floor, under regulations and before the crowd, with nothing but strength, skill and courage to help them,— when we know now that no one ever did the like before.

The English say that we strive especially for the records rather than gain them from normal work; that we concentrate supreme effort in a few, rather than get the benefits of the work for all; and that we almost lose the point of physical training altogether. They must say something, and it must be admitted that there is something in what they say. But our way is the American way and theirs the English way and we are both getting on very well—and we are all mighty glad that we are getting on so well together. We are each likely to tell the other much that it is very desirable to know.

The intense application and the long and exact special training incident to these sharp contests seem to require caution against “overtraining” or the development of some part or function of the body at the expense of some other. There is danger enough of this to claim educated and experienced oversight. Aside from the possibility of this there seems to be nothing hurtful to the participants or demoralizing to the student body from his high grade physical work or from the ensuing contest.

The distinction between physical training and “athletics” seems to lie between indoor and outdoor work; between what institutions do for students and what students do for themselves; between work performed to keep health and promote strength, and sport for the exite-ment and fun that are in it; and between the work of an individual and that of a “team.”

By the way, a good part of the people over here in New England hardly seem to know what a team is. Probably the ones who think that a horse and wagon make a team, will hold that a boy and bat make a baseball team, or a boy and a shin guard make a football team. But those of us who agree that it takes at least two horses to make a horse team will understand that it takes at least nine boys, with all appliances, to make a baseball team, and eleven boys with astonishing equipments to make a football team, and we are not surprised that it takes from fifteen to twenty boys to make a first-class baseball “nine” and all the way from twenty to forty to make a formidable football “eleven.” But whether it be two or whether it be forty, the “nine” or the “eleven” pulling together make a “team.”

Any criticism brought against physical work in the schools is stirred by these team contests. No matter how manj* it takes to make

Digitized by CjOOQle
—:vj—

a team, it takes thousands and more to make a game. The crowds of fervid partizans on either side; the banners and streamers and songs and horns and calls and yells and veil-captains ; the officials and coaches and trainers, and doctors und rubbers and bottle bearers and scrubs and athletic statesmen must all supplement the teams which struggle for the mastery and for the prestige of their universities in order to have a game. There are some who dislike all this. If you are out for fun it is quite as well to have it. The men who know little about it are able to find enough to criticize. Old men, who have never thumped one another when boys, are apt to be against it. Boys who do embroidery work while their mothers read poetry to them, men who want a fire engine or a lifeboat to slow down for fear something might break—without seeing that something must break if it does slow down, and men who hug the constitutional negatives after the council is over and the bugles have sounded the advance which must enforce the constitutional commands or save the Constitution itself, are hardly likely to be in love with games which turn up strength, force, nerve, sense and skill.

But the American crowd likes them. Training has to be sustained, perhaps required. The strenuous games attract the multitude, perhaps in a measure that has some perils in it. The fact that the crowd likes them is not against them. That people do go is no reason why they should not go. The common feelings are not necessarily all wrong. The crucifixion of the flesh, the breaking of the spirit have no part in modern ethics and no share in twentieth century teaching. The fair questions are,—Are these great games fraught with unpreventible evils which outweigh any good they may have? Are they on the whole good, or bad, for the youth of the country? And, what ought to be the attitude of the school concerning them?

We would meet these questions squarely. To do that we must face the exact criticism and focus the discussion. Baseball is a natural college game. It is open and all may see all that occurs. It is not so technical that people who follow ordinary pursuits can not understand it. It is relatively free from dangers and while it attracts the throng it is not encompassed by many temptations. It comes in the spring when there must naturely have been almost a year of residence in college. Rowing has many good featurts and not many bad ones. It seems to encourage gambling in some measure, but otherwise it is mostly beyond criticism. Tennis is ideal, but many young men want heavier work. Golf is hardly a college game; it has been said that it is a state of the social mind. The game which holds the center of the stage in the fall and draws all the criticism is football. It has more ins with more outs than any other college game invented. The troubles with it are not in the high schools unless it is in the influence of the college game upon them. If there is trouble, it is in the college game itself, in the consequences to college boys, and the general bearing of the game upon the thought and feeling of the country.

Let us put the criticism as pointedly as we may. This is what “they say.”

1.	That the game is dangerous and exhausting.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—40—

2.	That the ’varsity teams do not represent the bodies for which they stand.

3.	That the game makes heroes of men who have no right to the commendation of a democracy of learning.

4.	That men who give the time and energy required in successful football can not maintain positions as good students.

5.	That the coaching system is vicious, training men to evade the rules when that will aid success.

6.	That the greater part of the game can not be seen by spectators and that this aids the evasion of the rules, and worse; that it encourages real battle rather than open manliness and a chivalrous spirit on the part of the players.

7.	That it induces connivance on the part of students and graduates, on the part of sporting elements in the community in larger measure, and on the part of college authorities in some measure, to get men who can play a strong game by paying them for it in one way or another, and without reference to their standing in college or their right to admission at all.

8.	That it is too expensive for sport and gathers more money that ought to be under the control of students, and that the game turns on factors which money brings into it and therefore that it does not afford a fair basis for intercollegiate contests.

9.	That it breeds a good deal of loafing, gaming and drinking and does not make for educational effectiveness and sound living.

10.	That sussess is such a factor in college prestige and university preeminence, that the popularity of the game is so general, the pleasures of university triumphs so delightful, the meaning to youngsters who are yet to go to college so significant, that the authorities fall short in courage to deal with the evils of it, and that these are degrading to the student life in the whole country.

Now I feel assured that none will have the hardihood to deny that this list is sufficiently comprehensive, or that it is lacking in the effort to give point to criticism.

Some will deny the facts or the reasonableness of the objections, but the facts are not overstated, nor is much of this criticism without reason. It may be well surmised that the game can not endure as a college sport unless such serious evils as common knowledge associates with it are admitted and corrected. If that is done, it must be by the men who manage or are responsible for it.

The youngsters and some of the “oldsters” who know all about it won’t tell as frankly as my friend Governor Black tells about the baseball team at his summer home in New Hampshire. He says they can never entertain any doubt about results. They make sure that among the neighbor’s boys or among the invited guests there is a pitcher from Harvard, a catcher from Dartmouth, a shortstop from Columbia, and a first baseman from Yale, etc., and then if there is any residuum of uncertainty they send over the mountains and hire professionals enough to guard against the possibility of anj- unseemly slip. That will do for a summer frolic or for an after-dinner speech in mitigation of a New York statesman’s working himself to death over a

Digitized by CjOOQle
-41-

farm in New Hampshire in vacation time, but it will hardly do for the regular order of intercollegiate contests in term time. Yet there are coaches and graduates and athletic politicians who could tell about as strong a story about football, and tell the truth—if they would.

As I have been reflecting upon this address I have been bringing together the evidences which have reached the public of unmistakable fraud in getting and keeping men in the teams who are in college for nothing else. These evidences can not be presented here, but they may be indicated. One of the leading universities in the country is called upon to defend itself against the charge, brought upon it through the course of its athletic managers, that it has in its team a bruiser who has made the round of three or four universities to play in this game; another that it has a player who is a professional pugilist; and a third that its football team is largely sustained through political and other jobs which thinly disguise bribe money given to the players in order to keep them in the university. That the atmosphere of the game as now managed predisposes to gaming can hardly be doubted by any one with his eyes open. But with me it is not wholly a matter of inference. I have sat in a hotel lobby before a great game and seen scores of boys from two leading American universities daring each other to put up money on their respective teams, and when the dare was accepted and the terms settled, as frequently happened, they placed their money in envelops which they gave to the clerk of the house, to be delivered to the winner after the game. The thing could hardly have been worse and it surely would not have been more bald at a racing center and with professional spotts.

The advantages of the game are unmistakable. It makes for pluck, nerve, endurance, self-control and alertness in emergencies. Fair students who are successful football players are not only among the very best men in college but their promise of marked success in life is exceptionally high. The game brings to many boys their first real ambition to do something better than others can do it. It smells of the ground and that is healthful—physically and mentally healthful. Its influence upon the thought and life of the players is quickening and steadying. It makes for generalship and for organized effectiveness. I have no doubt about American football having had something to do with the new method of fighting and the new measure of energy and resourcefulness shown by American boys ot El Caney and San Juan, at Manila and Santiago. Moreover, it is exhilarating and invigorating and it binds men together and develops class feeling and college spirit through splendid cooperative effort. It brings colleges to the fore in the thought of the masses. And it takes the conceit out of boys, and in many ways makes for genuineness in living. On the whole, it goes as far as anything else in the universities to make their thought square with the affairs of life and lead educated men to the places of the most decisive consequence in the concerns of a great people.	(To	be continued.)

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to yon for one year oh receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subsoribera-

Digitized by t^ooQLe
-42-

DOES THE TECHNICAL SIDE OF OUR PROFESSION RECEIVE ITS DUE SHARE OF ATTENTION

REAT has been the advance in the field of physical education, and

secure is the position it has created for itself in the educational world. Year after year new and important recognitions are placed on record. City after city finds itself compelled to give way to the demand of such education, and in cities where the work had been initiated in a half-hearted way elaborate systems have been instituted since. Columbia University raised the head of the physical training department to a professorship, and the University of Pennsylvania has followed with a like movement. Educational papers and educational bodies are concerning themselves more and more with this movement and are discussing the subject pro and con. Leading educators express themselves emphatically in favor of a permanent institution of such a department in connection with our school system. Foremost of all, perhaps, are the pages devoted to physical training in Stanley Hall’s epoch-making book “Adolescence.” Many more events which mark this steady advance might be cited, but it is not the purpose of this brief article to give a detailed review.

At such a time when success is very much in evidence, it does not seem amiss to pause for close investigation. As an outcome for such an investigation an impression is forcing itself upon me with increasing weight; namely, that there is a growing tendency toward theorizing and experimenting to the great detriment to the technical side of our profession. Be tli£ argument whatever it may, this tindisputable fact remains that we gain the results which we proclaim preeminently from the technical portion of our teaching, together with the immediately related instruction of personal hygiene. These results will always stand in relation to the qualification of the respective teachers. May I quote here a few sentences from Dr. Hough’s recent paper, published in this magazine, which give expression of a view which I fully indorse. He says:	“No	one	has	less respect for theoretical instruction without the

experience of practice than myself. It is indeed fortunate that the work of physical training was begun on its practical side. With limited opportunities, few teachers, and the demand for results, it was only proper that efforts should at first be confined to this side of the work. and let vs hope that nothing may ever impair this efficiency. The point I wish to make is not toward minimizing the theory of training, or discouraging investigation and experimentation, but to lay more, and decidedly more, stress upon good presentation of the technical work. There are many subdivisions to this technical side, and each and every one needs first be mastered in order to qualify as successful teachers. It is true, we have many more good teachers to-day than we had some years ago, but it is also true, that we have new, but poor teachers, who hold responsible positions. A good many of these new, but poor teachers are graduates of some of our professional normal schools where, to be sure, they devoted considerable time to practical work, but

TO-DAY?

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

Digitized by

Google
-43-

mainly to acquiring readv-made material, instead of acquiring the ability to teach and command, or to arrange suitable and original work. The art of commanding is absolutely essential to a successful teacher, and may it be said here, no easy matter to acquire. More failures of teaching result from the lack of this qualification than of any other one thing. Definiteness and precision in commanding presupposes definite and precise execution, and it only is from such teaching that we can expect satisfactory educational results.

Again, no graduate of a normal school should feel the necessity or. the desire to teach “drills” arranged by someone else, particularly if he is engaged in teaching in a higher educational institution. Such cut and dried presentation must necessarily lack many fundamental pedagogic principles. In my opinion individuality and originality are qualities as necessary and commendable to a teacher of physical training as to a teacher of any other subject. I know of teachers graduated recently from normal schools who carry on extensive laboratory experiments and who spend considerable time in tabulating statistics while their teaching of large classes is nothing short of a failure. Furthermore, their practical work has not even a suggestion of a relation to the scientific research they carry on. In most of these cases there were no assistants to rely upon to do the practical work. So it is evident that the primary duty of these teachers is to conduct their classes in the best possible way and postpone extensive experiments to a more opportune time. Such conditions exist in a good many institutions and it certainly must reflect upon the training of these teachers, though it probably explains this over-zeal in one direction and weakness in the other.

The first years of teaching unquestionably must be devoted to the perfectioning in teaching and organization. So many problems present themselves, and so much time is necessary to prepare a good lesson for the next day that little time is left for such side excursions as are mentioned above.

When, however, the teaching ability has been thoroughly established, when the chief duty to the individual and to the institution at large, has been satisfied, then, and only then, comes the time for us to engage in scientific research, as keeps us in touch with the higher ideals of our profession.

I fully appreciate the fact that there are many other teachers perhaps more guilty of the other extreme, namely of exploring the practical field to the utmost possibility, without any pedagogical or physical explanation for it, that thus prove to be utterly unfitted to fill any responsible position. I intentionally attack the other side because it is a newer evil, and can be checked, while this one is an ingrained evil, which we must endure until we have enough well qualified teachers to take their places.

I can readily see the reasons why young teachers, and even seniors in normal schools, are led into the temptations in question: First, the evident preference, as mentioned above, given in the respective schools, to the theoretical branches over the pedagogical and technical ones. Then, the secondary place given the technical portion in city examinations for teaching in schools.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—44—

A change in this direction seems highly essential to the welfare and future of our profession. We should view the situation calmly and prevent the pendulum from swinging too high in either direction. And we should do it early ere the accusations of over-zealousness in theorizing are showered upon us from men outside of the profession. The ground gained is too sacred to retract from one inch.

Retain the present standard of scholarship by all means, but give the technical side of this scholarship not only a fair percentage but an even share for the certification as teachers of physical training. It is in the interest of our profession to keep the two sides well balanced and we look especially to the normal schools to <Jo so.

GENERAL WINGATE’S ADDRESS A1 THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETIC LEAGUE.

THOUGH scarcely a year has passed since the Public Schools Athletic League was organized, the success which has been attained has been beyond our most sanguine expectations. When in the middle of last December we decided to risk the experiment of holding our first athletic meeting on the 29th, we were in great trepidation as to wjiether we could get the prizes, the money or the competitors which were requisite to make the meeting a success, yet the result was an enthusiastic gathering having 1,500 individual entries, a thing unparalleled in the his tor}’ of athletics. The success then attained has been continued up to the present time. The reports of the treasurer which will be presented by Mr. Guggenheim ; of the secretary, Dr. Gulick; of the Games Committee by Mr. Sullivan, and of the representatives of the different schools, will give to you the details of what has been accomplished. It is therefore not necessary for me to occupy your time by doing so. I will simply say that the League has now 28 patrons, 39 life, and 186 annual members, including the most representative men in the city; and during the past year it has raised over $9,000 in money and has received many valuable prizes, a number of whieh are now present for your inspection.

As you are aware, Greater New York is divided into 23 educational districts. In 20 of these we have organized a District League, composed of the District Superintendents, the members of the local board, the principals of the different schools, together with a number of leading citizens of each district. These are vigorously promoting athletics in the schools of each district and have relieved the League of the multitude of the details in respect to those schools which it is impracticable for it to attend to.

In addition to the meeting of last December, the spring meeting of the League was attended by 803 competitors and over 10,000 boys competed for places. There also have Oeen many other competitions held under our supervision. These competitions have been of very great value in promoting athletics in the schools.

Digitized by Google
—45—

While fully appreciating the importance of maintaining these competitions, the League is specially anxious to interest the great mass of boys, particularly those who are not sufficiently developed to warrant their entering into a public competition. For this purpose it has offered a bronze button, the design of which will be exhibited to you to-night by Mr. Kirby, which is to be annually awarded to each boy who makes a prescribed record in certain simple tests, a short run, a jump and in chinning the bar.

Through the generosity of our treasurer, Mr. Guggenheim, we have been enabled to install in the High School of Commerce, at the cost of $250, the sub target machine gun which you see before you. W’ith this we are rapidly teaching the boys to shoot, which, in a country like this, is an important part of our defense. The machine works admirably and the difficulty which has been found is to devise a method by which the great number of boys who are anxious to practice with it have an equal opportunity to do so. In addition to this I am pleased to state that Mr. Guggenheim has announced his intention of giving three more similar guns, which the League proposes to place in some of the other high schools of the city, making an aggregate donation from Mr. Guggenheim, for this purpose, of $1,000. To further stimulate the boys in taking an interest in shooting with this machine, Mr. Harry Pavne Whitney has very generously donated $500 with which to establish a permanent trophy to be held by the school, the members of which shall, under such regulations as the League may establish, display the greatest efficiency in rifle shooting.

We are fortunate in having been able entirely to avoid the difficulty which has been so manifest in many of our colleges and high schools, the disagreement between those interested in athletics and the principals and teaching force. We have made it a rule to do nothing or even attempt to do anything in any school that is not welcomed by the principal. We have also laid down the rule that every competitor for the button or for any of the games must be certified by his principal to be up to the average in his studies and his deportment. Our relation with the schools is perfectly harmonious. The influence for good upon the boys of our public schools from what the League has accomplished has been marked. Many of those who have beer, irregular in their attention and inattentive and disobedient when they were in the schools, have become models—because they want to compete in the games. Many have been induced to give up cigarette smoking (that bane of our youth) because it is impressed upon them that that, as well as other vicious habits, is uncompatible with success. The boys are being taught to play fair, to despise what is mean and dishonest, and in becoming interested in clean wholesome athletics their minds have been led away from the gangs and temptations from the streets and they have been made better morally as well as physically.

It has been decided to extend our work so as to benefit the girls as w’ell as the boys. Steps are now being taken to organize a woman’s auxiliary branch of the League for this purpose, and we are receiving every assurance of success.

The greatest difficulty the League has had to contend against has

Digitized by
—40—

been the inability to obtain suitable grounds either for the matches or for places where the boys can practice. A number of clubs have been most kind in permitting the use of their athletic fields. Several colonels of the National Guard, notably Col. Bartlett of the 22nd, and Col. Stokes of the 23d, have placed the League under great obligations by permitting some of its games to be held in their armories.

The number of boys who are anxious to develop themselves physically is enormous. The city is deeply concerned in enabling them to do this, as it will tend to make them better citizens. We welcome with delight the expressions of the Mayor and the other leading officers of the city administration in respect to providing playgrounds for the children. But in addition to these playgrounds there should be added at least four athletic fields, one in upper Manhattan, one in Brooklyn, one in Richmond, and one in Queens, so situated as to be accessible at a cheap rate of fare from the crowded centers of Manhattan. With these fields the League feels that wonders could be accomplished.

One of the most important results which the League has attained is inducing a number of our citizens to undertake the helping of the public schools. Princeton has-just completed an athletic building at a cost of half a million dollars. Yale, Harvard and the other colleges are constantly in receipt of large sums from their alumni and from those who, although not alumni, are desirous of promoting education. Yet the number of attendants at these colleges and the number of their alumni is but a handful when compared with those of our public schools. To day these schools have a daily attendance of some 250,000 boys, which js more than the total population of many of our large cities. One hundr- d thousand of them are old enough to acquire athletic training. The graduates from these schools are innumerable and include many leading men in every walk of life, yet until our League was organized no appeal has ever been made to these graduates or to the public to induce them to do anything to benefit either the public schools or the boys who attend them. I hope and believe that as soon as the objects of the League become generally known, the alumni of the public schools will recognize, as do those of our colleges, the obligations that they are under to the public schools in which they acquire the foundation of their education and will give the League a generous support. PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHHLETIC LEAGUE OF THE CITY OF

NEW YORK.

treasurer’s report to THE ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 20, 1904.

Total receipts to date..................................... $9,710.39

Total disbursements to date............................. 5,120.84-

Balance to credit..................................... $4,589.55

MONEYS RECEIVED.

From 180 Annual memberships.................... $2,225.00

39 Life memberships...................... 1,950.00

28 Patrons............................... 3,625.00

Subsriptions on account of medals, prizes, etc.	135.00

Special funds donated........................... 1,300.00

Miscellaneous receipts............................ 475.39

-----------$9,710.39

Digitized by tjOOQle
- 47—

DISBURSEMENTS.

Stationery, printing, office furniture, etc....... $ 976.87

Clerk hire........................'................ 1,336.64

Securing contributions...........................   1.333.30

Trophies, banners, etc............................. 1,157.23

Sub-target gun machine............................... 250.00

Rental, expressage. etc............................... 66.80

------------$5,120.84

Balance.................................................. $4,598.55

A CORDIAL FOR HEALTH.

Laugh, says the philosopher, if you are wise. And it is this prescription that is now being offered in all seriousness, and its most literal sense, by a Parisian nerve specialist who is so firmly convinced that mirth will not only chase away dull care, but will actually prove a fine physical tonic, that he has actually instituted the laughter cure for all patients that are suffering from any of the numerous nervous ailments of the day, says the Philadelphia Inquirer.

And a splendidly healthy and, if one can so express it, infectious prescription it is for old and young alike. With mirth and laughter, said Shakespeare, let old wrinkles come, but paradoxically it may be urged, that the very best way to keep wrinkles at bay is to preserve a merry heart. Most assuredly it is an excellent means of keeping young, and mayhap it is the secret of perpetual youth that one and all are striving after these days.

This was another discovery of the great poet and philosopher-“Mirth and merriment,'* said he, “lengthen life,” and naturally there seems more chance that the cheery-hearted, light-minded folk will outlast those who fret and wear themselves to sharp points with groans and sighs.

A cheerfnl disposition, unfortunately, is not given to all; there are bom and bred wet blankets, and many a Mrs. Gummidge is let loose on the community.

What is to be done with these? Why,make them laugh, to be sure-This is the type that the French specialist undertakes to cure. How he does it is, of course, his own secret, and yet it is not a very profound one, presumably, for he is anxious for the treatment to become generally known. Health of body, health of mind, a clear complexion, a good disgestion—only think of it—are promised to those who laugh heartily for an hour each day. In the olden time they so evidently recognized the value of laughter that professional jesters were kept to exite mirth.

We cannot very well add these to our domestic staff nowadays, nor can we order from the stores or concert agents a professional mirth producer to visit, like the masseuse or typewriter, but evidently there is something in the new-old theory, else a potent, grave and reverend nerve specialist would not so seriously recommend it.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-48-

X X ______	Published	Monthly.

MtSP ftND BODY. * pkbidbnker pobush.no CO

Subscription Price, St.00 per Year.	Tree. WUconein.

ta~ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W«s Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THREE MONTHS OF HARD WORK BEFORE TURNFEST

IN another three Vnonths the time for the National Turnfest of the North American Gymnastic Union will be at hand. Although much of the work for this gathering has already been done, there still remains a great deal more to be accomplished before all will be in readiness. The Executive Committee, assisted by a host of sub-committees, is looking after the details and by the time that June 21 arrives the arrangements will be complete.

There will be no less than 2,500 participants in the various gymnastic contests. There will be group and individual contests on apparatus, in track and field events. The various turners will take part in all of them, as the organization does not encourage specialization in athletics.

The active turners will live in a camp at the State Fair grounds during their stay in Indianapolis. Arrangements have already been made for 000 tents, and the camp will be ordered according to approved army regulations. Everything will be provided in this camp at a moderate expense for the comfort and convenience of the athletes. Wholesome meals also will be served.

All the athletic exercises will be held at the Fair Grounds, which are to be put in shape especially for the meet. There will be a number of mass exhibition drills in which over 5,000 turners, ladies and children will take part. Season tickets will be sold at $1 apiece which will admit the holder to the grounds every day during the meeting, which will continue from June 21 to June 25.

A turnfest, however, does not consist entirely of gymnastic exhibitions and contests. There are other exercises. Many societies maintain male choruses, and contests will be arranged for these. German organizations always encourage music and an effort will be made to make the musical contests a feature. They will be held at the German House. In this connection there will also be declamation contests. None of the prizes have a monetary value. They consist of diplomas and honorable mentions.

There are many expenses in connection with a big meeting of this kind, and one of the most important duties is that of the Finance Committee, which must raise the money to defray the obligations. For the purposes of this year’s meeting of the Gymnastic Union the Local Committee raised a guarantee fund of $25,000.

Philadelphia was the scene of the last turnfest, and before that St. Louis and Milwaukee. If weather conditions are favorable the Executive Committee does not have the least doubt but that the sqccess of past years will be more than outdone here next Tune.

Digitized by i^ooQle
—49—

The five days allotted for the turnfest will be crowded with all sorts of entertainment, including a number of public demonstrations. Committees are now at work seeking the co-operation of the downtown merchants in an effort to carry out a scheme of decorations which is promised to be the most effective ever adopted in Indianapolis.

One of the public demonstrations will consist of a big parade. It will contain a number of floats, illustrating the various periods in the history of the North American Gymnastic Union. These will not be merely wagons carrying costumed persons. They will be appropriately surrounded in such a manner by an escort that each one will be a distinct and complete picture, telling its own story.

It is customary with the North American Gymnastic Union to name a committee of five of the foremost educational men in the country. They are invited to attend the turnfest at the union’s expense, and, after it is over, they report their impressions as to the value of the work done. Such a delegation will also be present in Indianapolis next June.

HOW TO CLIMB A ROPE.

Rope climbing is one of the best of exercises, not only for strengthening the muscles of the arms and legs, but for increasing the healthiness of the heart and lungs. So many muscles work together in climbing that the exercise is a capital one for aiding respiration and nutrition. There are several methods of ascending the rope; one that is known as one hand leading. The climber shonld stand close up to the rope, then reach up and take hold with both hands, one just above the other; the next step is to raise the legs, without bending the arms, and grasp the rope, with one leg on top and one underneath. The rope should be held between the heel of one foot and the instep of the other, and between the knees. Now pull with the arms and straighten the body until the chest touches the hands. After this reach up again, one hand at a time, and repeat the movements described. A good deal depends upon a good hold of the rope with the legs, as much of the weight of the body is thus taken off the hands. In the hand over hand climb one arm is moved for every stroke of the legs. To climb by means of the arms only is a good exercise for the biceps and other muscles. In learning, short steps should be taken, and the arms should be bent as much as possible. Later the most economical way is to take longer steps.—Gymnasium.

—Men of great financial power are endowing institutions for medical research; vast sums are expended in the care of disease; these moneys are well expended, but of greater importance than either of these are those agencies which make for the building up of vigorous physique, which will not only resist disease, and have this power necessary in order to do effectively the world's work, but which also make for the development of those social and moral qualities which the development of the great city put in peculiar jeopardy.

Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick.

Digitized by CjOOQle
CORRESPONDENCE SYSTEMS OF EXERCISE FOR

HOME USE.

By A. B. WEGENER, Physical Director.

(Concluded.)

NOTHER firm believes in heavy weight lifting by means of a bar-

bell, which makes all men strong and muscular. Their system, they claim, is based on principles that have been in vogue over 2,000 years. They further claim that professional weight-lifters are not only the most finely developed, but also the healthiest set of men in the world; whereas prize fighters frequently die of consumption and heart trouble, thus proving that no other exercise does so much for health as weight-

A certain Self-Culture System claims to have nature’s way to perfect health. “It is the golden key to all success in life and beauty; will prolong life and save the cost of doctor bills.”- They claim to cure round and drooping shoulders, partial curvature and incorrect posture; weakness eaused by too much weight on certain portions of the body; dyspepsia, liver, stomach, bowel troubles, and pains in the side or back; chest pains, palpitation of the heart, lung troubles and feelings of suffocation; colic, hemorrhoids, hernia, varicocele, and all forms of weakness of either sex.

Another method, called the Natural Method, makes a specialty of chest expansion, shows how a man of (53 years of age increased his chest expansion 4 1-2 inches in 18 treatments.

The L----------System	cures	all the ills that flesh is heir to by means

of internal bathing and the use of enemas.

The V----------System	differs	from all other systems as it exercises

the internal organs and not the muscles; all this is accomplished by deep breathing. They claim that the only rational method for one who has led a sedentary life and appeal to one’s intelligence that their system is the best.

Another Chicago System bases its movements on rigidity of the muscles. They claim that the physicians say it may not do any harm and may do lots of good. “Heart trouble that has been brought on by gymnasium work is cured, and our system is much superior to the ordinary gymnasium work.” Cures anything. This system has been most widely pushed. Mr. Day, in the paper which he read at the conference, read testimonial after testimonial of men who have taken this system faithfully and were greatly disappointed in it.

One system, which comes from Ohio, is run by an uneducated prizefighter, who styles himself “Advocate and Professor of Physical Culture, Hydrotherapy, Massotherapy and Hygiene.” He cures everything the rest do for $5, in addition to “giddiness.”

Another bases his system on the method of eating. He advises first going without breakfast, and after one is accustomed to that, to live on but one meal a day. When this grows tiresome “eat as much as you can one week and as little as possible the next.”

Another system is the evolution of the physical culture craze. “Professors” of this new cult call it “vibratory muscular exercise,” the object

lifting.

Digitized by

Google
—51 —

of which is not to gain physical strength but physical beauty. “All that you have to do is to grasp an imaginary enemy by the throat, without closing the hands, and then give all the tension that has been lying dormant for months into your hands, arms, shoulders, neck and back. Keep this tension on until you have counted thirty—mean while hold your breath. When you reach 20 you will be vibrating like the leg of a frying frog. By and by you will think that two »10-minutes spasms a day are insufficient. With a convulsive movement your arms will become rigid, your hands will feel like grasping hooks, your face will take on a ferocious look, your shoulders will hunch up, and your chest will puff out like a pouter pigeon.”	y

Dr. J. C. McCurdy of the Springfield Training School shows that the majority of men taking these correspondence courses are over 25 years of age.

It does not require an expert physical director to appreciate the nonsense in the claims of the above mentioned systems. On the other hand, well-informed physical directors will not claim that there is no value in many of the above. The only difficulty is that the advocators o these systems are inexperienced men and claim too much. It is afbsurd to say that, because “quacks” have entered the field of physical training and have flooded the country with such claims as above stated, skilled physical directors of long training and experience should not put before the public something that is rational, scientific and systematic, and which will claim to do only that which is possible from the scientific standpoint.

The greatest difficulty with these so-called systems is that they miss the incentive of recreation, and soon lose their pleasure. A scientific study of these questions reveal the greater value to exercises which combine recreation and intense enjoyment. These exercises may be obtained in any of the popular sports that are known to us—baseball, skating, coasting, tennis, golf and others.

The failure of a five or ten-minute course in your room morning and night is largely due to the fact that it is taken more as a medicine than for pleasure, and yet this is a fact, that if a person will persist in taking various exercises, with or without apparatus, at stated intervals, he cannot help put be benefited. On the other hand, the kind of exercise, the amount to be taken, and the age and sex of the individual, are factors which require the skill of a trained physicul director before such work is undertaken.

The editor would be pleased to answer any question relating to the above subject.

PHYSICAL FORCE.

There is no single agency that if properly conducted will build up the mental, physical, and moral nature of a man more than a gymnasium. If the director has only a subjective vision of a plan, he will so influence his men to think and act along his lines that objective reasoning will not even be indicated. He may not be able to define the why and wherefore of how to develop muscular power, nor how to
develop nerve force. He may not be able to define the negative exercises, which prevent nerve force flowing into space, nor the positive exercises whereby he can develop nerve force at will. If he only knows the modus operandi of how to develop himself along these lines, he will be an irresistible magnet on the floor of the gymnasium, and it is unnecessary to say that so far as he falls short of this, accordingly will his powers for influencing and controlling others be limited, and without some degree of this power he will be a failure.

WHAT IS YOUR IDEA OF A BATH ?

By JOHN BRISBEN WALKER.

AS SCIENCE comes into the “twentieth-century home,” undoubtedly everything will be reduced to rules based upon reason. The bath, which to many is only a question of soap and water, is in reality a scientific process to which careful thought should be given.

Four things are valuable in the bath.

First, and foremost, it should be a matter of physical exercise. In fact, in the life of many who are busily engaged, it is the one exercise that can always be relied upon; because affairs may consume the after portion of the day and prevent, for some reason, the proper taking of exercise. Therefore the bath should be looked to, first, as a preliminary “setting up” exercise of the day, almost sufficient in itself to insure heath.

Only secondarily is the cleansing process. The method here suggested involves a change from the rounded porcelain tub which is usually connected with ideas of the bath, and brings the rich and the poor to the same level. For practical use the tin tub, about four feet across and about six inches high on the flange sides, is absolutely the best bathing-tub that can be found. This brings a most luxurious bathing-apparatus within the reach of every young man or young woman, however limited his or her weekly income.

Of course, a marble-lined shower-bath with a flat floor would be better than any other apparatus, but that is only for the few.

In the absence of a shower and with the tin tub, a large sponge serves every purpose. With this a great quantity of water can be taken up and pressed out so quickly over the neck and shoulders, that it serves all the purposes of the shower-bath. This is process number one.

When the body is thoroughly wet, process number two begins. This consists in the use, not of soap or a towel or a sponge or a brush, but simply of the open hands. With these, after a little practice, it is possible to rub every portion of the body. The entire force of the muscles should be thrown into the work. Reaching down to the ankles, a rubbing process takes place that is thorough, because it is done over and over and over again, until the strength is exhausted. Standing on one foot, the other may be rubbed with the hands. The motion of reaching the arm behind and up the back is itself a splendid exercise.

Process number three is a repetition of the shower bath with the sponge—one spongeful after the other being emptied over the body until it is thoroughly cleansed.

Process number four then begins with a huckaback towel—not a

Digitized by c^ooQle
Turkish towel, but something that is hard and can be drawn vigorously against the body. For five or eight minutes, the strength of the body, which has been restored during the shower-bath process, is again exhausted by vigorous rubbing. One end of the towel in either hand is drawn backward and forward across the bod}’ from the ankle to the neck, up and down, in every conceivable position. The more the body is bent the more attitudes are assumed, the finer the physical results.

‘ The water to be used is, of course, always cold. There is no particular chill to the body, because as the cold water strikes the shoulders with the sponge, it is heated in its downward flow by the warmth of the body. It is, perhaps, not proper to sa} that there is no shock, but the shock is so slight that even an invalid will soon lose consciousness of it, the vigorous action of the hand heating up the body and giving a splendid circulation.	•

Mind j7ou, this method of bathing requires no expense of a bathroom, only a two-dollar tub. For the young clerk—girl or man—whose means are limited, the towel which was used for the body one day is that which is placed the next day around the bath tub to prevent the water splashing on the floor. When the bath is over, the tin tub may be emptied, dried and hung up in less than one minute’s time.

This kind of a bath means economy, quickness of bathing, and neatness. No housemaid is required to tak^ care of such a bathroom.

DANCING IN RELATION TO PHYSICAL TRAINING.

MANY gymnastic teachers have become interested in the relation of dancing to physical training, and it will be a source of much pleasure to the physical training world to learn that on April 17, IS and 19 the Council of the American Physical Education Association will hold its annual convention at the Thompson Memorial Building of Teachers’ College.

The program arranged so far is as follows:

The Teaching of Dancing. By Gilbert.

Useful Dancing from the Physical Education Standpoint. By Dr. Sargent.

The Dancing Foot. By Dr. Henry L. Taylor.

Does Training in Dancing Contribute to General Grace of Carriage and Posture.

By Miss Elizabeth Burchenall.

The Arts of Motion as Related to Physical Education. By Miss Caroline Crawford. Comparative Emphasis of Dancing for the Two Sexes. By Dr. E. H. Arnold. Present Status of Gymnastic Dancing in Educational Distribution of America.

By Dr. W. G. Anderson, Yale University, fia Jitsu Anatomically Considered. By R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., Univ. of Pa.

The practical exhibits include:

Graded Exercises for Girls. By Miss Josephine Biederhaus.

Swedish Folk Dances. By Jacob Bollin.

Graded Course for High School Boys in Dancing. By Dr. Henry Crampton. Dancing in a Course tor Yale Students. By Dr. W. G. Anderson, Yale University. Two Classes in Dancing: 1, Men over Fifty; 2, Men under Fifty. By Mr. Hubbard of the Y. M. C. A.. Providence, R. I.

Dancing for Women. By Turn Vcrein New York.

A Group of National Dancing. By the Anderson Club.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-54—

For the last few years many gymnastic teachers have introduced dancing somewhere in the lesson. Many teachers give a few dancing steps when the arms are tired holding Indian clubs. After the class has rested arms by a few fancy steps the Indian club swinging has been resumed. Many teachers introduce some form of social dancing into the lesson because some one in the class has asked for a two-step or a waltz. The teacher understands what the class wants and she usually pleases them. Many teachers think dancing should be introduced in every lesson, from the aesthetic point of view; hence fancy steps taken in couples around the gymnasium are features of many gymnastic lessons. Many people have said that dancing has no place, no relation to formal gymnastics, whose aim is primarily corrective, not aesthetic, but just as many claim that dancing gives good results, often better results than formal gymnastics and that dancing has a relation to physical training.

This convention will bring the experts together who can throw considerable light on the subject and the convention will prove interesting to the large body of physical training teachers throughout the city'.

THE HUMAN MACHINE AT THE HEAD.

TO test the efficiency of a man as an engine, Prof. Atwater of Wesleyan University has been engaged recently in making some remarkable experiments, employing a stationary bicycle as a means of measuring the power developed by a muscular rider.

By the simple expedient of making the tire of the rear wheel (this cycle has no front wheel) pass between two electro-magnets, which are connected with a dyna'mo, all of the energy transmitted to the pedals is converted into a current of eleciricity. This current can be measured, and thus it is ascertained exactly how much power is employed.

The rider operates his wheel inside of a great box of wood lined with metal. He is not permitted to leave the box for several days and nights, and all of his food and drink is carefully weighed. In this way the amounts of fuel and water supplied to the human engine are accurately ascertained, and the total energy which they represent can be easily figured out.

As a result of the experiments it has been found that a man is a much better engine than a locomotive, yielding nearly twice as much power for a. given amount of fuel. He is superior in this respect to the best and most economical pattern of automobile. In fact, no kind of engine as yet contrived —steam, gasoline, or electric—is equal to him as a producer of energy.

Prof. Atwater says that the most economical engine built to-day utilizes, in the shape of work, only 15 per cent, of the energy contained in the fuel supplied to it. The human power machine develops 20 per cent, without counting what is required to keep the internal mechanism of the body running. Of course it takes considerable power to keep the heart-pump going and the digestive apparatus m operation. To reckon the expenditure for these and other functions at an additional 20 per cent, would not be over the mark.

Thus it is seen that the human engine runs with much less waste than any mechanical contrivance yet devised. Man stands to-day the model machine, and, with all his vaunted ingenuity, he cannot construct an apparatus that comes near the equaling of his own body as a work producer. Nor, indeed.

Digitized by U.ooQle
will any other kind of engine, though built of the best ktnd of materials, run for anything like so long a period without wearing out, requiring in the same time so small an expenditure for repairs.

It will be understood that the stationery bicycle is employed for the purpose of finding out how much of the food consumed by the rider is used for muscular work. Prof. Atwater has accurate tables of figures, which show just how much energy is contained in a pound of beefsteak, a pound of eggs, a pound of potatoes, and so on. It is a simple matter, therefore, to calculate how much power goes into the man, so to speak, with his meals, and the power he transmits to the pedals of the wheel as registered by a dynamometer.

Nothing is omitted that can contribute to the accuracy of the test. Even the carbonic acid exhaled with the man’s breath is absorbed by lump* of soda-lime contained in silver cylinders-to be afterwards separated out and measured. Outside the great box, in which the rider operates his wheel a certain number of hours each day, sits an expert observer, who, by means of instruments connected electrically with the interior, is able to regulite the temperature and the degree of moisture of the air inside.

Prof. Atwater gave a glimpse of this interesting investigation at the St. Louis Exposition by means of photographs, but, in order to appreciate it, one should see the apparatus. The box, which is lined by a network of wires, is lighted inside by electricity, so as to be a cheerful sort of prison for the occupant, who, when not engaged in riding the wheel, can read. His cycle, when in operation, furnishes power to run an incandescent lamp which is attached to the machine.

The most interesting of the profe sor’s experiments has for its object the measuring of mind energy—that is to say, of brain work performed by the occupant of the box, who, in obedience to instructions, spent several hours a day (when ofi the wheel) in studying the most abstruse sort of mathematics. Hut it was not found that the muscular power developed under these conditions was less for twenty four hours than was registered in an equal length of time when the mind was kept as idle as possible, not even ordinary reading or any avoidable thinking being done.

It is quite possible that when the investigations have been carried further some definite results in this line of observation may be obtained, but as yet it roust be admitted that no satisfactory means of measuring the energy expended by the brain in the production of mind work has been discovered.

Apparently what we know as brain work is accomplished by the expenditure ot a kind of energy wholly different from any that we are now able to comprehend. To measure it is a problem approaching the metaphysical, and, however reasonable it may be to regard the human body as a mere machine, other elements as yet but feebly comprehended by science, enter into the question when the domain of mind is under consideration.

SWIMMING FOR SOLDIERS.

(London Globe.)

Many valuable lives would certainly be saved annually if swimming formed a part of the national curriculum for soldiers. During the present bathing season there have been several fatal accidents to soldiers whose lives would have been saved could they have swum a few yards. During the South African war there was a retreating

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 5f»

detachment which could not fetch a boat from the other side of an unfordable stream, although no enemy but the water offered opposition. A couple of fair swimmers could have performed the service with ease, and the river being narrow, the little command would have been ferried over before the pursuing Boers arrived on the scene.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

f Continued, t

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Battle Ball,*’ as explained in the January issue of “Mind and Body”, 1904. As a preliminarj- a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

Form a front line and count off by sixes from first to last. By sixes form in front of 1. flanker 1. oblique—march!

Place two long wands, or clim- . .... .j . . . . . .j . ... ..j bing poles, on the floor 1. or r. of	v	\\\\^	*\\\\^

each rank. The ranks to take one	*X*T	X!*T	**X*T

step sidew. to stand between the	\y	Xj	'.j

wands (or poles).

Bend knees and grasp wands—1! Extend knees and lift wands to starting pos.—2.

LONG WAND DRILL.

.	1.	a)	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and r. and raise wand

sidew. 1. and r. alt.—1, 4! b) Same as a, but forw. 1. and r. alt.—1, 4!

2.	a) Bendkneestep sidew. 1. and r. alt. and raise

both wands outw.—1, 4i b) Bendkneestep forw. 1. and r. alt. and raise both wands forw. -1, 4!

3.	a) Raise 1. and r. knee forw. and 1. and r. wand alt. under shoul-

der—1, 4!

b) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alt. and raise both wands under shoulders—1, 4!

Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wands outw.—step!

4.	a) Bend trunk forw. and lower wands (hands near 1. foot)—1!

Pos.-2»

b) Bend trunk backw. and move wands forw. upw. obi.—1! Pos. —2 ! Pos.—stand!

In place—rest! Pos.—stand !

5.	a) Raise 1. leg sidew. and 1. wand over 1. shoulder—1! Pos.—2!

Same r.—3, 4!

b) Lunge sidew. 1. and r. alt. and both wands over shoulders—1,4!

6.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wands outw.—! Bend trunk sidew. 1. (arms remain on a level with shoulders)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

7.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wands forw.—1! Bendkneestep

sidew. 1. and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Digitized by

Google
bj Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wands outw.—1! Cross-bend-kneestep backw. 1. and move arms upw. (overh.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

In place—rest! Pos.—stand !

8.	a) Bend knees and raise wands outw.—1 ! Pos.—2!

bj Raise heels and raise wands outw. overh.—1! Pos.—2! c) a and b alt.—1, 4!

Stride pos. outw.—jump!

9.	Raise 1. wand sidew.—1 ! Turn trunk to the r. and move wand overh., then lower forw. on a level with the shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—1, 4! Pos.—jump!

Stride pos. outw.—jump!

10.	Raise 1. wand sidew.—1! lA turn r. on the heels, kneel on 1. knee, move wand overh. and lower forw. on a level with the shoulders —2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—1, 4, Pos.—jump!

11.	Straddle jump outw. and raise wands outw.—1! Pos.- -2!

Repeat in lively rhythm 6 or 8 times.

12.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wands outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wands in four counts. Repeat 4 to 6 times.

Bend knees and place wands on the floor—1! Release grasp and extend knees to pos.—2!

The class take one step sidew. 1. or. r. outside of wands. The last member of each rank remove the wands.

The ranks form on r. side of rear ‘flanker to a front line b> marching forw. obliquely (the five members in front execute % turn r., step out with r. foot and when on a line with the rear flanker execute5*, turn r. and halt.)

The members of the first division take four steps iorw.; those of the second three steps forw.; those of the third two steps forw., and those of the fourth remain in place. All turn r. face and close up to the leader of the respective division, then turn front.

The leaders conduct their divisions to the respective apparatus as:

First Division :	High horizontal bar.

Second	44	High-jump.

Third	44	Low parallel bars.

Fourth	“	Flying rings (jumping	height).

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4-.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

1. Jump to straight arm hang with combined grasp (1. reverse and r. ordinary), swing, with the first backw. swing V2 turn r., release grasp of r. hand and regrasp after the turn to ordinary, raise both legs, ankles to bar, circle 1. leg under bar to outside knee hang and V4 knee circle forw. to rest; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg (backw.) to front rest; raise both legs backw. to free rest, front hip circle back and down to front side stand.

2.	As ex. 1, but after the lA knee circle forw. to rest, immediately add V2 circle r. with r. leg (under 1. hand) and flank vault 1.

3.	Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp, raise both legs, ankles

Digitized by CjOOQle
—.j8—

to bar, then simultaneously with the extention of the hips for the swing execute V2 turn l.f releasing the grasp of the r. hand and regrasp the bar on the far side to ordinary (the 1. hand now in reverse grasp), swing forw., raise both legs, ankles to bar, squat backw. with extended 1. leg and swing up forw. to cross rest; reverse grasp of r. hand and crotch circle forw. (once); V2 turn 1., circle r. leg forw., transfer grasp of r. hand to ordinary on the far side of the bar to front rest; drop kip; underswing and down.

4.	Start as ex. 3, but instead of squatting with 1. leg, swing up over bar (half giant swing) to front rest; drop kip to front rest; front hip circle forw. and front vault 1. (r.).

5.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division for high-jump.

First Division.—High-jump.

As preliminary jumps execute the following:

1.	Spring off of 1. foot without or with Vi and Y2 turn 1. (r.)

2.	Spring off of both feet, raise knees forw. and arms forw. overh.

3.	Hurdle, advancing with the 1. (r.) leg.

4.	Try for height.

Second Division.—Highjump.

Same as first division.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp, and—

1.	Swing, at first forw. swing, raise both legs, ankles to bar, kip to front rest and flank vault 1. (r.).

2.	As ex. 1. to front rest, then V2 circle r. with both legs to rear rest; seat circle backw. (once), raise both legs forw. and dismount forw.

3.	Reversed grasp.—Kip to front rest; V2 circle r. with both legs to rear rest ; seat circle forw. and as the legs rise over the bar dismount forw.

4.	Combined grasp.—Kip to free front rest, then front vault r. (1.).

f>. Combined grasp (1. reverse, r. ordinary).—Kip to front rest; front vault swing r. to front rest with r. hand regrasping bar in ordinary on the far side of the bar; front hip circle backw.; underswing and down.

b. As ex. 5, but after lowering to front rest on the far side of the bar; drop backw., ankles to bar; kip to front rest, front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to begin on the low parallel bars and the fourth on the flying rings, then change places.

Low Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes all mpvements.

1.	lump to the center of the bars, swing legs forw., circle r. leg in front of 1. hand, the 1. leg swings backw., then circle over 1. bar to

Digitized by CjOOQle
join the r. in outside cross seat, the hand now' to he tranferred in front of r. thigh; front vault dismount sidew. r. over both bars.

2. Jump to the center of the bars: swing legs forw. then backvv., circle

1.	leg forw. over 1. bar behind 1. hand, the r. leg to swing again forw., then circle over 1. bar to join the r. in outside cross seat, the 1. hand transferred behind the thighs; rear vault dismount sidew\ r. over both bars.

3.	As ex 1, but following the circle of the r. leg in front of 1. hand, screw dismount sidew. 1.

4. As ex. 2, but as the 1. leg circles over the 1. bar lift the 1. hand to allow the leg to pass under the same while the r. leg swrings up again between the bars and circle in front of r. hand to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw. lower the 1. leg and circle r. leg in front of 1. hand and screw dismount sidew. 1. with Y2 turn r.

5.	Jump to the center of the bars, swing both legs forw., then % circle 1. (under 1. hand) with the r. leg to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. and rear vault 1.

(5. Same as ex. 5, but instead of lowering to straddle seat, both legs meet, then swing forw. and rear vault 1.

7.	Jump to the center of the bars, swing both legs forw., then backw. and 14 circle r. with 1. leg (under 1. hand); swing backw. and front vault 1.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

Jump to straight arm hang and—

1 Short swing (raise both legs upw., the feet between the rings) forw. and backw. 3 or 4 times. Down.

2.	Short swing sidew. I. and r. 3 or 4 times. Down.

3. Circle 1. with both legs. Down.

4. Circle r. with both legs. Down.

5.	Short swing forw. to flexing thighs over body, then lower 1. leg to knee hang on 1. wrist, the r. leg swings downw., then upw. again to meet the 1.; lower both legs and repeat on r. wrist. Repeat 1. and r. Down.

As ex. 5. but rest 1. leg on r. wrist, etc., and vice versa.

7.	Pull up as often as possible.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Battle Ball.” After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.)

—This is the way President Hadley of Yale puts it: Criticism has been made that we have too much athletics in our colleges. I think we should not jessen our athletics, but increase our intellectual study. The more baseball a boy play9, the more geometry he should study; the faster he can run, the faster he should read. We need a combination of forces.

Flying Rings (jumping height).
-(»()-

OFFICIAL SALARY SCHEDULE OF TEACHERS OF PHYSIGAL TRAINING IN NEW YORK.

. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. OFFICE OF THE CITY SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS,

PARK AVENUE AND FIFTY-NINTH STREET.

Dear Sir or Madam: Your attention is called to the opportunities for useful service in the elementary and high schools of the city of New York for teaching physical training. Each teacher of physical training in the elementary schools has supervisory work to do over school districts embracing approximately 25,000 children, and has relation to the regular grade teachers of the districts. The high school teachers do actual teaching rather than supervisory work.

The salaries are paid as follows:

TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Men (per year)...........

Women (per year).........

Assistant Teachers.

Men (per year)...

Women (per year) Junior Teachers.

Men (per year)...

Women (per year)

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

HIGH SCHOOLS.

Minimum. (Yearly increase.) Maximum

$1,200

900

$1,300

1,100

$900

700

($100)

($100)

•

($110)

($80)

($50)

($50)

$1,600

1,200

$2,400

1.900

$1,200

1,000

A certain limited amount of allowance is made for experience beyond that which is required in order for the candidate to be eligible for license.

A circular is enclosed which gives definite statement in regard to eligibility and date of examination. For those who do satisfactory work, these positions are practically for life. There is also a pension after a service in teaching of thirt}r years, twenty of which have been in the public schools of New York City.

Sincerely yours Luther Halsey Gulick, Director of Physical Training.

OFFICIAL NOTICE OF EXAMINATION OF TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF NEW YOLK.

Examination for License as Teacher of Physical Training in

Elementary Schools or in High Schools.

New York, Feb. 1, 1905.

A written examination for license as teacher of physical training in elementary schools or in high schools will be conducted by the Board of Examiners on Thursday, April 13, and Friday, April 14, 1905, commencing at 9:30 A. M., at the Hall of the Board of Education, Park Avenue and 59th Street, Manhattan. An oral and practical examination will be given at the call of the Board of Examiners. Applicants coming from a distance will be examined orally on Friday, April 14. The oral examination will include a practical test with a class in physical training, as well as individual performance. Applicants should provide themselves with gymnasium suits for use in the practical tests.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-61-

I.	License for Elementary Schools. No person will he eligible for this license whose age on April 13, 1905, is under twent\'-one or over forty-one years. Under this provision an applicant will be regarded as eligible up to and including the day preceding his forty-first birthday.

Each applicant must have the following qualifications :

(a)	Graduation from a satisfactory high school or institution of equal or higher rank, or an equivalent academic training, or the passing of an academic examination ; (b) the completion of a satistactorj' course of professional training of at least two years in physical training; (c) three years’ experience in teaching physical training, which three years must not include the two years devoted to professional training ; or six years’ experience as a class teacher teaching physical training a satisfactory portion of the time, which six years may be inclusive of the years devoted to professional training.

The written examination will be upon (a) applied anatomy, physiology and hygiene ; (h) history and literature of systems ol physical education; (c) gymnastic games and athletic sports; (d) the principles aud the practice of physical training, including principles of education, methods of instruction and class management.

II.	License for High Schools. No person is eligible for a license for service in the high schools of New York City who is not over twenty-one and less than forty-one years of age.

Each applicant must have one of the following qu alifications :

1.	Junior Teacher.—Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, together with the completion of a satisfactory pedagogical course of at least one year, or, in lieu of such course, one year’s satisfactory experience in teaching in secondary schools. The pedagogical study here mentioned must amount to at least 210 hours, of which 90 may have been in logic and psychology.

2.	Assistant Teacher.—One of the following: (a) Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, and not less than three years’ satisfactory experience as a teacher in secondary schools or in colleges. One year of satisfactory post-graduate work resulting in a degree may be accepted in lieu of one year of the required experience in teaching.

(b)	Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, and two years’ satisfactory post-graduate work in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license and in the science of education, and one }rear of satisfactory experience in teaching in colleges or in secondary schools, or in the last two years of elementary schools, which year of experience must not be concurrent with said post-graduate work.

(c)	Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, and five years’ satisfactory experience in teaching, at least two of which shall have been in high schools or in the last two years af the New York City public elementary schools.

(d)	Graduation upon completion of a satisfactory high school course or an equivalent academic education ; seven years’ satisfactory experience in teaching, including either two years of teaching in grades of the last two years of the New York City public elementary schools, or five years of teaching in secondary schools ; and the completion of satisfactory university or college courses in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license, and in the science of education.

(e)	Graduation from a satisfactory high school course or from a institution of equal or higher rank, and two years of professional training in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license; and four years’ satisfactory experience in teaching such special subjects.

The written examination will include physical training (as above) and the science of education.

General Regulations.

In the written and oral answers to examination questions, applicants must give evidence of ability to use the English language correctly.

All documents submitted as evidence of scholarship, training or experience must be originals, and must be accompanied by duplicate copies. The filing of

Digitized by LaOOQle
—G2—

such documents is optional. No diplomas will be received, except in cases where the institution is no longer in existence.

No applicant will be licensed who does not pass satisfactorily a physical examination, to be conducted by one of the physicians authorized by the Board of Education. For applicants from a distance of 75 miles or more, the physical examination will be held on April 13 and 14 ; for all other applicants a special call will be issued No person will be licensed who has not been vaccinated within eight years, unless the examining physician recommends otherwise.

The licenses issued under these regulations hold for a period of one year, and may be renewed for two successive years, without examination, in case the work of the holder is satisfactory. At the close of the third year of continuous successful service, the City Superintendent may make the license permanent.

Applications to enter the examination should be filed prior to April 3, 1905. Blank forms for the purpose may be obtained by addressing Room 419 of this office.	William	H. Maxwell,

City Superintendent of Schools.

THE PUBLIC SCHOOL PHYSICAL TRAINING SOCIETY

OF AMERICA.

New York City, December 15, 1904. To Those Interested in Physical Training in Public Schools:

The officers are:

President—Luthkr Halsey Gulick, M. D.t Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, New York City.

First Vice-Pres.—A. E. Kindervater, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

Second Vice-Pres.—William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Third Vice-Pres.—George W. Ehler, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cleveland, Ohio.

Fourth Vice-Pres.—J. Anna Norris, M. D., Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Springfield, Mass.

Directors—Emanuel Haug, DeWitt Clinton High School, New York City; J. Blake Hillyer, Curtis High School, New York City.

Secretary and Treasurer—Josephine Beiderhase, Wadleigh High School, New York City.

If you are in sympathy with the need and purpose of such an organization, we shall be glad to have you join us. An application blank is enclosed. Our next meeting will be in connection with the convention of the American Physical Education Association.

Only members of the American Physical Education Association are eligible for membership in the Public School Physical Training Society (see Article III. of Constitution).	Sincerely	yours,

Luther Halsey Gulick, President.

CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS.

I.—NAME.

The name of this organization shall be “The Public School Physical Training Society.”

II.—OBJECT.

The object of this Society shall be the promotion of right methods in physical training, hygiene, and sanitation in the public schools.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—63—

III.—MEMBERSHIP.

1.	Teachers of physical training in public schools, and such other persons as may be elected by the Executive Committee, who are members of the American Physical Education Association, are eligible to membership in this Society.

2.	The annual membership fee shall be one dollar ($1.00), payable in advance.

3.	Caudidates for membership may be elected at any meeting of the Society, or of its Executive Committee, by majority vote.

IV.—OFFICERS.

1.	The officers shall be a President, four Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and two Directors who, with the officers, shall constitute an Executive Committee. These officers shall hold office for one year, or until their successors are elected.

2.	The officers shall discharge the duties usuallv appertaining to such offices.

3.	The Executive Committee shall conduct all business of the Society, including the arrangements for the program for the annual meeting, subject at all times to instructions from meetings ot the Society.

4.	The President, Secretary, Treasurer, and the two Directors shall be elected from one locality.

5.	The Executive Committee shall have power to fill all vacancies for the unexpired portion of their terms.

V.—MEETINGS.

Meetings shall be held in connection with the conventions and conferences of the American Physical Education Association, and at such other times as may be determined by the Executive Committee.

AMENDMENTS.

These rules may be changed at any regular meeting of this Society by a majority vote of those present.

PROGRAM OF THE OHIO PHYSICAL DIRECTORS’ CONFERENCE, MARION, O., MARCH 21-22.

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

I

X

The character of exercise best fitted for

(a)	High chool students,

(b)	Employed boys.

The aim of the physical department.

The physical director’s relation to the community.

The development of class leaders and leader’s classes The physical department as a spiritual force.

Competition.

(a)	Within the Association,

(b)	Between Associations,

(c)	With other organizations

(including gymnastics, athletics and basket ball).

A. R. Hackett.

Special gymnastic features.

Adaption of physical training methods to localities Question box.

The employed officer.

Addresses,

Swedish gymnastics.

How to interest the membership during the •	summer months

The following men will preside:

Tuesday morning	H. E. Buckland.

Tuesday afternoon	J. C. Richards. *

Tuesday evening	Dr. H. L. Dietz.

Wednesday morning	G. M. Caskey.

----	■	'	W.	S.	Shepard.

O. A. Luawig.

George M. Pinnec.

G.	F. Thompson.

Dr. W. H. Kinnicutt.

H.	H. Buxton.

W. E. Dav.

T. A. Clark.

E. W. Roehm.

George S. Budd.

George W. Ehler.

Dr. George W. Fisher.

Wednesday afternoon Wednesday night

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
—64—

Special informal group meetings will be held for discussion of other topics. Fellowship meetings will be held between 4:00 and 5:00 each day. Practical demonstration will be given on the gymnastic floor.

PRESENT STATUS OF ATHLETIC CLUBS IN BROOKLYN.

are forty foot ball teams, fifteen of these are non-school teams, the rest are connected with schools and colleges. There is a Long Island League, and also a Metropolitan League among the schools. This being a winter game, it is not possible for those who work to participate, as it requires considerable practice.

There are no less than sixty basketball teams, mostly non-registered teams. In a single edition of the Standard Union, I counted the names of thirty teams. Most ot these teams are not in sympathy with A. A. U. legislation, as the members like to make extra money by dividing the surplus funds among therii. Several of these teams are composed of Association members, who are not permitted to play in the Association, and run basketball on their own hook. One of these clubs, composed of forty-five men, from one of the branches, rented a hall, charged fifty cents a month for membership and held games, followed by dances. They soon tired of this and returned to Association membership. There are so few registered teams that Central played teams outside of the city almost exclusively.

Notwithstanding the fact that bicycling is no longer a craze, yet there is reported thirtv-six clubs, twenty-eight of which report 2,944 members. There is a Long Island Association with eighteen Clubs, and a Good Roads Association. The bicycle paths to Coney Island are among the best in the country. The largest clubs in the city assigned recently. There are ten of these clubs in the Bedford district, reporting a membership of over eight hundred. Motor cycle clubs are new types.

Bowling in Brooklyn is very* popular. There are two hundred and seventy-five public bowling places with five hundred and ninet3'-nine alleys. About five thousand men bowl on these alleys. In addition, there are approximately three thousand men who bowl in the social, athletic and political clubs. Bedford reports forty public bowling places, and Twenty-sixth ward twenty-two places.

Some of these public bowling establishments are handsomely appointed. Ehler’s alleys on Washington street is a type of the great alleys. Here are found fourteen alleys. Prizes are offered for individual and team prizes. Inducements are offered to teams to use the alleys. Some of the alleys in the city are rented by the season for every night in the week by the private clubs, and so great is the demand that is impossible to rent them after the seqson is advanced. The alleys are kept clean, and in good repair. Most alleys are connected with saloons. The loser usually' pays for the games and also for the drinks. This adds fascination to the games. Tournaments and money prizes increase the interest. Few men who use the alle\Ts are under twenty-one years of age. The Association men are better in appearance than those who frequent these places. The men are usually quiet and orderly and do not use much profanity.

One interesting bowling club is the Fosterdale Heights Club, located in a brewery at Liberty and Sheffield avenues. It has thirty members. The fee is $10 per year, and the condition of membership is that the applicant must have been a boarder at Fosterdale Farm. Men and women bowl. There is drinking, and prizes offered.

Boating Clubs: There are fourteen boating clubs reported in and about Brooklyn: seven report six hundred and nineteen qiembers. There is a Long Island Rowing Association for the government of aquatic sports, having two thousand six hundred members. Two typical clubs are the Nautilus and the Ariel. The Nautilus Club is located at South Beach. Organized in South Beach in 1883, an outgrowth <5f the Central Branch, the physical director having formed the organization. There are one hundred and twenty-five men in the club, and the ages range from eighteen up. Initiation fee is $10, dues $24 annually. Equipped with shells, gigs, barges and row boats, club house, piano, accommodations for twenty over night. Wednesday is ladies’ day; monthly receptions and dances; meals at hotels adjoining. The privileges are rowing and swimming.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by L.oooLe
9 99 XJVtJtAM* iAJUJUJUJLtt.t9.ttf.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.« DIRECTOR,

Oficrs

rf Two Years' Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

US mm GYMNASTIC UNION'

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

558-568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

The MOLINE Platform.

Bag punching as an exercise has many advantages over other forms of exercise. OurMo-line platform is adjustable in height, readily attached to any wall,

and the side brackets so arranged that it touches three rows of studding, and is rhe most serviceable, practical platform used.

Each platform is supplied with everything necessary for attaching to wall, and crated ready for shipment.

|lo. 1. DHoltnc Platform, $IO.OO. Rag is not included in above price. HANDSOME CATALOG SENT FREE.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

New York, Chicago, Denver, San Francisco.

YALE UNIVERSITY.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

JULY 6th to AUG. 10th. 1905

10---FACULTY.-«**

Arthur T. Hadley, L. L. I)., Pres.

E. Hkrshey Sneatii, L. L. D., Ph. D., Director Central School.

Harry B. Ferris, M. D., Yale. Lafayette B. Mendel, Ph. D., Yale. Yandelx Henderson, Ph. D., Yale. Charles H. Judd, Ph. D., Yale.

Wm. B. Bailey, Ph. D-, Yale.

Cloyd N. McAllister, Ph. D.f Yale. Sir P. Vollrath Tham, G. D., Sweden. Herr M. Wegener, Berlin, Germany. Chas. \V. Hand, Yale.

Wm. L. Anderson, Yale.

Henry S. Anderson, Cleveland. Josephine Beiderhase, N. Y. Schools. Gertrude Dudley, Chicago University.

Marien F. Carter, N. Y. School Gymnastics.

RobertNohr, M.D., FortWavneSchools

Hon. Wm. T. Harris. Ph. D., L. L. D., Washington. D. C.

Hon. Chas. D. Hine, Hartford, Ct.

Frank H. Beede, Supt. New Haven Schools.

Clarence F Carroll, Supt. Rochester Schools.

Wm. G. Anderson. M. A., M. D., (Director) Yale.

Ten additional Instructors. Illustrated^ Catalogues.

SUiliiam (Gilbert 3lnl»i?rfon, M. D., Director,

YALE GYMNASIUM, New Haven, Ct.

Digitized by

Google
Syrgnasiurr □utfjtters.

O-^rncLrLa-stic

AppaiatuG. Jljoclrers-^lsi^rgrrovun.a.

^.ppsira.t-u.s. Bo-^rlirLg: .^lle^rs. -^rLt3aropom.etric Apparatus.

WRITE FOR CATALOG'S.

NARRA6ANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R. I., TT. S. A.

\Yc want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teachers', for high-grade positions in all parts of United States. Just now we have openings for September, 1905, for men and women in seven Universities, three State Normals, and manyv schools and colleges [laying from $800 to $2,000 a year.

We have filled positions in the University of Wisconsin, Purdue, Pratt Institute, State Normals, etc., and can assist you. If you want to improve your condition, write to us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by VjOOQle