MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41

FEBRUARY 1935

No. 42S

Medical Excuses and Exemption from Physical Education

Chas. J. Prohaska, M.D., State Supervisor of Health Education, Hartford, Conn.

The recognition and disposition of ‘excuses’ from physical education continues to be a troublesome matter of equal concern to the school administrator, the department of physical education, and the individual seeking the excuse. The administrator and department head who are capable of interpreting the objective of physical education beyond mere physical activity hesitate before exempting or even excusing children from physical education. They are concerned primarily with two questions, viz: What constitutes a legitimate and bona fide excuse? and How can the program be modified to meet the particular needs of this group?

Viewing it from a legal aspect, two interesting interpretations are worth citing. The California State Board of Education have the following interpretation, “as the word disability under the exemption clause of the physical education law is susceptible of two interpretations temporary and permanent disability, and as disability refers to the condition of the individual to be bene-fitted by physical education activities, therefore it should be understood that individuals who are injured or ill are entitled to temporary excuses, but there is no child able to attend school regularly who will not benefit by some form of properly adapted physical education procedure. It is, therefore, recommended that no excuses from physical education for a term be granted unless the instructor in charge of physical education is unable to adapt a program to the individual’s needs, or a local physician is not available who can make proper recommendations”. An opinion from Mr. George Sturges, Attorney for the State Department of Connecticut appears as follows, “A physician does not have the power as such to excuse a child from either temporary or permanent physical education, the program, studies or activities. Any physician may, of course, issue a certificate showing the condition of the child physically from a standpoint of health as to nervousness, etc., which may properly include his opinion as to the activities to which this child may be properly subjected. Such a certificate would, however, be only for the gudiance of school authorities in the particular case. If however the physician is a school physician duly appointed by the board of education, then in that event his opinion should be final and if in
242

his opinion, a child should be excused from the physical education program or any part thereof, his recommendation should be followed.”

Inasmuch as the major responsibility for excuse and exemption in physical education appears to rest with the physician, it is fair to assume that his opinion should be guided by

1.	Findings based on a reasonably good health examination

2.	A fair understanding of physical education and the contribution that it can make

3.	Actual acquaintance with the program of physical education in the school attended, the possibilities and limitations of the program in terms of facilities and leadership

Unfortunately, medical opinion in school health matters is too often colored by prejudice, ignorance, and indifference on the part of parents and even the profession itself.

Perhaps the most common reasons why pupils seek excuse from “gym” or physical education are:

1.	Medical advice

2.	Personal dislike for the program of activities as a whole or in part

3.	Menstrual periods

4.	Feigning illness or disability in order that physical education time may be devoted to other interests such as study period, make up work, etc.

Except for medical excuses, other factors entering should be easily controlled m properly organizing and administering the program which should be broad in scope, progressive, and offer variety. Among the physical disabilities for which medical excuses are given, heart conditions and menstrual disturbances are perhaps most common. There is no question as to exemption from the regular program for physical handicaps of this and of similar nature. There remains, however, an opportunity to provide for the needs of all pupils regardless of handicap, a significant point in the California interpretation which contends “there is no child able to attend school regularly who will not benefit from some form of properly adapted physical education procedure”. Physicians are familiar with opinions of specialists regarding the value of appropriate exercise and recreation and should be in sympathy with activities restricted, recreational and even corrective in their nature, when conducted under proper medical supervision.

Perhaps the first step in a possible solution to this perplexing problem should be taken by the department of physical education. Excuses appear to diminish as the program is properly planned, wisely conducted, and thoroughly sold to school authorities, parents, and to the community generally. In seeking cooperation and support of physicians and parents many cities resort to a report form. A copy of the form in use at Springfield Mass., appears as follows:

Digitized by Google
243

Parent’s and Physician’s Certification Card [For excuse from Physical Education Work]

This certifies that in my opinion

..............................a	pupil	in...............school

should be excused from the following phases of physical education [check with x]

Corrective Gym..................   Running	   ..

Group Games .................. Hiking..................

Apparatus Work ............... Swimming ...............

Gymnastic Dancing ............ Athletics ..............

Marching ..................... Gymnastic Drills .......

From......................19........... to......,......19......

[We would appreciate your reason for requesting this excuse if you feel you would care to give it to us for our records]

.........................M.	D

Date....................19...............................Parent

Our physical education department is most desirous of helping every pupil in the school. *

This program is outlined and directed by teachers of special preparation and experience.

Physicians universally realize the value of regular exercise adapted to the age and strength of the pupils.

Therefore we believe that the best interests of the pupils are served when the request excuses the boy or girl for a limited time only.

Remarks——[by Parent or Physician]

[ If excuses are to be granted it seems fair for the school to expect first that a good reason be given, and second that the excuse be for a limited time only. Renewal and repetition of excuses should be studied by the department, and considered only after some effort has been made to correct the physical condition or to modify the program in the meantime. Permanent exemption is uncalled for except in rare cases, and from the standpoint of Mental Hygiene alone the substitution of hygiene or some academic subject should be considered as a vicious practice.

In planning for the needs of children seeking excuse from the regular program, certain groupings are necessary. Restricted individual work or moderated recreational activities may be planned for those whose physical status is such as to prohibit them carrying a normal schedule of vigorous activities; remedial and corrective procedure may be planned for those whose condition may be benefitted by exercise, rest, or relaxation. For either - group the program should be under the guidance or preferably under the supervision of a physician, and the work given should be only with the consent and cooperation of parents.

The situation concerning excuses is by no means a hopeless one. It takes considerable planning and effort, however, to influence parents, physicians and children against the practice, and affords a splendid opportunity to interpret wholesome physical education generally, and the value of modified programs in particular.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
244

The Liability of the Board of Education in Case of Injury to Pupils

Martin H. Trieb—Asst. Supervisor, Physical Ed. Los Angeles City Schools

Legal aspects of the problem. A review of the literature on liability for accidents reveals two so-called theories. One is called the “old theory” because for many years courts throughout the country held that boards of education were immune to liability in case of accidents on school grounds, even where full negligence was proved. This view or belief was and is based upon the theory that neither a city, school district, or board of education itself could be held liable in tort because the function discharged was purely governmental and that the subordinate body acts merely as an agency of the state in maintaining and managing schools and school .property and, therefore, enjoys the immunity of the State from suits.* The fact that the schools are provided for the benefit of the public and not for profit should be added to the above argumentation.'

The second theory is called the “newer theory” because many recent court decisions have held boards of education liable for injuries, particularly in those cases where boards were aware of certain dangerous conditions and possessed the power to alter the conditions, as is illustrated in the case of:

[Huff vs. Compton City Grammar School District, 257, Pac. 918.] A nine year old boy was burned by contact with an incinerator maintained on a school playground. The court held that the school authorities were fully aware of the dangerous character of the incinerator and possessed full power to surround same with safeguards and therefore were liable for the injury that had been suffered.

To act simply in a governmental capacity does not relieve boards of education of all responsibility, according to a number of court decisions. These courts have held that if dangerous nuisances, which are attractive to children, are maintained, a liability may ensue. That is to say, if play-ground equipment is known to be defective, which is at the same time attractive to children, and which is left available to children, it may be declared by court as constituting a public nuisance. To further illustrate this point the following case cited by Nash may be given. [Glasgow vs. Taylor [1921] 1 A. C. 44, 38 T. L. R. 102]

In providing a playground there is responsibility to take every precaution to make it safe for children. In other words, it is the duty of the city to anticipate thoughtlessness and mischievousness on the part of children.**

*] Recent Interpretations of Board of Education Liability. Am. Sch. Bd. Jour. 77:60-1, Dec. 1928.

**] Jay B. Nash, The Organization and Administration of Playgrounds and Recreation, A. W. Barnes and Co. New York, 1928, p. 96.

Digitized by t^ooQle
245

Case records of liability for injuries. In order to show more definitely certain aspects of the liability of boards of education for injuries, a number of court decisions are presented. These are grouped for convenience into those in which boards are not held liable, and those in which boards are held liable.

I.	Cases of non-liability of boards of education.

1.	[Boyce vs San Diego Union High School District 66 C.A.D.,

170, ------Pac----------]

Neither a high school district nor the governing board thereof is liable under Deering Act 5619 [Stats. 1923, p.

675] for injuries received by a person, other than a pupil, invited on the premises of a school building and being guided by an employee of the school district where the v cause of the injury was not the lack of proper and necessary safety appliances but the failure of the employee of the school district to use them.

2.	[Deering Act 5619, Section L, School Code of Calif., 1929,

Kersey, p. 381] Applied definitely to injuries to persons or property suffered through the negligence of employees.

3.	[Mitchell vs. Hartman, 64 C.A.D. 505,-------Pac.-------]

A municipality within which a school district is located is not liable for injuries sustained by a pupil in using certain athletic equipment of the school district, nor are members of the board of education individually liable therefor.

4.	[Solomon vs Red River Lumber Co. 56 C.A. 742.]

In a playground swing accident the case of Dick vs. Board of Education, St. Louis, Mo., 238 S.W. 1073, was quoted to the effect that School Boards are not liable for injuries caused by the negligence or malfeasance of their agents or servants, but makes them liable in case the injury is caused by the negligence of the Board itself.

[9 A.L.R. 912]

5.	[Edmondson vs. Moose Jaw School District [1920] Sask. 3

West Wash. Rep. 999, 55 D.L.R. 563]

That a school board was not guilty of negligence in permitting the use by the pupils of a bamboo cross pole for practicing high jumping, although one end of the pole was broken, leaving sharp points, and was therefore not liable for the loss of an eye by a pupil struck by the end of the pole when it was knocked off by another pupil in jumping over it.

6.	[Ellen Schenk and Hubert Schenk vs. Board of Education,

San Francisco, Calif. Nos. 182048, 179914]

For the injury to Ellen Schenk, a pupil in the Mission High School, the above entitled cases were brought against the Board of Education and the members thereof constituting the Board of Education, for damages due as a result of the failure of a basketball rack at Mission High School. A motion for non-suit was granted upon four grounds, to-wit:

Digitized by LaOOQle
246

a.	Upon the ground that the members of the Board of Education are officers of the San Francisco School District, and therefore not liable in damages under the provisions of Act. No. 5619 Deering's General Laws of California.

b.	That the Board of Education as an entity was not liable under the provisions of Act. 5619, Deering’s Laws of the State of California.

C.	That there is no right of action against members of Boards of Education unless it first appears in the complaint of the person filing suit that the statutes permitting an action have been complied with. There are certain limitations set forth in both Act. No. 5618 ' and Act No. 5619, the major one of which is that the officers or board have had notice of the defective or dangerous condition of a basketball rack or other instrumentality, or that the defective or dangerous condition of the instrumentality was directly attributable to work done by a member of the board or under his direction* in a negligent, careless or unworkmanlike manner. .

d.	That no negligence was proved by the plaintiffs, in that it was shown by the plaintiffs themselves that the matter of the manufacture of the basketball rack disclosed aj latent defect which was not ascertainable until after the accident, and therefore the defendants were not liable under the decision in Baddeley vs. Shea, 114 Cal. 1.

7.	[Wallner vs. Barry, 78 C.D., 49.]

The Law is well settled in this state that public corporations are not to be held liable for injuries suffered by individuals through the negligence of its officials or agents in the absence of an express provision in the statutes or in the charter thereof imposing such liability.

8.	[Lyman vs. Hall, 219 N.W. 902, Nebraska]

As administrator of the estate of his sixteen year old son who was drowned in a public bathing pool operated by the defendant, the father sued for $20,000 damages. A jury awarded $5,000, while a trial court cut this award to $3,000, holding the verdict to be excessive. The defendants appealed the case and the entire judgment was set aside on the ground that the plaintiff failed to prove that the accident was due to fault of defendant. An abstract of the Supreme Court’s opinion follows:

Failure to place and maintain warning signs or notice indicating the depths of water in different parts of a public bathing pool conducted for private gain may be evidence of negligence.

Proprietors of a bathing resort, in discharging the duty of ordinary care for the safety of patrons, may be obliged to keep some one on duty to supervise bath-

Digitized by CjOOQle
247

ers and rescue any one apparently in danger; and may also be held liable for negligence if, on information that a bather is missing, they are tardy in instituting search.

The duty to exercise ordinary care to protect patrons of a bathing resort conducted for private gain does not make the proprietor an insurer of their safety.

The pool was divided into three sections by two steel cables. The shallow section was not more than two and one half feet deep, the middle section not more than four and a half feet deep. The third section was the deeper end. The maximum depths of the two shallower sections was shown by signs. A sign in the deep section read, “Deep Water. If you cannot swim, stay out.”

Notices, warning against use of the slide etc., by nonswimmers, were conspiciously posted.

Two guards were on duty at the time of the accident. There was no evidence that showed due care required a greater number. The Nebraska Supreme Court concluded with this:

The service of a life guard may be required at different places at different times. Where many swimmers are engaged in aquatic sports in the same pool, it is common knowledge that divers disappear and return at other places without giving occasion for alarm or rescue. In the present instance no one knew exactly when or where the bather disappeared. Without resorting to speculation or conjecture the jury could not properly find that, except for the failure of the guard to miss the bather and to notice that he did not promptly reappear, there would have been no loss of life. The effort to rescue the bather upon the giving of the alarm was prompt and vigilant. There was evidence that the guards did not wear uniforms or badges to distinguish them from others as life-savers, but they immediately responded to the call of duty as soon as the alarm was given, and the omission, if negligence, was not the proximate cause of the bather’s death........

Was defendant’s failure to provide competent persons to recover and resuscitate the bather the proximate cause of his death? On this issue the evidence showed that defendant had not equipped his pool with a pulmotor. . . On the other hand there is uncontradicted evidence by a competent physician that the guards in a proper manner used standard methods of equal efficiency. The physician was promptly called, arrived within a few minutes and administered restorations without success. He was called as a witness and in testifying expressed the opinion that the result would have been the same had a pulmotor been used. There was no testimony to the contrary. On the whole case, after an examination of the entire re-
248

cord from every standpoint, the conclusion is that the plaintiff did not make a case. . . .Consequently, the judgment is reversed and the action dismissed.

II. Cases of liability of boards of education.

The present theory is that a board of education, regardless of the fact that it is a sub-ordinate of the State, is liable wherever wilful negligence is proved. This newer interpretation of Board of Education liability should prompt extra caution toward safety on school property.

The most notable tendency to change the traditional point of view is found in New York and in California, where the Supreme Courts have held school authorities responsible in case of|personal injury caused by evident negligence. *

The amendment of Political Code No. 1623, passed in 1923, providing in part that, “Boards of School Trustee, Boards of Education—are liable as such in the name of the district—any judgment against the district on account of the injury to any pupil arising because of the negligence of the district or its officers or employees.”

1.	[Act 5619 [1923]—School Districts shall be liable to

persons and property resulting from the dangerous or defective condition of -----

2.	[Ahem vs. Livermore Union High School District 208 Cal. 770— [284 Pac. 1605.]

Section 1623 of the Political Code gives right of action against the school district for an injury to any pupil arising because of negligence of the district or its officers.

3.	[Dawson vs. Tulare Union High School District 98 Cal. App.

138]

The last paragraph of this section expressly exempts members of city boards of education from personal liability for accidents to children on playgrounds.

4.	[Senate Bill No. 52, which became effective Aug. 14, 1931]

Requires claims against school districts for injury to person or damage to property, resulting from dangerous or defective condition of property, to be filed within ninety days after such injury or damage. Permits the compromising of claims. Allows school districts to insure against liability. * *

5.	[Senate Bill No. 53, which became effective Aug. 14, 1931.]

Requires claims against school districts for injury to person or damage to property, resulting from dangerous or defective condition of property or negligence or carelessness of an officer, to be filed with the officer or clerk or secretary, of the district within ninety days from time of injury or damage. Permits school districts to insure against liability.**

*] The Trend of School Litigation, Am. Sch. Bd. Jour. 85:42 Nov. 1932.

**]	California Schools,2:277-78, June 1931, Sup.

Digitized by UjOOQle
249

6.	[Senate Bill 465, which became effective Aug. 14, 1931]

Permits school districts to insure against the liability of the district and—or the officers, agents or employees thereof, for injury to person or damage to property.**

SUMMARY

Boards of Education, in the absence of statutory provisions to the contrary, are not liable for injuries to pupils. Liability, if any, is incurred only where there is gross negligence, the existence of which is common knowledge.

Whither Physical Education?

By Alfred Brodbeck, Director Cincinnati Gymnasium and Athletic Club.

There was a time when health was considered to be the main objective and result of physical education. In the opinion of a great many, this is no longer the case, for abuses have crept into our profession that seem to threaten its very life. Dr. Sargent recognized this years ago when he wrote;—“The popular furor in regard to games and athletics has lent a false coloring to the whole subject of physical education and has influenced many of our higher institutions of learning to adopt measures and pursue a policy detrimental to the best interests of physical education.”

Today conditions are even worse than they were when the above was written, for this is the “play era” and the real purpose and objective of our work have been completely forgotten, at least it seems so to me, for, if we are to believe Webster, Physical Education means:—“Training the bodily organs and powers with a view to the promotion of health and vigor”.

Brands tells us that “Any exercise, to be beneficial, must be hygienic, and any exercise taken to the point of exhaustion is harmful—not only to the muscular system but to the nervous system as well, for it must be remembered that in exercise not only the muscle, but almost the whole nervous system labors”.

Hutchinson says that: “If we examine a muscle improved by exercise, we find that its fibres have become larger and more closely blended together; that its color is a darker red, and that the supply of blood-vessels has increased.” “On other hand, excessive exercise produces a condition not very different from that which follows disuse, for the muscle is worn out faster than nature builds it up.”

Is the human structure any different than it was when these physiological facts were written, or is physical education no longer a health measure? It would seem that the latter is the case for, when we look about us and see the mad orgy of sports, it is very evident that the real purpose of our work has been forgotten.

Is it the purpose of physical education to furnish Roman Holidays for howling mobs? I don’t think so and you do not either if you are honest with yourself. We of the old school are entirely to blame for the foothold gained by the game expo-

Digitized by kjOOQle
250

nents, for we have sat quietly by and have allowed these abuses to creep in. There has been no concerted action to combat this influence, except a little rumbling and grumbling here and there, which has not had the slightest effect.

Quoting Dr. Sargent again: “The more experience I have in teaching physical education and the more I observe its results, the more I am convinced that the highest ideal for which we should strive is the improvement of the individual man in structure and in function, for it is not a runner, a jumper, a football player or a super-athlete that we are trying to produce, the highest type oj physically perfect man that it is possible to vreate”.

People today seem to think that because exercise is a good thing, the more they get of it the better, when nothing is further from the truth. All of us know the value of games and athletics up to a certain point and none of us would suggest that they be eliminated, but we have other activities to offer.

Reams have been written about the “psychology of play” and the part games play in education, thus providing valuable additions to our professional literature. But in the meantime the valuable and educational gymnastics seem to have been entirely forgotten, and the result is a program, in many places, that is almost 100% games and athletics.

Many colleges in the land are now graduating teachers of physical education, in which the sole qualification seems to be ability to play or coach one or more of the major sports. These graduates write fluently and they speak convincingly. They quote all of the “ologies” to support their claim that the road to health is by way of games and athletics. But they seem to have forgotten one of the most important of sciences, at least as it relates to physical education, and that is the physiology of exercisel

The trouble with most of the recent graduates of these college courses is that they are catering to the public taste for the sensational in our work, losing sight entirely of the main reason for its existence, the building of health and vigor.

Shall we not take a lesson from the old Greeks and Romans? The Greeks taught gymnastics as part of their education, and the result was the finest physical proportions ever attained by man. They left to us the best specimens in art and sculpture that have ever been produced. But it seems that the Marathon was their undoing; gymnastics were eventually eliminated. The spoils of war brought increased wealth and with it habits of idleness and luxury to the Romans. Licentiousness and blood-lust prevailed in their exercise as told by the awful orgies in the Arena. The result was the downfall of the Roman Empire.

Are we not heading for a fall when we encourage only the nerve-racking, bone-breaking, hysteria-producing type of exercise and call it a system of physical education? Many of the games, like football for instance, have a definite and distinct purpose, but, may I ask again, is that all we have to offer?

Gymnastics are the very foundation upon which the whole structure of physical education rests, and, when we lose these,

Digitized by kjOOQle
251

we haven’t much of a constructive nature left to us. Gymnastics are all corrective in effect. What is the first thing the orthopedist does to correct faulty posture.? He resorts to gymnastics, often suspending the patient from a bar and tries to stretch the antagonistic muscles. If “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” why wait for postural defects to develop? Why not give a few simple exercises on the horizontal bar and other pieces of apparatus and prevent these defects?

Now by gymnastics I do not mean that we are to imitate the “man on the flying trapeze”. Not by any means. Myunder-standing of the term is that gymnastics may include any activity in the gymnasium that is not a game. It may include swimming, more especially diving; calisthenics with and without hand apparatus; chest weights; the rowing machine; the medicine ball; elementary apparatus work and a number of other things that will have only an influence for good on the people.

I wouldn’t trade my boyhood experience in the gymnasium with the lads of today for any amount of money. The lads of today miss much of the joy of effort, the joy of accomplisment, that comes with the mastery of some fairly difficult stunt on the apparatus. I can testify as to the educational value of gymnastics for I know just how much they have done for me.

Some of the claims made by the game enthusiasts are nothing short of ridiculous, some of which even go so far as to maintain that games have medicinal and corrective values. My own experience is that games may correct a slight functional distur-ance that will respond to exercise, that they do not have the slightest effeet on any postural defect except to make it more pronounced. . The round-shouldered, flat-chested youth who takes his exercise in only one form of sport, say basketball, comes out of it, after one or more years of participation, more round-shouldered and more flat-chested than ever before.

I have seen this opposition to gymnastics develop in my more than twenty summers at the Harvard Summer School, where many coaches came to find out what physical education was all about. They are totally lacking in co-ordination and are unable, many of them, to do the simplest type of work in gymnastics. They realize this, so teach and commend only that kind of work which they can do with safety; and I am sorry to say that they teach neither the light nor the heavy form of gymnastics. I have had coaches come to me and make the frank admission that, because their jobs depended on turning out winning teams, they were going to make every effort to become directors or heads of the department.

There’s your answer to the craze for games, for have you noticed how many are now heads of departments? Even our own Cincinnati Enquirer has noticed it for this item appeared just recently: “One by one football coaches either step out or move up into athletic directors’ jobs”. Please note that they call them “athletic directors”. What has become of the Director of Hygiene and Physical Education?

Digitized by v^.ooQle
252

While these men know very little about the practical side of the subject, they stop at nothing when it comes to theory. I know a coach who has had absolutely no training of any kind for the broad subject of physical education except the playing of football and throwing the discus in college. He could throw other things besides the discus I can assure you, as evidenced by his rapid rise in the profession. I know that his knowledge of anatomy was limited to the fact that he knew that the “red meat” of men and cattle was sometimes called muscle. You can imagine my surprise when I picked up a catalog of the large university where he had finally landed as director, to see that he was scheduled to give a course in Kinesiology in summer school at that place. Kinesiology, as you know, is the highly scientific study of movement for the teaching of which, a thorough knowledge of anatomy, the function, origin and insertion of all of the many muscles is very necessary. Did this stop him?	I

should like to have heard these lectures for, unless this man had changed a lot since I knew him, these lectures must have been quite funny.

How much longer are we going to tolerate conditions such as this? Standardization of the qualifications for the teaching of physical education is one thing that is sorely needed in our

Erofession. I understand that this is now under consideration y the American Physical Education Association. I sincerely trust that a thorough course in gymnastics will be included in the requirement and that gymnastics will be given the place.they deserve in any program.

Is there any subject in the entire school curriculum where so little practical preparation is required of the teacher as.in physical education? Would a man be permitted to teach mathematics simply because he knows that two and two make four? Then Why are men and women permitted to teach so important a subject as physical education with no other preparation than the ability to play or coach the major sports or dp a little dancing, especially when we consider that they have control of and are shaping the physical lives of many of our boys and girls?

My old friend Carl Schrader of Boston used to say that “physical education is something that you do and not something that you talk or write about”. For years I have followed this advice, but conditions have reached the point where it behooves each and every one of us who believe in real physical education, to let every man know its purpose. We will make many enemies, but are we to stand by and see these abuses and not make any effort to correct them? I, for one, have decided otherwise, and from now on I am going to preach the gospel of health. Physical education has done too much for me not to recognize my obligation, and from now on I am going to “take my pen in hand” and raise my feeble voice in protest, for I sincerely believe that these evils are sounding the death-knell of the subject. I realize that there are many who can do a very much better job of this than I can, but they seem to be putting it off

Digitized by CjOOQle
253

just a little too long. If this article will make them realize their Obligations, it will have accomplished its purpose.

How much longer will the educators tolerate the conditions now existing? Not much longer I can assure you. Already there is a movement on foot to discontinue the giving of college credits for work in our department, and in many places the work is no longer required for graduation as in the past. I am told that in some places the work is now on a voluntary basis; that is the student may choose the type of work he or she prefers to do; and if they prefer not to take exercise, that privilege also is granted them. Can you not see the results? I can. Only those students with surplus energy will take exercise, and the real student type, the thin, anemic, flat-chested type, who are greatly in the majority in all of our educational institutions, will be the forgotten men. There will be no need for teachers of physical education for a few coaches will more than fill the bill. This should furnish food for thought for all of us.

Games are a very necessary part of our work, and they have been included from time immemorial in every well balanced program. But that they do not do all of the many things claimed for them by their champions is evidenced by my experience at the Gym. I came to this club in 1904 and found the place literally alive with gymnasts with ability almost on a par with my own. Believe me it is not ego when I tell you that I was in my prime as a gymnast at that time. But I had to step lively just to stay ahead of the boys for they were really very good. I left the Gym in 1909 and returned to it again in 1920. The play movement had even invaded this stellar organization and, when I attempted to revive interest in heavy gymnastics, I met with total failure. I finally gave up the attempt but tried it again later and with the most startling results. Half of the young men were unable to support their own weight on the apparatus and if they chinned themselves twice they were among the best. They were totally lacking in shoulder, back, and chest development, and many of them were sadly in need of corrective exercise. But they could play basketball until they were ready to drop. I am happy to say that many of them now enjoy elementary gymnastics and appreciate the value of constructive exercise.

It is indeed refreshing to read what Mr. Lawson Robertson thinks of the present athletic conditions. Mr. Robertson, as many of you know, is the track coach at the University of Pennsylvania and is aiso head coach of our Olympic teams. He writes: “This may sound strange coming from a man who likes his victories as well as anybody,	motto for all Athletic

training should be better men, rather than greater athletes! Meyer Prinstein, who won Olympic championships in 1900-04-06, had never competed in athletics prior to entering Syracuse University. He was physically deficient and was ordered to take corrective exercise,	and by a carefully graded system of gymnastics, he developed

into an athlete who won championships for his country”.

When men like Mr. Robertson make this frank admission,

Digitized by v^ooQle
.	254

there is still hope. But does this mean anything to the athletic enthusiast? It does to me, for it proves conclusively that gymnastics are invaluable, and that we must not, under any conditions, eliminate them from our programs if we want to do our full duty to the youth of our country. I build men first, for when we build men, real men, do we not also build better athletes who can compete without fear of	i

I yield to no man when it comes to enthusiasm for games and athletics for I have coached successful football teams in both rugby and soccer; my club and college track teams have won their share of meets, and my basketball teams have held their own in some mighty good company. But when it comes to making a system of physical education out of these things to the exclusion of every other form of work, I want to enter a vigorous protest.

I realize fully what the effect of this article will be, for it means that I will be “nailed to the cross” by many. But of what use is the sacrificial altar if we have no lamb—or is it goat—to offer up in sacrifice? I am willing to serve as either, for, if this paper will raise the standard of our profession one iota, it will not have been written in vain.

The Human Back

Address given at the “International Congress for Bodily Exercise for Youth' held in Budapest, May 24-29, 1934.

By Gymnastic Inspector R. A. Knudsen, Copenhagen. Translation by W. A. Nicolai, Philadelphia Central High School.

In the past two years I have examined the backs of about 20,000 Danish school children, ages 7 to 18 years, and discovered that approximately ohe-half of them showed deficient development in this most central part of the skeleton.

This deficiency in the majority of cases involved an onset of stiffness. As soon as the back loses its normal mobility to a greater or lesser extent, deformity of the back begins.

That section of the back which most markedly appears to lose its mobility and to become deformed is that along the lower four to five dorsal vertebrae. With extraordinary frequency there develops a curvature to the rear, a kyphosis, which permits no active motion.

It is also frequent that the stiffness extends over most or all of the dorsal vertebrae, and that the upper section of the dorsal column is especially bent.

A kyphosis is notoriously compensated by a lordosis, which begins to make its appearance along the lower dorsal vertebrae, and in relation to the kyphosis is surely secondary as a rule because the flexible part of the spine more easily alters its position following the less flexible part than vice versa.

Digitized by kjOOQle
255

In not a few cases the beginning of a scoliosis is found, either combined with a kyphosis, or occuring separately.

What can be the cause of these incipient deformities of the spinal column?

One must first remember that the spinal column is that part of the skeleton which most easily becomes deformed, much more easily and more frequently than the bones of the arm and leg. This is caused by the column’s very compact structural composition. The flexible part of the spinal column consists of 24 vertebrae; between them are 72 links; about 400 ligaments are provided to hold these 24 vertebrae together, and about 550 muscles or muscle origins, to prvoide their mobility to fasten them together into a desirable strong burden-bearing pillar.

The very compact intricate mechanism, which the spinal column is, shares the fate of all similar intricate mechanisms— it easily gets out of order; it grows into faulty positions which gradually become permanent. This striking word picture illustrates just what occurs in the back.

Wnen this same back, especially during growth, is held in a crooked position sufficiently often and of long duration, it will of necessity grow crooked like the twig that is bound in a bent position.

But, one may ask, does a child at an early age really hold its back crooked sufficiently long so that its growth could be influenced by it? Yes, when one considers: How often does not the newly bom infant lie in too soft a crib with a thick pillow under its head. When the infant is carried on the arm, or when sitting in its crib or a chair for half or whole horns at a time, no one will doubt that the back, under the weight of the large head, will grow crooked. Certainly a small infant’s body has astonishing powers of recuperation; but nevertheless, its back grows during the time it is held in bent and uneven positions, and the beginning of a deformed and rigid back can well be the first year of life, especially so if rickets is manifest, even in a mild form.

After the child has learned to walk, the appropriate time arrives for the development of its back. The heavy head forces it to hold the back erect while walking. But the child does spend much of its time in sitting positions, and this occurs frequently during its first six or seven years, especially so in a congested environment where there is not much space to romp, and where it must play quietly because of the presence of other persons and the mother orders it to indulge in less active play, such as building with blocks, drawing, etc.

Then, about the 6th to 7th year, the school grips it with a firm hand and forces the child into a sitting position for long hours day after day, year after year.

The sitting position develops gradually the habit of holding the back bent in the region of the lower dorsal vertebrae, the most flexible region, and that which the sitting position especially cramps.

Digitized by t^ooQle
256

From my examinations I have become convinced that the sitting posture is a factQr with which we must deal. There is no doubt about it, that it is an unhappy situation into which a growing organism is brought. Our cultural life demands that children should have much knowledge in their heads and that the work of studying must take place in a sitting position. There is no way out. But when we realize how much harm this position causes the normal development of the body, then we must do our utmost to counteract this harmful influence, partly by training the children to assume a proper sitting posture, and partly by training the back so that the musculature remains strong. The stronger the back is, the better it can resist the harmful effects of sitting. At the same time, the exercises should be of such a type as to preserve the maximum mobility of the back.

Pedagogues and school hygiene experts have worked ceaselessly to design a type of school desk which will give the children a correct sitting posture. Undoubtedly, the construction of the desk plays an important roll. But more importnat than the desk construction is to counteract the harmful effects-of sitting. Regardless of how the desk is made, children will have to sit at the desk, and the very act of sitting is unfavorable. The most important thing is to develop the back, making it strong and resistant.

The changes in the back called forth by the sitting position are artificial. First, the muscles and ligaments adjust themselves according to the position assumed, some become too long, others too short; the structures of the back lose their flexibility more and more. As stated, the flexibility of the individual structures of the back is limited and therefore easily lost. And when some of these structures have lost their flexibility then the first damage has been done. It can, therefore, be laid down as a fundamental rule, that loss of flexibility is the beginning of deformity of the back.

As long as only the muscles and ligaments have undergone a change during poor posture, the defect can still be corrected though it often demands energetic work.

But when once the vertebrae have undergone changes, a deformed back can no longer be corrected. Changes in the vertebrae are well known in scoliosis. In marked cases of scoliosis the vertebrae are entirely altered and transformed. The body of the vertebrae has become warped. The transverse processes on the convex side are larger than on the concave; the spinous processes have been drawn out of alignment, the hole for the spinal cord is noticeably altered. Similar changes occur in kyphosis, even in mild cases. The vetrebrae have become wedge shaped, crossed from front to back, and the spinous processes incline sharply downward, so that they are almost at right angles to the body of the vertebrae.

These changes in the vertebrae occur most naturally during the growing years, because all tissues including bone tissue, are then most plastic and subject to influences. During the

Digitized by Google
257

growing years, .therefore, these changes must especially be prevented. Not only is a thorough training of the back muscles and ligaments demanded, but also the food must contain the elements which contribute to bone growth and firmness. In addition something else is necessary—namely sunlight. In Denmark the study of the sun and light therapy is highly developed, thanks to Finsen. One of the most experienced men in this sphere of practice has told me, that rickets in southern countries with its abundance of sunlight, is almost unknown, and that the backs of children in those lands are considerably better than with us in Denmark and other northern lands which have long dark winters and little sunlight.

For me, who thoroughly understands the backs of children in Denmark, it was of special interest to know of the condition of the children’s backs in southern climes. The invitation to atteud this Congress was therefore exceedingly welcome.

The back deformities which I have discovered in Denmark are for the greater part only early faults, that is, small defects which the parents do not discover, and for that reason the children are not taken to a physician.

But do these defects denote anything? They mean, first of all, loss in beauty. To an ideally developed body there belongs an unaltered well developed back. Just the back gives to the body its form and beauty, whether when at rest or in action. Aside from that there is apparently convincing probability that a less well developed back which is becoming misshapen, is not only an aesthetic but also a functional zero.

The spinal column carries the thorax, and the manner in which this is carried, influences the form the thorax will assume; whether the chest will be rounded and spacious or flat and small, will depend mainly on the form caused by the spinal column. The ability of the thoracic cavity to change its volume by deep inhalations and exhalations is closely associated with the flexibility of the vertebral column. The more rigid the column is, the less flexible is the thorax. There can hardly be a doubt that growing lung tissue is more likely to develop healthy and normally in a spacious and flexible thorax than in one that is smaller and less flexible.

The posture of the back also influences the abdominal cavity and organs. If the back is erect, then the spine and its muscle carries the weight of the entire upper body. If it is bent then some of the upper body weight will be shifted on to the abdominal contents, which in time interferes with the proper functioning of the digestive organs. Contortionists are notedly a class of people who most often suffer from digestive disturbances.

Finally, the flow of venous blood from the abdominal into the thoracic cavity is made more difficult by a rounded back. The heart’s power, which assists in sucking the blood from the thoracic cavity, is lowered, and that is a critical point in the general blood circulation.

Whether we regard it from the point of view of beauty or

Digitized by CjOOQle
258

health, a well developed back is the chief point in the development of the body, physically. This chief point the school alone cannot fill to order. Not a little damage may have occured before the child entered school. I have seen with special interest the backs of pupils just entering school and an astonishingly large proportion exhibited the first signs of back deformities. The parents did not understand how to guide their physical development. This must yet be learned. The farmer prides himself on bringing the grains on his acreage to luxurious growth. That demands insight and work. Fathers and mothers should also take pride in guiding their children to grow upright and to develop: that also demands insight and work.

We must reach the point where parents will bring to school children whose bodily growth has been properly directed. The schools have so few hours to offer the physical side of juvenile development that they are unable to do much if they first must correct essential defects.

The parents, and naturally the teacher, should be able to see whether the child’s back is normal or not. That is simpler than one believes. Let the child stand with its back toward the light, so that the surface is well illuminated. Then it should stretch the arms upward, forcing them back without bending backward.

This position clearly unveils the condition of the back, and shows us whether it is normally flexible, or whether it has become stiff in large or small sections. When the furrow, which a vigorous back shows along the entire length of the spinous processes, is of practically equal depth from top to bottom, then the spine has retained its normal mobility. On the contrary, if there are noticeable variations in the depth of the groove, so that for some distance it is obliterated, then this is a sure sign that the back has lost some of its normal mobility, and that it is on the way to a deformity.

The reason that this stretch-stand clearly shows the condition of the back is that the raised arms, by means of the chest muscles, have the tendency to draw the ribs outward; but the ribs cannot be raised until that portion of the spine to which they are attached straightens the dorsal vertebrae. But if this section of the spine has become more or less rigid and cannot be straightened, then the ribs cannot be raised and the arms instead of being fully in alignment with the body project obliquely forward upward, and the furrow in the dorsal region of the back does not attain its normal depth.

Besides boys of 7 to 14 years in the public schools, I have also observed many youths of 15 to 18 years in our “Gymnasium” [high school], such youths who have spent much time in reading and studies while sitting, and again, as I’ve noted before, the bad postural sitting habits are responsible for the early deformation of the spine.

In order to observe the spines of youths in industry, I gained entrance to our technical evening schools where youths of 15 to

Digitized by LjOOQle
259

18 years are enrolled. I found exactly the same types of early deformities as in the day school—a rigid kyphotic buckling of the spine to the rear.

The explanation in the latter cases can be nothing else than that youths engaged in physical labor stand bent while working, the same as youths in the day schools sit crooked. In both cases the poor working posture has become a habitual posture in the direction in which the spine has inclined.

The school’s chief means of improving and correcting the development of early spine deformity is gymnastics, yes, I must add—Ling’s Gymnastics, even though you might not agree with me on this point.

In the past 150 years the modem forms of bodily exercises have arisen. In Germany, Jahn advocated his “Turnen”, and in England ball games appeared. In both places the limbs were emphasized in action; in Germany the arms, in England the legs. Ling was the only one who emphasized the curative value of the development of the “truncus”, or trunk. He demanded that the gymnastic instructor be a type of artist, yes, a sculptor of living flesh and blood; he was expected by proper selection of exercises and their proper execution to plastically and harmoniously chisel out, mold, and shape the trunk. The methods Ling advocated to achieve this sculpture were his splendid trunk exercises, the like of which no other system contains. The three main types of exercises which move the various sections of the trunk to the limit and restore the spine’s flexibility, at the same time developing the musculature, are the exercises of the back in the three main directions:

1.	Bendings from side to side

2.	Bendings forward and backward

3.	Twistings along the long axis of the spine

These three groups of trunk exercises are the main, yea the kernel, of the form-giving, plastic stock of exercises in Ling’s System of Gymnastics.

Whoever does not understand this has never penetrated into the fundamental idea of Ling Gymnastics. Through, this sculpturing, Ling Gymnastics has become something exceptional, a thing apart. This work has such an effect that a Division of Ling-Gymnastics is distinguished from other systems, as is recognized, for example, in the great international festivals.

Through this effort to plastically mold the body, gymnastics in Denmark have risen, to a higher plane than they held when exercises of dexterity and difficult strength tests were popular with us. Gymnastics are therefore now more generally and highly recognized as a branch in general education. They have become available to all children; all can participate, each one according to his abilities, and derive benefit therefrom. They have become, in other words, an actual school department; for a school department must have a curriculum, so constituted, that all normal children are able to take part and to gain development thereby.

Digitized by v^ooQle
260

Strong words they are, that I use in connection with Ling’s Gymnastics, and many of you, my ladies and gentlemen, will surely protest. In order not to be unjust to any other system, may I add that my remarks are confined to Denmark, where I have been well versed on conditions for the past 50 years. I received my first education in gymnastics when exercises of skill and feats of strength ruled from the throne. I will not say anything derogatory about that era. I was happy in my gymnastic exercises at that time and I gained much bodily development. But it never occurred to me then that gymnastics was worth the work of a life time. And the reason for this was that the majority could not keep up with the difficult exercises; they withheld participation both in the schools and in the voluntary societies. In the schools all were required to report in the gymnasium, but that was of little value when the spirit and desire was not in the work. In the voluntary societies, only those came who were physically well endowed by nature and who could make the grade in the difficult exercises.

When I first came to understand the Ling System of Gymnastics;, I realized that such a gymnastic system could be made the basis of physical education for all youth, and only then did I develop the desire and courage to choose it as my life’s work.

With the introduction of the Ling System of Gymnastics, just 50 years ago, came the most marked change one can imagine. The children in the schools entered into the work with much greater enthusiasm. School authorities developed great confidence in the work and a greater respect for it, with the result that in 1909, when it was added as a university department, students in the teacher training courses were able to select gymnastics as one of the two or three electives. A professor of gymnastic theory was appointed and an excellently equipped gymnastic theory laboratory was placed at his disposal for his scientific work in the field of the Physiology of Body Exercise.

Furthermore, in the graduation examinations, tests in physical exercises were placed on an equivalent basis with the tests in all other subjects.

In the voluntary societies the attendance multiplied, and peculiarly enough, this was especially so among the peasants.

It is not uncommon in foreign countries when evaluating the Ling System of Gyjnastics to believe that it one-sidedly stresses too much the posture and purely physical molding and development, and that it overlooks the spiritual influence—so valuable to character and will power which is of more importance than the physical side of bodily exercises.

But this assumption is not correct. We do not omit the activities which demand courage, strength, and coordination. But I will not go further into this problem; but rather beg you to visit us and to critically inspect our work. Our doors are open to you; you are heartily welcome.

Digitized by kjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	February 1935	No.	425

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Norma

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor;

594 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

FIRST OF SEVEN CARDINAL PRINCIPLES

Physical education is education. The first of the seven cardinal principles of education adopted by the National Education Association is Health and Physical Education. The longest and strongest resolution adopted by the teachers of the country at Minneapolis advocated special attention to health and physical education. The Department of Superintendence in their Sixth Yearbook 1928, recommended if possible a daily sixty-minute period to be devoted to this subject in the curriculum. Educators since the time of Aristotle and Plato up through Froebel, Pestalozzi and Rosseau to Dewey and Thorndike have given a fundamental place to physical activity, play and recreation in education.

Aristotle says the end of education is to train for the wise use of leisure. Plato says that the education of youth until the age of nine should be largely of physical activity. Under the stress and strain of modem living, healthy physical activity and active constructive play is most vital for growing youth. Modem physical education through exercises promotes health; through gymnastics develops neuro-muscular skills; through the development of play habits,

Digitized by ^.ooQle
262

it creates proper attitudes toward the wise use of leisure; and through the promotion of sport and sportsmanship, character education is engendered. Charac-acter does not come from precept or preaching but through activity. We learn by doing. Through his games, a boy gains his physical growth and development. Besides equipping him with the physical well-being that is essential to a normal life, he is also trained in those qualities of sacrifice, courage, fortitude and leadership essential to success.

Physical education is an integral part of a school curriculum. To gain education through physical education we must give this subject in the curriculum the same consideration that we do any other academic subject.

Ample and adequate facilities must be provided; sufficient time allotment must be given so that a decent job may be done; trained leadership must be provided; and academic credit and recognition given.

In an article on “Medical Excuses and Exemption From Physical Education,” Dr. Prohaska has presented to our readers some good suggestions with regard to one of the most troublesome and persistent of our problems. Among the factors involved in the problem, some of the more important are the great number of illegitimate requests made by many doctors, the suspicious attitude of teachers which has developed as a result of such illegitimate excuses to the detriment of the actually defective children, lack of a broad conception of the problem, insufficient knowledge on the part of teachers and many doctors with regard to proper modification of the program of activities to meet individual needs and abilities, and administrative difficulties.

Among our readers—teachers, supervisors, and administrators—there must be a number who have had valuable experience with this problem, including some who have worked with successful plans involving cooperation of school, parent, and doctor. We invite them to come forward and help their colleagues by sending us their plans for publication. If any readers are aware of good plans and procedures in use by others, we will be grateful for the information.

Mr. Brodbeck’s article on “Whither Physical Education?” seems to be a sudden bursting forth of long pent up thoughts and feelings. If some of his statements appear to be a little extreme, at least they express strong conviction. There can be little doubt that throughout the land there are many honest proponents on each side. A calm and thorough discussion on the subject would be highly beneficial to the profession. If we can get an expression of views for publication, we will be glad to use them. Mr. Brodbeck hopes he has started something: we do also. Let us hear from you.

E. FRED MOLLER

After completing almost twenty-five years of service to physical education, Mr. E. Fred Moller died January 9, 1935. The last twenty-three years of this service was in the Newark, N. J. public school system where he served in many capacities. He started February 1, 1912 as a teacher in the elementary schools here and promoted up through the high schools to Supervisor of Athletics of the Newark schools and Chairman of the Physical Education Department of the Weequahic High School.

Mr. Moller was an exceptional teacher and an equally prominent and successful coach. Original in many of his ideas, thorough in preparation,

Digitized by <^.ooQle
263

indefatigable in his efforts, and possessing unusual ability in administrative work, he was a bom leader and teacher. His fine sense of understanding, his high ideals and remarkable personality created and inspired the love and respect of those under him as well as the admiration of the superiors.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the seventh set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each o the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good" standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Climbing Ropes for school grades 8A and 8B.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Digitized by

CLIMBING ROPES—GIRLS—GRADE 8A

Fair

Good

o

o

Excellent

FT

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Release the leg-hold and straddle the legs sideward [while in the bent-arm hang]. Return to a climbing position. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on the neighboring rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Change the climbing position of the legs to the other rope. Return to the first position. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb upward three steps. Change the climbing position of the legs to the other rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb at least five steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb five steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Change to the third rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Release one hand and grasp the second rope. Release the leg-hold to a bent-arm hang between the two ropes. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Walk backward with one rope in each hand. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the ropes], jump to a bent-arm hang with the knees raised forward and complete the forward swing. In the bent-arm hang swing backward, forward, and backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand. [The hands slide down on the ropes in dropping to a stand and retain a hold on the ends of the ropes when finishing.]

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward.
Digitized by

GRADE 8B

Fair	Two	ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Drop to a stand.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least one step. Climb downward.

One rope

Walk backward with one rope. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the rope], jump to a climbing position and complete the forward swing. In the climbing position swing backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand [the hands slide down on the rope in dropping to a stand and retain a hold on the end of the rope when finishing].

CD

o

n

Good	One	rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb five steps. Climb downward.

Excellent One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb upward three steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Change again to the third rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb five steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to the second rope. Climb three steps. Change to the third rope. Climb downward.
Digitized by

a

o

o

Fair	Two	ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb five steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb down ward.

Good	One	rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb half-way. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

Excellent Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward half-way. Change the leg-hold to^the opposite rope and climb to the top. ^ Climb downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Change to the second and then to the third rope. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top traveling to the third rope before reaching the top. Climb downward halfway. Release the leg-hold and climb downward without the use of the legs.

Two ropes

Walk backward with one rope in each hand. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the ropes], jump to a bent-arm hang and complete the forward swing. In the bent-arm hang, swing backward, forward, and backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand. [The hands slide down the ropes in dropping and retain a hold on the ends of the rope when finishing].

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top changing to the second and then to the third rope, before reaching the top. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a bent-arm hang on one rope and climb half-way without the use of the legs. Travel to the third rope using the legs. Climb downward.
c

GRADE 8B

Fair	One	rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Change the legs to a climbing position on the other rope. Climb downward.

D

cq'

o

o

o

Good	One	rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward to a stand. Immediately jump and climb half-way. Climb downward.

Excellent ^

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward to a stand. Then repeat immediately.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb half-way. Release the leg-hold and climb downward in the bent-arm hang without the use of the legs.

One rope

Jump to a bent-arm hang and climb half-way without the use of the legs. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

Five ropes

Jump, to a bent-arm hang on the first and second ropes. Travel to the right by grasping the second rope with the left hand and following immediately by grasping the third rope with the right hand [to a bent-arm hang between the second and third ropes]. Repeat until the 4th and 5th ropes are reached. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb to the bottom of the rope. Without touching the floor change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb halfway. Climb downward.
268

THE AMERICAN TURNERBUND MEDAL

Editor’s Note: At the National Convention of the American Tumerbund in 1933, a resolution was passed creating an American Tumerbund Medal. The National Executive Committee was instructed to work out details pertaining to this undertaking. The following plan has been worked out by the Committee.

The American Tumerbund presents medals of honor to its members for achieving certain results in the different activities conducted by its societies in the field of physical education.

The “American Tumerbund Medal” is awarded to those fulfilling the requirements in three classes as follows:

1.	Bronze Medal:

Awarded to any member of a society of the American Tumerbund over 18 years of age having attended a society’s classes at least one year previous to participating in the test.

2.	Silver Medal:

Four years [Women 3 years] after receiving the bronze medal the recipient may again enter the test and again upon ful-:filling the requirements receive a silver medal.

3.	Gold Medal:

Four years [Women 3 years] after receiving the silver medal the recipient may again enter the test and again on fulfilling the requirements receive the final gold medal.

Requirements

There are five Groups of Events. Each contestant is required to earn the minimum points here given in any one event of each group, except Group 3. In this group the contestant shall be required to perform one exercise on each apparatus. In the second and third tests, competitors are required to choose an event different from that performed in the previous test or tests. Events For Men

Group 1

Running Broad Jump ..................17	feet

Running Hop, Step, and Jump .........34	feet

Running High Jump ................... 4..8 feet

Group 2

16 lb. Shot Put .....................28	feet

Hurlball Throw .....................125	feet

Hand Climbing for Speed—20’ .........11	seconds

Javelin Far Throw...................120	feet

Group 3—Prescribed exercises on following apparatus—8 points Horizontal Bar Parallel Bars Horse, side or long Group 4

100 Yard Dash .....................11	4-5	Seconds

220 Yard Dash .....................25	2-5	Seconds

120 Yard Hurdles ..................18	1-5	Seconds

Digitized by LjOOQle
269

Group 5

Endurance Swim ....................... 30	minutes

Swimming 100 Yards Free Style 1 minute 20 seconds

Swimming 50 Yards Breast Stroke ...... 40	seconds

Diving: 3 Optional, 3 Obligatory ..... 45	points

Ladies’ Events

Group 1

Running Broad Jump ..................13	feet

Running High Junjp .................. 4	feet

Group 2

8 lb. Shot Put ..................... 28	feet

Basketball Far Throw, Free Style.....65	feet

Group 3

Obligatory Exercise on Low Parallel Bars .. 8	points

Obligatory Exercise on Side Horse ... 8	points

Group 4

Running 50 yds..................... 6	4-5 seconds

Running 75 yds.....................10	seconds

Group 5

Endurance Swim ......................30	minutes

Swimming 50 yds. Free Style..........40	seconds

Swimming 50 yds. Breast Stroke.......52	seconds

Diving: 3 optional, 3 obligatory ....45	points

Methods Of Conducting Test

1.	Tests are to be conducted by the District Technical Committee with the sanction of the District Executive Committee.

2.	They should be conducted at least once a year.

3.	A minimum of three officials to judge each event according to National Tumfest Rules. Not more than one judge to officiate from the society of which contestant is a member.

4.	The names of the judges to be submitted to the National Executive Committee and sanctioned by them in advance of the test.

5.	Each contestant must purchase the official booklet given out by the National Executive Committee at a cost of fifty cents. This is the only entrance fee. This booklet shall contain the name of the event, fully described and other regulations. The results must be certified by the signature of judges, and district officers.

6.	Upon completion of the five events, the booklet must be sent to the National Executive Committee, who, if upon examination find the results satisfactory, will award the medal.

7.	The different events must all be completed within a period of two years.

8.	There shall be no tests given in the six month period previous to a National Tumfest.

So as to give those members who have already reached the

upper age groups the opportunity to receive the silver and gold

medals, the following temporary changes will be in effect:

Silver Medal

Awarded to any member of a society of the American Turn-

Digitized by LjOOQle
270

erbund fulfilling the requirements and having reached the age of 26 years.

Gold Medal

Awarded to any member of a society of the American Tum-erbund fulfilling the requirements and having reached the age of 30 years.

Honor Medal Exercises On Apparatus [See Group 3]

I •

Men	,

Horizontal Bar

1.

Jump to hang with upper grip, take swing and swing-step on backward swing, hip-circle backward, drop-kip to support, hip-circle forward, underswing, on next forward swing squat through and hip swing-up rearways to momentary balance support, dismount forward to side-stand rearways.

2.

Jump to hang with upper grip, hip-swing-up to support, underswing and swing-stem, hip-circle backward, drop-lap to support, hip circle forward, straddle-stand and sole-circle backward with dismount to side stand rearways.

II.

Men Parallel Bars

1.

From cross stand frontways, with a running start, glide-kip in the middle of bars, dip-swing forward, dip-swing backward to upper arm-stand, straighten arms sideward and roll backward [straight body] to upper arm kip-position, swing-stem backward, swing forward to momentary straddle-seat [bounce], swing backward and double rear-vault left or right.

2.

From cross-stand frontways, with a running start, jump to upper arm-hang in the middle of bars and swing-stem backward, swing forward and drop-kip to upper armstand, roll forward, roll backward to upper arm lap-position, kip and dip-swing forward with hand jumping forward to straddle-seat in front of hands grasp forward to the end of bars, swing forward and backward to handstand, straddle off to cross-stand rearways.

III.

Men Side Horse

1.

From side stand frontways, with a running start, jump to momentary free support, squat through to balance support, lower legs to support rearways, leg swing left back under left hand, leg swing right back under right hand, circle right leg under left and right hand, leg swing left forward under left hand, leg swing right forward under right hand, flank swing left backward under left hand, leg swing right forward under right hand, scissors left sidewards, scissors right sideward with 1-4 turn left to cross
271

straddle-seat on saddle, place left hand on neck, right hand [under grip] on left pommel and triple rear-vault over neck to crossstand left sideways.

2.

From side-stand frontways, left hand on neck, right hand reversed grip on left pommel, circle right leg over right and left pommel with 1-2 turn left to momentary balance support [cross seat] over neck pommel, swing left leg backward under left hand and scissors right sideward, leg swing left backward under left hand, circle left leg under right and left hand, leg swing right forward under right hand, scissors left sideward, leg swing right forward under right hand, flank swing left backward under left hand, leg swing forward [feint], and backward and double rear-vault to cross-stand left sideways.

1.

Women Parallel Bars

1.

From cross-stand frontways, with a running start, jump to upper arm hang and upper arm-kip to straddle-seat in front of hands, grasp forward and roll forward with bent hip to straddle-seat in front of hands, raise right leg and swing it backward between the bars [left hand shifts to right bar] and scissors to straddle seat in front of hands, grasp forward, swing forward, and on backward swing front vault left or right.

2.

From cross stand rearways, grasp bars with under grip and turn over backward and push up to straddle-seat in rear of hands, grasp backward, swing in and backward and scissors to straddle-seat in front of hands, raise arms sideward, regrasp in front of legs and roll forward with bent hips to straddle-seat in front of hands, swing backward and place right foot in rear of right hand, swing the left leg forward between the bars and the rear-vault right with 1-2 turn ieft to cross-stand right sideways, right hand regrasping the bar.

II

Women Side Horse

1.

From a side-stand frontways, hands on pommels, jump to side support, leg-swing left forward and backward [feint], legswing right; forward and backward [feint], leg-swing left forward under left hand, leg-swing right forward under right hand to support rearways, squat backward to support frontways, legswing right with 1-4 turn left to straddle-seat on croup, with upper grip on rear pommel swing legs backward to squat-stand on croup, straighten left leg and extend right leg backward, bend left knee [deep] and circle right leg forward under right hand [left hand lets go] with 1-2 turn left, and dismount to cross-stand right sideways, right hand regrasping pommel.
272

2.

From side-stand frontways, hands on pommels, jump to squat-stand on left leg upon saddle and circle right leg forward under right and left hand to side-support frontways, leg-swing right forward under right hand, leg-swing left forward under left hand to side-support rearways, squat backward to side-support frontways, leg swing left forward under left hand and turn mount left to straddle-seat on neck, scissors backward to straddle-seat facing outward, leg-swing left forward with 3-4 turn right to side-stand frontways, hands on pommels, and squat-vault to side-stand rearways.

ACTIVITIES WITH THE JUMPING ROPE

Compiled by William Wolf In Tum-u. Sportwart Translated by Fred E. Foertsch

In the starting position the rope is folded, the left hand holding the two loose ends and the right hand holding the folded end. The middle of the folded rope lies on the back of the neck with the two ends leading forward over the shoulders. Each exercise begins with an upward and forward lifting of the rope [in which the hands describe a small circle forward at the sides of the shoulders and lead into the upward and forward swinging of the rope].

Music: 4-4 time. For hopping exercises 2-4 time.

Part I

Exercise A

Count 1 —Circle the rope forward at the left side with trunk turning left and a slight knee bending and straightening as the rope reaches the upward position. [Both loose ends are held in the left hand. The right hand is released after the preliminary movement and remains at the right side.]

Count 2 —Circle the rope forward at the right side [left arm crossing over in front of the chest], with trunk turning right and with knee bending and straightening as before.

Counts 3 and 4 —Repeat Counts 1 and 2.

Counts 5 to 8 —Four vigorous horizontal circles over the head with the rope held with the left hand [lasso-swinging]. The circling is executed to the right [clockwise].

Counts 9 to 12 —Four horizontal circles right near the floor, jumping over the rope with each circle.

Counts 13 to 16 —Four horizontal circles overhead again, but with the first circle execute a wide lunge to the left, then change knee bending with the second circle, and repeat the knee bending left and right.

Counts 17 to 20 —Repeat counts 9 to 12.

Counts 21 to 24 —Repeat counts 13 to 16.

Counts 25 to 28 —Repeat counts 9 to 12.

Digitized by kjOOQle
273

Counts 29-30 —Grasp the rope with both hands [right hand on the folded end] stretching the rope horizontally and raising it slowly foreupward.

Counts 31-32 —Lower the rope behind the neck with bending arms as in the original starting position.

Counts 33-64 —Repeat all but executing all circles with the right hand holding the rope. All movements are counterlike.

Exercise B

Both hands holding the rope, one hand at each end of the

rope. Forward circling with jumping.

Counts 1 to 8 —Eight forward circles, jumping over the rope [feet together] with each circle.

Counts 9 to 16 —Eight forward circles, hopping right over the rope with each circle. The left knee is raised forward and remains there during the 8 counts.

Counts 17 to 24 —As counts 9 to 16 but hopping left with the right knee raised forward.

Counts 25 to 28 —As counts 1 to 8 but jumping over the rope [feet together] while maintaining a squat position.

Counts 29 to 32 —As counts 1 to 8 with the hips straightened [in the erect position].

Counts 33 to 36 [Repeat counts 25 to 28.

Counts 37 to 40 —Repeat counts 29 to 32.

Counts 41 to 48 —Repeat counts 9 to 16.

Counts 49 to 56 —Repeat counts 17 to 24.

Counts 57 to 64 —Eight circles forward with eight running steps over the rope [in place]

Exercise C—Breathing exercise [to be used only when exercising

outdoors]

[Standing on the middle of the rope—hands holding the ends].

Counts 1 to 4 —Step right forward and raise the left leg backward with raising the arms foreupward and backward. Inhale with this movement. The middle of the rope is held in contact with the left foot which is raised backward.

Counts 5 to 8 —Return movement with folding arms in front of chest. Exhale with this movement.

Counts 9 to 16 —Repeat counts 1 to 8 but opposite.

Counts 17 to 19 —Raise the right knee foreupward with raising the arms sideupward with inhaling.

Count 20 —Lower the knee and arms.

Counts 21 to 24 —Step right forward, folding arms in front of chest and exhale.

Counts 25 to 32 —Repeat counts 17 to 24 finishing in the fundamental standing position.

Exercise D

In the sitting position with the middle of the rope stretched

across the bottom of the feet.

Counts 1 to 4 —Raise the left leg foreward and bend forward so
274

as to touch the chin to the knee. The arms are raised sideward and the rope moves with the left foot.

Counts 5 to 8 —Return movements.

Counts 9 to 12 —As counts 1 to 4 but right.

Counts 13-14 —Return movements.

Counts 15-16 —Lower to a lying position rearways.

Counts 17 to 20 —Bend the right knee placing the right foot on the floor under the hip, then raise the left leg and the hips from the floor with arching the back [bridge position]. Only the right foot and the shoulders are in contact with the floor.

Counts 21-22 —Return to a lying position rearways.

Counts 23-24 —Raise the trunk to a sitting position.

Counts 25 to 28 —With the middle of the rope stretched across the bottom of the feet raise the legs forward with the arms sideward.

Counts 29 to 32 —Return movements.

Counts 33 to 62 —Repeat counts 1 to 32.

Counts 63-64 —Return to a standing position.

Part II

The Rope is folded in the middle [one hand at each end] and

is in a stretched position with the arms in the oblique sideupward

position. A wide side stride stand is assumed.

Exercise A

Counts 1 to 4 —Bend the left knee with turn-bending of the trunk left [over left knee]; then carry the trunk forward and to the right with changing the kneebending, and finish with raising the trunk and straightening the right knee.

Counts 5 to 8 —Repeat counts 1 to 4 but opposite.

Counts 9-10 —A relaxed trunk bending forward [rope remains stretched].

Counts 11-12 —Straighten the trunk with bending the knees.

The arms are swung foreupward and snapped backward overhead [rope remains stretched].

Counts 13 to 16 —Repeat counts 9 to 12.

Count 17 —Bend trunk left [arms upward—rope stretched]

Count 18 —Bend "trunk right.

Counts 19-20 —Repeat counts 17-18.

Count 21 —Straighten to erect position.

Counts 22 to 24 —Lower the arms backward and downward [the rope remaining stretched].

Count 25 —Bend trunk forward with swinging the arms upward [rope stretched].

Count 26 —Straighten trunk and lower the arms again.

Counts 27-28 —Repeat counts 25-26.

Counts 29-30 —Step left sideward and close right with a quick bending and straightening of the knees. With this the rope is circled horizontally twice with the left hand [clockwise] over the head.
275

Count 31 —Lower the rope in front with the left hand and grasp the opposite end with the right hand.

Count 32 —Stride right sideward and raise the arms in the oblique sideupward position [rope stretched] as in the beginning.

Counts 33 to 63 —Repeat counts 1 to 31.

Count 64 —Pause.

Exercise B

One hand at each end of the rope preparatory for jumping. Counts 1 to 8 —Eight circles forward with jumping in place [over the rope].

Counts 9 to 12 —Four circles forward with four jumps forward [over the rope].

Counts 13 to 16 —As counts 9 to 12 but jumping backward. Counts 17 to 24 —Repeat counts 1 to 8 with a 4-4 turn right. Counts 25 to 32 —Eight circles forward with hopping right in place [over rope].

Counts 33 to 40 —Repeat counts 25 to 32 but opposite.

Counts 41 to 48 —Four cut-swing-hops [cut left backward— 1, hop left and swing right forward—2, then begin right—3-4]. Circle the rope forward and jump over it with each cut.

Counts 49 to 64 —Jump on both feet count 1, hop right with swinging the left leg forward—2, jump on both feet— 3, hop left and swing the right leg forward—4, repeat 11-5-8.

To be executed with four circles forward jumping over the rope.

Exercise C

Breathing exercises.

Fundamental standing position.

The arms are bent at about right angles with the hands at the sides of the shoulders holding the stretched rope behind the neck.

Counts 1 to 4 —Raise heels slowly and straighten the arms obliquely sideupward and backward as far as possible with inhaling.

Counts 5 to 8 —Return movements with exhaling.

Counts 9 to 16 —Repeat counts 1 to 8.

Counts 17 to 20 —Repeat counts 1 to 4.

Counts 21 to 24 —Return movement with bending trunk forward, hands on the chest and exhaling.

Counts 25 to 28. —Repeat counts 1 to 4.

Counts 29 to 32 —Return with lowering the arms and rope foredownward.

Exercise D

In the lying position rearways with the rope stretched over the bottom of the feet. Arms are at the sides parallel to the body.

Counts 1 to 4 —Raise the straight legs and the trunk with raising the arms sideward [rope stretched tight].
276

Counts 5 to 8 —Lower the legs and rise to a sitting position with bending the trunk forward, pulling vigorously on the rope and executing dipping movements with the trunk.

Counts 9 to 12 •—Lower the trunk backward and at the same time raise the legs over the head touching the floor beyond the head. The arms pull on the rope in the sideward position.

Counts 13 to 16 —Return with the legs to a vertical position.

Counts 17 to 20 —Bend both knees bringing them to the chest [pulling on the rope].

Counts 21 to 24 —Lower the right leg placing the right foot under the hip and hold the left to the chest with raising the hips free from the floor [bridge]. The rope is stretched over the left foot with the arms pulling sideward.

Counts 25 to 28 —In the bridge position straighten the left leg •H* upward [pulling on the rope]

Counts 29 to 32 —Lower slowly to a lying position rearways as in the beginning.

Counts 33 to 60 —Repeat 1 to 28 executing counts 21 to 28 opposite.

Counts 61-62 —Lower to a sitting position.

Counts 63-64 —Bend knees quickly placing the feet on the floor and rise to a stand.

Health Education

Howard L. Conrad

IX. Teaching Procedures in Health Education. Oral Questions, and the Part They Play in the Lesson

[Continued from December-January issue]

Questions have been recognized ever since the time of Socrates as being “the keys that unlock the thinking process”. Perhaps next to imitation, and memorization of facts, questioning and evaluation of answers is the oldest of pedagogical tricks. The peripatetic philosophers of. ancient Greece developed great skill in this form of teaching. Question and answer procedure plays an important part in most lessons. Sometimes it is used in the “approach” step either as a drill or review device; or to pre-view the new unit of learning in order to ascertain the known facts. Questioning also is essential in the inductive-deductive reasoning which is always associated with the presentation of new material, its organization into principles, and the application of these principles to related situations.

However, in spite of the universal use of questions, the beginning teacher is liable to many errors. New teachers are prone to feel quite satisfied with lessons if there has been a barrage of answers accompanying the questions asked.

Digitized by v^ooQle
277

The following admonitions concerning types of questions and answers have been known for years, but this fact does not render them less valuable to the student teacher. Even the experienced teacher sometimes benefits by self-checking.

1.	Questions asked of children should be simple, definite, concise, and thought-provoking.

2.	Avoid using, as a general thing, the following types of questions:

a.	Questions suggesting the answer; e. g., “The long bones are used to support what?”

b.	Questions requiring only ‘yes’ or ‘no’ for an answer;

e.	g., “Is milk pasteurized so as to prevent people from catching disease?”

c.	Alternative questions; e. g., “What mineral is used chiefly to build strong bones,-lime or iron?”

d.	Irrelevant questions, upon which no essential information pivots.

e.	Ambiguous questions, in which there are several acceptable answers; e. g., “What one thing must we do to become healthy and strong?”

3.	All questions should be asked without specifying a particular pupil until after the question has been stated and a “thought pause” intervenes.

4.	The teacher should, as far as possible, accept and use the answers of the pupils. Any improvement in the substance or wording should come from the pupil or class. Repeating pupil responses unaltered, or always changing them, will frequently result in poor attention, boredom, and an unsocial class situation in which the teacher over dominates.

5.	The teacher should' encourage cooperative types of answers. This approximates adult custom and helps to socialize the recitation.

6.	The beginner must avoid being imposed upon by the talkative, aggressive, or superior students who would monopolize the answers. At the same time, recognition of the initiative and achievements of these pupils must be accorded or the law of satisfaction fails to operate.

7.	The teacher who keeps in mind the development of the pupils will stimulate them to become efficient critics of their own answers.

8.	Avoid the martinet attitude in using the question and answer procedure. Accept partly correct answers for what they are worth; and when certain questions fail to "click”, blame yourself rather than the pupils.

All teachers are aware of the superiority of the spoken question to the written one. Vagueness inherent in the question can be corrected immediately. Synonyms for non-comprehended terms can be supplied on the spot. Younger school children have difficulty in understanding abstract nouns. Typical replies from children of six, seven, and eight years to the question, ‘What is

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
278

health?’ illustrate this point.* Health is to open the window’; ‘It means to swat a fly’, ‘It is when you drink milk’.

Complete lesson plans should contain only certain “pivotal” questions, and not list all the questions and hypothetical answers that the teacher thinks will be essential to the progress of the lesson. The latter practice, if resorted to, will soon be abandoned as it leads to an absurdly restricted procedure which defeats free expression of thought. This does not imply that logical sequence is unnecessary in the question and answer method.

PHYSICAL DEFECTS: THE PATHWAY TO CORRECTION

Why is it that, in spite of the money, time and effort spent on health examinations and the work that follows, so many school children continue to suffer from severe physical defects? With school physicians, school dentists, school nurses and teachers on the job, children should not still be unnecessarily handicapped by defective hearing or vision, by neglected teeth or infected tonsils. Yet they are . . .many of them . . . too many of them. Why? Is it that parents are indifferent about taking their children to the doctor for the necessary corrections? Are there too few doctors, dentists, clinics, to care for the numbers of children? Are the examinations thorough enough? Does the information gathered at the examinations ever reach the parents so that they can do something about it?

Questions such as these have puzzled and distressed the New York City Departments of Health and Education, so two years ago they asked the American Child Health Association, with the help of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, to make a study of school health procedures in New York City. The results of this two year study were recently made public in a report, “Physical Defects: The Pathway to Correction”.

Although the specific findings of the report apply only to New York, the results in general are of interest to any large city which provides regular medical examinations as part of its school health service.

In this study, the research staff made their own direct inquiries in the schools and in the homes. They examined 25,000 children in 121 schools, picking out the children with serious defects. They compared their findings with those recorded on the health cards filed away in the classrooms. They talked to 579 teachers, to more than 95 school nurses, and to parents in 1800 homes. They asked many specific questions in the search for actual facts. Concentrating chiefly on four of the main items of the school health examinations, namely vision, teeth, nutritional status and hearing, they found out exactly what had happened to each child with a serious defect. Had the medical examiner discovered the defect? How accurately had the defect been record-

*“Health Education”, Report of Joint Committee on Health Problems [1930] T. D. Wood, M. D., Chairman, Chap. V, Section D, p. 129.

Digitized by CjOOQle
279

ed? Had a letter been written to the child’s parents? Had the nurse visited his home to explain what was wrong and what should be done? Did the teacher know about it? Was she working with the nurse and doctor to bring about correction, or did she consider that outside her duties as a teacher? Imagining a theoretical pathway leading directly from the examination to the final correction, the research experts found out exactly where, along that pathway, each child had been shunted off.

The answers varied with the different defects. In the case of vision, two serious mistakes appeared. First, so many children were selected in the regular examination as having defective eyesight that the existing facilities could not possibly take care of them all. And secondly, the testing was so inaccurately carried out that almost one-fifth of the severe cases were wrongly recorded.

In somewhat the same way, the research staff found great numbers of children with dental defects—far more than could be cared for by the dental corrective facilities. All cases were recorded, true, but there was no way of telling from the record cards whether a child had a very small cavity or a cavity so large that the tooth would soon be lost. Consequently no clear-cut notification could be sent to the parents, and correction was a hit and miss affair.

In the case of hearing, the answers were different. There the trouble was almost wholly a lack of examination or such inadequate examination that it amounted to the same thing. Most of the hard hearing children had never even set foot on the pathway to correction.

Nutritional status proved perhaps the biggest stumbling block of all. The method of detecting malnourishment now used in the schools is an inefficient one. As a result, one-third of the children examined by the investigators, using newer methods of measurement, and found by them to be under-nourished, were recorded in school as properly nourished. Another third, recorded in school as needing attention, were left uncared for because nobody could tell from the records just what attention they needed. Of the parents, scarcely one-tenth had any idea that their children were suffering from any nutritional lack.

The study did not end with the discovery of weaknesses in present system of examination and follow-up. It went on to practical suggestions and recommendations for improvement within present budget limits.

NEW INFANTILE PARALYSIS IMMUNIZING VACCINE

Further evidence that Dr. John A. Kolmer’s infantile paralysis vaccine is the weapon the world has long sought in its battle against that grim crippler and killer of children has just been added to the record.

Speaking to several hundred fellow physicians at a meeting of the Temple University Hospital staff, Dr. Kolmer, professor

Digitized by LjOOQle
280

of experimental medicine at Temple, gave a detailed account of his three-year search for a preventive of this disease.

He declared that he felt the vaccine “is now ready for extensive trial, and particularly for combating epidemics.”

Dr. Kolmer revealed that of the 25 children he vaccinated late in August and early in September, a few weeks after his first announcement of the vaccine, 84 per cent, developed an immunity to the disease as measured by tests on monkeys [the only animal known, beside man, which can contract the disease.] An additional proof of the effectiveness of the preventive treatment was seen in the fact that blood serum from the vaccinated children neutralized or made non-infective a quantity of living and highly virulent poliomyelitis virus from human victims of the paralysis epidemic which struck California last summer.

Dr. Kolmer expected at the beginning of the test vaccinations on this pioneer group of youngsters, who ranged in age from eight months to 15 years and which included his own two sons, John, 15, and Daniel 11, that about six weeks would be required to establish immunity with the vaccine, obtained from monkeys.

Tests indicated that three of the children, however, developed immunity as early as four days after their first injection of vaccine, and one of these three showed slight amounts of the antibody as soon as 48 hours afterward.

He still advises a series of three injections, however, a week or ten days apart, but pointed out that this comparative speed in the formation of the virus-killing antibodies indicates the vaccination “may prove particularly helpful in immunizing individuals during epidemics.”

Referring to statements of Dr. W. Lloyd Aycock, director of the Harvard Infantile Paralysis Commission's research, that immunization of all children against poliomyelitis would be unnecessary, since many are already immune, Dr. Kolmer declared: “I certainly cannot agree with those who believe that the processes of natural immunization, whatever they may be, are sufficient, since so many, and especially children, contract the disease before such immunity can develop, and either succumb or are badly crippled and handicapped for the balance of life.” Dr. Kolmer pointed out that while about 73 per cent of newborn infants have poliomyelitis antibodies in the blood, “presumably inherited from the mother,” they quickly lose this immunity.

Among 159 children from 5 to 14 years of age, including 20 in the Philadelphia group, 45.5 per cent were without the antibodies in the blood and of 128 individuals over 15, 24.7 per cent were without them.

Dr. Kolmer and others account for the formation of the antibodies in older children on the basis of mild, unrecognized attacks of infantile paralysis, which thus create an immunity. Practically all survivors of recognized cases are immune for life.
281

Dr. Kolmer said, medical history recording only 15 exceptions to this rule.

“None of the 25 children have shown the slightest ill effects from the vaccine,” Dr. Kolmer said, in spite of the fact that 19 of them were already in the hospital, convalescing from an illness or surgical operation.

LIGHT FROM BRAINS

Year after year Dr. Crile keeps on telling us that we are nothing but chemical and electrical contraptions. He extracts proteins, lipoids and other compounds from living tissues, especially the brain, and with the aid of mineral salts makes them produce what he calls “autogenetic cells,” which act much as if they are alive but do not mystify biologists who have seen a grain of sand in chloroform behave as if it were an amoeba. Not so long ago he told us that we are alive because we are full of “radiogens”—infinitesimal suns that shine within us. Now he steps forward with still another piece of alchemy. He takes us into a dark subterranean chamber, pours calcium salt into a tube of brain-stuff and startles us with a weird luminescence. The case for suns in the brain seems proved. Sunlight has its counterpart in thoughtlight.

All this is more romantic than convincing. No progress whatever has been made in fathoming the mystery of life and thought. Dr. Crile has done little more than repeat and continue the work of Gurwitsch and his school. That distinguished Russian discovered some ten years ago strange “mitogenetic” rays which are given off by onion roots, blood, yeast and living cells in general. Sometimes the rays killed. It looked very much as if living matter were set apart by its radiations. In about twenty European laboratories Gurwitsch’s experiments were repeated by merciless skeptics. There was no doubt that eyes and cancer growths and tissue pulp did send forth emanations that could pass through quartz. Unfortunately, grape sugar oxidized with permanganate also gives off the rays. When hydrochloric acid is poured on zinc and hydrogen is evolved, the rays likewise appear. In fact, all oxidations are accompanied by “mitogenetic” rays. What seems to be an attribute peculiar to life belongs to all matter. Evidently “mitogenetic” should be suppressed. It means that only when mitosis occurs—cell activity, in plain English—are rays given off. Since the rays have no unique connection with cells, the term is only a hindrance to clear thinking.

It may be pleasant to think of Shakespeare’s brain cells glowing like a miniature universe of stars as he wro5e “Hamlet” and of Newton radiating waves like a broadcasting station as he saw the laws of gravitation emerging from his equations. But it is better to deal with the perplexities of such comparatively simple things as oxygen and iron than to advance strange hypotheses about life, when we do not even know the exact chemi-

•

Digitized by v^.ooQle
282

cal composition of protoplasm. Gurwitsch and his school, to which the incorrigibly imaginative Dr. Crile belongs, have revealed simply a new property of matter which urgently demands study. When we know just how and why any chemical activity generates a scarcely detectable radiation, it will be time enough to tell us how we grow, live and think.—York Times.

Two Kinds Of Corns.—Soft corns differ from hard corns chiefly in their texture and their location. Instead of the hard, thickened, yellow mass of skin which makes up the hard com, we find a thin, soft white mass of skin.

The cause of the soft com is invariably narrow shoes which squeeze the toes together, causing the side of the toe to press against its neighbor. Inasmuch as the skin of the one toe presses against the skin of the adjoining toe, soft corns are found in pairs, facing each other.

The commonest place to find the soft com is in the toe web between the fourth and fifth toes. This is accounted for by the fact that the fifth toe receives the brunt of the pressure of tight shoes and is forced against the fourth toe.

The next most common site of soft corns is between the great and second toes. Here, too, the big toe is forced against the second toe.

Soft corns persist only while the shoes pinch the toes. As soon as the pressure is relieved, the corns will gradually ’disappear.

Here again soft corns differ from the hard variety. The latter do not always become well after the shoes have been corrected, but with the soft corns, the lesions usually clear up when proper footgear is worn.

Changing the shoes is not the only essential for correcting soft corns. The stockings must also be properly fitted. A short or tight stocking will bind the toes and cause them to be pressed against each other. This binds almost as much as the shoe.

Quick relief can be obtained by packing some soft material such as lamb’s wool, absorbent cotton or felt between the toes to keep them apart.—N. Y. Academy of Medicine.

Air Conditioning Is Aid To The Best Body Functioning.

—“The question is often asked why there has been such delay in arriving at refinements in air conditioning,” Dr. J. Arthur Myers points out in an article in the January Hygeia entitled “Why Condition the Air?” “There are three main causes, the first of which is mystery and superstition. Primitive man saw lightning; he heard the thunder; he saw the rain and snow des-scend from the air; he heard the wind whistle, and all were mysterious to him. He had no simple explanation such as even children now find in books.

Health Education Notes
283

“Another reason for the delay in refinements of air conditioning is that at first only the chemistry of the air was studied; oxygen and carbon dioxide were discovered, and both were essential to life . . . Therefore the sole effect of air on the body was thought to be through its inhalation and exhalation.

“The third main reason for the delay of refinements in air conditioning is the so-called educational work of the fresh air faddists. Most of the teachings of the fresh air faddists are absurdities, as they have never been based on fundamental principles.”

Prom extensive studies and observations made on experimental human beings it has been found that the body functions best with a room temperature of approxiately 68 F., with a relative humidity of from 40 to 50 per cent and with the air in slow circulation.

Scarlet Fever Toxin.—After giving 49,165 doses of scarlet fever toxin, 20,278 primary Dick tests, and 12,713 Dick retests in the Gary schools, we have found that scarlet fever immunization as recommended for use by the Scarlet Fever Committee is a safe procedure and that it is a valuable asset to a community as a prophylactic measure.—O. B. Nesbit, M. D. and S. Thompson,

M.	D.

News Notes

Dr. M’Kenzie Made Medical Fellow—Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, Philadelphia sculptor and surgeon, was made a Fellow of the Academy of Physical Medicine on October 31. The honor was conferred at the society’s 12th annual meeting in New York.

Dr. McKenzie, research professor of physical education at the University of Pennsylvania, was called “a pioneer in physical rehabilitation.”

Athletic Scholarships. There appears to be rather general approval of the views expressed by Cornell University with regard to athletic scholarships. So long as alumnae continue to ‘aid’ students who have ability in athletics, which probably always will be the case, it would seem desirable that a more liberal policy be officially and openly adopted by colleges and universities, provided that scholastic standards be maintained.

Limited Home Study Assignments.—The superintendent of the Los Angeles public schools recently issued a bulletin on the subject of home study which undoubtedly will result in great value to the school children of that city. We quote from that bulletin: “In order to correct in part unsatisfactory conditions which prevail in many places, the amount of required home study must be definitely controlled.

Digitized by U^ooQle
284

Effective in February 1935, the following regulations will be observed:

1.	Through the first eight grades no home study will be required.

2.	In the ninth grade required home study will be limited to one hour for each of the first four evenings of the week.

3.	In the tenth, eleventh, and^ twelfth grades required home study will be limited to one and one-half hours for the first four evenings of the week.

4.	In none of the upper four grades will required home study be permitted over the week-end.

Under certain conditions some addtional work may be suggested to parents when there has been maladjustment caused by frequent changing of schools, absence from school, or inability of pupils to work effectively under existing school conditions. If an assignment is to be made for any reason other than those indicated above, it must have the endorsement of the principal and be based upon a written request from the pupil’s parents.”

L. W. D. And C. W. A. Contribution.. To Physical Education And Recreation In Philadelphia.—Among the many contributions made by C. W. A. and L. W. D. to physical education and recreation in Philadelphia during the past year,, the following are outstanding: one hundred new tennis courts, 29 new base ball diamonds, six foot ball fields, three athletic fields with cinder tracks, three golf courses and seven bocce fields in Philadelphia.

These are not dreams or hopes, but actualities already accomplished or being accomplished by Federal money allotted to CWA [and later LWD] workers.

Sixty of the new tennis courts were built last year and 40 are now under construction, a part of a vast recreational undertaking in Fairmount Park and some 30 to 40 other Philadelphia parks.

The new golf courses are a 27-hole course at League Island Park, a nine-holer at the Navy Yard, one of 18 holes in the Walnutlane-Henry ave. section, and nine holes added to the Cobbs Creek course.

Wading and swimming pools have been built or designed for various locations and city recreation centers have been improved.

Picnic glades made available in the larger parks, new walks, bridle paths, rustic fences and bridges, rock gardens, several thousand trees planted and the removal of about the same number of dead ones is a part of the work in the parks.

Foot Ball Curb Urged.—Dr. William J. Carrington of Atlantic City, president of Kiwanis International and member of the Ventnor City board of education, believes foot ball should have no place in the educational program.

“It is a game with no carry-over value,” he declared. “It is unsafe and dangerous. For 30 years experts have tried to

Digitized by

Google
285

make it safe, but they have not succeeded. Besides its physical dangers, it exploits the few, and gives false values through false adulations.

“Foot ball has no qualities which cannot be secured to far greater advantage in games that can be played throughout life. Tennis, golf, volley ball and squash offer superior advantages and should be included and emphasized in physical education programs.”—Phila. Record.

Mahoney Chosen New A.A.U. Head.—The close of the forty-sixth national convention of the A. A. U. marked an end of the six-year administration of Avery Brundage, of Chicago, who was accorded a sweeping tribute in recognition of his leadership before yielding the president’s gavel to Jeremiah T. Mahoney, of New York, 56-year-old former jurist and veteran athletic figure.

Mahoney, never before honored with A. A. U. office although long identified with its councils, pledged himself to continue Brundage’s progressive policies, which have brought about greater domestic harmony and promoted better relationships abroad.

Brundage still is a central figure in the athletic picture as president of the American Olympic Committee. He will lead the American delegation to the next Olympic Games, provided there is no further disruption of international relations over the issue of Germany’s treatment of Jewish athletes.	A.	P.

5,000	Germans To Make Olympic Pledge.—Five thousand German men and women, candidates for the 1936 Olympic Games pronounced in a solemn ceremony on December 16 the following oath:

“I renounce all the joys of life [no smoking, no beer, no night life] for the time of training. It will be my duty to educate and strengthen my courage and my body and devote myself completely to the great task of being worthy of competing for my Fatherland.”

It was noted as significant that the athletes will not pledge unconditional fidelity to Hitler, but to the Reich sports leader, Hans von Tschammer-Osten, and the subleader.

A nation-wide radio hook-up will transmit the ceremony from the Charlottenburg Opera House, with the athletic candidates assembled at various places in the country. Three hundred Berlin candidates will take the oath in unison, followed by echoes from various comers of the land.	A. P.

The Modern Basketball Game For Girls.—The rules as they have evolved in the past few years have made girl’s basketball a radically different game from the old, static, slow game with its unnatural defensive tactics. The new game calls for greater skill and speed. Because of this, one is challenged to acquire speed and master the more difficult skills. This requires time and considerable practice. Consequently the interest

Digitized by v^.ooQle
286

eriod in basketball is longer than it would be were the skills asily mastered.

Coaching technique has changed and must change to make the game faster and more open. Players must now keep on the move, but their moves cannot be aimless wanderings about the court. Greater emphasis must be placed on training players to throw and catch while running. Individual tactics and skills are more essential than ever. This does not mean individual star playing. Better individual performance is always required of a player who must adjust her play to that of five other Dlayers. The new rules have made this cooperative play not only expedient but absolutely necessary.—Meissner, Chr. Eastern Dist. Nafl.Section On Women’s Athletics and P. E. D.

Dr. C. H. Wilson, formerly City Director of Health and Physical Education of Evansville, Indiana, has been appointed to a similar broad position at Hartford, Connecticut.

Dr. Herbert Walker has been appointed as City Director at Evansville.

The officers and members of the Executive Committee of the Department of School Health and Physical Education of the National Education Association are as follows:

Officers	Executive Committee:

A. W. Thompson, President	Dr. Wm. G. BuBdick

Dr. Edna Bailey, Vice President	Dr. F. W. Maroney

James E. Rogers, Secretary-Treasurer Miss Ethel Perrin

Dr. Allen Ireland

Left Handed Baseball.—The grounds at Shot Tower Recreation Center, Philadelphia, are too small for regulation baseball games, so the senior boys overcame the problem during the past season by forming a “left handed baseball league”.

FOREIGN NOTES

Physical Examinations of School Children In Switzerland.—Physical examinations of school children were recently introduced in the rural districts in Switzerland with the coming into effect of the federal law on prevention of tuberculosis; the examinations were also extended to those city schools where they had not been given previously.

The school physicians in the rural districts serve on a part-time and in the cities on a full-time basis. The maximum number of children which it is considered advisable to allow to each physician is 3,000 in the rural districts and 8,000 in the cities.

In the cities the school children are given a tuberculin test and tested for the rapidity of sedimentation of the blood; those of them presenting suspicious symptoms are given a radiologic

Digitized by kjOOQle
287

examination. In rural districts the regular school physician refers the suspicious cases to a specialist. All children in whom tuberculosis is found are referred to special dispensaries where the necessary measures are taken.

The school physicians are required to examine the teachers for tuberculosis. Those afflicted with a contagious form of this disease are given leave of absence with 80 per cent of their salaries. Supervision over the general hygiene of the school buildings is also a part of the physicians’ work.—Office International d’Hygiene Publique, Bulletin Mensuel, Paris, Jan., 1934.

Unemployment and the Physical Condition of Children in Germany.—For the purpose of determining the effect of unemployment on the physical condition of children, studies have been made in several cities of Germany. In Kiel a study was made in 1933 of the records of physical examinations of 2,350 school entrants. The children were all 6 years old and were divided into 5 nearly equal groups, according to the family’s economic condition. It was found that the average height and weight of children of unemployed persons on relief rolls and of partly employed persons were lower than those of children from better situated families and that the difference increased with the improvement in the economic situation.

A study made in Berlin in 1931 of 1,100 working class children varying in ages from 6 to 14, one-third of whom were from unemployed families, showed that the average weight of the children of unemployed parents was 2 to 3 pounds less than that of children of employed parents, and the average height 3-4 inch less. The study also revealed an inferiority in the general condition of the children of the unemployed, manifested by greater frequency of tuberculsis, nervous disorders, and difficulties of behavior.

In a study made in Vienna in 1932 of 800 children between 1 and 6 years old, half of whom came from unemployed families, it was found that 57.5 per cent of the children of the unemployed were below normal in weight, but only 34 per cent of the children of the employed.—Archiv fuer soziale Hygiene und Berlin, vol. 8, No. 6, 1934.

BOOK REVIEWS

Fred E. Foertsch

“American Indian Dance Steps” by Bessie and May G.

Evans; published by A. S. Barnes and Co.; clothbound, quarto, 104 pages, 20 illustrations; reproductions in color of 8 original paintings by Poyege a San Ildefonso Indian; price $7.50.

In its field this book is so good as to warrant bringing it again to the attention of our profession. It would be difficult to praise it too highly.

Authenticity of the material and the depth of study made by

Digitized by VjOOQle
288

the authors is attested by F. W. Hodge, Museum of the American^ Indian, New York City.	:H

The major part of the book is devoted to characteristic Indian dance steps and to six examples of Indian dance of the’"5 southwest. The verbal descriptions are complete and clearly a stated in simple language. The numerous diagrammatic figures;*! and the reproductions in color of eight original paintings are very .£ helpful. Inasmuch as rhythm and speed play so large a part in ■ determining characteristic style and mood, the authors have assisted the reader in forming an idea of the character of a given step by providing a simple rhythmic pattern and metronomic indication of approximate speed in a number of cases. More complete form of score with times, words or syllables, drum-beat, and steps accompany the dance examples.

We suggest to those teachers who may not be able to afford to buy this book that they recommend its acquisition by the local schools and public library.

Respiratory Therapy in Pulmonary Tuberculosis.—An

article appearing in Schweizerische medizinische Wochenschrift, Basel, October 1934.

Hofbauer says that the predisposition to tuberculous infection is greatest in portions of the lung hardly at all utilized during ordinary breathing. Exclusive mouth breathing results in a loss of tonus of the excluded respiratory muscles, the diaphragm and the muscles of the abdominal wall. In case of greater respiratory requirements, respiration changes in that the auxiliary expiratory forces, the muscles of the abdominal walls, become active and in turn stimulate the diaphragm to improved inspiratory movements. The author discusses the effects of these respiratory movements and shows their value in the treatment of tuberculosis by improving the circulation. He reproduces roentgenograms that illustrate how exudates disappear following several weeks of systematic respiratory exercises. This process of resorption is important because every tuberculous focus contains a large amount of autotuberculin and work-dyspnea leads to an increased resorption of these toxic products, a process that can be compared to a tuberculin injection. That the gradually increasing resorption of this substance may exert a therapeutic influence can hardly be doubted, for the production of antibodies is stimulated by the resorption. It is essential that the respiratory autotuberculinization is increased only gradually and with careful observation of the reactions. The author considers respiratory treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis advisable when, as is so frequently the case, there exists an emphysema in the nontuberculous portions of the lung. Patients who have received operative treatment on account of pulmonary tuberculosis frequently develop hyperextension of the “healthy” lung and displacement of the heart. These manifestations are caused by incorrect respiratory activities, and suitable changes in the respiration will improve the

A

J

■s

*

f

1

%

Digitized by

Google

i