MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	DECEMBER	1934-JANUARY	1935	No.	424

Physical Education In Germany

With Special Reference to Women.

By Frau Dr. Elizabeth Hoffa, late President of the German Medical Women’s

Association.

As in many other countries, an increasing importance has been given to physical education in Germany during the past 25 years and it has led to rather rapid development and to change of ideas and methods. The present period is one of experiments. The foreigner, reviewing physical educatipn in Germany, would at once note and probably criticise the lack of “system,” the multitude of methods in use. To be rble to understand this variety, it is necessary to have some knowledge of-the line of development and to appreciate that a certain number of groups, formerly all rather independent, are now working together with the same aim.

The impulse for this evolution was given by the change in our entire educational system towards a more lively form of teaching, called Arbeitsschulmethode, in which there is endeavour [1] to develop the productive capabilities of the child, [2] to let the child play a more active part in all the lessons, [3] to let the child himself find the best way how to learn something or how to fulfill a task. These ideas affected physical education by turning interest from the free-standing exercises to the teaching of so-called “natural movements,” and tasks of movement [Bewegungs-aufgaben]. Just as natural science, medicine especially, as well as modem psychology, concentrated interest more and more on the whole personality, so physical education tended not only to develop physical fitness and muscular strength, but to influence through the teaching the united person of the child—body, mind and spirit—to form its character and develop a harmonious individuality. Further, more and more attention was drawn to the need for a specific female body culture and physical training.

According to these ideas, the training of the teachers for physical education for Secondary Schools has been altered. Formerly the whole-time specialist for physical education used to be somewhat underrated by the other members of the school staff— treating only with bodily requirements seemed too easy! Since a few years ago, these specialist teachers have had to carry out their studies in the Physical i raining Institutes of the Universities and they must always take a complementary purely scientific training besides. This alteration of the training caused endless

Digitized by ^.ooQle
194

dispute, and still there are a great number of people regretting the earlier mode of professionl training, the wonderful time of training in the High School of Physical Education in Spandau, with its open air life and opportunity for giving entire attention to the studies and gradually more and more to the teaching of physical activities. There is the fear now that the science studies will absorb too much of the interest and strength of the teacher. On the other hand, the needed mind and body co-operation ought to gain by this method.

The [new] Syllabuses of Physical Education in Girls’ Schools for Prussia, which appeared in 1925 and 1929, give a good idea of the modem lines. They emphasize the importance of guaranteeing to the child an undisturbed development of the personal qualities and capabilities, to develop character, self control, courage, a clear mind and a sense of community; they point out the importance of teaching the child the value of a healthy and hygienic way of living, concerning nutrition, clothing, lodging, recreation, cleanliness, the duty towards one’s body, and the desirability of developing good carriage not only in the standing position, but in all the movements practical life might call for, as walking, lifting, carrying, sitting, and in domestic and vocational duties.

By what means can this be achieved? Although there seems to be considerable similarity to the latest English Syllabus [1933] in aim—I must confess that I have not yet had time to study this book in full detail—the difference in the ways and methods is great. There seems to be little chance of mutual agreement or understanding among international workers in Physical Education, even on larger principles. Such a detailed and excellent book as Lindhard’s “Theory of Gymnastics” does not take Germany into consideration at all.

To begin with, we do not use the words gymnastic and gymnastics in the same way, but reserve them for the so-called systems of rhythmical gymnastics, or for special branches, as orthopaedic gymnastics, corrective gymnastics and dance gymnastics, using the old word [deutsches] Turnen or newly-called Koerper-schule [body training] for your gymnastics. The gymnastic lesson in school is the Turnstunde. Body training comprises all kinds of exercises for body forming, posture training, breathing, balancing, and mobility [or suppling] exercises as well as the training of natural movements as running, jumping, climbing, etc. These exercises always form one part of a gymnastic lesson. The oldest and nearly the largest of all the organisations of people interested in physical training are the deutsche Parallel to the Swedish System of Ling, and in some ways influenced by it, there developed in Germany a system by Jain, based on the ideas of Guts-Muths [and Spiess]. It has been influenced and gradually altered by the new ideas. Here you still find to a certain extent the preference for static free-standing exercises, for apparatus work with precise manner of execution and strong demands for courage, discipline and good posture—but until recently there was no marked concern to discover the most

Digitized by Google
195

suitable type of exercise suited to women, although women form a greater proportion of the members.

The elder generation of teachers have mostly been under the influence of this big group and retain the established methods in their lessons. But the younger ones are all more or less influenced by the modem ideas, derived from the systems of rhythmical gymnastics. [We no longer call them rhythmical, because this leads to errors, but I might not be clear if I simply called them “gymnastic” systems here.] Although some of the ideas will not be new to many readers, I must say a few words about them.

At first Dr. Bess Mensendieck, from America, and Mrs. Kallmeyer, a German woman still living and teaching in Berlin— both pupils of Miss Stebbins, another American—brought new ideas to our country. Mrs. Kallmeyer inclined more to the artistic side: Dr. Mensendieck maintained an entirely hygienic standpoint. The latter considers it most important to acquire a conscious knowledge of the physical laws ruling the human body, to learn the function of single muscle-groups and practice isolated and controlled muscular movements, in order to personally correct and to maintain by self-control the most favourable, effortless manner of movement. Her system was meant mainly for mature women who had lost, through daily overwork, correct and easy bodily posture. She pointed out that each movement should be. felt and begun at the centre of gravity of the body [in the abdomen], the so-called Centtale, and from this point she instructed in the acts of standing, sitting, walking, etc. I believe she was the first to try to alter the carriage of the pelvis by tilting [rotating] it forward-upward in order to correct lordosis, from which most women used to suffer. She observed the irrational way in which women perform movements of daily life, the unnecessary amount of effort exerted by using the wrong or unnecessary muscles, and set about the teaching of conscious self-correction, e. g., how a heavy parcel is lifted down from a high wardrobe, stretching the arms only, keeping the weight on the feet, instead of lifting the whole body from its centre and making the work much easier. The characteristic of the exercises is always static isolated muscle work, excellent for corrective gymnastics.

Absolutely opposite to her ideas are those of Rudolf Bode and his pupil, Hinrich Medeau. These two do not attach any importance to anatomical details, condemn isolated muscular work, and point out that every movement must flow like a wave throughout the whole body, travel out into every limb, and continue completely to the end of the range of movement with continual alternation of tension and relaxation. Bode regards the human body always as a totality which must be wholly involved in every movement [I have not seen this form of really rhythmical swinging in use in England or Sweden]. This work is entirely dynamic, using music a great deal to accentuate the rhythm. Swinging movements of all kinds are used, including copies of natural working movements as ringing a bell, chopping wood, swinging a hammer, pulling a rope, scything or reaping. Medeau

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
1

196

has worked out specially good exercises for developing the power of balance by using light balls, procuring wonderfully harmonious, graceful and light movement.

Again entirely different is the work in the country school of Loheland [Headmistresses Roden and Langgard] where the idea to educate the whole personality—body, mind and spirit—dominates, where pupils are not only physically educated but learn all sorts of handicraft work, spinning, basketry, potting, weaving, drawing, gardening, choral singing, and lead a very austere life in the country, influenced much by the anthroposophic ideas of Rudolf Steiner. The importance of natural loose, unrestrained breathing is emphasized in all exercises, and they \specially develop the sense of space in movement, by, for example, bending or swinging in all the various directions possible. \

Elsa Gindler is another pioneer of the modem gymnastics. [I confess that having tried nearly all these various forms of training, I employ her ideas for my personal daily rooming exercise, and used to go to her, or her pupils’, lesson regularly for years], She believes neither in isolated muscular work ak Mensendieck, nor in the Turn free-standing exercises, nor yet in vivacious swinging as Bode, but in controlled movements, which are Viever exactly prescribed or shown by the teacher, so have to be Vrorked out always by the pupil himself. Her belief is that with\our body we can do every movement as easily, naturally and gracefully as can very young children, or animals [especially cats], irt we get rid of mental and bodily restraints and stiffness.	\

She starts her work with attention to relaxation, brealthing, balance movements—a quiet but very efficacious way of stretching the muscles providing a very loose stimulating self-mass*ge, which makes the pupil feel how the body reacts naturally awl promotes a yielding to this reaction. Only when a certain freedom of movement has been developed, does she proceed to more\ complicated actions as jumping, running, climbing, etc.

Now all these different systems of gymnastics, originally mostly intended for adults, have gradually affected school physical activities, and the Syllabus mentions particularly that any teacher who is well trained in any of these systems, may use the respective methods in her school work. That is why we have such a variety of methods in our class-teaching; different not only in the several countries comprising Germany, but sometimes quite different with the various classes in the same school. It makes it rather confusing for the pupils sometimes, and they hardly know to which method they ought to stick, but they probably get a broader contact with the practice of physical activities.

It is not possible here to treat in detail the different systems of dancing and dance gymnastics. I just mention the names of the late Isadora Duncan, whose sister Elisabeth still conducts a school in Czecho-Slovalda where I noticed most graceful, supple movements, and great attention being given to artistic education, music and drawing; Rudolf von Laban and Mary Wigman, whose ideas on group dancing have exerted influence on school dancing,

Digitized by LjOOQle
197

and who are well known all over the world [Note the marked success of Wigman in America; the success of the Kurt Joos ballet in London; the first prize awarded last year in Paris to a pupil of Wigman]; the schools of Dalcroze in Hellerau and in Laxenburg to develop the sense of rhythm by developing muscular co-ordination. In folk dancing the new ideas have led to the efforts to cultivate more natural and supple movements, and to revive the musical elements.

Besides gymnastics proper, in school-days and beyond, athletic training plays a major part in the educational and recreational life of Germany. In comparing the different countries that I have seen lately, England seems to prefer games, Germany athletics, while Sweden and Austria have the great advantage of abundant facilities for such natural activities as ski-ing, swimming, and mountain climbing.

German girls and women play hockey to some extent, more play handball in winter, and there is strong interest in summer for all the various athletic exercises, running, high and long jumping, putting the weight, throwing the discus and javelin, hurdling, and relay racing. The technique does not seem to be very different, but we try to use more useful preparatory work, as playing with iron balls before practising weight putting, making the joints, especially the knees, loose and supple in preparation for throwing. Much importance is attached to minor games, with all kinds of balls, especially the popular big heavy Medicine ball, which is so useful for team work and jolly recreational practice, yielding an excellent muscular training.

But the fundamental exercise is running in all its forms— running in good style, short distance running [sprinting], long distance running, cross country running, relay running, or in playing running games. Running* is considered to be the best means of stimulating circulation, breathing, metabolism generally, and organic functioning. The hygienic effect is yet more stressed, as we do as much exercise as possible out in the open air. Even in winter and when it rains nearly every gymnsatic lesson is started with a short run in the playground and we bare as much skin to the fresh air and sunlight as is practicable by wearing only very light and sparse clothing, having learned by scientific experiments how stimulation of the various skin functions can promote good health generally.

The advantage of games is not confined to the all round training of the body in running, throwing, jumping: as important is the educational effect in the voluntary submission to the rules of the game and the interests of the whole team. Games are usually popular with all young people. When, however, it is desired to conduct recreational work and “Keep Fit” classes for women of mature age, work involving team organization would be much hindered by women over 30-35; further, professional life or domestic duties often prevent regular playing, so essential for proper team practice or for competitive team games, whereas one can train almost any number of people of quite different

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
198

capabilities on a playing field with facilities for running, throwing and light ball games. A person can practice even by herself— golf is much too expensive for us in Germany—and she can go to the playing field just when it is convenient.

Much has been said of the dangers of our athletic competitions, and as a matter of fact in some clubs there is a tendency to give most attention to the training of the few best performers instead of spreading it over the whole group. Some people in Germany have pointed out, that taking part in competitions and matches involves a great danger, because girls and women are physiologically less stable and of more delicate constitution than men, hence they must not be forced or encouraged to give all their energy and strength to individual supreme efforts. Thus it is argued in all kinds of magazines, sportspapers, and newspapers, even by well-known persons, and as evidence photographs are used such as that of the woman who won the 800m. race at the Olympic Games, Amsterdam, 1928, showing a tense expression which is considered to be unnatural—as a woman must always smile! I am afraid these opponents do not trouble to reflect that girls and women must perform day by day more trying work in factories.

From the point of view of health, I have no objection to a woman taking part in a few competitions—10..each year are supposed to be allowed officially in Germany—if the contests are undo- medical control as is usual. Fegarding the educational effect, I strongly believe that it is of the greatest value to have this experience of going to the limit of one’s ability and strength and feeling the dominance of the will over the body, because not muscular strength alone, but energizing determiration wins most races. In the later struggles of life w-on en may remember this will power and meet and overcome difficulties with more courage.

The importance that we give to athletics can be seen by the fact that the sports badge for all round efficiency for men and women comprises athletic tests, and if anyone applies for a business post, this badge is nearly always demanded, or it will at least be a good recommendation. [Ihe tests are [1] short distance running; [2] jumping; [3] swimming, a short and defined distance in a given time; [4] throvirg, or rowing, or gliding; [5] endurance test, long distance swimming or running.] In the matriculation examination girls have to pass in physical education, which includes athletic tests, some apparatus work and gymnastics, the latter can be performed according to individual preference for style and system. We consider it legitimate and desirable for girls who are lower in intellectual ability to score higher in the physical training section, in which they often show distinct prowess. On the other hand, this examination prevents the purely intellectual type from enti'ely neglecting their bodily training.

Another example is the yearly cross-country race Potsdam-Berlin, a big competition for all clubs, boys and girls having to run a shorter distance, and where each team of 10 must run

Digitized by v^ooQle
199

2,000 metres. Tremendous general interest is shown and everyone tries to reduce the running time to help his or her respective club. Such a race gives weaker members the chance of joining in, and getting into the habit of turning out, as bigger clubs always have several teams in the race. Every control station in this race has a medical officer attached.

In apparatus work there is no great difference. We use the horse, buck, and horizontal bars. I am glad to see that parallel bars are not used over here, as with us, because they do not suit the female body. The excellent wall bars are not often seen in Germany. It has been noticed that only at a certain age does apparatus work appeal to women, that girls at puberty openly dislike apparatus work, so its use has been diminished.

The greatest influence and change has come from the work of Dr. Streicher, the Austrian teacher who with Prof. Gaulhofer [now in Holland] reorganized physical education in Austria. Her work should have been mentioned earlier regarding modem gymnastic ideas. The influence of her treatment of physical education from a new standpoint can be noticed everywhere. Ordinary gymnastic apparatus she dislikes, regarding it as unnatural, and uses instead natural objects—builds hedges, fences, walls, etc., in the school playground and the children are told to climb, v$ult, leap on to or over these obstacles in their own way, in a freely individual [or functional] manner, thus presreving their natural bodily expression [as opposed to gymnastic form] acquiring and getting good physical ability in movements and control. Again the education of the child’s whole personality and the aim to preserve its natural movements are predominant. Loose balance work, ball games, and the training of good carriage and breathing in every movement are features. Her excellent work has a growing influence in all countries.

The individual sports, tennis, swimming, rowing, canoeing, skating, ski-ing, play a great part in our physical activities, according to the local facilities. In an enquiry of a great number of professional working women and housewives on their favourite physical recreation, rambling, swimming, athletics, gymnastics, and canoeing were mentioned most. A high percentage were members of either Turn or Sports clubs. Evening classes of all social grades and small private gymnastic classes are very popular.

The effort to introduce a daily physical training lesson in all types and grades of schools is supported not only by the teachers of physical training, but also by nearly all the school medical officers of health, and most medical authorities. Those schools which have already instituted this have demonstrated definite mental and physical improvement of the pupils.

In Germany much attention has been given to new ideas of the aims and methods of physical education, the syllabuses give a greater freedom to the teacher, but also a greater responsibility of avoiding waste of time with useless experiments. It is considered more important to develop character and personality and the individual’s natural movement rather than special
200

muscular capabilities; the educational effect of physical training stands next to the hygienic value, and public opinion tends to accept that every person, man and woman, must have some kind of recreational physical activity to be a healthy, capable and happy member of the nation.—Reprint from “Physical Education and School	Hygiene,”England, v

Recreation in Scandinavian Countries

By J. Sigfrid Edstrom, Managing Director, Swedish General Electric Company.

We all know how, even in the earliest times the need of movement of the body, the need of having the blood go quicker through the veins, the need of perspiration, the value of baths, were felt. We know of the Greek Olympic Games. We know of the Roman’s wonderful sport performances. We have heard of the wrestling of the Vikings. We all know the old theory of a sound soul in a sound body.

At that time they fought the great wars. Then in the eighteenth century Watt invented the steam engine and concentration of industry became more and more needed, and to-day, you know of these unfortunate, I might say, gathering of industries, these great cities that have been formed in certain parts of the world, where the workmen’s quarters are narrow, where the children have to play on the streets under great risks. There you see the great need of recreation, of playgrounds, of instruction for recreation and for sports.

I hail with joy and greet with great pleasure this Congress, the First Recreation Congress of the World. May we at this Congress interchange thoughts. May we be able to teach each other and learn from one another, and may this Congress be a great success.

Speaking of our countries in Scandinavia, I will remind you that they are situated far in the North. They are, in fact, of the same latitude as Alaska on this continent. rj he conditions there are very different from the conditions in the United States or in Southern Europe, and we have, for instance, very, very long days in the summer and very, very short days in the winter. In some parts of Scandinavia we have hardly any day; there are only a few hours of light. This brings about different conditions than exist here in the United States and concentrates the summer sports in certain months and the winter sports in the winter time.

We have, in the summer, soccer, football, general field and track events, rowing, sailing and swimming, while in the winter we have skiing, skating, ice hockey and Bandy, as we call it, which is an ice game played on skates with small, short clubs and a ball. The ground is the size of a football field.

In Denmark, the winter is not so severe and the country is located in the South, and there they have mostly summer

Digitized by

Google
201

games. They have cycling, rowing, football and gymnastics. Soccer football is very much practiced sport in our countries in the summer time—unlike England and France where it is a winter game.

We had at an early day organized our sport by forming the so-called Swedish National Gymnastic and Sporting Association which comprises all sports that can be carried on by woman or man with easy means. It does not take in automobile sports, air sports, flying or sailing or equestrian sports, but all others are united in this Swedish National Gymnastic and Sports Association. This body is the highest authority in sports and lays down rules and regulations. It promotes in general healthy bodily exercise in the nation and increases the physical and mental power of the people.

The active chairman of this organization is the Swedish Crown Prince who has been chairman since it was begun about thirty years ago, and he is really active. He takes personal part and sits at the meetings. He is, I may say, one of the best connoisseurs of sports in our country.

Then we have had the benefit in Sweden—[I am speaking mostly of Sweden because I know that country best and the conditions in the other countries are about the same]—of an early interest in gymnastics. Our high school or university gymnastics is more than 100 years old, and perhaps you have all heard of the Ling Gymnastic System which was founded on scientific principles and has spread over the world. Gymnastics is compulsory at schools. We spend half an hour or more each day. Each child has gymnastics and that is, of course, a very good basis for the nation to build up its physical and mental power.

In order to carry on the gymnastics and other sports at the schools, we have the necessary facilities—gymnastic halls, and playgrounds and athletic grounds connected with the schools. But the children grow up and become men and women and then they also need to continue their physical exercises, and for that purpose in most villages and cities in Sweden we have created athletic grounds which are generally governed and owned by the Athletic Associations but which are often built by the municipalities themselves.

Often the private clubs and municipalities co-operate in the management of these grounds. In the larger cities we have several such grounds as, for example, in Stockholm and Gothenburg. The Swedish State also has helped the development of athletic grounds. In these times we have in Sweden a great deal of unemployment, and the State, which fully appreciates the necessity of sporting grounds, has given great sums to the unemployed by having them engaged in building sporting grounds-. Also, in another part of the country where industry is dominating, industrial undertakings are doing a great deal to promote the erection of sporting and recreation grounds.

I may at this instance also tell you of the energetic work of the athletes themselves. Often they haven’t had the opportunity

Digitized by L^ooQle
202

to get the grounds and they have built them themselves. The boys have gone out in the evenings, two or three hundreds of them, working, digging in the field, setting up tracks and building houses. They have begged for money and have prepared grounds that were very fine. They have tried to build their own home, so to speak, for their recreation, for their sports.

Winter sport grounds are to be found in Sweden. We have seventy artificial hills for skiing. We very often build houses for sports at places suitable for skiing, and these houses serve as resting places where skiiers may remain over night, or stay for short periods in order to practice skiing. We have formed a federation to promote skiing called The Swedish Association for the Promoting of Skiing. This federation, formed forty years ago, has built a number of these huts. The association also decides the dimensions for the equipment, and it is the best available. Shoes, the binding on the skiis and the design of the skiis themselves are standardized by this federation and they are manufactured by the manufacturers in accordance with these standards.

Teachers are being brought forward by this association. They have courses every winter where several hundred teachers are being instructed, and these teachers later instruct the boys and girls of the various schools. In many schools lessons in skiing are compulsory.

The great skiing propaganda is created by the excursions that are organized every year, generally at Easter time. Some four or five thousand school children go up in the mountains under good instructors’ guidance. They stay up there for a week or ten days. The sun is burning there then and when they come back they are brown as Indians, happy to have had .this outdoor experience and to have spent a week or so in the snow.

The skiing association that I spoke of also has instituted a museum for skiing implements and you find there the various developments in them. For instance, the oldest ski they have is 4,500 years old and you can see how the ski has developed during the centuries. That old ski was found in a grave of that age.

The lakes and rivers are frozen in the winter, and naturally provide an excellent place for skating. We can have wonderful skating excursions on these bodies of water as long as the snow doesn't come. The winter begins in November, but we may have a wonderful opportunity for long distance skating, which is quite different, and a dangerous sport. You must be equipped for it, and have the facilities to help yourself if you need it. Then the snow comes and, of course, we bring out our skiing and give up the skates.

During this period of snow-free ice, which occurs not only in November and December, but also in the spring when the sun comes and melts the snow on the lakes and the winter right frost comes and makes new ice in the daytime, we have another period of skating. We have also sailing on skates. An individual can sail alone on skates, or he can sail with a crew, going with the

Digitized by L^ooQle
203

wind, as he likes. We also have ice yachting, which is well known in this country.'

I spoke of the municipal facilities for sports. We have also a swimming pool in each city. However, the pools are not like those that you have in the United States, these wonderful swimming pools that you have in your athletic clubs. We have them in the rivers or somewhere on the coast. They are open swimming pools with the walls built in the water and there are a few seats and places to undress, and here the people can practice swimming.

Sweden is the Land of a Thousand Lakes, as we call them. We have 6,000 lakes in our country, and a great number of rivers flowing in and out of these lakes. We have long coasts because our country is a peninsula and this gives us wonderful swimming facilities.

We have had, of course, some experience with drowning cases. Forty years ago there was formed a Swedish Life Saving Society for the purpose of teaching swimming to everybody, and to give instruction in life-saving. That society has done wonderful work. They have taught swimming and life-saving to teachers who, in turn, have taught the people in general. In some of our schools, the teaching of swimming is compulsory and that has proved a great success. The Swedish Life Saving Society also ‘assists anyone who wants to build a swimming pool by giving them plans and advice.

Naturally these rivers and lakes of which I have spoken are used for other sports as well as swimming, particularly rowing and sailing. Rowing was formerly a very much favoured sport, but it has not developed very much of late. Sailing is one of the greatest sports in Sweden; you call it yatching here. Yachting in this country is an expensive sport. With us it is a sport of the working man. Every working man dreams of the day when he can own his own boat. In my own little town we have at least a thousand small craft, yachts of various sizes, or motor boats, which are owned by the working men.

Another sport that has developed in the last few years in Sweden is canoeing. We can go up one river, carry the canoe from one lake to another river, and go down the other river, so we can have wonderful excursions in a canoe, and that is becoming more and more popular. Sailing, naturally, is organized. We have a number of yacht clubs. They are not wonderful clubhouses such as you have in this country; 'people simply organize sailing and competition in sailing. Competition, you know, is needed in all sports to create interest in sports, and these yachting clubs are doing this.

Other recreations in our country are tennis and football. Handball is coming in very fast, and by handball I do not mean ordinary Irish handball which is much practiced in this country. Handball in our country is played with a ball the size of a football that is thrown from one person to another on the ground. The ball is the same size as is used in soccer football and the

Digitized by UjOOQle
204

goal is the same as is used in the game of soccer football, with certain rules. It is developing very fast and is becoming very popular. It has been brought out in Germany and from there it is spreading.

We do not practice Rugby in our country. We do not play baseball at all. Golf is coming in now, but as it is a rather expensive sport it is coming in very slowly.

In order to promote interest in sports we have instituted in the General Association for Gymnastics and Sports what we call an athletic badge. A man can wear it on his coat to show that he has gone through certain tests in athletics. One test is swimming or gymnastics; the second is a jumping event which you must do; the third is a running event; the fourth is a throwing event or fencing; the fifth is an endurance test; rowing, swimming, skating, skiing or cycling. This was started in 1907 and to-day 100,000 of these .emblems have been given out. You must remember that our country is only the size of California. Our countiy has a population of 6,000,000 in an area about the size of California.

Certain special badges have also been instituted for skiing and 100,000 of them have been given out. The various skiiers have covered a distance of forty times around the world and have spent 1,600,000 hours in working for these badges.

An interesting fact about these tests or tryouts for the swimmers is that as early as 1796 Professor Jan Swanberg, in Upsala, instituted degrees for swimming. He was a professor at the university and he went by the ordinary degrees of the university, so he instituted a Bachelor of Arts in swimming and a Master of Arts in swimming, and that is still being carried on not only in Upsala but all over Sweden. It is a great festivity in autumn when the young people get their degrees in swimming. They have a laurel placed on their heads as they swim up to the mayor of the city, or whoever is there to give them their degrees. Of course, they have to go through very severe tests to get these degrees.

Another sport which is very interesting, and which is coming in very rapidly in Sweden, is cross-country running. The runners meet in a certain place and get a map and there is a sign on that map that says, “Run to that point, run to this point, and return here.” They have to run right through the woods, through the mountains and around the lakes to one point, register there and go on to the next point, and all they have as a compass is that map. As our country is full of woods, marshes, and other places difficult to get through, it is a very hard task, but that sport is becoming very popular. In summer you go on foot in winter on skiis.

I must remind you that Sweden is not so densely populated, and consequently we have great oppotrunity in our country to get out and to move about, and walking, hiking and public rambling are very popular. Generally some newspaper takes the

Digitized by v^ooQLe
205

initiative, or through walking clubs people go out and spend a whole Sunday or a week-day walking in the country.

This physical recreation doesn’t prevent us from trying to give the young men and women some mental recreation through the sports clubs. In the clubs we generally have some lectures going on, some teaching of languages, chess-playing, and other things. We are also trying now, in this general federation of sports that I spoke of to co-operate with the special organizations for the mental recreation of the working men. These people have been a little bit displeased with us because the young boys and girls were so interested in sports that they would not sit and study in the evening, but we are trying to come to an agreement with them so that their interests do not clash.

We do not now have the needs, perhaps, in the line of recreation, as you have in these dense, concentrated, industrial districts in this country, but that doesn’t prevent us from helping our people to get recreation.

The present industrial and standardized life is dangerous to the physical condition of a nation, and great attention must, therefore, be given to recreation. Playgrounds must be built and further organized. We must remember that it is the youth who is concerned. We have duties to the youth, we elder ones, and we must think of the youth and of his possibilities to grow better and better.

An American Student at the Deutsche Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen, Berlin, Germany

[German College of Physical Education]

By Mildred McGee—Exchange student

American students in Europe are coming to the conclusion, I believe, that one cannot effectively learn in Europe but one does make discoveries. “Seeing is believing” in Berlin as well as in Missouri. After a year of study at the Deutsche Hochschule fuer Leibesuebungen [German College for Physical Education], probably the best institution of its kind in Europe, one is impressed by German thoroughness as one of the basic principles in the teaching of physical education. What does this imply? First—that every student applying for entrance to the College must undergo a physical examination, and also an examination in all practical activities such as swimming, running, German gymnastics, throwing, some track and field events including a “Wald Lauf” [cross country race]; and at present under the Hitler government every student must become physically and mentally prepared for college study by working from ten to twenty-four weeks in an arbeitslager or Work Camp. In these camps students along with peasants and workers learn not only the value of

Digitized by CjOOQle
206

manual labor but appreciation for all classes of society as well. It is hoped in this way to break down class barriers and unite Germany into one mass giving service to the “totalitarian state." , Physical education, long accepted in Europe and particularly in Germany as a necessuty for social well being and as an important factor for strengthening national vigor and defense, has been carefully organized. As in most European countries the physical education program in Germany is directed by the government. Students who have decided to study physical education as a major have had, therefore, from their elementaiy school days a sound training in German gymnastics. Thus their body muscles have been developed at an early age and a basic foundation laid for developing skills. The strong muscular body development is well illustrated by the girl-sport student who is of a very sturdy but attractive type.

Secondly, as another principle, sport students are disciplined. Liscipline, always an important factor underlying German life and culture is being glorified now, more than ever, as a national ideal. German people have been educated to have respect for authority as in probably no other nation. No doubt they have been over-educated in this respect, but on the other hand it accounts for the ease with which teachers are able to train their pupils and students. The modem type of physical education instructor in Germany tends to be more of a teacher and less of a disciplinarian but many of the “old school"unfortun-ately have been revived. However, the students at the Hoch-schule are fortunate in having instructors who are comrades. In fact, an observer has difficulty in distinguishing the teacher from the student. The general method of conducting classes is the informal type.

Thirdly, one can say as a basic principle that physical education is motivated by a philosophy approaching the highest of spiritual ideals. It is believed that outward expression of inner feelings can best be shown through physical activity. This accounts partly for the high position held by dancing in Germany. Every sport student looks upon his physical education training as an	art which he not only finds personal satisfaction in per-

fecting but which is also for him an act of service to the state. As a result, the sport student feels that he must not only know but know well how to play a game, to swim, to ski, to row, to folk dance, etc. and, as in any art, he must first practise the fundamentals of each activity until he masters them. This I believe accounts for the mass participation of the German people people in sports. Everyone who wishes is so well instructed— so thoroughly instructed—in various activities that he cannot help enjoying participation.

Guided by the principles of [1] thoroughness [2] discipline, [3] and a conception of physical education as an “art”, the teaching of physical education at the Deutsche ochschule fur Leibes-uebungen is comparatively easy. Only students well fitted for becoming sport teachers are admitted. Candidates for the.

Digitized by GjOOQle
207

school, men or women, who have passed at the end of their secondary school career an examination entitling them to enter a German University can enter the German College of Physical Ed-cation, provided they can also pass the entrance requirements of the college. Exceptions are sometimes made for those people who show particular promise or ability but they must study two extra semesters. Once enrolled in the College, an ideal life for the sport student begins. The College is located in the Sportforum which will be the scene of many of the 1936 Olympic events. This area located on a bluff overlooking a forest is a perfect setting for the playing fields [all in turf], running track, tennis courts, open air dance ring, small open air lecture ring, outside saimming pool, and a beautiful, modem building now being enlarged which contains two gymnasiums, lecture rooms, massage rooms, and special rooms for boxing, fencing and dancing, as well as locker, shower, and equipment rooms. Equipment in abundance is provided for every type of activity. The girls dormitory, a modem up to date building, is also located in the Sportforum. The men live in simple barracks but by 1936 it is hoped that a boys dormitory, indoor swimming pool, and an administrative building will have been built. Twenty minutes from the Sportforum by bicycle the college maintains on the river Havel a boathouse well equipped with shells. In winter a two weeks ski course is organized.	requirement	for	grad-

uaduation every student must participate in two of these courses.

The physical education course extends over a period of three years. The first two years are devoted to practical and theoretical courses and the last year is devoted to writing a thesis and passing examinations. Graduates receive a diploma, but as the school is a private institution they are not eligible to teach in the public schools, although they are probably the best trained physical education students in Germany. The school has an enrollment of about 200, seventy being girls. Last year the school had as regular students fifteen foreign students, representing ten countries.

The teaching staff is made up of fifteen full time members and about twenty who serve part time only. The part time people serve in other capacities such as professors in the University of Berlin, instructors in athletic clubs, and persons connected with the Ministry of Education.

The curriculum includes a wide range of activities with only slight variations for the two sexes. For those students who wish to become sport doctors, special courses are provided. A typical week’s program is as follows:

Mon., Tues., Thurs., and Fri. 8-9:30 General exercises, tumbling

apparatus, German handball, etc. Mon. and Thurs., 10-11 Dancing, psychology, first aid

Drawing and modeling Fencing

Anatomy 4-5 Anatomy laboratory Physiology 6-7 Physiology laboratory

Mon. and Thurs., 11-12 Mon. and Thurs., 12-1 Mon. and Thurs., 3-4 Mon. and Thurs., 5-6

Digitized by

Google
208

Mon. and Thurs., 8-9 Tues. and Fri., 10-11 Tues. and Fri., 11-12

Political Seminar: Required all students. Special Lecturer, Swimming •

Singing—for all students and teachers. Required.

Practise in hockey, handball, soccer Course by College Doctor

Tues. and Fri., 3-5 Tues. and Fri., 6-7 Wed., 8-9 Massage Wed., 9-12 Demonstrations by Berlin school children. Classes conducted by regular physical education teachers. Followed by lecture and comments by Education professor.

Wednesday afternoon:	Excursions	and	visits	to	Museums	and

places of interest with competent guides.

Sat., 8-10 Lecture on education in modem state. Massage.

Sat., 10-11 Race hygiene

Sat., 11-12 Meaning of work service by special lecturers Sat., 12-1 Folk dancing for the entire school.

Sat. afternoon free.

In summer tennis, rowing, track and field events as well as three day wander tours are fitted into the program. All classes are held outside in spring and summer.

Just before the close of the summer semester a sport festival for the college is held. Officials of the government, parents and friends are invited. All students participate, be it merely running on the field in the opening ceremony, or competing in track events, folk dancing, or taking part in the.comic marathon race which shows that German students have a sense of humor. Observing the sport festival is an inspiring sight. Each student tries to do credit to the sport he loves. No prizes are awarded, but in the simple but dignified closing ceremony students are commended upon their performance.

A FRILL IN EDUCATION

James Edward Rogers

In a few places physical education has been called a “fad and frill” in education. A city.director recently asked for some statement as to the best reply to this assertion.

1. The school health and physical education program pays in dollars and cents. It saves taxes. It reduces school costs. For instance, some four years ago in Alabama a ruling was passed that it was necessary for schools to maintain a health and physical education program in order to get any state funds. This was based not on general arguments but on the fact that ill health and physical defects cut down attendance, increase absence and cause retardation—and retardation is a very costly process. To re-educate boys and girls in the second, or any of the grades, costs $80.00 to $100.00 apiece. If you add these together it totals thousands of dollars. Usually retardation comes because of illness—Johnny has lost in his school work because

Digitized by LjOOQle
209

he has been out with tonsilitis. We found in Alabama the average pupil was absent fourteen days a year and nine of these were due to common colds that were preventable.

2.	There is a close relation between the school health program and the 3 R’s.

The correlation between a pair of glasses and good reading is high. Ofttimes pupils fail in arithmetic because they are one of the five percent of the twenty-six million school children hard of hearing. It is very difficult for children to learn when they are suffering from colds, fevers, bad teeth, and sore tonsils.

3. We must evaluate the school program in terms of 1934, not in terms of 1910 or 1900. For instance, English was considered a fad in 1900. I agree with State Superintendent Pay-son Smith, one of our outstanidng educators, that what we need to do with our curricula is to eliminate some of the old dead-wood—that is, the old sixteenth century subjects—and substitute the twentieth century subiects. For instance, Latin in the old days was a prescribed subject for four years in high schools. Yale—the last stronghold of classical instruction—recently made Latin an elective. So what was considered a fad and frill a few years ago might today be the most necessary.

4.	The whole problem of cutting or retrenchment is a matter not of elimination but reorganization and revaluation.

5.	Education must change for an ever changing world; we have a changing curriculum because of a changing civilization. Each generation produces new needs. The growth in the school curriculum is because of necessity. In 1870 the 3 R’s were sufficient because we were a rural nation. In 1890 science education became important because we developed an urban civilization and our age became industrial. In 1930 health and physical education was emphasized because this industrial materialistic age of high tension and speed makes provision by the schools for physical fitness essential. It is becoming more difficult for boys and girls to keep physically fit and well in this age of mechanical inventions.

6.	The way to tackle the problem if any retrenchment is to be made is to first answer the question, “what is education?” and your definition has to be, “Education is that which prepares and trains for complete living.” Okay. What is essential in 1934 for complete living? You will find that the so-called fads and frills—health, physical education and education for leisure— altho not so necessary in the 70’s, 80’s and 90’s, today become of paramount importance. The typewriter has taken care of our penmanship, and the Burroughs Adding Machine and National Cash Register have taken care of our arithmetic.

7.	We must be wise in our retrenchment. Retrenchment is necessary but we must be businesslike and not panicky. We should retrench horizontally, not vertically. We should not cut out one of the essentials. We must not eliminate. We must not omit one. What we must do is to revaluate, condense, evaluate and economize all through the curriculum.

Digitized by CjOOQle
The Judging and Evaluation of Competitive Apparatus or Gymnastic Exercises

[Continued from November Issue]

Leopold F. Zwarg, D. Ed.

The following material is a Guide to Officials and Competitors, prepared for the National Committee on Physical Education, American Gymnastic Union by Dr. L. F. Zwarg, Germantown High School, Philadelphia, Chairman of Committee on Apparatus Work.

C.	Guides in Evaluating a Performance on the Apparatus Each exercise receives a certain value expressed in points. The evaluation of the exercise in terms of points should be arrived at by considering certain definite factors.

I.	The Obligatory Exercise.

[also called Compulsory, Required, or Prescribed Exercise]. Since in this type of exercise the movements and their sequence are known beforehand, its evaluation is comparatively simple and centers upon only three important factors.

a.	The Completeness of the Exercise. In case of incompleteness, such as omission of parts, changes and deviations, the judge must assume that the competitor cannot do it as prescribed and he must deduct according to the seriousness of the defect.

b.	The Correctness of the Execution. This means that the execution of the whole and each part of the exercise should conform to a perfect pattern, as it is understood generally and laid down by custom, less by rule, and laws of body mechanics. Poor posture generally, the drooping of the head, unnecessary bending of legs, toes and feet, also grotesque movements, must be considered as incorrect.

Too long a rest, inhibiting a natural swing too much, or executing strength movements too fast may likewise constitute incorrect execution. Faulty beginning, such as jumping into a poor hang, regrasping and swinging needlessly, are incorrect; likewise a poor landing at the completion of the exercise. The correct way to land is to bend the knees in order to prevent jarring the spine and then straighten to position of attention with appropriate arm movements to assure balance. Stumbling, jumping, and falling away indicate lack of control and should be classed as incorrect execution.

The competitor, when called, should begin from a position of attention and approach the apparatus in a natural way, but with good posture. After finishing, he should leave in a similar manner.

It is understood that certain methods of rating separately for so-called approach and retreat are obsolete. An optional exercise should have a sufficiently difficult beginning and ending. Originally a definite point value was accorded to

Digitized by Google
211

each. It seems that this method degenerated by substitution of the terms approach and retreat for beginning and ending. Hence, important values had been attached to very unimportant factors, with the result that competitors showed grotesque ways of approach and retreat, c. The Beauty of Execution. An exercise may be complete and correct and still lack beauty. Uncertainty, haste, tremor, show of effort and fatigue are detriments to beauty. Abandon, ease, grace, apparent lack of effort, sureness, fluency, rhythm, but also vitality or energy, express beauty.

No perfect score of 100 should ever be given unless all three points, namely complete, correct and beautiful execution can be weighted as perfect.

II.	The Optional Exercise.

The principles concerning the execution of the obligatory exercises should be applied to the optional or self-chosen exercise as well, with the exception, of course, of the first principle. Completeness has no meaning here, unless a competitor should have to state first what he intends to perform. This, it is hoped, will never be thought of.

The optional exercise should be judged from four different view points.

a.	Correct execution

b.	Beauty of execution

c.	Difficulty of the parts

d.	Combination and composition

The last two factors, namely difficulty and combination, constitute the major values of the exercise. These parts must usually be considered together. Difficulty may be shown not only in the separate parts but also in the way these parts follow each other, or the way they are joined or combined. Composition means an appropriate and pleasing sequence.

Some specific guides for the evaluation of an optional exercise may be laid down. To be rated perfect, all of the following characteristics must be taken into account.

1.	The difficulty should be greater than that of the obligatory

exercise for the meet.

2.	No main parts of the obligatory exercise should be repeated

except in a different or more difficult sequence or combination.

3.	The main parts of the optional exercise itself should not be

repeated unless in a different or more difficult sequence or combination.

4.	The whole performance should be a pleasing composition, pos-

sessing unity, cohesion, fluency and dramatic quality. It should be plastic art combined with artistic action.

5.	There should be no needless rests, intermediate swings, blun-

dering, or unnatural movements. The movements should also harmonize with the build or stature of the performer.

6.	At least one phase of the exercise should show originality

or personality on the part of the competitor. This may

Digitized by v^ooQle
212

H

be in form of a new movement, an unusual combination, or an exceptional execution.

D.	Proposed Rules Governing Competition of Apparatus

Work

1.	Evaluation. Each apparatus exercise shall be graded on a

basis of 0-100 points as follows:

Excellent 90-100 points, good 70-80 points, fair 50-60 points, poor 30-40 points, unsatisfactory 10-20 points.

If no attempt be made to show an exercise, no points shall be given.

2.	Results. There shall be at least two judges in each apparatus

event, who, after due consideration, shall record one mark on the score card for each exercise. If they are to rate independently, or without consultation, their points are to be put on the score card and totaled by some official.

3.	Announcing the Results. The competitor should know his

rating as soon as possible after the completion of his exercise. At small meets the result may be flashed or announced at once. At Tumfests the judges may withhold the rating until a squad has finished. In any case, only the total rating should be announced, not that of each judge.

4.	The technical committee is to decide before each meet the

methods concerning paragraphs No. 2 and No. 3.

5.	Repetition of an Exercise. An exercise may be rated only

once. If a competitor, without any fault of his own, is impeded in his exercise, through mistaken direction of an official, faulty condition of an apparatus, or the running in of a person or object, a repetition must be granted. In such a case only the second performance is to be rated. The judges are to decide whether the case in question constitutes an interference or not.

6.	Interruption of an Exercise. If a competitor slides off the

apparatus, he may, by remounting at once, continue his exercise. However, such interruption constitutes a serious defect, and the rating should be lowered accordingly.

7.	Assistance. Placing someone to assist in order to prevent

an accident is permitted, but if assistance is actually rendered this shall .cause a deduction in the rating according to the degree given. If a competitor is too short to jump to a hang on the horizontal bar or rings, he may be assisted. For this he should not suffer a loss in his rating.

8.	The Obligatory Exercise. Only the execution, namely com-

pleteness, correctness and beauty shall be rated.

The exercise may be shown the opposite or counterlike but only as a whole, not in parts.

9.	The Optional Exercise. Execution, difficulty and combina-

tion are to be rated.

10.	The obligatory exercise for the meet may not be repeated as a whole. If the main parts of this exercise are repeated, the rating is to be lowered, unless these parts
213

are repeated in a different or more difficult sequence or combination.

11.	On the long horse, the same vault may be shown if the horse is at least eight inches higher. Two trials shall be allowed, and the best shall be rated.

12.	Exercises which are not congruous with the peculiarity of an apparatus [as handstand on horse] are to be rated lower.

13.	The standard of difficulty for any particular meet is established by the obligatory exercise. But a competitor who shows an exercise of only like difficulty, even if perfect in execution and combination, shall receive not more than two thirds of the highest possible rating. In contests for women, however, full value may be given.

14.	Whatever a competitor shows must be rated. The judges are not to assume that he intended to show something else. A competitor is not to be given credit for ability not actually demonstrated in his exercise, nor is he to be punished for demonstrating presence of mind if he changes his movements during the performance or his dismount.

Proposed Dimensions of Apparatus For high grade contests, the following dimensions and specifications are required. Deviations from these are permissible only by mutual agreement. In the contest for Juniors and Women, apparatus should be adjustable for height and width. Horizontal Bar:

96 inches [245 cm] clear above mat to top of bar; diameter 1 inch [28 mm]; width not less than 6 1-2 feet, bar to be made of steel.

Parallel Bars:

Height, at least 5 feet [152 cm] clear to top of bar; width, 15 to 20 inches [40 to 52 cm]; length'of bar, not less than 9 1-2 feet [290 cm]; cross section preferably oval, vertically 2 inches [52-54 mm] and horizontally 1.7 inches [45 mm] thick. The bars should extend 15.7 inches beyond the uprights [40 cm].

Side Horse:

Neck, saddle and croup of equal height, 50 inches [127 cm] from top of mat to top of pommels; pommels 4 3-4 inches [12 cm] above horse, made of hard wood or metal, cross section 1.3 inches [30-33 mm] distance from center to center of pommels, 17 1-2 inches [45 cm]; body of horse to be about 56 inches with neck and croup of equal length; thickness vertically about 12 inches [30 cm], horizontally 14.4 inches [36 cm] on top and less at bottom.

Long Horse:

As side horse, but a horse with an elevated neck and longer as well as thicker body may be used.

Flying Rings:

72 inches [183 cm] from bottom of rings to top of mat, but adjustable for height; width, 18 inches [45 cm] from center to center of rings, inside diameter of rings, 9 inches [22.8 cm]; rings to be covered with leather, rubber or wood. Thickness no more

Digitized by Tooele
214

than one inch [25 cm]. The highest point of suspension should be 18 feet [5 1-2 meters] from the floor. The rings should be attached to ropes by flat straps, the buckles, if any, not closer than three feet to ring.

Tumbling Mats:

Two inches thick and at least five feet wide by forty feet long, preferably covered by a rug. Shorter mats must be securely tied together.

Climbing Ropes:

The rope shall preferably touch the floor and shall pass through a blackened [lamp black] tambourine at the top; the distance from the floor to the tambourine shall be twenty feet; the diameter of the ropes shall be no more than 1 1-2 inches [45 mm]; there shall be no assisting devices such as knots, balls, etc.

Jump Boards: [for long horse]

3 feet long [90 cm] and two feet [60 cm] wide; 4 inches [10 cm] high at one end and tapering to floor at other end; covered with rubber. Board fastened in place, 3 feet from horse.

References Rules—American Tumerbund Rules—A.A.U.

Rules—Eastern Intercollegiate League

Rules—Philadelphia Public High Schools League

Rules—Olympic Association

Rules—German Turners [Deutsche Tumerschaft]

Rules—Swiss Federation of Gymnastics

Apparatus and Tumbling Exercises, by L. F. Zwarg, pbl. by McVey Philadelphia, 1928.

A Study of the History, Uses and Values of Apparatus in Physical Education, by L. F. Zwarg, Germantown High School Book for Judges and other Officials [Kampfrichterbuch der Deut-schen Tumerschaft], pbl. by Wm. Limpert, Dresden, Germany.

Mind and Body—December 1921, March 1922. May 1922.

Important Conference on Field Hockey

[Umpire Conference of the United State Field Hockey Association]

Martha A. Gable

For the past few years the United States Field Hockey Association has recognized the need for unifying and standardizing hockey umpiring throughout the country. It is the present practice of the nineteen district associations to give local ratings to umpires on the basis of trials which they conduct. National ratings are awarded at each of the five sectional tournaments which take place shortly before Thanksgiving of each year in widely separated localities. The rapid spread of hockey has created a growing demand for good officials. Consequently, there has been a marked increase in the number of rated umpires in each local center.

Digitized by U^ooQle
215

Because officiating in any sport has such a great influence on coaching and playing, the National Umpire Committee of the United States Field Hockey Association decided to conduct several conferences wherein hockey officials, coaches and players might discuss, and perhaps find, a more uniform point of view in regard to interpretation of rules. Two conferences were planned as experiments in two sections of the country with the idea of discovering the reactions of those attending to the value and feasibility of similar meetings in the future.

The Mid-West conference was held at New Trier High School, Winnetka, Illinois, on October 20. In spite of an almost constant downpour, eighty-nine enthusiasts from five states attended the discussions and the demonstration game.

The Eastern conference was held at Vassar College on November 3. Vassar was chosen because of its ideal facilities for this sort of meeting, and because it is a mid-point among the Eastern associations. Representatives from, practically every Eastern center attended, although distance prevented a large attendance from any one locality.

One of the chief points of discussion at both conferences was the question of dangerous hitting. According to the rules, an umpire may warn and then penalize a player who constantly hits the ball wildly into the legs of an opponent. It was the general opinion that umpires too often rule “advancing” on plays in which the ball hits a player and rebounds from her body or legs, when the foul “dangerous hitting” really should be called on the person who hit the ball into her opponent.

There was also discussion on the type of dangerous hitting in which a player hits the ball into a group of players, without looking up, as so often occurs when a defense player runs toward the goal she is defending while trying to overtake the ball, and hits the ball very hard into the onrushing forwards.

Hard, high kicks by the goalkeeper which send the ball into the air were considered by the conference to be dangerous play, and therefore subject to penalty. It was the concensus of opinion that if the goalkeeper kicks the ball sideward with the inside of her foot, the ball will rarely rise, and if it should rise, there will be little likelihood of it hitting anyone on either side of the goal posts. Therefore, in order to encourage correct coaching of, and playing by goalkeepers, and to prevent accidents, it was decided that umpires should be more strict in penalizing dangerous kicking or clearing.

There was a great amount of discussion on penalty comers. In England, due to skillful playing, a penalty comer usually nets a goal. However, in this country only the most advanced clubs score on this maneuver, and even they do so only occasionally. In school games a score from a penalty comer is a rarity. Because of this, there has been a growing feeling that a penalty comer is an inadequate penalty for a foul by the defense in the striking circle. Poor teams often prevent better teams from scoring by fouling the forwards in the circle so that they cannot

Digitized by UjOOQle
216

shoot; or they hit the ball over the goal line in order to prevent a shot at the goal. In a few of the former cases a penalty bully may be awarded, but many times a forward is fouled before she has a chance to get into a scoring position, or she is fouled when passing to another forward who is in a position to shoot.

In order to make the penalty comer a real threat in the hands of the attacking team, and thereby eliminate a great amount of avoidable fouling by the defense, it was suggested that a penalty comer be played with only four defense players in the circle, namely the goalkeeper, the two fullbacks, and the center halfback. In such cases the players would align themselves behind the goal line as before, but outside of the circle. When the ball is hit the players would dash on the field, but only the four players mentioned above would be permitted to enter the circle or to participate in the play. As soon as the ball passed is outside the circle, all members of the defending team would be allowed to re-engage in the game.

Of course, the argument against such a change in the penalty comer is that American hockey should eventually approach the standard of that played by our English sisters, and that we, therefore, should strive to improve our execution of a penalty comer, rather than to admit and even encourage our inferiority by making it easier to score on this play. The answer to this argument is that hockey is played better in England because participation is much more extensive than here, due partly to more favorable climate. The English season is from October until April as compared to our season of three months. Since the suggested change would undoubtedly eliminate the fouling by the defense, it would tend to improve American play.

This new type of penalty comer was tried at both conferences, and it met with favorable comment. Representatives from the various local associations were asked to discuss the matter with their respective groups, so that the National Rules Committee may know the concensus of opinion, or perhaps receive new and better suggestions.

An excellent English film which clearly demonstrates the correct technique of umpiring, has been purchased by the United States Field Hockey Association. It was shown at both conferences, and was judged to be extremely valuable. This film may be rented by any club, school, or organization for a fee of five dollars upon application to the chairmen of the Technical Service Committee, listed in Spalding’s Official Hockey Guide.

Each of the conferences closed amid enthusiastic and unanimous approval by those in attendance. The National Umpire Committee is convinced of the value of this innovation, and plans already are under way to arrange for similar conferences in each local association next year.

It is hoped that hockey coaches, players, and officials everywhere will find it worth while and enjoyable to avail themselves of this opportunity to establish a clearer and more uniform understanding and interpretation of the rules, thus leading to better umpiring of a finer standard of hockey.

Digitized by v^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	December 1934-January 1935	No.	424

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

Naw York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal Colleges Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin EL Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician ami surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

We take this opportunity to introduce another new member of the staff of associate editors, Hazel C. Orr, who will lend added support to the women members of the staff. Like the other editors, Miss Orr is well equipped by training, experience, and ability to contribute interesting and valuable articles and comments. Our new associate received the B. P. E. degree from Indianapolis Normal College, the B. S. degree from the University of Cincinnati and the M. A. degree from the University of Arizona. She has had many years vof experience as a teacher of physical and health education in the Cincinnati Public Schools, serving now as a teacher in the Woodward High School. Phi Delta Pi, National Professional Physical Education Fraternity for Women, has honored Miss Orr by electing her Grand President of that organization. We are happy to welcome our latest associate.

Another great honor has been bestowed on Emil Rath. This time it took the form of a testimonial dinner during the Annual Homecoming of the Indianapolis Normal College on November 30. In the presence of several

Digitized by ^ooQle
218

hundred friends and members of the Alumni an impressive meeting was conducted. Laudatory biographical addresses on “Emil Rath the Turner”, “Emil Rath the Teacher”, and “Emil Rath the Man” were made; numerous highly complimentary and congratulatory letters and telegrams were read; and a generous purse was presented to the guest of honor. The many letters from leaders throughout the country will be bound in appropriate manner and become a permanent reminder to Emil Rath of the high esteem in which he is held.

Our Valued contemporary, the Journal of Health and Physical Education which is the official organ of the American Physical Education Association, does well to begin at this early date to advertise the next national convention to be held in Pittsburgh, April 24-27, 1935 and the several district conventions to be held during the same year. Too often in the past the several conventions have been almost upon us before teachers throughout the country have been aware of them, with the result that many people were unable to meet the necessary financial outlay and to make the required requests for leave of absence from their posts.

We join in urging upon members of our profession, and especially upon the teachers, the habit of attendance at these conventions. The importance of such participation to the advancement of our common professional interests, as well as to the individual teacher, needs no reiteration. Let us break all attendance records this year in spite of restricted budgets.

Emil Rath, the Man

During the impressive testimonial dinner which was held in honor of Emil Rath at the Indianapolis Normal College recently after the conclusion of twenty-five years of service to that institution, Dr. Rudolf Hofmeister of St. Louis spoke on “Emil Rath The Man”. We consider it a privilege to be permitted to set down permanently in Mind and Body the concluding remarks made by Dr. Hofmeister.

In concluding my thesis “Rath the Man”, I am adhering to the data obtained from the voluminous testimonials and tributes which you have heard tonight. It is on this basis that I wish to add by way of recapitulation my own humble testimonial.

Dean Emil Rath, the master teacher, respected, honored and beloved by your students; acknowledged, admired and revered by your contemporaries. Genuine and sincere words of praise, admiration and adulation have been deservedly showered upon you. Your many virtues of personality, character and achievement have been fittingly and properly extolled in the highest and most glowing terms. You have heard expressions of appraisal and commendation in which superb tribute has been paid to you, coming from every section of the land and from every station in your domain of physical education.

You have been defined as gentleman, friend, leader, teacher,

Digitized by LjOOQLC
219

scholar, master, performer, artist, writer and author. You have been characterized as sincere, earnest, devoted, loyal, courageous, scientific, philosophic, idealistic, altruisitc, enthusiastic and inspiring. What an array of complimentary appelations to describe the attributes and qualities of one man. Only a master could merit such recognition.

It has been said of you that you are a “Happy Warrior". A pioneer in the cause of physical education. That by reason of your encompassing knowledge of the science and practice of your art, your clear understanding of the principles and problems involved and by your sane and rational interpretation and application of these in the field of education, you have exerted a paramount influence in the guiding and shaping of the character and destiny of physical education. You have accomplished this, not alone through your own personal efforts, but also, through the hundreds of students who have been trained and inspired by you.

Because of your courageous pioneering spirit in the field of physical education through these hectic and chaotic years of rapid growth and uncontrolled expansion, because of your wholesome influence and inspirational leadership during this critical period; because of your authorative contributions to the art, science and literature of physical education; you are held in highest esteem by your students and co-workers who place you tonight at the very pinnacle of your profession.

We, of Normal College, admire you for your many fine attributes and qualities as man and teacher, we are proud of you for the eminence and fame that you have attained and for the honor and distinction that you have conferred upon our school; we are deeply appreciative and grateful to you for the helpful and elevating influence that you have exerted upon our lives.

Like a mighty river that flows ever onward to make fertile the land and green the fields through which it passes, you have ever been dynamic and progressive—never stagnant or dogmatic— always enriching the lives of those who come under your influence, and, as the river enlarges the sea so have you magnified and glorified the goal towards which you aspire.

Safety Insurance In Physical Education. There is a distinct contribution that Physical Education makes to Safety Education. Safety Education is a two-fold problem. It means on the one hand to teach the avoidance of danger, and on the other, being able to take care of one’s self when in danger. It is in this latter field particularly where we need to make our work felt. An awkward and ungainly individual has less chance of surviving an accident than one who, because of established coordination can dodge the blow and fall or leap out of danger.

Without necessarily labelling games “safety games”, we should bring children into situations that involve keen judgment in selecting automatically the proper activity to avoid being tagged, caught, tackled, tripped, or what not. Among the

Digitized by LjOOQle
1

220

simpler games, dodge ball is a striking example of a game that demands alertness, accuracy, and judgment.—Mass. Bur. of Phys. Edu. News Letter.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the sixth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high cshools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent”standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Climbing Ropes for school grades 7A and 7B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
Fair

Good

Excellent

eg

CD

o.

cr

•<

o

o

o

CLIMBING ROPES—GIRLS—GRADE 7A

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Hold the position at least 5 seconds. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a straight-arm hang [one hand on each rope]. Raise and lower the knees at least 5 times. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope, jump to a bent-arm hang. Hold the position at least five seconds. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a straight-arm hang on two ropes. Raise the knees forward and lower them ten times.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope, jump to a climbing position on one rope. Change the climbing position of the legs to the other rope. Return to the first rope. Drop to a stand.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb three steps. Release leg-hold, straddle legs sideward and close them returning to a climb ing position. Climb down ward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing with the legs on one rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Walk backward with one rope in each hand. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the ropes], jump to a bent-arm hang and complete the forward swing. In the bent-arm hang [body straight] swing backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand. [The hands slide down on the ropes in dropping to a stand and retain a hold on the ends of the^ropes when finishing.]
Digitized by

GRADE 7B

Fair

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Change the position of the legs [opposite leg in front]. Change again. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a bent-arm hang. Raise ana lower the knees three times. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Drop to a stand and immediately jump to a climbing position on the opposite rope. Drop to a stand.

Good	One	rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least three steps. Climb downward.

o

o

Excellent One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least five steps. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb two steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb downward.

One rope

Walk backward with the rope. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the rope], jump to a climbing position and complete the forward swing. In the climbing position swing backward, forward, and backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand [the hands slide down on the ropes in dropping and retain a hold on the ends of the ropes when finishing.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb 3 steps. Change the leg-hold to the other rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb downward.

A
Fair

Good

Excellent



One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb two steps. Climb downward.

One Rope

Jump to a climbing position. Change the positions of the legs [opposite leg in front]. Change again. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a bent-arm hang. Raise and lower the knees five times. Drop to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on second rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb five steps. Change to the second and then to the third rope. Climb downward.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb five steps. Change the climbing position of the legs [opposite leg in front]. Change again. Climb downward.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb three steps. Release the leg-hold and in the bent arm hang climb downward with out the use of the legs.
Fair

Good

D

eg

CD

Q.

■?

o

Excellent

00^

?T

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least five steps. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward halfway. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

GRADE 7B /

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb'-to the top. Climb downward half-way. . Change to the second and then to the third rope. Climb downward to a stand.

Two ropes

Jump to a bent-arm hang on one rope and climb upward halfway without the use of the legs. Change to a climbing position on the second rope [with leg-hold]. Climb downward.

One rope

Walk backward with the rope. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the rope], jump to a climbing position and complete the forward swing. In the climbing position swing backward, forward, and backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand [the hands slide down on the rope in dropping to a stand and retain a hold on the end of the rope when finishing].

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position, with the legs on one rope. Climb half-way. Change the legs to a climbing position on the other rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward half-way Release the leg-hold and climb downward without the use of the legs.
225

Mimetic Games

Grover W. Mueller

In the May issue of Mind and Body we briefly discussed Story Plays and pointed to a common weakness in their make-up. We also referred to a series of Mimetic Games which had been evolved in one city in an effort to eliminate the common objectionable feature of story plays while at the same time retaining their most valuable characteristics. Two examples of mimetic games were included. In the Sept.-Nov. issues four more examples were printed. Following are additional mimetic games. In subsequent issues other examples will appear.

A VISIT TO A LUMBER CAMP

Men in lumber camps live very healthful lives because they exercise hard and spend most of the day out of doors. Furthermore, they eat plain wholesome food and go to bed early. The pupils decide to visit a lumber camp and participate in some of the work which is done there. The camp is about a mile up the river.

1.	Run to the boat in order to get an early start.

2.	Row up the stream

In a stride stand with one foot forward, lower the trunk part way and reach forward with the closed hands. Pull backward on the oars, raising the trunk and leaning slightly backward with bending arms vigorously, bringing the elbows and hands up on a level with the shoulders. Repeat the forward and backward movements a number of times. The boat is large, and forceful rowing is necessary to move it.

3.	Run to the woods

Run and jump over occasional sticks and stones

4.	Chop down a tree

In a side stride stand, swing the axe vigorously sideward from over the shoulder with trunk twisting. Chop first from one shoulder several times and then from the other shoulder.

5.	Saw a tree trunk in two

In couple formation, members facing each other and grasping right hands, one pupil pulls backward with leaning trunk backward while the other pupil leans forward and extends the arm forward. Reverse positions. Continue sawing back and forth until the big tree trunk is severed. The wood is very tough.

6.	Split logs

In a stride stand, with the linked hands grasping an axe, double arm circle at one side of body [backwar upward, and then downward] striking vigorously foredownward with trunk bending forward. Repeat several times.

7.	Balance walk on fallen tree trunks

Walk from one end of the log [a straight line] to the other,

Digitized by t^.ooQle
226

on the toes with the arms held sideward. Turn around on the toes and return to the starting point on the log.

8.	Return to the boats

Skip back to the boats

9.	Row down the stream on the way home.

A DAY ON THE FARM

What a wonderful time city girls and boys can have on a farm. There is so much to see and to do. The class decides to take a trip to a farm. After arriving at the railroad station out in the country, the children are taken to the farm by horse and wagon.

1.	Going to the farm fro i the railroad station

The farm is reached by horse and wagon. Pupils arrange themselves in couples with one partner in back of the other, representing a horse and a driver. The 'horse' raises his arms backward to grasp the hands of the driver. The horse gallops to the farm [a designated part of the yard or recreation room].

There are many interesting things to be seen on the farm.

2.	In the bam-y"rd

a.	The wind-mill. Circle the arms backward rapidly in wind-mill fashion several times.

b.	The weather-vane. In a side stride stand with the arms raised sideward, turn the trunk from left to right a number of times.

c.	The ducks. Walk in the squat position with the feet and knees apart, waddling from side to side. The hands may rest on the knees or thighs.

d.	The water pump. In a stride stand with one foot forward, push the pump handle down with bending the trunk forward and straightening the arms downward. The pump handle is long and should be pushed down far [to permit deep trunk bending]. Raise the pump handle, raising the trunk and arms [bending the elbows and bringing the closed hands up to the level of the shoulder]. Continue pump ing up and down several times. It is not easy to move the pump handle; therefore, a vigorous movement in a moderately slow rhythm is required.

3.	Running to the field

The run to the field should be slow enough to avoid stumbling over mounds and ruts. It is wise to leap over some of the ruts.

4.	In the field

a.	The farmer cutting hay with a scythe. In a side stride stand, with the trunk lowered half forward and the hands holding the scythe in front, swing the arms vigorously from side to side keeping the hands low except at the end of each sideward swing. The arm swinging is accompanied by vigorous trunk twisting and short steps forward one step with each sideward swing.
227

b.	The fanner pitching hay into a wagon. In a stride stand with one foot well forward, with the hay fork held in both hands, bend the front knee and bend the trunk forward to pick up a fork full of hay. Then straighten the knee and pitch the hay high over the shoulder into the wagon, swinging the arms high with a vigorous movement [the hay is heavy] and bending the trunk slightly backward.

5.	The pond

a.	Skip from the field to the pond.

b.	Skimming stones on the water. No one is near to be hit accidentally, so the boys and girls pick up stones and skim or skip them on the surface of the water. They also throw one or two stones far out over the pond.

6.	Skip back to the farm house.

WHAT THE TOYS TAUGHT BILLY

A Posture Play Given By Second Grade Pupils In The Stevens Fractice School, Philadelphia.

Adapted from story "The Little Man Stands Tall” also from chapter on "Being Glad” in “Health and Happiness” by Williams and Dansdill [Benjamin H. Sanborn and Co.] Two jingles from school magazines.

Announcer—“The world is such a happy place for every child to be.

With pleasant things to think about and pleasant things to see”.

How many things have you to be glad about?

Some boys and girls in one class each kept a Glad Chart for a week. Each child read his chart to the others. Billy is a very glad little boy with a very happy face. Billy was asked to read his chart again. Here is Billy now and he will read his chart to you himself.

Billy reads: My Glad Chart

First—Grandmother told us a story about the Golden Touch.

Second—I have a new blouse that mother made for me.

Third—We had oranges for breakfast this morning. Fourth—My dog and I had a race after breakfast. Fifth—Father gave me a box of toy men to play with Billy puts chart down and talks to audience.

Billy —Would you like to see my toy men? O, here are Jack and Tom. They want to see them, too. O, boys, you never could guess how they are dressed. Their trousers are not brown nor blue, nor gray. Ihey are white with red stripes along the side. Their coats are red. Each one has a funny little cap fastened under his chin with a strap. I'll show them to you. I can wind them up they will walk. [Four boys dressed as above are behind

Digitized by CjOOQle
228

curtain which is drawn at this time. Boys make sound of winding mechanical toys. Billy leads each one forward and places him where all can see.]

Jack and Tom—0h: Oh look Jack —See how straight they stand!

See how tall they stand!

Tom —I can stand like that. too. Can you, boys?

Look how straight their backs are.

See how high their chests are.

See how high their heads are.

You look like them, Jack.

So do you, Billy. [Billy and Jack have straightened up to imitate toys.]

Billy —Let’s go get Helen and Jane to come play with us. We’ll have a parade. [Boys run off stage.]

First Toy Man speaks —Those boys tried hard to stand like us.

I hope they keep on. I don’t want to live with a boy who can’t stand any better than Billy. He isn’t straight at all.

Billy and other children return.

Billy —Here are my new toys. We are going to make them march and drill. Just turn on some music and what they can do.

[Toy men go through simple drill and march ending with salute, jerking movements as mechanical toys to music of “Parade of Wooden Soldiers”. Jack, Tom, Jane, Helen, Billy watch with interest and then begin to imitate march and movements of toys at sides of stage, holding themselves very straight. They clap the toys.]

Tom —Aren’t they fine! We can march that way, too.

Jack —I wish I had a box of toy men like those.

Billy •—I can make them sit down, too. Just watch.

[Billy draws up chairs and makes each sit down. Goes through motions of bending them at waist and at knees as they sit.]

As first toy sits,

Tom says—They must have hinges.

As second toy sits,

Jack says—Aren’t they wonderful?

As third toy sits,

Jane says—Aren’t they funny?

[All toys remain seated until the end]

As fourth toy sits,

Helen says —I’d like to play with them. Our teacher drew a picture on the board in school today to show us how to sit. It looked just like the toy men; all the way back on the chair, no space back here. [Sits on chair to show. Puts hand at back as she explains.]

Do you sit that way, Billy?

Digitized by LaOOQle
229

Children all find chairs to sit down and show that they can sit as toy men do. Each calls out, “I can, I can”. Billy sits badly remains seated.

Jane —0, Billy, you look like the letter C. Miss Jones told us a funny little rhyme like this:

If you stoop you’re sure to be Crooked like the letter C.

If you're straight with head held high You’ll be like the letter I.

Now which would you rather be,

Like straight I or crooked C?

Billy —0, I don’t care. It’s hard work to sit so straight all the time. If I were made of wood, like my toy men, maybe I wouldn’t mind so much. [Billy straightens up.]

Jack —That's better. You are like the toy men now.

Mother —[Behind curtain] Dinner is ready. Come, children, come. Tom —I’m so glad; I’m hungry.

Jack —So am I.

Jane —Goodbye, little toy men.

Helen —Goodbye, we’ll be back soon.

[All leave stage]

First Toy Man —I wish Billy could see how he looks. He does not look fine at all. He is so bent over when he sits down. Poor boy!

Second Toy Man —I wish he would not sit like that. Suppose he should grow that way.

Billy comes back alone.

Billy —Well, little men, you are still sitting as straight as ever and it is nearly bed time. I can sit as straight as you. Mother said that I looked just like you at table tonight. I sat like this [Sits down very straight well back on chair]. I stood like this. [Shows how]. I am glad you came to live with me to help me remember. Then I’ll make mother glad. I have had such a time.

“Somebody’s always saying When I am passing by,

‘Straighten up your shoulders,

And hold your head up high'.

“Then I throw back my shoulders And someone’s sure to shout ‘Oh no, no, no, not that way,

Your stomach’s sticking out.'

“So I pull back my stomach And do my very best Then someone says, ‘Not that way You’re letting down your chest.'

“I push my chest up higher And try to hold my ear

Digitized by
230

Straight above my shoulder I feel so stiff and queer.

“But now I have a secret

And I’m going to tell you all That the way to have good posture Is just stand tall.”

Goodnight, little men, I’ll have to remember to lie straight in bed, too, won’t I? [Billy goes off.]

Second Toy Man —Good, good! O, I wish Billy could see how he looks now. He is a fine little man with his happy face. If he remembers to sit tall and stand tall he will grow fine and straight.

Toys remain seated while announcer comes forward.

Announcer —Billy remembered in school so that his teacher noticed how well he stood at the blackboard. One day he was standing at a store window looking at some trains. A man said, “Look how well that boy stands. His is so straight and tall. I wish he could see how fine he looks. I wonder who showed him how to stand like that?”

Toy Men —[In loud whisper] We did; we did. [One to audience: Can you sit like this? Can you? Can you? Can you? [Points to some children in audience at each question.]

One Toy Man—Can you stand like this? [All stand up.]

One Toy Man points to different parts of audience as he asks— Can you? Can you? Can you?

Toy Man—Can you march like this?

[All four march off stage]

The Game of “Siege”

By Karl Kuehne.

Translated by Fred E. Foertsch from description in Turn u. Sportwart.

Layout of the field

Three concentric circles. The inner circle has a diameter of 10 feet; the next larger circle has a diameter of 40 feet; the outer circle has a diameter of 50 feet. [See Diagram I.]

Number of players and their restricted areas

Four teams of nine players each take part, a total of 36 participants. Nine players [Team No. 1] are stationed in the area surrounded by the inner circle [See Diagram I—Area “A”].

Twenty-seven players [Teams No. 2, No. 3, and No. 4] are stationed in the area “B” which has for its boundaries the lines of the middle and outer circles. [See Diagram I—Area “B”].

Digitized by kjOOQle
231

OIAGAAM JC

« r oiriNiwe ri.AYHi

The area between the lines of the inner and middle circles is considered a neutral area. [See Diagram I—Area “Z”.] Equipment

Two inflated balls. Both balls are used simultaneously.

The size of the balls and the extent to which they are inflated depends upon the age and sex of the players. [The author states the game may be used for groups ranging from 11 years upward.] No doubt eight or ten inch inflated rubber balls are most satisfactory.

Object of the game

It is the object of the game to throw the ball with both hands from an overhead position and make it touch the floor within the opponents’ area.

Description of play

At the beginning of the game both balls are given to members of teams —No. 2, No. 3, and No. 4 in Area “B”. Upon a signal from the referee, both balls are thrown with the object of making them hit the floor in Area “A”. The players in Area “A” [Team No. 1] attempt to block the balls or to catch them. They may block with any part of the body, but kicking the ball with the feet is prohibited.

A point is scored for the outer teams each time a ball touches the floor in Area "A”. It is not necessary to make a direct hit, a point being scored even if the ball falls or rolls into the area after having been blocked or caught. Players of Team No. 1, after obtaining possession of the ball, may score points in tne same manner by making the ball strike in the opponents’ Area “B”.

All players must throw with both feet inside of their respective boundary lines.

A “loose” ball which falls into the neutral zone “Z” may be recovered by a player from either side. In order to recover the ball, players are permitted to step over their boundary lines with one foot only and to reach for the ball. The other foot must be kept in contact with the floor inside the boundary line.

A “loose” ball which rolls or falls outside of the outer playing

Digitized by

Google
232

area “B” may be retrieved only by a player from the outer area. In such cases a player is permitted to leave his area to recover the ball. He may carry the ball back into the legal throwing area or he may return it by passing to one of his team mates who is in the playing area.

Players in the same area may pass the ball from one to another in order to secure a better position from which to throw. Thus the ball may be passed around the outer area or across the circle.

When 20 points have been scored against the team defending the “city” in Area “A” the teams are shifted, a new team being stationed in the center. Play is continued until 20 points have again been scored whereupon the teams are shifted once more. This procedure is continued until each team has defended the “city”.

How to determine the winner

The winner is that team which while it is defending the “city” scores the greatest number of points against the teams in Area “B”.

Note: The game may be modified by shifting the teams after definite time periods instead of after 20 points have been scored. Determination of the winner remains the same.

A Variation Of “Siege”

The playing of the game in this form is essentially the same as that already described. The difference results from a modification of the playing field as shown in Diagram II.

It should be noted that only 20 players are involved.

The teams in the outer areas are confined to given sections, the shaded areas being neutral.

Not Scientific But Interesting.—“Unless you read the best-seller novels or the so-called fiction in the magazines, you can never know the great number of stunts the human eye is capable of doing. Here are a few specimens:

Her eyes roamed carelessly around the room.

With her eyes she riveted him to the spot.

He withdrew his eyes from her face and they fell to the floor at her feet.

He drank her in with dancing eyes.

Their eyes met for a long breathless moment and swam together.

Marjorie would often remove her eyes from the deck and cast them far out to sea.

He dropped his eyes, and a look of intense pain came over his face.

His eyes met hers, and then fell.

Their eyes clashed and John uttered a shriek.

Her eyes rose from the table under the spell of his commanding voice.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
233

Health Education

Howard L. Conrad

VIII. Teaching Procedures in Health Education. Types of

Lesson Plans.

[Continued from November issue]

The Review Lesson

The purpose of the review lesson should not be confused with that of the drill procedure. In drill the teacher and class go over certain troublesome phases of the subject matter in order to “fix” them [cf. Law of Exercise]. Drill procedures rightly should be a part of almost every lesson, whereas the review only comes at the conclusion of a major topic or a unit of instruction, e.g. “The Cells and Tissues of Our Bodies”, “Our Bony Framework”, “Why and How We Breathe”.

The review lesson is important for the following reasons:

a]	As an element of habit formation

b]	To insure the ready recalling of facts and skills

c]	As a summary for unifying thinking and clarifying cer-

tain obscure parts of the topic thus gaining proper perspective of the more important phases

[d] As a test of teaching effectiveness

The review may be handled in any one of many different ways; i. e., by using visual aids [films, etc.]; by employing problem solving devices [question box, cross word puzzles, -etc.]; by the use of textbooks; by socialized recitations and debates; and by the time-honored written or oral quiz. The point to remember is to avoid making reviews tiresome and monotonous. They should challenge the pupils’ interests, and should be educative rather than be simply a means of obtaining some ratings of response. Even written reviews can be made tolerable by exchanging papers for marking, and encouraging subsequent discussion of answers. The following plan illustrates how textbooks and blackboard illustrations can be used in a review lesson.

Illustrative Review Lesson—Grade 7A

Topic: The cells and tissues of the Body—Lesson 3

Teachers’ Reference: Williams—“Anatomy and Physiology”

Pupils’ References: Newmayer and Broome—“The Human Body and Its Care”, Chap. IV Blount—“Health” Chap. I Winslow—“Healthy Living”, Chap. I.

I. Aim

General—To develop an understanding of the cell in its relation to growth and specialized function

Specific—To obtain satisfactory response to appropriate review problems which are designed to challenge the interest of the pupils.

Digitized by CjOOQle
234

II.	Content

Structure and functions of body cells sizes and shapes composition

properties [common and specialized] Body cells as tissues Proper nourishment of cells classes and values of foods

III.	Method

Approach

A.	Rapid oral drill using such questions as “What are some advantages of good health?” “What should we do to be healthy and strong?” “What should we know?”

B.	Quickly draw [teacher] several kinds of cells on the blackboard. “Who can tell me what these are?” “How can we recognize them?” “Point to the cell wall; the nucleus”.

Review

A.	Briefly show how the textbook should be used as a reference for helping to answer assigned questions. Have paper distributed.

B. Place the following questions on the board, one at a time, allowing a stated time for answering each one. Be sure the pupils clearly understand what is wanted in each question

[1] How do you explain the statement—“Cells are tiny units of living matter”?

2]	What must cells do in order to live?

3]	Show by a drawing how cells grow.

4]	What kinds of tissues do cells form?

5]	Why aren’t we made of only one kind of tissue?

6]	What classes of foods are necessary for healthy tissues?

7]	Give three reasons why it is necessary to eat a variety of

foods.

Conclusion

Exchange papers. Have questions answered by various pupils. Compare answers. Indicate how pupils are to mark papers. Collect papers.

Assignment: Announce next topic. Have pupils suggest nature and method of brief pre-view of the topic.

HEALTH EDUCATION NOTES

“In the vast majority of adult diabetics the manner of life is the major if not the only factor in the development of the disease. Ihe obese, the sedentary, persons of the later decades of life who by occuaption and inclination avoid so far as possible, even in their amusement, and games, such exercise of the great mass of body muscles as in the past was necessary for almost anyone, these are the victims of a way of life in which appetite

Digitized by LjOOQle
235

and easy access to abundance in variety and amount of food, and but slight necessity for bodily exertion, are the rule.

“As I conceive it this disease is the expression of a change which has been gradual over a hundred years, but is now among us of extreme degree, when man’s circumstance is considered before and since the industrial revolution of 1830. Almost every occupation has been metamorphosed by the accessibility of power so that even the daily chores of the home carry no physical burden. White-collar folks, masters of ships or industries, the professions, those who wait and serve food and drink, the employer rather than the employed, the financier rather than the ultimate producer of goods, these are the chief contributors to diabetes mortality, while the agriculturist, the lumberman, the sailor, the smelter and founder, the soldier, cattleman, the day laborer show everywhere a relatively low incidence of the disease.”—Dr. Haven Emerson.

Headache Powders and Swimming Pools.—Such things as headache powders and other harmful proprietary drugs are advertised most liberally, I think, in the so-called religious publications—the publications that think, for instance, that alcohol is the most deadly poison in the world and that liquor drinking is a terrible sin. I do not drink whiskey nor advocate that others do so, but I think alcohol as a beverage is infinitely less harmful than the acetanilid-containing powders. I am glad you are hitting these things.

In what you have to say about swimming pools I am wondering if in speaking of their beneficial use by children you are speaking without knowedge of what some, at least, of the nose and throat specialists think about public swimming pools. My little boys have been accustomed to make use of the swimming pool here in one of the suburbs of Richmond, a pool that is kept as clean, I suppose, as a public pool can be kept; yet before the summer was far advanced two of the boys developed middle-ear trouble and the throat specialist advised me to keep them out of the pool. He told me that he thought a great deal of middle-ear trouble was due to swimming and diving in public pools.—Er. tames K. Hall oj Richmond, Va., in a letter to No. Caro. Health Bulletin.

Civilization Creates Diseases. But Dr. Crile Believes They Can Be Warded o ' by Proper Use of Reason.—CHICAGO, Sept. 7 [A.P.].—By the proper exercise of reason, Dr. George

W.	Crile, noted Cleveland surgeon, believes man should have the power to ward off nervous breakdowns, goiter, stomach ulcers, gallstones, one variety of diabetes, certain diseases of the heart and protruding eyes. These ailments were described by Dr. Crile last night at the world’s fair program of the American College of Surgeons, as the “diseases of civilization,” which are rarely found in the lower orders of man or in lower animals. Their relatively high presence in civilization, he said he believed, re-

Digitized by CjOOQle
236

suited from the high development of the “energy system,” consisting of the brain and thyroid gland. The brain and thyroid gland,” Dr. Crile said, “supply civilized man with his power of sustained energy and activity—mental, emotional and physical. The adrenal-sympathetic system, which in turn is maintained at a constant level of activity by the thyroid and is given outbursts of activity by the brain—is the most active in the expression of emotions. “This group of executive organs,” he said, “is primarily responsible for the state of civilized man. Therefore the diseases which are peculiar to civilized man, we can trace clearly.” These diseases may be primary, as when the brain maintains too high a state of activity and when a nervous breakdown results, or when the thoroid “runs wild,” and exophtalmic goiter results, he explained. But when the brain and thyroid stand the strain of high speed civilization, some weaker organ may give way. In this class, he said, fall certain types of heart disease, diabetes and stomach ulcers. He said surgery could bring a cure sometimes, when the sympathetic nerv6s connected to the adrenal gland is severed, thus preventing it from serving as an emotional whip to the body. But he suggested what he termed a more hopeful and general non-surgical remedy. He said: “Man cannot lessen his brain capacity, he cannot lessen his glandular power, but he has at his disposal the use of the finest tool civilization has wrought—namely: His reason. The civilized fraction of man should be able to control the wild fractions inherited from his long past.” Dr. Crile said Elizabeth Barrett Browning and other “brilliant invalids” of history were victims of a disease of civilization—neuro-circulatory asthenia—where the person is brilliant in mental effort, although subject to symptoms of the ailment.

Necessary Elements In Improvement Of Health. “If I

were challenged to describe the elements necessary to assure further improvement of human health in our associated nations, these three would seem real and pressing: some increase in effective intelligence; something of the spirit of religious devotion even to the point of self-denial in the material possessions and accessories of today’s life; and lastly, courage to apply what biology has taught us to believe.”—Dr. Haven Emerson.

Civilization.—“The Moro warrior who asks to be vaccinated because he sees his children saved from smallpox, the South Sea Islander who crowds the clinic to experience the miracle of arsenical treatment for yaws, has from the biological point of view attained a level of intelligence far beyond that of the silly thousands of our fellow citizens who trust their pseudo-consciences rather than the doctor’s brain, their religious. creed instead of nature’s evidence.”—Dr. Haven Emerson.

We have travelled far from the inception of our public school system, when in the State of New York less than half of the

Digitized by Google
237

schools had any provision whatever for the body wastes of children and teacher. And yet today it is true that even where chromium plated plumbing dazzles the eye and burdens the taxpayer, there are lacking the easy and practical conveniences for washing hands in most of our school buildings.—Haven Emerson.

Change in Diphtheria Toxoid.—After November 1, 1934, alum precipitated diphtheria toxoid will be the product recommended by the State Laboratory of Hygiene for the immunization of children against diphtheria. The superiority of this product over the Ramon diphtheria toxoid and toxin-antitoxin has been demonstrated. One dose of the alum precipitated toxoid will produce immunity in a higher percentage of children than three doses of the Ramon toxoid, or five doses of toxin-antitoxin. In addition, less time is required for the development of immunity when the alum toxoid is used. Not infrequently children are rendered immune within six weeks after they are given the alum toxoid.—No. Caro. Health Bulletin.

FOREIGN NOTES

Oxford University and Physical Education.—“In my belief the focus of all liberal education of the future will be the practice and training of the body, in fitness, grace, and self-control.” [Sir Michael Sadler, at Oxford.]

In The limes, October 1st, 1934, Mr. A. C. H. Duke draws attention to the above statement, and adds “While welcoming such a pronouncement for a variety of reasons, I do so especially because attention may now be called to, and some surprise expressed at, the complete absence of facilities for gymnastic recre-tion or physical education in the University of Oxford.”

“While for generations past benefactions expressly designed to further scholastic attainment have undoubtedly served to establish Oxford in its pre-eminent academic position, the foundations of a school of physical education are as yet unlaid. Hence the great opportunity offered for acceptance by a benefactor endowed with the foresight of a realistic visionary, and a preconception of values accruing from physical culture and education. The resulting benefit would not be insular nor international, but world-wide, as is the representation of mankind at Oxford.” — Phys. Edu. & Sch. Hygiene, England.

Training of Men Teachers for Physical Education.—The

Carnegie Physical Training College for Men, Beckett Park, Leeds 6, re-opened this session with a full complement of 60 students, for the regular one-year course. A succcessful summer course was held in conjunction with the West Riding Education Committee. Mr. Stanley Wilson has been called from Saltley College to join the staff, to take charge of games and athletics especially. The Scottish School of Physical Education and Hygiene [for

Digitized by LjOOQie
238

Men]t Jordanhill, Glasgow, W.3, is also full with 68 three-year students. Mr. J. Johansson has returned to Copenhagen and Mr. Carl Clausen, of Copenhagen also, has joined the staff.

The English Gymnastic Society.—While the principal physical education teacher organisations are still exploring the possibilities of a National Recreational Gymnastic body on a federation basis, the above Society has come into being. Writing to us on November 6th, the .Director, Miss Gladys Wright,

O.W.R.F., states: “I desire at the request of the members of the Executive Committee, to acquaint you at the earliest opportunity of the official formation of the English Gymnastic Society.” The Society was founded in June, 1934, in connection with the English Scandinavian Summer School of Physical Education.

A Physical Training College Under Canvas.—On two

occasions the Chelsea College of Physical Education in England has made the experiment of spending the last two weeks of the Summer term under canvas by the sea. The objects of this experiment were to provide the experience of the organisation of a large Camp, of interdependent commurity life, and of professional work done under unusual but good natural conditions. On both occasions a site was sought with water laid on, near an extensive beach with good firm sands.

Ski-ing Course in Sweden.—The Organizers of the English Scandinavian Summer School of Physical Education are organizing a [third] course in ski-ing at Storlien at Easter. Applications for the few remaining vacancies should be made to the Organizing Secretary immediately.

Retirement of Captain F. H. Grenfell.—On December 8th Capt. F. I . Grenfell retired from His Majesty’s Inspectorate in England after serving for a period of 25 years.

A New State Physical Education Director For Maine.

We have just had official word that Mr. C. Harry Edwards, formerly professor of physical education at Colby College, has been appointed State Director of Physical Education for Maine. Congratulations! This is great news.

Department of Superintendence, N.E.A., February 23-28, Atlantic City.

National Education Association, June 29-July 5, Denver. American Physical Education, April 24-27, Pittsburgh. Midwest A.P.E. April 3-6, Milwaukee.

IMPORTANT MEETINGS
239

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

Partners In Play by Mary J. Breen, published by the National Recreation Association, New York City; 5 1-2” x 8 1-2”, paperbound, 125 pages; price $.75.

The author states, “This book is written primarily for recreation leaders of young people between the ages of 12 and 30, on playgrounds, in community centers, young men’s and young women’s associations, settlement houses, and churches. It is hoped that the suggestions will also be helpful to parents and to young people themselves who are not affiliated with such organizations, but who are looking for interesting and satisfying things to do in their leisure time.”

The first chapter discusses the need for more organized play for mixed groups. In chapter two the elements and characteristics of good leaders and good leadership are presented. General principles of administering a recreation program for mixed groups are considered in chapter three. The remaining eleven chapters are devoted to special activities including the management of dances, dance games and stunts, games for mixed groups, parties and socials, hikes and outings, swimming and water sports, snow and ice sports, arts and crafts, music, drama, and discussion and study clubs.

The book should be a welcome one to those whose recreation programs include activities for young people 12 to 30 years of age.	JOHN	C. KIEFFER

First Aid Afield by Paul Gartner; published by the Macmillan Co., 1934; 5 1-4” x 7 1-2”, 115 pages, illustrated; price $1.25.

If you are a lover of the outdoors, interested in backwoods adventures, in hunting, fishing, boating and swimming, here is a booklet which carries in it some valuable information regarding ways and means of rendering first aid under difficult circumstances. The author uses approved methods and suggests a number of valuable ways of improvising bandages, splints, and pads.

The booklet is divided into two parts. Part I consists of four chapters. The first three chapters cover fractures, wounds, bleeding, dislocations, sprains, and methods of transportation of the injured. The fourth chapter is labeled “Backwood’s Emergencies”. Here the author discusses emergency treatment in such cases as sunstroke, heat exhaustion, frost bite, snake bite, animal bites, stomach cramps, bums, and a number of minor injuries. Part II also contains four chapters and discusses haz-zards around the water, methods of rescue, various “breaks” in the water, and artificial respiration.

The booklet is written in a very interesting manner, describing many situations which are commonly encountered during hunting, fishing, and camping trips. An unusualy good assortment of photographic illustrations adds much to its value.

Digitized by Google
240

Personal Hygiene Applied, Fifth Edition, by Jesse F Williams, A. B., M. C., Professor of Physical Education, Teac College, Columbia University, New York City; published by B. Saunders Co., 1934. Philadelphia,; 529 pages with 145 i trations; clothbound, $2.25.

A new edition, carefully revised, improved, and brought to date. This book is already well known among physi educators but the latest edition has several features which worth mentioning.

The author’s drive for a more scientific attitude and be application of facts in relation to habits of living becomes m< and more forceful. New facts concerning respiration, circulation^ and vitamins and additions in the chapter concerning the “Hy«" giene of the Sexual Aspects of Life” lend added value to the book.' The many excellent illustrations and the addition of new ques-, tions and exercises at the end of each chapter are valuable aids to students.

Without question this book is an outstanding one and it should be in the hands of every teacher and student of physical and health education.

An Introduction to Human Physiology, by Lathan A. Crandall, Jr., M. D., Ph. D., Assistant Professor Physiology and Pharmacology at the Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, 111.; published by W. B. Saunders Co., 1934, Philadelphia; 325 pages with 104 illustrations; clothbound, $2.00.

A new textbook on physiology written especially with a view to satisfying the needs of those who wish to acquire the fundamental facts concerning the functions of the human body without becoming involved in a network of technicalities.

It may be said that the author has held to his original purpose throughout the book. The presentation is unusually clear. Some of the most difficult processes are explained in a simple non-technical way leaving no room for doubt in the reader’s mind. Definitions and analogies are employed wherever there is need for clarification. The author has also embodied the practical application of physiological facts, a most valuable aid to any student.

The book also has several other features. A quite liberal use of well selected illustrations has been made throughout the text. Near the end of the book the author has included a list of text books for general reference, a list of medical dictionaries, and a list of texts and monographs classified according to the special phases of the subject. An appendix which includes the metric system of measurements is also found here.

Outside of the omissions of a brief outline at the beginning of each chapter and a list of important questions at the end of each chapter as aids to students, the author has succeeded in presenting a text book admirably adapted for teaching beginning students in physiology.

Digitized by LiOOQle