STATE NORMAL SCHOOL

ajngklks.

Tol. 81.

MIND AND BODY

JANUARY, 1915.

No. 835

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St, Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg,, Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.	______

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

In the October issue of Mind and Body we called attention to window screens made of unbleached cotton cloth which were used to ventilate a modern school building at Syracuse, N. Y. We now are in receipt of another short communication from Dr. J. B. Todd which should not only be of interest to our readers, but should encourage many to try similar experiments. Cloth window screens, by the way, would be an admirable means of ventilating the bedrooms of those who are afraid of the open window. We let the communication follow:

My Dear Sir:—

It occurred to me that you would be interested in our further experience with cloth window ventilation which I introduced in one school in the winter of 1912-13.

Late last winter, 1913-14, one school was fully equipped with 78 windows screened, (645 sq. ft.). From that time on it was not necessary to run the ventilating fan, which resulted in a saving of $150 in three months. The janitor states that there was a saving of at least 25 tons of coal, and at the same time the air conditions in the school were much better than ever before. Registration: 760 pupils. Several other schools also have used them. The Wm. Penn Charter School (Phila.) used the screens last winter. The Head Master, Wm. M. Jones, writes that they are a signal success.

I wish they could be tried out in some of your public schools.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) John B. Todd.

We have called the attention of the principals in our schools to this simple means of getting fresh air into school-rooms during the winter months. We hope that some of our readers have done likewise. We also hope that here we at last have a means of letting

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 426 —

fresh air into the dressing rooms of our gymnasiums without exposing those who are changing clothes to blasts of wintry air.

A City With Ample Play Space, but no Play.—In an uncrowded rity with ample home and school yards, and a healthy prosperous people one would expect to find an elaborate, vigorous and whole-come play-life. Where the opportunities for right recreation are thick, surely wrong recreation will be scarce. Where facilities for active play are abundant there the passive amusements will be little patronized. Where play resources are rich, there their utilization will be most elaborately organized. And yet in Springfield, Illinois, an uncongested city with an extraordinary wealth of play spaces, it was found that the recreation movement in its modern form had hardly appeared. That, in a word, is the conclusion of the recreation department of the Russell Sage Foundation after a comprehensive survey of the city made last spring, the results of which have just appeared in pamphlet form (see book review).

Springfield’s generosity in school yards is almost unparalleled. They average 2.33 acres per school for the city and furnish 231 square feet of free space for each pupil. But the play at recess time was scrappy, half-hearted, and unorganized and the yards were little used after dismissal. During the numerous rainy periods the mud was so troublesome that the pupils were confined to the walks and small paved spaces near the entrances. There was no physical training department in the school system.

The high school has an impressive situation but its students have no gymnasium or athletic field. Their club and society meetings might be held in the high school building but dancing parties were forbidden so that for all functions including social dancing the boys and girls were forced to go to public halls and hotels.

Over 40 per cent of the high school boys and 30 per cent of the girls attend the “movies” seven or more times a month. In 61 per cent of the boys’ homes and in 48 per cent of the girls’ homes parties for young people are not often held, but over 80 per cent of the young people attend the theatre once a week, and in the majority of instances with persons outside of their respective families.

Most of the twenty public school buildings have accommodations where evening entertainments are feasible, but they are used for such purposes only once every nine or ten weeks. There are no social centers in Springfield. The ten “movies” on the other hand, are filled twice a day and their amusements cost the people over $2,000 a week. The churches provide little recreation for their people but the theatres and “movies” run Sunday afternoons and evenings, as well as week days, to crowded houses. Springfield’s population is only about 58,600 but it is estimated that they spend $6,000 a week at the “movies” and theatres. Of the four theatres

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 427 —

only one offers anything more serious than vaudeville and in that one, out of 18 offerings only two were devoted to straight drama while in another theatre conditions were found which no community could afford to tolerate. Such are some of the things which were found in a city where the young people were considered so fortunately blessed that they needed no attention at all.

The findings now published are accompanied by constructive recommendations upon all the points at which recreation becomes a matter of community concern. They include model lay-outs for school yards, suggest methods for developing recreational activities which will touch all classes and provide for a City Committee on Recreation to see that this side of the city’s life shall have adequate and proper expression. (A department of physical education and play has since been established bv the local Board of Education).

Neillsville, Wis., probably is the first small town in America to establish on a full-time basis the office of civic secretary. Sauk City and Osseo, Wis., have established this office, making it a part of the function of the school principal. But in Neillsville the School Board has voted to engage a man as associate to the school principal who will devote his whole energy to this work.

The functions of the ordinary commercial secretary and the Director of Recreation for the whole community are to be combined in this office.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The out-door field and track work was finished about the middle of November with an intra-class contest. Records of all the students were taken in the broad and high jumps, ioo-yd. dash, 220-yd. run, and hurl-ball.

Part of the time previously spent on the field and track is now being devoted to indoor base-ball, basket-ball, and volley-ball. Both the men’s and women’s classes are thoroughly organized into teams and are getting in some good practice in intra-class games.

While the weather was still fit several long hikes were enjoyed by the students, the men lead by the dean, Mr. Emil Rath, and the ladies by the dean’s assistant, Miss Elsa Hein.

Arrangements between the Indianapolis Board of Education and the Normal College have made it possible for the seniors to begin practice teaching in the public schools earlier this year than heretofore. This means a good increase in the practical work for the students, and the experience is invaluable to them. It is the plan to start practice teaching immediately after the holidays.

The students of the Normal Colleee had the privilege of listening to a talk on “Hygiene and What it can do,” by Dr. J. Hurty,

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 428 —

superintendent of the department of health of the state of Indiana. Dr. Hurty is an unusually interesting speaker who thoroughly understands the far-reaching influence the teacher of physical education can have toward leading the people, and especially the younger generation, toward a better, saner and more hygienic mode of living. In his talk he gave the students practical hints, the result of his many years of experience and such as will be of the greatest aid to us.

On Friday, Nov. 27, the non-resident members of the Normal College Board of Trustees paid their annual visit to the school for the purpose of observing the work of the classes. Those present were Mr. Wm. A. Stecher, supervisor of physical training in the Philadelphia public schools; Mr. Henry Suder, supervisor of physical education in the Chicago public schools; Mr. A. E. Kindervater, supervisor of physical education in the St. Louis public schools; and Dr. A. A. Knoch of the Walnut Hills high school in Cincinnati. There were also many graduates of the college present, as well as visitors interested in the work. In the afternoon Mr. Stecher gave an interesting talk on “The Playground and the Director.” There were also short addresses by Mr. Suder and Dr. Knoch.

On the first of December the senior class elected officers to begin work on “The Gymnast,” the school annual. The following were elected:—Editor, Mr. Richard Strohmer; Assistant Editor, Miss Clara Louise Olcott; Business Manager, Mr. Alvin Romeiser; Assistant Business Manager, Mr. Gustav Braun. Heads of the various departments have been appointed and all are hard at work.

Social affairs have not been lacking. The Students' Alliance gave a dance on the first of October, there have been several class affairs, and a Christmas dance is promised the seniors by the juniors just before the holidays.

Helen E. Homan, Recorder.

Our women readers will undoubtedly be pleased by the statement that Mr. Carl Schrader of the Sargent Normal Schools is at present preparing several articles for Mind and Body on the “Standardization of Women's Athletics.”

The regular monthly meeting of the Physical Training Teachers Association of Indianapolis was held Dec. 12th at 3:30 P. M. in the library of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U.

The brief business meeting conducted by the president, Dr. W. Ocker, was followed by a discussion based upon the paper read by Mrs. Nate Steichmann: “The Place of Formal Gymnastics on the Playground.”

Practical work, consisting of various ball games was directed by Mr. Horton, physical instructor of the Indianapolis Y. M. C. A.

Miss Louise Schulmeyer, physical instructor at the Indianapolis

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 429 —

Institute for the Blind, extended an invitation to the organization to hold their next meeting at the Institute. Miss Schulmeyer will give a practical demonstration of her methods of teaching the blind.

NOTES FROM THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

School opened September sixteenth with an enrollment of sixty in the junior class and fifty in the senior. The first four weeks were spent in out-door work including swimming, rowing, paddling, soccer, golf, field hockey, tennis, base-ball and basket-ball. The new athletic field of thirteen acres, including a shore lot, afforded ample facilities for all kinds of sports. For the in-door work, which began October fifteenth, we also found ourselves in new quarters with two gymnasium floors, each having fifty by eighty feet clear floor space, spacious offices, ample dressing rooms, two lecture rooms, a reading room, a chemical laboratory, a music room and a room for dissection., There is also a large addition to one of the dormitories built during the summer. The curriculum has been strengthened intensively and the whole school is kept constantly busy.

THE TOPEKA GRADE SCHOOL, ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. W. P. MAC LAREN, Supervisor.

Our aim this fall was to have as many as possible engaged in some good out-door sport. The larger boys of the grade schools had Rugby football teams. The smaller boys were organized into three soccer leagues; one for the 8th graders who were too small for football; one for 7th Grade boys and one for 6th graders. The girls took up forward pass ball (the rules for which were published in the October issue of “Mind and Body”) and volley ball. The city was divided into four districts with about six schools in each district. Each school then played every other school in its district twice and the team in each line of spprt which won the largest percentage of its games was declared district champion and received a banner. Then the district champions played a series to decide the final city championship. There was some good playing In these final games in all the lines of sport. The way the girls kept the ball moving in forward pass ball was little short of marvelous. There was also some fine enthusiasm exhibited. A banner was awarded to the school which showed the best school spirit, i. e., the school having the best assortment of yells, songs and rooting stunts. This brought out some organized rooting that would have done credit to any college. Indeed the thousands of school children with their school colors in ribbons and banners, presented as interesting a sight as the contests themselves.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 430 —

After the schedule was all played out and the city championship finally decided, an all-star, or all-grade school team, was picked from each league, consisting of those players who did the best for their respective teams during the season. Those who were picked for these teams were awarded silver pins, indicative of their prowess. This encouraged every player to do his best, eliminated all grand-standing and encouraged a player to stick to his team till the end even though it was a hopeless tailender.

The all-grade school football team played the high school scrubs in a good close game which closed the fall sport program.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York.

A Remarkable Performance.	Walter Buckett of England, a

49-year-old athlete, accomplished the feat of running a mile, walking a mile, cycling a mile, rowing a mile and swimming a mile in 45 minutes 19 1- seconds. The time for each mile as performed was: walking 10 min. 13 sec., running 5 min, 39 sec., cycling 3 min. 55 sec., rowing 8 min. 44 sec., swimming 16 min. 48 1-5 sec.

World’s Record for Automobile. On Nov. 26th Eddie Pullen, driving a Mercer car won the 300 mile Corona (Cal.) automobile road race in the remarkable time of 3 hours 26 min. 32 sec. His speed averaged 87 miles an hour. The best previous mark was 82.47 miles an hour made by Thomas at Indianapolis last May.

New Football Record. Rolla School of Mines, a part of the University of Missouri, managed to go through the foot-ball season by scoring 544 points against its opponents without being scored against. The best previous record for scoring without being scored against was 524.

The Hanley Regatta, England’s classic rowing event will not be held next year. The stewards decided unanimously to abandon it, in view of the conditions brought about by war.

Tennis to be made a part of the course at Annapolis. At the present time tennis is the most pooular sport at the academy. All the midshipmen are obliged to take part in some competitive kind of sport, but the pressure on tennis during the fall has been much in excess of that on any other sport. There is a reason for the preference of the sailors for the court game, and one which may result in tennis being designated as an obligatory part of the course at An-

Digitized by Google
— 431 —

napolis before many years have passed. The midshipmen claim that tennis is a world game. At every port they stop they are invited to the courts. Just as dancing, which is required at both Annapolis and West Point, tennis should be recognized as a required sport.

The Decathlon Test to Succeed the A. A. U. All-Around Championship. At the annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the

A.	A. U. in November, a letter was presented from Chas. F. Erickson, delegate of the Scandinavian American Athletic League suggesting that the Olympia Decathlon and Pentathlon events be added to the list of championship events annually contested under A. A. U. sanction. His reasons are summed up in the following six excellent points:—

1.	Decathlon competition differs principally from the A. A. U. all-around event in substituting for the 56-pound weight and 16-pound hammer the discus and javelin, and eliminating the half-mile walk.

This change provides an all-around event, in which athletes are not hopelessly handicapped because of lack of weight. A common indulgence in that splendid all-around developing exercise should therefore result, and that should be the first and most important consideration.

2.	A point worthy of note is the fact that the discus and javelin are ancient classical athletic events, whereas the heavy weights are events of more recent origin.

3.	Elimination of the half-mile walk will improve the competition as follows:	The	standard	of	competition	will	be	raised,	because

the tendency of the walk, due to the unnatural, strained pose, is to seriously stiffen the athletes, and to detract from their succeeding performances.

4.	The athletes to guard against said effects purposely sacrifice points in the walk on the theory that they will be repaid with interest in the events to follow, and the results are mediocre performances, and no criterion, as to the true ability of the competitors in this particular specialty.

The last-mentioned fact alone should condemn the walk in any all-around competition.

5.	The Decathlon affords an opportunity to encourage the game of “throwing the javelin,” an Olympic event in which we acknowledge our inferiority.

6.	A condition which will be held by many as the supreme factor in favor of Decathlon competition is the fact that the International Olympic Committee has, during the past year, decided that the Decathlon shall be a permanent feature in the Olympic programme, and we should encourage the game and endeavor to develop repre-

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 432 —

sentatives worthy of the high athletic standard of our union and nation.

It may interest A. B. George, the English sports expert, to know that the International Federation committee passed Bernie Wefers's 3° 3"5 seconds for 300 yards at their meeting last June in Paris. This is the world's amateur mark for the distance.

Cleveland is to have a new stadium, and that city has aldeary asked for the 1916 Olympic games which are scheduled for Berlin. It is doubtful if the games will be held in Germany, and Pres. Lill, of the A. A. U., does not look with favor upon the plan to hold them in America.

“I hardly see why any American city should exert itself to stage a set of games to be called Olympic games when none but American athletes, with the possible exception of a team from Sweden, will compete, he says.

THE RECORD MAKERS IN I914 SPORT. BASEBALL.

World's Champions—Boston Braves.

Natiohal League Champions—Boston Braves. American League Champions—Philadelphia Athletics. Champion Batsman, National League—Jake Daubert. Champion Batsman, American League—Ty Cobb.

Harvard.

FOOTBALL.

TENNIS.

World's Champion—Maurice E. McLoughlin.

National Singles Champion—R. Norris Williams, 2d.

National Doubles Champions—Maurice E. McLoughlin and T.

C.	Bundy.

National Women's Champion—Miss Mary Browne.

World's Doubles Champions—N. E. Brookes and A. F. Wilding.

GOLF.

National Amateur Champion—Francis Ouimet.

National Women's Champion—Mrs. Arnold H. Jackson. National Open Champion—Walter Hagen.

HOCKEY.

Champion College Team—Princeton.

Champion Amateur League—St. Nicholas.

ROWING.

World's Champion Eight—Harvard.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 433 —

Champion College Eight—Columbia.

Champion N. A. A. O. Single Sculler—Robert Dibble.

POLO.

World's Champions—England.

Senior Champions—Meadow Brook Magpies.

Junior Champions—Bryn Mawr.

Open Champions—Meadow Brook Magpies.

MOTOR BOATS.

American Champion—Mrs. J. Stuart Blackton’s Baby Speed Demon.

HARNESS HORSE.

World’s Champion Pacer—James Butler’s Directum I.

BILLIAIRDS AND POOL.

Billiard’s 18.1 and 18.2 Balk Line—William Hoppe.

Pool Champion—Benny Allen.

RACQUETS.

National Amateur Champion—Lawrence Waterbury.

World’s Professional Champion—Jock Soutar.

TURF.

Champion Horse—Roamer.

COURT TENNIS.

National Champion—Jay Gould.

National Doubles Champions—Jay Gould and W. H. T. Huhn.

CYCLING.

National Amateur Champion—E. Kaiser.

National Professional Champion—Frank L. Kramer.

Six-Day Record Holders—Alfred Goullet and Alfred Grenda.

YACHTING.

National Champion—Resolute.

BOXING.

World’s Lightweight Champion—Freddie Welsh.

SWIMMING.

Long-Distance Champion—George Meehan.

AUTOMOBILING.

World’s Record Holder—Eddie Pullen.

RUNNING.

60-Yard Run, Indoor—0:5 2-5. A. T. Meyers, Irish-American

A.	C.

Digitized by Google
— 434 —

6o-Yard Run, Indoor—o:6 2-5. S. Butler, Hutchinson (Kan.) School.

100-Yard Run, Outdoor—0:9 3-5. H. P. Drew, University of Southern California.

220-Yard Run, Outdoor—0:21 1-5. H. P. Drew, University of Southern California.

220-Yard Run, Outdoor—0:21 1-5. George Parker, Olympic Club.

660-Yard Run, Outdoor—1-20 2-5. H. Baker, New York A. C.

880-Yard Run, Outdoor—1153 2-5. D. S. Caldwell, Cornell University.

RUNNING HIGH JUMP.

6	Feet 7 5-16 Inches, Outdoor—E. Beesom, Olympic Club, at Berkeley, Cal., May 2, 1914.

RELAY.

1,200-Yard, Outdoor—Team of four men, each man to run 300 yards. 2:06 4-5. New York A. C. team, (F. P. McNally, D. A. Kuhn, V. Wilkie, T. Lennon.)

WEIGHT LIFTING.

104-Pound Dumbbell—Pushing up 104-pound dumbbell from shoulder to full arm’s length—23 times. G. Tsambaris, Greek-American A. C., at Greek-American A. C. games held at New York City, Jan. 16, 1914.

ROPE CLIMBING.

21 Feet 5 3-5 Seconds—E. Lindenbaum, Ninety-second Street Y. M. H. A., New York.

35	Feet 11 4-5 Seconds—Ed. Lindenbaum, Ninety-second Street Y. M. H. A., New York.

SWIMMING.

100 Yards, Open Tidal Salt Water, Straightaway—0:54 3-5. Duke P. Kahanamoku.

200 Yards, Bath, (20,) 9 Turns—2:07 2-5. H. J. Hebner, Illinois A. C.

200 Yards, Bath, (75,) 2 Turns, Salt Water—2:13 1-5. Duke P. Kahanamoku.

300 Yards, Bath, (20,) 14 Turns—3:29 1-5. Perry McGilli-vray, Illinois A. C.

440 Yards, Bath, (75 Yards, Salt Water,) 5 Turns—5:22 1-5. Ludy Langer, Los Angeles A. C.

880 Yards, Bath, (75 Yards, Salt Water,) 11 Turns—11 -.46 2-5. Ludy Langer, Los Angeles A. C.

1,000	Yards, Open, Still Salt Water, (80 Yards,) 12 Turns— 14:19 2-5. H. E. Vollmer, New York A. C.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—• 435 —

150 Yards, Backstroke, Bath, (75 Yards, Salt Water,) 1 Turn —1155 4-5. H. J. Hebner, Illinois A. C.

150 Yards, Bath, (20,) 7 Turns—1149 3-5. H. J. Hebner, Illinois A. C.

400-Yard Relay, 4 Men, Each 100 Yards, 25 Yards.Bath—3:52

4-5. Illinois A. C., (A. C. Raithel, 58 3-5 seconds; William Bos-burgh, 59 1-5 seconds; Perry McGillivray, 57 seconds; H. J. Hebner, 58 seconds.)

400-Yard, 4 Men, Open, Still Water, 100-Yard Course—3:57

1-5. Illinois A. C., (H. J. Hebner, 1 minute; M. R. Mott, 1 minute

1-5 second; A. C. Raithel, 57 2-5 seconds; Perry McGillivray, 58 1-5 seconds.)

no Yards, Bath, (20 Yards,) 5 Turns—1102 3-5. H. J. Hebner, Illinois A. C.

250 Yards, Bath, (20 Yards,) 12 Turns—2:52 3-5. Perry Me Gillivray, Illinois A. C.

880 Yards, Bath, (20 Yards,) 43 Turns—11:29 1-5. Perry McGillivray, Illinois A. C.

Battery to Sandy Hook, New York Bay, Tidal Salt Water, with the Tide, Distance About 22 Miles—7 hours 19 minutes. George Meehan, L Street Swimming Club, Boston, New York City.

A GUIDE TO DETERMINING THE MINIMUM SIZE OF SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS.

By WILLIAM A. STECHKR, Philadelphia.

SPACE NEEDED FOR SCHOOL GAMES.

1.	Ring-games (Cat and Mouse type). Circle 20 feet—for 30-40 players. Square needed 25x25—625 feet; 18 sq. feet per player.

2.	Tag-games. Field needed 35x40 feet—for 30-40 players; 1400 square feet; 40 sq. feet per player.

3.	Play-apnaratus, like Giant Strides, Swings, Ladders, Bars, etc., employ 15-20 players. These need about 700 sq. feet; 40 sq. feet per player.

4.	Dodge-ball. Circle 40 feet for 30-40 players. Square needed 45x45—2000 sq. feet; 50 sq. feet per player.

5.	Volley-ball. Court 25x50 feet for 20 players. Oblong needed 30x55—1650 sq. feet; 80 sq. feet per player.

6.	Captain-ball. Court 30x60 feet for 20 players. Oblong space needed 35x65 feet—2275 square feet; 113 sq. feet per player.

7.	Playground-ball. Court 60x70 feet for 20 players. Oblong needed 65x75—4900 square feet; 245 sq. feet per player.

8.	Basket-ball. Court 40x70 feet for 10 players. Oblong needed 55x75—4000 square feet; 400 sq. feet per player.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 436 —

g. Foot-ball. Field 160x330 feet for 22 players. 52,800 square

feet; 2400 sq. feet per player.

10.	Base-ball. Field 250x250 feet for 18 players. 62,500 square

feet; 3,472 sq. feet per player.

1.	A Recess in a primary school that brings 8 rooms of 45 pupils into the yard (360 pupils).

Two-thirdsjof the children play, one-third stand or simply move about; that is, 240 are active players and 120 are non-players.

Of the players one-third play ring-games, one-third tag-games, and one-third ball games of the dodge-ball type. The play space needed for these three types of activity would average 36 square feet per player. This would mean 8,640 square feet for 240 players.

For the non-players a space 3x3 feet—9 square feet would be needed. This would mean an additional 1080 square feet.

Total minimum unobstructed play space for 360 pupils would be 9,720 square feet; say 27 square feet per primary pupil.

The play-space, therefore, for a primary school of 360 pupils should be no less than 100x100 feet. If such play-space were to be used by older children, or by more children during the summer time, the area would be insufficient.

2.	A Recess in a grammar school that brings 8 rooms of 40 pupils into the yard (320 pupils.)

It would be assumed that as in the primary grades two-thirds play and the rest walk or stand about.

If one-fourth of the players play tag-games, one-fourth use some of the apparatus located in the yards, one-fourth play ball games like dodge-ball, and one-fourth play ball games like volley-ball these four types of activity would average 52^ square feet per player. (If basket-ball were one of the games the space needed would be at least 100 square feet per player). This would mean 214 grammar pupils need 11,235 square feet of play-space. For the non-players a space of 3x5—15 square feet would make an additional 1590 square feet, giving a total of 12,825 square feet—40 square feet per grammar pupil.

The unobstructed play space for a school bringing 320 grammar pupils into the yard to play should be no less than 100x130 feet. If games like basket-ball, or modified forms of playground-ball are to be played by part of the pupils, the area should be at least 100x350 feet for each 320 pupils, that is, no square feet per grammar pupil.

3.	A Recess for both primary and grammar pupils should best have the younger children at one end of the yard and the older at the other end. Younger girls and boys may play together, or in the same space. The vigorous games of the older children make it advisable to have the boys play in a space reserved for them.

Play surface. The ideal play surface is grass. This, however, is impossible in school-yards. Ring-games for the younger children,

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 437 —

and some of the games of the older players make it advisable to have at least one-half of the yard nearest the building paved with cement, asphalt or brick. The rest of the ground should be built up with a sub-base of at least 8 inches of clean hard coal cinders, upon which should be placed a 2 inch layer of fine (less than half inch) macadam. The top of this built-up surface should be finished with a 2 inch layer of fine crushed stone screenings. Each one of these layers should separately be rolled wet with a heavy steam roller. This last layer of very fine stone screenings must be repaired perhaps every three or four years, the frequency depending upon the use the playgyround is put to. Facilities for sprinkling this surface with water during warm weather would add greatly to its usefulness and its life.

A new type of zvindow sash so constructed that the outside air may enter at the meeting rails and at the top of the upper sash has recently been placed on the market by the Leonard Sheet Metal Works, Inc., Hoboken, N. J. It. is known as the Leonard Ideal ventilating window. The accompanying illustration shows both

saihes open, thus obtaining ventilation in the manner stated. The sashes can be reversed so that the exterior side will be turned towards the interior. In the arrangement as shown in the illustration the sashes are hung on chains with a pivot block placed at the extreme bottom of each sash, hung on overhead pulleys, so that each sash counterbalances the other. No weights are required, and the sashes can be pivoted at any desired point in the frace. Still another feature of this construction is that the top sash can be left open at the top for ventilation and still be locked at the meeting rail. When both sashes are locked, the window corresponds in tightness to the ordinary window sash and, it is stated, requires no weather stripping. The manufacturer states that it has been passed by the National Board of Fire Underwriters.

LEONARD IDEAL VENTILATING WINDOW.

Digitized by
— 438 —

A ROUNDEL.

Arranged by OTTO A. WURL, Quincy, 111.

Formation: A single front circle, facing inward, with neighbors’ hands grasped height of shoulders, arms bent slightly. The pupils are numbered in twos from right to left. The girls take places No. i and the boys places No. 2.

Music: “Laces and Graces,” by Gustav Salzer and John W. Bratton. Introduction—four measures.

part 1—(32 measures.)

Six gallops and a closing step left sideward.................. 4

Three steps forward and close heels then three steps backward

and close heels........................................... 4

Repeat to the right........................................... 8

Repeat left and right......................................... 16

Measures in all.............................. 32

On the last measure the partners face each other and grasp hands with arms straightened sideward, forming a single circle of flank couples, facing each other.

part 11—(32 measures.)

In couples (facing partner) two gallops and a closing step side-

ward toward the center and return......................... 4

The mill-wheel left forward in seven steps, closing heels and

facing partner on 8th count..............................  4

Repeat three times............................................ 24

Measures in all.............................. 32

On the last measure form a single front circle facing center as in part 1.

part hi—(16 measures.)

Repeat the steps of part 1, left and rieht. trio. Introduction—four measures.

part iv—(32 measures.)

Four gallops left sideward then one-half turn left and four

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 439 —

gallops right sideward in the circle (when turning release hands, swing arms down past the sides of the body and re-

grasp neighbors hands)..................................... 4

Fact right and walk eight steps forward, knuckles placed on

hips ........................................................ 4

Repeat three times (face right at the beginning of the gallop) .	24

Measures in all....'...................................... 32

part v—(8 measures.)

The Nos. 2 (boys) in skipping encircle left, the Nos. 1 of the next couple who stand (halt) in front. The Nos. 1 raise arms side-upward to a circle. The Nos. 2 face the center

of the circle upon returning to place....................... 4

The Nos. 1 place knuckles on hips and encircle their partner (the Nos. 2) three-fourths of a circle right in skipping, forming a column of flank couples facing inward, then grasp partner’s hands with arms straightened sideward.

Nos. 2 raise arms side-upward to a circle, during the en-

circling .................................................. 4

Measures in	all................................. 8

part vi—(16 measures.)

Four gallops sideward in the circle right (No. 1 right, No. 2

left sideward............................................. 2

One-half turn outward (No. 1 right, No. 2 left) releasing the hand which points in the direction of the hopping, swing the arm down past the side of the body and regrasp partner’s hand; the other arm swings down and up to point in the direction of the hopping, during the turn,—and four

gallops sideward in the circle right....................... 2

Face in the direction of the hopping and walk eight steps forward, placing knuckles of outer hand on hip. The first

step is taken with the outer foot........................... 4

Repeat all once................................................. 8

Measures in all........................... 16

Interlude—four measures.

During the interlude form a single front circle facing inward as in part 1.

part vii—(16 measures.)

Repeat the steps of part i, left and right.

part viii—(16 measures.)

Repeat the steps of part ii, twice.

part ix—(16 measures.)

Repeat the steps of part i, left and right.

Digitized by C.ooQle
MAT EXERCISES, ELEMENTARY, INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM TUMBLING.*

By H. DARNELL BRITTIN, Lorain, Ohio

SERIES I NO. I.

JUMPS, LEAPS, ETC.

1	Forward jump.

2	Sideward jump (right and left).

3	Backward jump.

4	Forward jump, hands clasp back of neck.

5	Forward jump, arms over head.

6	Forward jump, zig zag.

7	Forward jump and wriggle.

8	Forward jump, jumping jack (jump forward to side stride posi-

tion clapping hands over head and return.)

9	Forward, jump, striking knees with hands (flex thighs and legs.)

10	Forward jump, striking ankles with hands (extend legs.)

11	Forward jump, striking toes with hands (flex thighs.)

12	Forward jump with half turn left.

13	Forward jump with full turn left.

14	Forward jump striking 'heels together, right and left.

15	Forward jump on right foot, extend left leg and bend forward

at waist (alternate.)

16	Forward jump with half turn left and backward jump.

17	Forward jump with full turn left.

18	Backward jump with half turn left.

19	Backward jump with half turn left, forward jump.

20	Backward jump with half turn left, forward jump with half turn

21	Backward jump striking the knees, with hands (flex thighs and

legs.)

22	Backward jump touching toes with hands (flex thighs.)

23	Hop on right foot, hold left.

24	Hop on left foot, hold right.

25	Hop, step and jump.

26	Hop, step and jump backwards.

27	Frog jump (on “all fours”) feet together.

28	Frog jump, feet spread.

29	Frog jump, alternate.

30	Frog leap (a long leap on “all fours.”)

31	Crab walk (walk on hands and feet, back nearest mat.)

32	Crab walk backwards.

33	Crab walk turning.

# It will perhaps be of interest to our readers to note that we are publishing the first of a graded series of exercises on the mat. and at the same time illustrating them. Later numbers of “Mind and Body” will give more difficult exercises in this line.

left.

Digitized by
— 441 —

Digitized by
— 442 —

34	Elephant walk (walk on hands and feet, arms and legs stiff.)

35	Wet cat-foot walk (shake right and left leg alternately while

walking on “all fours/')

36	Lame dog walk (on “3 legs’' one leg carried across other.)

37	Bent leg walk (bring knee to mat on every step.)

38	Walrus walk (fig. 1.)

39	Duck walk (fig. 2.)

40	Monkey jump (jump forward in knee-bend position.)

41	Monkey jump backwards.

42	Monkey jump sidewards.

43	Monkey jump turning.

44	The row boat (fig. 3.)

45	The double elephant walk (fig. 4.)

46	The wheelbarrow (fig. 5.)

47	Chain gang walk (for the class.) (In line facing same direction,

left hand placed on left shoulder of boy in front.)

48	Hop walk (for the class.) (Same as chain gang walk, each boy

grasp right leg of bov in rear.)

49	Duck walk (for the class.) (Fig. 2.) (Boy place left hand on

left shoulder of boy in front.)

(To be continued.)

LETTING THE SUN CURE TUBERCULOSIS IN CHILDREN.*

By PAUL E. BATZELL, Executive Secretary, Buffalo Association for the Kelief and Control of Tuberculosis.

“This hill will never be properly crowned or fully adorned until there is a building devoted to the care of afflicted children erected on its beautiful slope. The time has gone when a twisted, deformed body or a crooked back can be looked upon with complacency. These children should be brought up here when feeble and poorly nourished, to be strengthened, yea, recreated. The place for the frail, stricken child, in whom the flame of life is low, is close to nature's generous, responsive heart and healing breath."

These words spoken at the opening of the J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital, Buffalo's sanatorium erected for incipient tuberculosis at Perrysburg, N. Y., less than two years ago by Dr. John H. Pryor, chairman of the hospital commission, sounded an appeal and expressed a vision soon to be realized. For now, upon that great side-hill of Cattaraugus County where stands the hospital, Mother Nature has come into her own. Haopy, frolicsome boys and girls who came there suffering with tuberculous glands and bones, are growing

* Reprint from “The Survey.”

Digitized by Google
— 443 —

well by going about practically unclothed. Nature’s medicine, administered in large doses of sun rays, is having first chance.

In the summer of 1913, Dr. Pryor went to Europe. His observations there were a serious commentary upon the halting progress of tuberculosis work among children in this country. At Leysin, Switzerland, (See The Survey for December 6, 1913,) under the charge of Dr. Rollier, children with tuberculous bones and glands were playing unclothed in the Alpine snows, having regained the use of joints, where the bone tuberculosis had before appeared hopeless. Enthusiastic over this splendid work, and realizing this country’s slow progress in treating tuberculous children, Dr. Pryor determined that Buffalo should no longer dally.

In the last days of November Dr. Pryor returned to Buffalo. He did not wait for new equipment but went to work at once at the

J.	N. Adam Hospital. In the early part of December, three boys were already undergoing the Rollier treatment, one of whom had previously had three operations.

Thirty-five children are now enjoying treatment, and the results have met the fond hopes of the doctors. The remarkable recuperation of frail and sickly children, the transformation from a disposition grown serious through suffering to one expressing itself in joyous laughter, the gains in weight and strength, the disappearance of pain, all mark the work a success even in these beginning months. In some cases, children who have been given up to die will not only recover but will once more use limbs and joints that were useless.

The Rollier treatment is based upon the theory that tuberculosis of the hones and glands is curable by exposing the naked body, while

MOTHER NATURE CLAIMING HER OWN.
— 444 —

resting, to direct rays of the sun and to the open air. The intense sun rays, healing in themselves, also increase bodily resistance, so that nature begins its own healing processes from within, causing tuberculous glands to disappear and open wounds to become healthy scars. That this theory is right was established beyond question by the results obtained by Dr. Rollier. Under the guidance of Dr. Pryor, Drs. Hyde and Lo Grasso, superintendent and assistant superintendent of the J. N. Adam Hospital, have applied the treatment at Perrysburg.

When the boy or girl comes to Perrysburg, his or her transition to primitive attire is gradual. No matter what part of the body may be affected, the treatment at the beginning is alike for all. On the first day, one leg is exposed as far as the knee to the sun's rays, for about ten or twenty minutes three times during the day. Upon the second day the same method is used, but the time of exposure for this part of the leg is increased by ten or twenty minutes, and the upper part of the leg is exposed for ten or twenty minutes. Upon each succeeding day more of the body is exposed, while the parts first uncovered are given exposures of constantly increasing length. Within a few days, abdomen, chest, arms, and finally neck, are exposed. The intensity of the sun determines whether the period shall be ten or twenty minutes.

After the whole body is exposed, the patients lie on their backs each day for two or three hours with the rays of the sun directly upon them. In a short time, the skin has developed without burning into a fine, deep-brown color, which seems to radiate health. The sun is kept from heads and eyes by caps or screens and a careful watch is kept for any reaction from the intense rays. Temperatures are taken regularly; blood counts are made for each new case; and at intervals blood is examiried to discover the effects of treatment. Wounds which mieht suffer a severe reaction by the sun's rays are covered by gauze.

When rest periods are over, the convalescing children are permitted much freedom and exercise, care being taken, however, that the exercise be not too violent. Bone cases with discharging sinuses are kept flat on their backs in bed. Patients whose condition will allow, play croquet, quoits, care for flower beds, or go roaming with a nurse. Very little mental effort is asked of them. They learn the ways of animals, birds and flowers by actual contact with them.

This is a glorious stimulus for nature study to the waif who has heretofore known only the city streets or slums. This fall a real open-air school in the woods will permit the older children to keep pace in their education with others of their age. Here they learn of nature’s abundance, feel her restoring powers, respond to her touch and in their primitive costume come back to full health, for even cold and snow will have no terror for the child of the Rollier treatment;

Digitized by
— 445 —

for he is already resistant to them. They will but render him more hardy and send him back to civilization not merely well but vigorous and rugged.

At the first glimpse of these children, naked except for a loin cloth, one is brought to a sharp realization that here is something-epochal in the battle of science against disease. Yet, although it seems revolutionary, it is so plainly in accord with nature that its success appears inevitable.

The school children of Buffalo gave inspiration to the efforts for suitable buildings for this treatment by their sale of Red Cross Christmas seals. As a result, $10,000 awaits the J. N. Adam Memorial Hospital Commission for equipment of the new buildings when these are completed. The city fathers, catching the inspiration of the movement for suitable provision for tuberculous children, voted a few months ago the necessary funds for such hospitals.

The Perrysburg hospital is beautifully located, forty miles from Buffalo. Altitude, atmosphere, and surroundings all help to make the spot ideal. It is 1,500 feet above sea level and is sheltered at the rear by dense and beautiful woods. From this height, one faces one of the most expansive views in the eastern states. In the distance, stretch Lake Erie and the Canadian shore; and on a clear day, through binoculars, the spray of Niagara Falls may be discovered, sixty or seventy miles away. With the exception of Switzerland, there is probably no place in all Europe so well suited for the Rollier treatment as this.

The inauguration of this treatment at Buffalo’s hospital marks the satisfaction of one of the last needs of Buffalo’s equipment for treating tuberculosis, not only in adults but also in children who have never had their full chance. It also marks Buffalo once more as a real pioneer in the tuberculosis work of America. Buffalo is the first city in America to undertake this work in full accordance with Dr. Rollier’s principles.

“At last, the day is approaching when the fight against tuberculosis will begin with the child.” These are the words of the man in whom must well up a sense of triumph, of great work done, as he sees the reality of his dreams. From that early battle for a hospital for New York state (won when the institution was established at Ray Brook), to the present, Dr. John H. Pryor has been the man of imagination and vision who has guided the campaign of the city of Buffalo against tuberculosis. He has given and is still giving the best years of his life to this work. He has been the warrior who fights that men may live. He is the inspired crusader, who, at whatever cost to himself, is giving of himself for the lives of others. The consummation .of this work at Perrysburg is but another tribute to him.

Digitized by
IODINE IN FIRST AID.

The efficient value of the tincture of iodine (U. S. P.) in treating fresh open wounds needs to be emphasized. The apparent oversight of this remedy is common not only to the medical profession but also to the laity.

Numerous text books of minor surgery and manuals of first aid treatment are at the disposal of him who cares to be proficient in this art; but in none of them do we find sufficient space given to this preparation and the majority do not mention this special use of iodine.

Physical instructors in charge of athletic fields and scout masters who teach first aid to boys seem content to use a weak antiseptic wash when given a fresh cut to treat regardless of how much extraneous matter has entered the wound at the time of the accident. Probably the reason of this is because they are ignorant of the fact that tincture of iodine is such a safe and handy prophylactic agent, and also that the bacteria of ordinary sepsis, gas infection and tetanus (present in dirt) are not destroyed by the weak solutions generally used.

The therapeutic value of iodine in the treatment of sprains and contusions, injuries where the contour of the skin remains unbroken, is commonly known and therefore it is always contained in first aid kits.

The method of application is quick and certain. The wound after having been washed out with a solution of tincture of iodine, one teaspoonful to a pint of water, and the foreign matter wiped out, should be dried with gauze. Then the full strength tincture of iodine is applied with a medicine dropper or an applicator made of absorbent cotton wrapped around the end of a tooth pick and the bandage put on. Caution should be used in treating wounds in regions near the eye.

For subsequent dressings tincture of iodine may be used in the diluted form as above and the full strength at intervals of two or three days if healing is slow.

The main objection to iodine is the temporary acute burning pain which follows its application, but this is often absent or reduced to a minimum on account of the transient local numbness accompanying the injury. The distasteful yellowish brown acid stain may be objectionable to some but this, when not hidden by the bandage, may be removed by neutralization with aromatic spirits of ammonia.

In favor of its use is its active germicidal action, its comparative low cost and the fact that it is generally handy.

As clinical evidence I offer its use by myself for two seasons at the Massachusetts State Bath House at Nautasket Beach, where many of the wounds were contaminated with sand; at the Captain Adams Hospital, Chelsea, Massachusetts, where the patients were

Digitized by

Google
— 447 —

old men prone to infection; for fourteen months at the Public Athletic League out-door stations and gymnasia in Baltimore, where many of the abrasions were full of cinders from the running tracks. For this period extending over four years it has been the routine treatment of all fresh open wounds and as far as is within my knowledge of subsequent histories of the many cases, no serious infection has ever followed.

In consideration of this evidence, I feel free to present this tried article and highly recommend a more universal use of the tincture of iodine in first aid treatment.

Alfred W. Brown, M. D.

Medical Supervisor Public Athletic League, Baltimore, Maryland.

“RANDOLPH-MACON SYSTEM OF INTER-CLASS ATHLETIC EVENTS.

By ALICE H. BELDING, Lynchburg, Va.

At Randolph-Macon Woman’s College in Lynchburg, Va., on Saturday, May the second, 1914, an annual field day was held according to a new system of entry and scoring.

The basis for awarding points this year was with reference to a predetermined standard for each event. This was directly opposite to the former system of awarding points according to place, the standard being determined by the best one and barring out all competitors except the three or four best. Having set the standard which entitled every competitor reaching it to one point, a value in points for every inch, foot or 1-5 sec. (according to event) above that standard was assigned.

Each competitor was awarded in points exactly what she earned.

In order to run the meet as an inter-class affair, it was decided by a committee that each class should be able to enter in any one event, five members. The number of points, which the individuals of each team in each event scored, were then added together and divided by five:—the class failing to enter five, handicapping itself. The number of points acquired in this way represented the value of that class in that particular event. The sum of the values made in all events were then added together and the class awarded honors, according to the highest number of points.

The events, standards and values as they were tried for the first time are tabulated. They were arbitrarily set and many will be changed through the experience of this field meet.

Digitized by C-ooQle
X Unrecorded event.  EVENT		ADELPHI	BARNARD	BRYN-MAWR	UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA	
RUNNING HIGH JUMP		4 ft. Ma in.	4 It. 5 in.	c  £  T*	4 ft. 2% in	o  4 1
STANDING HIGH JUMP		3 ft. 2 in.		3 ft. 7 in.		
RUNNING BROAD JUMP		12 ft.		15 ft. 3 in.	14 ft. 1 in.	13
STANDING BROAD JUMP		8 ft.		7 ft. 9 Vin.	6 It. 1 in.	—
RUNNING HOP-STEP JUMP				31 ft. 1 in.		
BASE BALL THROW			190 ft.	161 ft 4 in.		
BASKET BALL THROW		X		76 ft. 6 in.	82 ft. 4 in.	
SHOT PUT			8 lbs.  31 ft.iy2in	8 lbs.  33 It. 1 in.	8 lbs.  34 ft. 2 in.	26
	50 vds.			QVa sec.	8 sec.	6
DASHES	60 yds.	X				
	75 vds.		9 sec.	8% sec.		
	80 yds.	X				
	100 yds.			12 sec.	15% sec.	
						
HURDLES—Height varies from 1%—3 feet			50 yds.	6o yds. ioo yds.	100 yds.	
RUNS		120 yds.			220 yds.	220  440
RELAYS		220 y.ls.  4 on team	300 yds.  4 on team	300 yds.  4 on ttam	300 yds.	
DISCUS THROW			68 ft.			
HURL BALL				X		
JAVELIN THROW				X		—
FENCE VAULT						
POLE VAULT						
WALKING RACE					X	

Chart Showing The Records in

Digitized by (^.ooQle
D

(Q'


— 450 —

	EVENT	STANDARD	ADDITIONAL VALUE
I.	Running High Jump		.. 3 ft. 3 in. . .		I in.—1 point
2.	Standing Broad Jump. . . .	..6 ft.		1 in.—i point
3-	Running Broad Jump. . . .	. . 10 ft. 6 in. . .		3 in.—i point
4-	Running Hop-Step-Jump.	... 20 ft.		3 in.—i point
5-	50yd. Dash		. . 8 2-5 sec. . ,	. ... 1-5 sec.—1 point
6.	75-yd. Dash		...13 sec. ..	, ... 1-5 sec.—1 point
7-	50-yd. Hurdle		. . 10 sec. . .	. ... 1-5 sec.—1 point
8.	8-lb. Shot Put		.. 18 ft.		3 in.—\ point
9-	Base Ball Throw		. 120 ft.		1 ft.—i point
10.	Basket Ball Throw		• 45 ft-		6 in.—J point
11.	Fence Vault		. . 3 ft. 3 in. . .		1 in.—1 point

For the records of various events in women’s colleges see the

accompanying chart. This system of contest has the following

points in its favor:

1.	By a fixed standard within the reach of many, more people will take part.

2.	No girl is barred from points because of a few who may do better.

3.	The rating of any class in any event is more accurately determined by the average ability of several rather than the exceptional ability of one or two.

4.	The individual honor of the best girl in any event is not diminished nor is her value to her team lessened, but the best girl is not honored to the detriment of the average.

5.	The individual combative element of person against person is lessened, allowing the pleasurable emotions of well doing to outweigh any feeling of beating or being beaten.

PASS BALL.*

By ROY B. HENDERSON, University of Texas, Austin

1.	The Field. Regulation foot-ball field.

2.	The Ball. Regulation foot-ball.

3.	Any number of players from nine to thirty on a side may

play.

4.	The length of halves are determined by the time available for the game. Not over twenty or twenty-five minutes. The time may be divided into quarters if desired.

5.	Scoring. Touchdown 5 points; safety (by opponents) 2 points.

* For a more complete description, we ask our readers to communicate with Mr. Henderson, care of Department of Physical Training, University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 451 —

6.	Kick Off. At the beginning of each half and after each touchdown the ball is kicked off from the kicking side's 40-yard line. Teams alternate on the kick off.

7.	No player shall advance more than five steps with the ball while it is in play.

8.	It is not necessary for the team on the offence to make so many yards in so many downs but they retain possession of the ball as long as possible.

9.	The team on the defense must not break through the line of scrimmage. If the quarterback on the offence fails to pass or kick the ball within five seconds it goes to the opponents.

10.	If the ball goes out of bounds it belongs to the opponents of the player who touched it last at the point where it left the field. In case the ball goes out of bounds behind the goal line it goes to the opponents of the player who touched it last on the 10-yard line.

11.	The quarter-back must pass or kick the ball. (He is not permitted to take his five steps until the ball has been played by someone else.)

12.	There shall be no tackling below the waist.

13.	There shall be no interference with a player who has not the ball.

14.	Penalty for all fouls is ten yards.

15.	All other plays not covered by these rules are decided according to foot-ball rules.

NORMAL COLLEGE N. A. G. U. INDIANAPOLIS

PROFICIENCY AIMS ON APPARATUS FOR WOMEN. (CONCLUDED.)

SEMESTER I.

SIDE

JUNIORS.

Knee jump.

Flank, front, squat vaults.

LONG

Front vault from oblique run. Fencer's rear vault.

HORSE.

SENIORS.

Flank vaults and turns.

Front vaults and turns. Squat-vault forward, sideward. Wolf vault.

HORSE.

Fencer's rear vault with J4 and V2 turns.

Fencer's flank vault with JA turn.

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 452 —

PARALLEL BAR.

Rear vault from standing and From swinging: Front and rear swinging.	vaults	with	and	Y*	turns.

Flank vault from swinging.	Front	vault	over	side	parallel

bar.

HORIZONTAL LADDER.

Swing - traveling (side and cross hang.)

Half-turn traveling forward with swinging.

Jump to bent squat-hang (lower slowly.)

Traveling in the double squat-hang.

Continuous turn-traveling forward and backward on beams, on rounds, (swinging.)

Raise legs to balance-hang; lower legs and bend arms.

RINGS.

Inverted hangs:

1.	Knees and hips bent (inverted squat-hang.)

2.	Hips bent, legs straight (inverted balance-hang.)

3.	Body straight (straight inverted hang.)

Pendulum swing with turns in center of swings (forward and backward.

Whole turns at both ends of pendulum swing.

Jumping to bent arm hang center of forward swing. (Jump off at end of backward and also forward swing.)

Jump to bent hang in center of backward swing; then pull up at end of forward pendulum swing; same on backward swing.

Nest-hang on opposite hand and foot.

POLES AND ROPES.

Pendulum vault.	Pendulum swing.

Climbing with over- and fol- Climbing. (Three kinds of low-grasp.	grasps.)

CIRCLE SWING Running in circle and circleswing vault. (Three steps.)

Circling with whole turn inward and outward.

(giant-stride.)

Circle-swing of both legs while circling forward; sideward; while circling forward with whole turns outward and inward. With the two steps and the double touch-off.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 453 —

SEMESTER II.

SIDE HORSE.

JUNIORS.	SENIORS.

Knee jump with turns.	Squat-vault backward.

Flank vault with turns.	Thief-vault.

Rear-vault.

LONG HORSE.

Fencer’s flank vault.	Fencer’s	front	vault.

PARALLEL BAR.

Rear vault from standing and Rear vault with J4 and turn swinging with 34 turn.	from seat.

Rear vault from outer cross- Front vault from seat (outer seat.	cross-seat.)

Front vault from swing.

HORIZONTAL LADDER.

Half-turn traveling backward Travel in bent-hang, with swinging.	Continuous turn traveling for-

Continuous turn-traveling for- ward and	backward (swing)

ward with swinging.	from	span	to	span	grips	on	beams

Pull up to bent squat-hang and rounds.

(lower slowly.)

RINGS.

Nest-hang on two rings; one Half turn and return at both ring.	ends of pendulum swing.

Pendulum swing with turns Nest-hang (one ring); whole at end of each forward swing; turns at end of forward and back-also backward swing.	ward swing.

Nest-hang (two rings) in pendulum swing.

Nest-hang on opposite hand and foot.

Turn-over into inverted balance-hang from the bent squat-hang.

POLES AND ROPES.

Climbing with double grasp. Climb-traveling and turn-climbing.

CIRCLE SWING (GIANT-STRIDE.)

Double leg-swing forward and Circle-swing of both legs while backward with 2 step touch-off circling backward; also turns, while circling forward.

Digitized by Google
— 454 —

SANE EUGENICS.

By MAXIMILIAN P. E. GROSZMANN, Ph. D., Plainfield, N. J.

The right of each child to be well-born has become generally recognized. In the polite forms of some of the old countries, a person is even addressed in such a manner that “well-born” almost assumes the function of a title. In Germany you had better be sure to address your letters to “Euer-Wohlgeboren” or “Euer-Hochwohlge-boren” if you wish to be in good form. Of course, these are social distinctions and refer to the social standing of the family from which a person has sprung. The modern science, if it can so be called, of eugenics, tends to make “well-born” a matter of physical and mental health. A well-born child is one who is physically and mentally sound, and is not handicapped by hereditary or congenital burdens.

In connection with the study of eugenics, a number of statements and suggestions have been made which are far-reaching, but which bear further scrutiny. It has been strongly advocated that marriages should be so regulated that the contracting parties must show a clean bill of health before they should be allowed to marry. It has been proposed that children and young people should be well educated and instructed in sex hygiene, and in matters pertaining to the production of off-spring. It has been claimed that the reproduction of human stock should be regulated somewhat in the same way as breeders of animal stock and of plants regulate their reproduction. It has been demanded that mere passion and instinct should be weeded out, and that men and women should be taught to enter into the holy state of matrimony with open eyes and clear heads—perhaps with cool hearts. It has been maintained that it is unwise to allow the defective members of society to reproduce their kind and advocate laws which would legalize the prevention of defective reproduction by sterilizing criminals and feebleminded persons.

Like all new and startling theories this thought of eugenics has won a large number of followers in a relatively short time. There has even been held an International Eugenics Congress in London a short while ago, the proceedings of which have been widely published. And some of the advocates of this theory have held forth at the recent International Congress on Hygiene and Demography in Washington. However, it would seem necessary to advise caution, and to suggest that the specious arguments so far presented should be further investigated before they can be accepted in full.

Speaking first of the instruction of children and lessons in sex hygiene, I may be permitted to say that sex hygiene is not so important a matter as it seems. I fully agree with those who claim that ignorance and innocence are not identical and that it is not well to keep our children in the dark as to sex matters and the origin

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 455 —

of their own life. I have always been bitterly opposed to the time-honored method of telling- children silly stories and of avoiding the issue. There is a great deal of false modesty on the part of parents and people in general, and I fully agree with the sentiment that children should grow up in knowledge rather than in ignorance. I have often enough expressed this view in public, and have followed it in my own practice.

But it is equally wrong to think that he or she who knows, is by virtue of this knowledge better qualified to be virtuous than those who do not know. Virtue is a spiritual element, an emotional attitude, and it requires a different kind of education than mere training in sex hygiene. This is why education in sex matters must be very discreetly imparted, and why it has so many personal elements: why it depends so much upon temperament, occasion and condition that it cannot be handled like an ordinary school subject. I admit that school influences must co-operate in this spiritual education; and that wise teachers will be the best helpers of the parents in this task, but the foundation of moral education such as will have its bearing upon the sexual life of children must be laid in the home. I have rarely seen a saner statement than the one which Dr. C. B. Bardeen, Dean of the Medical School of the University of Wisconsin made to the editor of the School Bulletin, and from which I quote these sentences:

“I remember when in Baltimore being much impressed with the truth of a remark made by Judge Morris, who had had to preside at a trial in which much testimony concerning the sex organs and their physiology had to be introduced. He said the trial made him quite uncomfortable; that healthy people did not think much about the sex organs and he in all his life had not given them as much thought as during the trial and hoped he would not have to again. ’Curiosity, passion and idleness are the only features, outside of medicine, that call attention to the sex glands; and of these the first two are the essential, the third being merely a contributing factor. Public talks to children will be pretty certain to arouse curiosity. They certainly will not subdue passion. In so far as curiosity concerning sex matters is spontaneous and natural, it may be best turned in legitimate directions by quiet private talks with pure-minded friends. Teachers who can arouse this kind of feeling of friendship should be the only ones to talk over sex with young children and young people and then only when the latter seek advice. On the other hand every effort should be made to suppress all of the many features that arouse an unnatural and unhealthy interest in sex. So far as passion is concerned it can be controlled only by the habit of self-control and the right kind of personal ambition, and these can best be cultivated in the young without reference to the physiology of sex.”

Digitized by
— 456 —

Again as to regulating marriages, it is a well known fact that the more restrictions are cast around the contracting of marriage the stronger will be the tendency of illegitimate intercourse and the production of illegitimate children. Passion defies law. And passion which is after all God given, is sometimes wiser than law. Of course, I do not mean the mere low animal passion of sex gratification; but I mean that highest of all human passion, the theme of the songs of all human poets, and the dreams of all philosophers; LOVE. How elemental this passion is, how it is the mainspring of all human actions and of all human progress, even the gentle German poet, Schiller, has recognized when he sany

Love defies mere cold reasoning, and it is a question whether the instinct of love does not more often lead along the right path than the little bit of fragmentary reason which men can boast of Reason is a spark of the divine fire true enough. But it is a very little spark as compared with God's wisdom which has implanted in the human heart those three great things, Faith, Hope and Love, which cannot be defined in human, terms. They are reverberations of the eternal in the human soul. After all has been said about the workaday virtue of the average philistine, it is an incon-travertible fact that among the so-called illegitimate children there is an enormously large percentage of leading minds and talents. For law is a feeble substitute for right motive. It may be well to make at least an effort, unsuccessful as it may often be, to prevent the mating of a pure girl with a profligate or of persons of whom we could definitely state that they would transmit hereditary burdens to their offspring. But law will always be a feeble instrument in bringing about the proper matings. If the study of eugenics serves to bring about a new consciousness of the responsibility which those incur who are about to give life to a new generation; if it will stir up public conscience in the matter of purity and child welfare; if it will educate the parents so that their sins will not be visited upon their children in the third and fourth generation; if it will do all that it deserves our highest sympathy and respect. But do not let us draw too hasty conclusions from imperfect premises, and do not let us endeavor to embody these hasty conclusions too readily in legal forms which lack elasticity and which may defeat their own ends.

For our knowledge of facts in the matters of heredity and the transmission of characteristics is very incomplete as yet and may perhaps always remain incomplete. The example taken from the

“So lange, bis den Bau der Welt Philosophie zusammenhalt,

Erhalt sie ihr Getriebe

Durch Hunger und durch Liebe.”
— 457 —

breeding of animals and plants is not conclusive. Even if we were able at the present time to determine definitely what new kinds of animal or vegetable forms we wish to produce by cross breeding, we must not forget that the purpose of such productions is purely utilitarian from the point of view of man who needs food and service. We are mainly concerned in certain physical qualities which we wish to produce in these animals and plants so that they may serve this utilitarian purpose. Intelligence, emotional and ethical causes are not considered. It is true efforts have been made to establish the family tree of a number of inmates of public institutions, and to show that there is a very vicious heredity in some of these families. Even taking the charts thus prepared at their face value, we may have to admit that they are rarely complete and therefore not absolutely conclusive, and in the worst of these families there has been a sprinkling of perfectly normal individuals. It is well worth while to ponder over what Sir Ray Lankester has said in a signed article in the Daily Telegraph of London commenting on the recent Congress of Eugenics, and in which he claimed that a process of exterminating the so-called undesirables might at the same time destroy important sources of genius and varied ability in the race so purified. “Man/’ says Sir Ray, “has throughout all history set himself to oppose the laws of Natural Selection and the Survival of the fittest. He has prevented the destruction of his less capable offspring, and he has resisted the selection of a strictly limited number precisely fitted to the natural conditions of the struggle for life and to take the place of the elders who vacate by death. This he has succeeded in doing by the aid of his ever-growing intelligence. He arranges new conditions or combinations in place of those once offered by nature. He discovers new foods, new protections, new powers. He rears the weak and sickly; he even enables them to propagate and to transmit their weaknesses, their defects of body and brain, to new generations.”

How is it, then, that mankind has not already become everywhere a diseased, broken down, degenerate race? What will become of man in the future? Sir Ray goes over the evidence as to selective breeding in domesticated animals and he asserts that the variations thus produced are apparently accidental and certainly never can be predicted. “It would indeed be a triumph of eugenics,” he says, “if the results of cross-breeding or selective breeding could be accurately foretold. But at the present,” he goes on to say, “we have no knowledge of how to produce desirable variations even in domestic animals; we have to wait upon chance or accident—that is to say, the action of causes of which we are ignorant. Darwin showed that certain conditions—such as abrupt change of food, the climate, the other surroundings of an animal or a plant—often result in marked variability in its offspring. Who would dare to se-

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 458 —

lect for beauty? It might mean an increase of stupidity. Who would venture to emphasize intellect or good digestion? Either might mean the accompaniment of some hideous defect. Man certainly could not with his present knowledge, undertake with any confidence the apportionment of mental and bodily qualities to future generations. The ‘Seething pot' of humanity is a strange and mysterious thing as it is. Until we know more we dare not undertake the flavoring of the contents.”

How little we are justified to make off-hand assertions in regard to the effect of physical and neural diseases upon the status or social efficiency of an individual is evident from a study of genius’s debt to disease. Genius has often been compared with insanity, and sometimes has often been called closely related to feeble-mindedness and mental defect. Nevertheless, if all mankind were of the. average animal and neural health so vigorously advocated by some students of eugenics, we would possibly be without some of those wonderful minds who have given to the world the loftiest thoughts, the finest art and the highest emotional stimulus. Dr. Chas. B. Reed comes with the theory that the world is indebted for many of its literary masterpieces to the presence of disease-produced poisons in the author’s blood. “We are not prepared at present to insist that toxins are essential to achievement, nor that an obscure toxin will convert mediocrity into genius, but rather to suggest that the presence of such a substance in the circulation may, and does in many instances, accelerate and intensify the expression of existent intellectual tendencies,” writes Dr. Reed in the July Forum (New York). His argument is that many an author has attained eminence “not in spite of a serious toxemia, but possibly on account of it”—the poison acting as a powerful stimulant to the brain and nervous system. In support of this theory he cites the instances of Macaulay, Gibbon, Lytton, Landor, Milton, Defoe, Heine, J. Addington Symonds, Stevenson, and many others. It may be instructive to some of us to read his article. But it has been shown long ago that the human race would hardly be what it is at present if it had not been for its neurotics. A highly sensitive nervous organism has certainly its drawbacks for the individual and for his immediate family, but the world at large is the gainer by individual unhappiness and by the sacrifice of individual eugenics.

We may even go a step farther and say that even if the statistics which have been collected by the students of eugenics were absolutely correct and complete, they would simply state average conditions. For example, the attempt has been made to show that the children of very young parents as well as of old parents are more or less defective, and that only the children born of parents about 20 or 25 and below 41 or so, have really stable health and sound mental qualities. This may or may not be true if asserted of the mass;

Digitized by
— 459 —

but there are certainly a great many individual exceptions, and for their sake the average figures must not be taken as a basis for legal provisions. Notable persons of advanced age have become the parents of fine healthy children, and the old German proverb, “Jung gefreit hat Niemand gereut,” expresses the experiences of centuries. It is mainly the result of modern economic pressure that people hesitate to marry until a later age.

If we consider these facts, we shall become more wary than we would be otherwise in regard to the prevention of what has been called the reproduction of the unfit. We may, and certainly are justified, to relegate the feeble-minded and abnormal, including the criminal, into institutions under custodial care, so that they would be out of harm’s way, and not be a danger to society. In these instances, care may be taken that the two sexes do not intermingle to the danger point. To make doubly sure, we may sterilize the low grade imbeciles and the low grade criminals. If a very clear history of hereditary defect is established, we may even apply such surgical means to some higher grade abnormals. Such measures, however, should be under the direction of a very competent board of experts, who should have similar power to the Commission in Lunacy established in most states. The decision of such a board will be carefully made, and every evidence will be weighed in the balance. For we have as yet no absolutely reliable tests for the classification of mental and moral defects. Many a confirmed criminal is the victim of circumstances, and might have been a power for good if his special case had been understood while he was a child; we know of thieves who have stolen and defrauded for years for the sake of giving to charity, and many a mentally defective may have lost his intellectual powers through accident or disease, such as may not prevent him from having normal offspring. In some instances, children even of defective parents may revert to the ancestral normal type. In other instances we are dealing with individuals representing different stages of racial development. In our rapid advance to higher levels of culture, many have not been able to keep pace and have fallen behind, so that they are lost in the race, although they are normal in their way and may beget children perfectly capable of entering into competition with more modern types of men. Much study is as yet needed to establish the status of each individual fully.

That the study of eugenics is a vital one I am far from denying. Even with its excrescences, modern eugenics has done much towards stirring up schools, educators, medical men, social workers and the general public. It oftentimes requires an over statement of facts to get a hearing which would be denied a moderate and conservative statement. The reading public is used to headlines and some of our work of reform has to be begun with a headline method, but the

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 460 —

real scientific work can and must be done in such a manner. It requires patience, minute and painful investigations, leading towards the cautious formulation of laws and practical suggestions which will be the expression of such laws.

To have a sane study of eugenics, we must first of all have a national system of vital statistics. A careful recording of births and deaths and their accompanying circumstances should be kept, including as much of the parental history as possible. Dr. Cressy

L.	Wilbur, Chief Statistician of the U. S. Bureau of the Census, deserves credit for his vigorous activity in establishing standard forms for such registration, under the authority of the Dept, of Commerce and Labor. This registration should not be local merely but should be under the direction of the State and federal authorities, so that the family history of any individual may be followed up at any time. Without such careful registration it would seem impossible to evolve reliable family trees and determine hereditary conditions. Charts prepared without this backkground registration can never be complete and must depend a great deal upon hearsay and guess-work. Work of this kind may be greatly helped if the physicians in working up a case of disease brought to their notice would make it a point not only to establish to the best of their opportunity the anamnesis and etiology of each case, but would consider carefully hereditary and congenital causes in connection with the data furnished by these vital statistics, which should be made easily accessible. Professional discretion will of course prevent them from making the facts thus discovered public; but it seems justifiable to expect their co-operation if necessary by legal provisions in those cases of grave defect where the state and the COMMUNITY have a deep interest in the determining influences of the life conditions of an individual. The commission, of which I have made mention before, should have full power to obtain all the information on the case in question which could be had from anywhere.

Another step which is required will be the development of proper methods of testing, which would include physiological function as well as mental capacity and aptitude. The co-operation of the medical fraternity, with the pedagog and the psychologist is necessary to establish the proper criteria of such investigations. Methods of testing like the Binet scale of intelligence and also my own schedule of individual child study are as yet only tentative. They may form a basis of further study and point the way; but they require considerable testing out, modification and improvement before they can be conclusive in their findings.

And then, of course, it is imperative to be sure as to what we are talking about when we speak about defectives, feeble-minded, criminals, or when we try to establish a standard of normal health and growth mentally and physically. We have as yet no general

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 461 —

accepted classification of types and no common terminology. It has been my privilege to suggest one in which I have endeavored to show the perspective of the problem. But nobody is keener alive to the imperfections of this tentative scheme of classification than the author himself.

Out of such careful study and research we may gradually evolve leading principles which will help us to establish a real sane science of eugenics.

Meanwhile, we may make the appeal to parents that they should understand that parenthood is a responsible function, and a privilege which must not be too lightly assumed. We must make them aware that they are themselves mostly to be blamed for their disappointments in their children. They must be made to feel that their duty is not only to themselves, yea not even to their children alone, but to the community and to society of which these children are to be members and which these children are supposed to develop along the line of rational human progress; that their duty is towards God who has given them the blessing of love and of offspring and who has thus given them a sacred trust which is nobler and weightier than the gratification of their individual desire, passion or ambition.

And let it be this further appeal to the community: eugenics is not merely a matter of heredity, but also of environment. Hereditary and congenital conditions are often determined by the environment in which the parents live and have their being. If we can clean up our cities and remove the physical and moral filth from them; if we may have cleaner hearts and cleaner politics; if we may have honesty and mercy in business and in our personal dealings with our fellow-men; if we may remove that soul-killing economic pressure which results in class hatred and social strife; if we may have that subtle and purifying influence of a healthy environment, and the inspiration of great ideals permeating such an environment; then the time will come when our children will be wellborn in the best sense of the word; well-born and well living; heirs to a past which is great and noble, and makers of a better mankind which rises to ever higher levels of civilization and righteousness.

THE PLAYGROUND’S RELATION TO INTELLECTUAL, ESTHETIC, AND MORAL GROWTH.

By G. WELLINGTON, Lawrenceville, N J.

In this necessarily brief paper the author attempts to put before the reader those factors which make the playground a necessity towards educational development to the child in the modern city.

The value of the playground does not lie alone, as so many seem to think, in keeping the child off the street, under watchful eye, and

Digitized by C.ooQLe
462 —

thus protecting property owners from loss, but there is a decided educational influence exerted on the child in a properly organized playground. No one now questions that play educates. The spontaneous play of children can readily be referred to the instincts which prompt them. Through play the child becomes trained in the control and intelligent use of the motor and sensory apparatus of the body, necessary alike for the preservation of the individual and of the race.”

Tyler says in Growth and Education: “Muscular exercise and fresh air are absolutely necessary to the child to promote growth and development of all the vital organs, the brain included.” “The basis of education is and must be physical.”

Playground and Intellectual Grozvth. To appreciate the fact that play has a large influence on intellectual growth it must be remembered that there is a mutual relation between intelligence and movement. The phenomena of muscular and mental fatigue are in-dentical, the psychic functions cannot be seperated from the motor. It has been shown that in the development of the race the nervous system has advanced as the muscular system has advanced, and the same apparently holds true of the individual. We can thus see that activities of the playground, which all more or less tend to better physical development, build up the same paths in the body upon which the intellect is built.

Play assists intellectual growth through the education of the senses. It trains in alertness. The boy who plays baseball is training his mind to being wide-awake, keen, able to judge, control, and observe. Games of counting, of puzzles, riddles, guess games, etc., stimulate imagination, develop memory and at the same time produce less physical and mental fatigue than if the same time were spent in the school room in conscious effort to accomplish the same end. Constructive plays as modeling in clay, sand pile, basketry, and cutting pictures, are aiding intellectual growth as well as keeping the child out-of-doors and under proper environment. Other types of playground work as nature plays, field walks, gardens, watching birds, drawing plays as tracing pictures, painting, music plays as singing, story telling, etc., toward developing the imagination, powers of observation, memory and general intellectual growth of the child.

Playground and Esthetic Grozvth. The esthetic education of the child can be stimulated through the playground, properly conducted, in many ways, chief of which are through appearance of the grounds and personal appearance of the director and his assistants. The child will imitate to a large degree and with little suggestion will improve his own appearance. Habits will be formed for good unconsciously. The sense for beauty may be cultivated indirectly and also unconsciously in the child by work in carpentry basket

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 463 —

making1, kite, boat, etc., building. Trips in the woods and fields, studies made of birds, flowers, stones, insects, etc. In the very administration of the playground, the orderliness and regulating of which will teach the child to appreciate things well done and systematically done.

Moral jGrowth. In the revival of play that is sweeping over the country there is the danger of erecting a false pleasure-seeking ideal of life. Behind this there is the important moral factor contained in play and which when properly directed is of greatest benefit in producing clean, strong American citizens of our children.

What the body is after is manliness. He gets this through the self-confidence obtained in competition and in the gang. It develops the spirit of citizenship. Organization in team play, as in baseball, affords scope for development of the prowess of skill, judgment, and self-control. It is a training in social consciousness which brings the boy into a realization that he is a part of the social unit.

Under present day conditions it is evident that when boy nature is subjected to city conditions we must either provide proper outlet and guidance for the boy's play instinct or be guilty of forcing him into the position of a law breaker and a nuisance.

From a practical standpoint it might be said that the playground or organized play is a convenient substitute for misconduct. This may be true, but it goes further and affords a means of educating the child to a proper relationship, morally and otherwise, to both the playground and his environment outside the playground.

How can we realize the moral value of play easier than by analizing briefly the main points brought out in the game of baseball, which is the typical American team game. A team consists of nine men. One acts as captain or manager and in general is business agent, arranges for all games and speaks for his team in cases of dispute. An older person, preferably the director of the playground, should act as advisor and the neglect of this usually results in forfeiture of the ethical value. The presence of the director guarantees fair play for all, prevents fights, swearing, etc., and inspires each to do his best. Uniforms are not to be despised for they produce the sense of loyalty to the grounds or team and a feeling of responsibility in keeping with that attitude.

Because of loyalty the boy often takes a position in right field where if he had no team spirit he would choose to be pitcher. More, he even encourages the boy who takes his place, unconsciously losing personal rivalry, forgetting utterly any mean individual comparisons in what he has enthusiastically accepted as the greater common good.

He goes to bat at a critical moment. The score is close. He would like to increase his batting average as much as anyone. For the sake of the team his chief concern must be to advance the runner. He makes a bunt or a sacrifice hit with the certainty of being put

Digitized by U-ooQle
— 464-

OUt at first but in doing so has advanced his fellow one base and contributed to the team's success. It is this self-denying type of loyalty which we want in our American democracy and it begins in just such ways as the boy’s sacrifice to his team.

Judge Ben B. Lindsey has demonstrated to a remarkable degree this use of loyalty in the reformation of boy criminals. In eight years out of 507 cases of boys put upon their honor there were but 5 failures.

The relations of one team-mate to another, the fighting spirit of playing a game to a finish, the pat on the back after a good hit, the impulsive embrace, the very tears shed after a game is lost—all is both social and moral experience of no small value.

Games also are a means of developing the boy’s sense of justice and fair play. Appreciation of successful opponents and consideration for the vanquished can be made the true spirit of manly sport under proper leadership.

A large part of morality consists in bringing the body into habitual obedience to the will. The moral value of play in this respect arises from the constant muscular response to volition. Delay, halfhearted response, inattention, carelessness, and every sluggish performance of the order of the will disqualifies the player. He must be alert, attentive, keen, and quick in will power to make a good player. The physical efficiency obtained in athletie games has its reaction upon every mental condition. Boys with unreasonable diffidence, lack of self-confidence, self-assertion can be brought to a realization of themselves through games in a way nothing else would so effectively do.

Dr. G. J. Fisher says : :An unfortunately large number of our population haven’t the physical basis of being good.” The value of play as a means of teaching discipline must not be overlooked. To “keep within the rules” is forming a habit which is desirable.

The saving power of organized play, in the prevention and cure from sex conditions, cannot be overestimated. The diversion of strenuous play and the consequent use of energy is everywhere recognized as an indispensable moral prophylactic. Play and the exhilaration given to the body derived from the muscular exercise takes the place of the nervous excitement sought by the cigarette smoker but without the injurious effects. It substitutes clean living boys with healthy bodies and minds for the immoral cigarette smok-ink boy of the street.

Play, rightly directed, always has these results. The relation of the play-time and of the playground to intellectual, esthetic, moral growth, and later to efficiency, begins to dawn upon our civic leaders.

Digitized by v.ooQle
— 465 —

VENTILATION.*

Fallacies, Facts; Experiments, Experience.

Bp JOHN B. TODD, M. D., Syracuse, N. Y.

The study of prevention of disease resolves itself into a study of the conditions existing in the locality under investigation. The problem of obtaining pure water is universal. In our rigorous northern climate the greatest problem, after pure water, is to provide health conditions in the places occupied by people during the indoor months of the year. During the fresh air months the incidence of measles, scarlet fever, bronchial and pulmonary troubles gradually declines, only to increase in frequency with the shut in months, until in March and April the diseases occur with greatest frequency.

Thus it is that the subject of ventilation is receiving much attention at the present time, and as the actual application of means to effect the ventilation of rooms is largely dependent upon the theoretical conception of the object to be obtained, a brief discussion of current theories will not be out of place.

The principal factor of bad ventilation, according to the school of Fliigge and his followers, is a disturbance of the heat regulation function of the body. A temperature of 8cy° F. with moderate humidity, or of 70° F. with high humidity, interferes with heat elimination and produces “depression, headache, dizziness, and other symptoms of badly ventilated rooms.”

Carbon dioxide has no ill effect, neither have the odors of crowded rooms, nor has re-breathed air produced perceptible injurious effect ; the breathing of sewer gas is harmless; air borne germs of disease are a negligible factor. In one of the experiments reported by Hill, he and several others were shut up in a small chamber. The thermometer stood at 87° F. after forty-four minutes and the humidity at 83 per cent.; CO2 5.1 per cent.; O 15.26 per cent. “The discomfort was great; all were wet with sweat and the skin of all was flushed.” The occupants gradually ceased talking and laughing. When the air in the chamber was agitated by electric fans, the relief was immediate and very great, although the temperature had risen. The discomfort returned when the fans were stopped, and the occupants cried out for fans. “No headache or aftereffects followed this type of experiment, which has been repeated five times.” Kindly bear in mind that the only effect reported in this experiment is described as follows: “The discomfort was great,” with no after effects.

This and similar experiments by others have furnished the basis for the assertion that “all the ill effects observed in crowded rooms

* Read before the .Syracuse Academy of Medicine, January 6, 1914. Copyright, 1914, by A. R. Elliott Publishing Company.

Reprinted from the New York Medical Journal for April 18, 1914.

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 466 —

seem to depend on stagnation, high temperature, and moisture content of the air; in a word, on those factors that produce a disturbance of the normal heat regulation of the body.”

Buried in the pages of the American Labor Legislation Review is a report of the examination of 1,413 workers in cellar bakeries and in some of the best tailor shops in New York city. The report is not even referred to, so far as I have observed, in any discussion of the ventilation problem, but it is a chapter from life and is worthy of careful study and attention, as it gives some real information, incomplete as it is.

The nativity and personnel of the bakers and tailors differed very little. The tailors’ hours of labor were slightly less; the bakers worked niehts. Both worked in dusty air. A comparatively small number of the bakers near the ovens worked in a temperature rather high. The CO2 did not differ very much in either place, ranging from six to twenty-five per 10,000. The cloak shops were in exceptionally good sanitary condition, not overcrowded, ventilated by ordinary windows with no other fresh air inlet. The bakeries were underground with no ventilation, except through small windows or gratings, “but owing to the heated ovens the change of air was probably not less than in the tailor shops.”

BAKERS	TAILORS

	No.	Per cent.	No.	Per cent.
Total examined..			100	613	100
Free from disease		  Had the following diseases:		347	43.4	115	18.8
Anemia 			22.9	158	25.8
Asthma 	  Bronchitis—		2.6	9	1.5
Acute 			 177	22.1	19	3.1
Chronic 				36	5.9
Laryngitis 				5	0.8
Pleurisy 	  Tuberculosis—	. . 9	.03	4	0-7
Positive 			2.4	4	0.7
Suspected 				7	1.2
Diseases of the digestive system			 76	9.5	186	30.3

Of the bakers, 27.4 per cent, had disease of the respiratory organs and of the tailors 14.9 per cent, had the same trouble. Out of the total number of persons two-thirds were diseased.

Price expresses clearly a correct appreciation of the problem. He says: “It is not difficult to study the extreme variations of pressure, temperature, and humidity of the air upon the health of workers in factories.” He mentions accidental air impurities, gases, fumes, etc., and states that the lesions so produced are distinct and certain. “Not so,” he states, “with the effect of ordinary impurities, which are understood by the term, confined air. The effects of confined air are less distinct, more difficult to prove, less direct, and more insidious, although not less deadly. There is no doubt that

Digitized by
— 467 —

the higher rate of mortality among indoor workers is due to the confined air of shops and factories.” Continuing the discussion of the subject, he states:

Confined air does not produce distinct pathological lesions, nor does it directly cause any diseased conditions; and therefore it is difficult to prove. The best method of studying the effects of confined air upon the workers is to study the comparative morbidity rates of workers in different occupations who habitually breathe stale air in the course of their several employments. Lassitude, fatigue, headaches, anorexia, anemia, indigestion, defective oxygenation, lack of vital resistance, and a predisposition to catarrhal affections of the air passages, are the inevitable results of a chronic intoxication with vitiated air.

Thus it is plainly seen in the discussion of the theories of ventilation, that the substitution of the factors which produce the sensation of depression or discomfort which can be relieved by a fan or a drink of whiskey, for the factors which produce a chronic intoxication by vitiated air results in the diseased conditions given by Price, and those sanitarians who follow Fliigge and his pupils, have persistently befuddled the public. It would seem almost that they have been deliberately preparing the groundwork of public opinion for the patent air machines; as stated by an editorial writer in the Lancet:

There seems to have been an impression that a fan has something to do with ventilation, when, instead of being held in a lady’s hand, it is attached to an electric wire. On shore, as well as at sea, an electric fan is sometimes placed on the ceiling, of a restaurant or of a railway dining car, and when it whirls around, it produces a sensation of coolness. But what has this to do with ventilation? Ventilation does not consist of churning up the air. Fresh air is not manufactured on the same principle as fresh butter, nor does ventilation consist in making a draft.

The ideal ventilation consists of the introduction into, and the extraction of air from an inhabited place, house, assembly hall, theatre, railway carriage, saloon or cabin, in such a manner as to be imperceptible to the persons breathing that air.

The sensations of the body are unpleasant sensations or sensa-sions producing discomfort, indifferent sensations, and pleasant sensations. In the experiments of Hill cited, the experimenters were conscious of the sensation of discomfort, with no after-effects. The effects produced by bad ventilation are in an entirely different category from those of the sensations, namely, the category of disease. As reported by Price, we find asthma, anemia, bronchitis, laryngitis, pleurisy, tuberculosis, and diseases of the digestive system. Discomfort with no after-effects is unpleasant, but diseases like pleurisy and tuberculosis are bad. If any one thinks that the unpleasant is the same as the bad, or that the pleasant is the same as the good, let him

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 468 —

first refute Plato before he tells us that the ill effect of bad ventilation is discomfort with no after-effects.

The use of experiments to establish a contention has become almost an obsession at the present time. Any assertion made in a plausible, vigorous manner with reference to numerous experiments which are alleged to establish the truth of the contention, seems to be readily and eagerly accepted by the public, who rely on the authority of the person making the statement backed by the experiments.

An experiment is an attempt to gain knowledge or information under conditions determined by the experimenter. Our knowledge is largely obtained from experience. We invent laboratory experiments, hoping to extend an experience, and, as knowledge comes from experience, our knowledge of life conditions in health and disease is obtained in this way. But the conditions of the experiment are determined by the experimenter, and are generally limited, while in life the conditions that are to result in health or disease are many if not infinite, so that the result is pseudoknowledge which has no relation to wisdom. We do not always remember that the use of experiments to establish a contention is really reasoning by one form of analogy and is subject to all the limitations and conditions of that form of reasoning. An analogy is of value only to the extent that the parts of the analogue are the same as the parts in the contention to be established.

In the experiment of Hill the following limitations exist:

1.	The number of persons in the experiment were too few.

2.	Nothing of their age, physical condition, blood count, or pressure, before or after, is given.

3.	The duration of the experiment was limited to a short time. It should extend eight or ten hours a day for six months or a year, with record of daily observations of the air conditions.

4.	All degrees of temperature and humidity are excluded, except as stated: “78° F. after forty-four minutes and wet at 83° F.” ( ? per cent.)

An experiment of a few hours’ duration upon a few people is of no value in establishing a basis to explain the ill effect of bad ventilation, because the analogy of the conditions in life is lacking. As Richard’s philosophy states: “Superficial observation of the complex prenomena of life can do but little; patient study of the fundamental laws of the universe can alone help to unravel the interwoven threads. Health, well being, and a profound philosophic outlook are alike dependent upon the result.” The public has been misled by persistent assertions based on false analogy, and befuddled by bad logic. Whether the exploiters have consciously or unconsciously assumed this position may be left for their future writings to explain.

The factors of bad ventilation are many. These are problems for the physiological chemist who is only at the threshold of his
•—469 —

science, and to whom we are looking for the next great advance in the science and art of medicine and prevention of disease. “Each of the sciences works within its own region and colligates its details in the light of its own hypothesis; .	.	. and ever and anon, as

some isolated thinker passes home his own hypothesis, he finds his thoughts beating on the limits of his science, and suggesting some wider hypothesis. The walls that separate the sciences are thin, and at times the light penetrates from one to the other.”

Clinician and internist will pass final judgment upon theories and practice of ventilation, and the theory and practice must be as broad and inclusive as the lives of the people. Does your theory and system produce healthy men, women, and children in home, office, factorv. school, or shop?

We will admit that they do not have “depression, headache, or dizziness,” but neither do they have the ruddy glow of health, and cases of tuberculosis develop from their midst, together with anemia and its long train of disasters to health and happiness.

We will grant the excessive amounts of carbon dioxide in the experiments produced no apparent ill effects; we also know a person who has not bathed in years, and is apparently in good health. Clinicians are not recommending either practice as hygienic. It is true that all attempts to prove the existence of poison in expired air have failed, nothing but ammonia being found, but will the physiological chemist write the family tree of the ammonia in expired air to its mother substance, unstable proteid? One can find ammonia almost everywhere. It is an end product of proteid disintegration, but what of the intermediate bodies ? Who will contend that the re-breathing of air is conducive to the continued existence of good health ?

It is also stated that the odors and emanations of the body are harmless and any supposed ill effects are purely psychic. It is admitted that this is a true statement of the personal experience of the experimenters, and this evidence can be supplemented by corroborative statements of the owners of many halls, picture shows, and fertilizer factories, but who will contend that the defenses of the body against infections are maintained at a high level when the breathing air is loaded with foul smelling odors? We pass the odors on to the physiological chemist, and at the same time we advise our friends not to breathe such air. The human body may be divine, but, as Thoreau says, “there is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted.”

The subject needs clarifying. The word ventilation is an unfortunate word to use to define the idea, and most of the confusion upon the subject comes from this source. The effects, nausea, dizziness, etc., noted in the experiments of Fliigge and Hill, may have been due to heat block, but thermolysis is not ventilation. Even these symtoms in all essential points are experienced in mountain
— 470-

sickness, which Henderson believes to be due to an insufficient supply of oxygen, and that eminent physiologist states that “the subject needs investigating along new experimental lines rather than a rehearsal of old data.”

What we mean by ventilation is an adjunct to body metabolism, and is not obtained in a brief experiment of a few hours or days. Good ventilation is such condition of the air in which we live that the metabolism and functions of the bodv may obtain their optimum condition. Bad ventilation is that condition of the air in which we live which lowers the metabolism and functions of the body and its resistance to disease; clinically, anemia is generally present, the subject is pale, and both physical and mental vigor are lowered.

Attempts have been made to classify sanitarians. We have pseudosanitarians and yellow sanitarians, and these are also sanitarians who have not quite the courage of their theoretical convictions, for, notwithstanding their belief of the harmlessness of carbon dioxide, of bad odors, sewer gas, re-breathed air, or air borne germs, they are quite unanimous in recommending outdoor air conditions. An editorial article in the Journal A. M. A. for October n, 1913, states: “In point of fact, nothing can discredit the rational open air treatment.” Hobler states: “The most favorable conditions for maintaining blood pressure at normal are those present in the open air. To obtain such results indoors, such methods of ventilation should be employed as to approximate the condition of out of doors.” Hough says that after all, the final test is the experience of the occupants of the room.

(to be continued.)

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KEOGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Dr. C. Ward Crampton, in the Medical Record, New York, Aug. 22, 1914, nublishes the results of experiments made in classrooms in public schools that were oiled and others that were not oiled. He says:	“The	floor in a non-oiled room may be perfectly

clean at the beginning of the school session and yet upon the entrance of the first pupil, it becomes dusty. Moreover, every movement of the children about the room during their physical training exercises and marching, causes the dust to rise in miniature geysers from the cracks which have not been reached by the broom of the janitor.

Immediately after the physical training exercises the air of the room is thoroughly saturated with dust which is breathed by the children and can be seen upon the handkerchiefs from blowing the nose shortly after the close of the exercise. Dirty dust is by no means a favorable lining for the nasopharynx, and none of the most

Digitized by
— 471 —

enthusiastic of the adherents to the droplet infection theory (of which I am one) will claim that it is innocent

The opinion of the Bureau of Fire Prevention of the New York Fire Department is to the effect that any oil dressing may be used on the floors if the flash point is not more than 150° F. Accordingly this was taken into consideration and a dressing of a flash point of 300° was selected. In addition the experimenter used an applicator in the form of a small reservoir with a felt mop inserted at the bottom for the purpose of evenly distributing the material. The results in so far as teachers, janitors, and principals were concerned, were highly favorable. The results from the bacteriological standpoint are shown in the following bacteriological report from Wallace

A.	Manheimer.

Summary.—No. 1. After the oil had been on the floor for 58 consecutive days without renewal, the following tests were made; these tests (made to determine the efficiency of floor oil in preventing the raising of dust before and after conducting physical drills, both in rooms that had been and in others that had not been treated with floor oil) showed :

(a)	That there was less dust in the treated than in the untreated rooms even before the floors were disturbed, though the differences were not marked.

(b)	That the oil was efficient in causing more than 80 per cent, of the dust to adhere to the surface of the floor disturbed by physical exercises.

2.	Similar tests made before and after the rooms had been swept, indicated an efficiency of over 85 per cent. Thus the oil is valuable in protecting not only the health of teachers and students, but also that of workmen employed to clean the rooms.

3.	Tests made on experimental boards (artificial floors) under controlled conditions-, verified the above conclusions and indicated an even higher percentage of efficiency (91 per cent to 100 per cent.)

Die Korperliche Erziehung des Kindes. Von Prof. Dr. Hans Spitzy. Paper. Price, 17 marks. Pp. 416, with 194 illustrations. Berlin: Urban and Schwarzenberg, 1914.

In this excellent book the subject of the physical development of the child is discussed from conception to puberty. Such topics as exercise in the first week of life, the correct clothing and shoes at the various ages, the proper posture and gait and the deformities affecting them, and those resulting from improper posture, are discussed at length. The hygiene of the school-child and systematic plans for play, work and exercise are carefully considered. The author devotes twenty-four pages with illustrations to a discussion of the various types of seats and desks used in the school-room and their effect on the child’s development. Although nothing especial-

Digitized by Google
— 472 —

ly new is presented to the reader, nevertheless the subject is so thoroughly covered and the text so amply illustrated that the work will be found valuable not only by the physicians but by teachers and educated parents as well.—From the Journal A. M. A.

BOOK REVIEW.

Gymnastic Teaching by William Skarstrom, M. D., Associate Professor of Physical Education, Wellesley College. American Physical Education Association, Springfield, Mass., distributing agent. 258 pages 6 by 9 inches. Net price $2.00.

This book brings, in a more serviceable form, the articles that for many months have been appearing in the American Physical Education Review. As such it will be of particular value to societies and schools conducting leaders’ classes. The book is perhaps the best presentation of free exercises and apparatus work that has appeared in the English language for some time.

Recreation in Spring-fieldIllinois, by Lee F. Hanmer and Clarence A. Perry. 133 pages, 6 by 9 inches, paper cover. Published by the Department of Recreation of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York. Net price 25 cents. See the reading notice elsewhere.

Nutrition, a Guide to Food and Dieting, by Charles E. Sohn. 256 pages 5 by j1/* inches. Published by E. B. Treat & Company, New York.

In the present volume the author of “The Dictionary of active Principles of Plants” presents to the reader much valuable matter pertaining to food and diet. In 19 chapters all phases of the problem are presented in an easily understood manner. The first three chapters treating of the principles underlying all nutrition, and then speaking of the human body as an intricate machine which prepares all ingested food for assimilation are especially valuable for all who, in addition to nutrition, are interested in personal hygiene.

A Primer of Histology, by Frances N. Boynton, M. D. Twenty pages 6 by 9 inches. Published by the author, New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, net 35 cents.

The booklet is a second edition of a concise and valuable outline of Histology which will be of great value not only to students in normal schools of physical training, but also in advanced courses given to class leaders in association and club work where only the principal facts concerning the tissues and the principal organs of the body are to be considered.

Digitized by L^OOQle