MIND AND BODY

Yol. *0.

OCTOBER, 1913.

No. 222

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM L DAY, Director, Deoeret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

■Atonal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson Sc., Germantown, Phil., Pa. MM business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

HOW BOSTON IS DEVELOPING CIVIC CONSCIOUSNESS BY SHOWING THE. CITY TO ITSELF IN ANNUAL COLUMBUS STREET PARADES

AN INCIDENTAL RESULT.

By EVERETT B. MERO, Secretary Citizens’ Public Celebration Association.

An interesting bit of constructive work in raising the level of holiday celebrations is in successful operation in Boston. This is the only large city in America, so far as I know, where there is systematic management of public celebrations and a definite policy of making these occasions convey a meaning and be generally worth while. Several cities—practically all cities—work along “safe and sane” lines for Fourth of July. But Boston is committed to an equally up-to-date policy for all its holidays, and has reached a point where the rest of the country can be safely asked to take notice of how two of these holidays are managed. The other occasion is Columbus Day, one of the newer holidays not yet given a definite character.

Columbus Day offers a different problem from that of the Fourth. For the great majority of the population the day has no traditions. There is no standard method or plan of celebrating it. In some places there is still a little prejudice against it, due to a feeling that it belongs to the Knights of Columbus or to the Italian societies. Only very slowly has the idea spread that Columbus Day is really the one great holiday of all Americans. It is part of a big plan for using holidays as a means of promoting American nationalism among all the peoples who come hither from every corner of the earth.

What is being accomplished in Boston toward making Columbus Day a worthy occasion interesting to all the resident nationalities is likely in the near future to furnish suggestions to other American

HOLIDAYS AS A BUILDER OF CITIZENSHIP.

--CREATION OF A PAN-AMERICAN HOLIDAY

Digitized by
— 210

cities. The plan of bringing together native Americans, Germans, Irish, Italians, Poles, Armenians” Greeks, Chinese’, and other peoples in* generous emulation to see which can make the best turn-out gives a definite program which heretofore has been lacking on this yearly occasion.

The new Columbus Day began in Boston with the 1912 celebration. It has been privately celebrated for several years by interested organizations, but not until 1912 by the city. A plan had just been put into effect as a result of a suggestion submitted to the city by the Public Recreation League, which urged the point that it was time holidays celebrated by the city at an annual cost of $50,000 were made' to count for more in the lives of the people and as means of rational recreation. A Director of Public Celebrations was appointed by Mayor John F. Fitzgerald to take charge of all the holidays of the calendar, with a Citizens' Public Celebration Association and committees for each holiday. The new appointee, John F. Dever, had just scored a marked success with a Fourth of July celebration conducted under the new plan.

What to do with Columbus Day was a more perplexing problem. It was quickly decided that a parade should be the central feature and that the parade should be as much more than a mere procession of men $s possible for those in charge to make it. Imagination was injected into the plans in every way that conditions allowed. Organizations and business houses were labored with in the effort to have them grasp the new scheme. Results showed last year; greater results were evident this year from the beginning of preparations.

The citizens' Columbus Day Committee of last year proved a valuable asset to the city and more so this year with the accumulated experience and results of effort. A manager of spectacular features was developed last year in the person of Alfonso J. Sheafe, who has had experience as a master of dancing and other lines akin to the new scheme.

The pageant parade of October 12, 1912, as it told its story on its way through Boston's grey streets was one of the most brilliant spectacles yet witnessed there, and spoke loudly of possibilities for coming years. Besides the customary military and naval features furnished by the nation and state, and the usual display of floats In’ commercial organizations and business houses, some twenty-six rationalities of the community were represented in a parade whose numerical strength was estimated at nearly 30,000. The important fact, however, was not the length but the picturesqueness and s'gnificance of the parade and the start of a new idea for such annual < ccasions.

A prize for the finest feature was won by the Chinese. The 0 pplause that greated them as they passed was evidence of the

Digitized by Google
— 211 —

immediate value of the celebration in removing race prejudice. For one day, at least, the Chinese proved themselves the peer of any and every other kind of resident. Three hundred paraders of this race were garbed in festival costumes, many of which had been borrowed from Xew York, Chicago and elsewhere. Four floats conveyed Chinese musicians, a tea house and a group of women and children. That the latter were permitted to take part in the festivities was evident of the new spirit that agitates the denizens of Chinatown.

The success of this pageant parade was so great that it is perhaps not too much to call the occasion one on which a Pan-American holiday was born into the world. Other American cities have had celebrations of Columbus Day. In New York there is an annual parade by local societies. In Chicago the three reproductions of Columbus' caravels in Jackson Park have been heretofore a center of festal exercises in honor of the discoverer. In San Francisco the school children have witnessed instructive historical pageants and listened to educational addresses. In southern cities sumptuous parades have been undertaken. Nowhere previously, however, so far as I am informed, was there a conscious effort to invoke the interest of the whole community, including every nationality, race and color.

This plan of 1912 is to be repeated in Boston on Monday, October 13, 1913, with increased attention to picturesque and spectacular features. The Columbus Day Celebration is now as carefully organized as that which makes Fourth of July a thoroughly well-supervised day. At the head of the organization is the Director of Public Celebrations upon whom, with the final approval of the Mayor, rests the responsibility for every department of the celebration. Ideas and schemes are threshed out at meetings of a Columbus Day Committee composed of interested citizens. As fast as these are approved by the director their excution is entrusted to the secretary of the committee, who serves as general manager of the celebration or to the chairman of a sub-committee who may be instructed to report to the main committee. A Supervisor of Parade Features conducts correspondence with various organizations, keeps in touch with the leading people of the different nationalities, suggests designs for costume and equipment and in general has the recognized functions of the pageant master.

By this organization a thorough canvass has been made of all the possibilities for an instructive and fascinating morning parade and for other events to enliven the day. The United States army and navy and the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia will supply the. right of line. The civic divisions will include in an enlarged form the national sections of last year and two or three new divisions. Great enthusiasm for showing their respective contributions to

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 212 —

American citizenship has been developed among many of the peoples who have not shown it before. Such a race as the Lithuanians, many thousands of whom have quietly settled in Boston and the suburbs, have been found to be born paraders. The Pan-Hellenic Union, whose contribution in 1912 was eliminated on account of the unexpected troubles in the Balkans, will this year present something of the music and array of the modern Greeks. A very important display of old Irish costumes is being arranged; this will reveal in a spectacular manner some of the Celtic contributions to civilization. Several score of Italian beneficial and fraternal organ-izations will turn out en masse. The Chinese, elated by their triumph of last year, have ordered several hundred robes from China.

The German-American residents had floats and groups of men singers in last year’s parade. This year they contemplate 1200 men and women, including singers as well as floats.

A recreation division, as a new feature this year, to include as many as possible of the recreational activities of the city. One of the larger gymnasiums plans marching calisthenics by a class of 100 men, another a float with a basket ball game in progress, and another apparatus work, tumbling and the like. The new city Park and Recreation Depflartment is to have two or three floats of playground activities by children. Yacht and canoe clubs will march or show features.

The idea back of this parade conception is not only to give the holiday a meaning, but to reveal the city to itself—to show the people the various elements that make the city alive.

It might be asked where the native American comes in this processional of many races. He preceeds the parade. He comes first. Ahead of military and civic elements marches a Town Crier in Puritan garb, with his bell and proclamation, announcing to the spectators something of the nature of the parade to follow. This exponent of ancient methods of communicating news is attended by a goodly delegation of modern Puritans wearing the garb of the Roundheads—a reminder of England’s first contribution to the taming of this part of the continent. In a special woman’s division and elsewhere in the parade will be abundant evidence of the New England spirit. The women’s division is new this year, and both suffrage and anti-suffrage features are invited, among others that will show women’s part in the life of the city.

This conception of a pageant parade for Columbus Day is so appropriate to conditions in most American centers of population that I believe it to be a fair argument that this type of celebration must become general if not universal. It is already attracting attention and inquiries.

Columbus Day comes in parading weather. Fourth of July
— 213 —

is too hot for parading in most cities; at any rate the new Boston policy says so. Fourth of July is distinctly a childrens day with abundant open air activities in parks and playgrounds. Columbus I>ay, on the other hand, says Boston, is a grown-ups day and a parade the big feature. It should be stated, however, that Boston also improves the other educational and patriotic opportunities of Columbus Day. The schools note the day in regular exercises. Public meetings are held, with lectures on the life of Columbus, and this year’s plans include an out door evening entertainment to be both educational and entertaining.

Most states now have made a legal hoilday of Columbus Day, or “Discoverer’s Day.” There is growing interest in Pan-American affairs, which will be enhanced after the opening of the Panama Canal. The annual return of the great explorer’s birthday can in no manner be more fittingly celebrated than by making it a thanksgiving day of all the races that have peopled the two continents. The whole tendency in enlightened management of such processions is toward the introduction of pageantry—of real moving pictures that tell history and point to ideals of the future—to relieve the tiresomeness of long marching bodies monotonously arrayed. The day becomes much more significant if the descendants of each of the nationalities composing the community endeavor each year to display scenes or incidents connected with their history and traditions. Such an array can be made varied, brilliant and instructive. It tells the whole story of the making of the American nation. It is pictorialized preaching of patriotism. It is inspiration toward good citizenship.

THE MOTIVATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. *

By ETHEL. R. WEEDEN, Harris Teachers College, St. Louis, Mo.

There are four divisions of the subject before us to which I would direct your attention:

The motives of the child,

The motives of the teacher,

Methods of relating these motives to bring about the most effective results,

Results that are worth while.

The child’s motives for directed physical exercise, as we recognize them, are instinctive or fragmentary, imposed motives. I mean by this that they are unreasoned, incomplete, and taken from our suggestions. The activity of the little child of the primary grades is at first purely imitative, and his object is a social one: to do what

♦Read at the meeting of the Physical Training Hygiene and Association of the Middle West.

Digitized by
— 2l4 —

others do, or tell him to do, in so far as his small mental content will allow him to grasp the situation, and his physical disposition permit him to accomplish the feat.

In the children of the intermediate grades, the imitation instinct has grown in that its object is more definite; there is added thereto the spirit of emulation which would both equal and excel others; there is the desire to do what those older do and to do these things better than one’s own group, to be a follower in one case to the extent of being a leader in the other. There are in this intermediate class, what is hardly recognized in the first, two parties; those who aspire to increasingly difficult situations, and those who fear to try the new situations, or to attempt to cope with those individuals whose superior powers they are confix~ to recognize at this age.

The children of the grammar grade present perhaps the most difficult prpoblem of all, to those who are studying the motives for exercise in the minds of these children, for at this age there is a negative rather than a positive disposition presented: the children of this grade, oppressed with a physical inertia, face a situation with many untried elements, and they do not understand the forces at work in them at this time. The girls are awkward. The boys seem stubborn, extremely sensitive, or very reticent. There exists a consciousness of self which is often very troublesome and distressing to all concerned. The anticipated change of environment from grammar to high school or into the world outside of school, with the physical inertia and self-consciousness, is manifested by a rebellion to authority, which unless given a wise consideration acts very unfavorably for the future welfare of the child and society.

Following are some of the answers I received from the children of a grammar school to my question why they took physical exercise. The question was put unexpectedly, and the answers were written on the spur of the moment. Judge for yourself th£ origin of these motives.

FIRST GRADE.

To grow tall so I won’t be little any more.

To make arms strong.

To throw a ball so I can play foot-ball when I am big.

SECOND GRADE.

To know how to do everything. (Girl.)

To throw people down. (Boy.)

To make muscles feel hard in the arm.

To make you grow straight.

THIRD GRADE.

So as not to grow stiff.

To help lungs.

To be quick.

To rest you after work.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 215 —

FOURTH GRADE.

To help you straighten out.

To learn to do everything right and quick while we are little so we will be that way when we get big.

So we won’t have diseases.

Because when we sit down so long our shoulders get pushed forward so our lungs are all narrow and when we take exercises that tnake us straight we can breathe better.

So when we get older we won’t be nervous.

Because it is good for us.

To be active.

Not to get rheumatism.

Helps our spine to be straight.

When we get back to our rooms it makes us feel like working.

So lungs will get air and we will be broad chested.

So we will always be ready to move right away.

FIFTH GRADE.

Exercise is a means of making strong, healthy people out of weak and unhealthy ones.

It helps us to digest our food “by keeping the bones and joints from getting stiff.”

I think we take “gymnasium” to “learn” us how to jump, climb, run and march.

To show how we can control our muscles.

It starts you on the way to be an athlete.

It starts to develop your muscles so you can finish developing them when you are a man.

To get fresh air after we have been in the warm room all day.

It “learns” you so if you wanted to be a teacher of “gymnasium” you could.

It keeps you from getting consumption and other sickness.

It makes us husky so when we are men we can lift heavy things.

Only people who know how to make their arms, head, feet and minds go correctly can get on in business.

To make us steady. To make us ready, for exercise is not hard if we are ready.

To use muscles we do not know we have until we go to “gym.”

It helps you when you go to turning school.

Nearly all of this grade said we took “gymnasium” to develop muscles. Two said, “We take it for the same reason that we take other work, because we have to use the brain and it keeps the mind in good condition.

Also there was a repetition of the lower grade ideas.

SIXTH GRADE.

I take exercise to prevent a “clod” of blood forming in my head and making a headache.

It is much fun.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 216 —

It gives you a good form, and a stout boy or girl with crouched shoulders people will not take into their business because they cannot do the work.

It takes off weight.

To make me strong because the people who work after school do not get to play and run, therefore they would not be strong.

To build our bodies for our later years of life;

The fresh air and exercise kill all the germs in your body.

If you have round shoulders it helps you.

It is pastime for many people.

It shows you how to keep your lungs open, we have the windows open to get fresh air.

Anybody who does not take gym work is not very stout. The second reason is because I enjoy taking the exercises and you do better if you like it.

It was generally stated that exercise makes the muscles strong, makes the whole body strong and healthy and prevents disease.

EIGHTH GRADE.

To keep our minds in a healthy condition.

To freshen our minds for work later on.

It relieves us of other work and makes us feel better fit to work.

To teach us not to drag our feet, and to grow correctly.

To make us accurate and quick.

We have^ “gymnasium” to train the mind to obey orders and to learn self-control.

We have it to develop us physically, if we did not we would develop mentally but not physically.

It teaches us to be light on our feet, and graceful.

To make you fair in whatever you do.

These answers may be summarized into three groups:

First—To be and do as big people do. To accomplish certain objects now impossible.

Second—To improve bodily power. To prepare for the future.

Third—To improve appearance. To train mental faculties.

These answers imply that certain of the child’s incentives are produced by the information and intelligence of the teachers, by the personal needs which the child recognizes, by the conditions of others which the child regards as desirable or otherwise, by the objects that may be directly or indirectly attained. The outcomes of these incentives will necessarily be influenced by the child’s native and acquired ability, and by the methods of instruction and other advantages which are given to him.

Having considered the motives of children of different ages, and the origin of these motives, if the teacher seeks an answer to

Digitized by Google
— 217 —

these questions—How may I benefit this group, or individual? (Not how many drills and show exercises can I perfect.) How may I increase the vitality at this particular age, or in this special individual? he acquires the large vision, and the motives that will in* elude and connect up with the various motives indicated by the childrens’ answers. The details are numerous.

The earnest instructor is utilizing all the information which the physiologist, psychologist, sociologist, and experienced educator can give him; is studying and experimenting with this information and standing ready to give his results to others for like purpose, to be remodeled as is found necessary. There is a growing conception of aim fostered by intelligence, breadth of view, and balance of interests. We are finding that the extent and force of the teacher’s influence is dependent upon his ability to recognize and attack the essential problems and to work them out to some conclusion, upon his personality,—its earnestness, sincerity, breadth and joyousness, and upon his love for the best that is in the children.

We as teachers have to face such problems as these,—What is our standard for physical power and control? and with reference to the child

1.	Can the child adapt himself to the demands of everyday life without too much loss of energy, and with a satisfactory degree of success?

2.	Can he combat disease?

3.	Is he building habits of co-ordination and strength that will stand by him in later life?

Particular details of proceedure must of course vary with the age and sex of the children.

In the first school year one must study the need of modification of stimulation and obstacles to suit the ability and requirements of the little ones, since the problem of adjustment to environment is at this period a big consideration. Most satisfactory results have been attained at this age by training the child in a general way in the large movements through the use of story gymnastics. In the kindergarten-primary the action plays, such as are given by Miss Stoneroad in the Washington schools, may be introduced in such a way as to give joyous expression to the instincts of these little ones, and at the same time train desirable co-ordinations and develop habits of observation, reproduction and control.

In the next grade there should be a more definite accuracy of motions, a greater control of the parts of the body in relation to the whole, gradually increasing co-ordination skill, and the setting up of the elementary terminology. There would be considerable economy all along the line if we would teach the children to associate certain movements with the word picture instead of always giving them a demonstration and so weakening their power of attention to

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 218 —

the command. It is interesting to compare the power of the blind children in this respect.

In the intermediate grades we must be careful to develop the group as a whole and not leave some behind: to encourage the weak by providing problems within their grasp and gradually increasing the difficulty, to match contestants in games, to set the stronger to Assist the weaker. In the special schools we often see children who are the most advanced in physical accuracy teaching the tactics, calisthenics, jumping and dancing to those who are more backward. In these schools we profit by opportunity for more freedom in the training and in the opportunities for initiative of the child. Each child has his own particular possibility and we may provide for interchange of instruction. It is most desirable to establish standards of honor in these grades,—standards which shall cause them to strive to play their games without fouls. Children of these grades said they wanted to be strong to fight and win. Show them that to win means self-control as well as strength, and that to be most fair and to hold most truly to the rules of the games is to be a winner in the best sense. The mettle of the child begins to show, and natural individual vitality and possibilities of strengthening the same are to be recognized. To lack of recognition of these individual differences may be attributed at least a part of the affirmed lack of interest in these grades. There is here required an adjustment of the ideals of an older group to a younger group, and an adjustment within the younger of the weaker to the stronger.

In the higher grades we must overcome the inertia without too much friction. We must harmonize the activities which may seem somewhat erratic, at least diffusive. We must produce as much rhythm as possible. We must recognize the dignity of the boy and very wisely prescribe his forms of exercise. There should be a man of well developed and controlled physical power to lead the boys at this time, to set ideals of forceful co-ordinated movements; and class leaders selected from the best all round developed boys. By all means the girls should have a suitable costume for the gymnastic exercise of this period. There is a most natural reluctance to taking some forms of the work and this reluctance is intensified by the style of apparel worn by these girls. Clothe them suitably and this reluctance will not carry over to all forms of exercise, as it commonly does at this age.

Experience in trying to relate the forces at work so as to produce the most effective results indicates that the first step should be towards a mutual understanding. You can help in the best way only that person whom you understand and who trusts you.

Ensuing methods might be worked out through use of the following questions:—

i.	Do we know the condition of this one child’s mechanism
219

which we are setting at a task? Does he habitually have regular sufficient sleep, fresh air, nourishing food, baths, a normal amount of activity outside of school, and suitable companions in the way of wise parents and the right kind of playmates?

2.	What are the child’s lung pressure, weight and height records, and how do they compare with the average of his age and sex?

3.	What is the condition of muscular, neural, circulatory, respiratory, digestive, eliminative, and spepcial sense organs?

4.	Have we tested the comparitive strength and endurance, quickness and accuracy of the group, and of the individuals?

5.	Have we a record of each child’s physical need? of his particular difficulties?

6.	Have we taken enough interest in the individual to show him his need and how he may imnrove his condition? how he may set about accomplishing those feats suitable for him?

7.	What kind of co-ordination habits and responses are we helping him to build?

8.	Have we found out how many children who have been under our direction do not play games outside of the directed play or game? One of the most important purposes of the directed activities is to find out those who lack initiative and to give them a chance. Have we ever said to a class "Put 5c balls in the basket using the chest throw. Report when you have finished.” and followed it up with "Put in 15 balls with the dip throw, from foul line.” and "Play one set of singles in tennis and report your score when finished.”? This will set each one an individual problem which he will pursue with interest.

Do we know how many children never play organized games: basket-ball, tennis, captain ball, volley ball, etc., or who never take part in athletics, and why this is so? Do the children who do not take part know how to begin? Are they afraid of and discouraged by the stronger ones? Have we provided opportunity for weaker ones or only for those already strong and vigorous ?

9.	How many children have the muscle sense of rhythmic expression ? Can they all dance ? not merely step off the exercises, but dance? That question will not show up quite the condition that it did a few years ago.

10.	Are we developing every child to have an independent interest in following physical pursuits? Are we helping the child ta put his body in shape to follow and enjoy all kinds of natural stimulating activities, and to stand the strain of later years?

Trying to answer these questions carefully we begin to relate and develop the child's instincts for natural activities with the standards which our ever enlarging and growing knowledge of the situation sets up.
— 220 —

A few more questions which may be raised in connection with the conduct of the work are the following:—

1.	When giving instruction do we allow the children to work out their problems, or do we explain and demonstrate everything so minutely and definitely that the child follows quite accurately today, and tomorrow requires a full reoetition of the preceding day’s form of instruction? Have you ever found a class of children who had had the 1)ent-knee-step in four grades and who didn’t have any idea of what they should do when told to take the bent-knee-step? If you have you must surely have felt that there was a lack of economy somewhere. Too much repetition of command, and too many reminders in the form of demonstration and explanation, are perhaps outcomes of hurried supervision, and are very uneconomic forms of instruction.

2.	Is there a recognizable progression in all the work? Children are more logical than we sometimes give them credit for being, and they are quick to recognize relations, if we give them any to recognize.

3.	Do the games present problems to the children ? Why does a big boy stubbornly refuse to play “Dickery, dickery, dock ?”

4.	Do we clap and pound to startle the children into a reaction? Did not clapping and pounding.have their origin in the halls where a hundred or more people formed the class ? Has this method a place in educational gymnastics ? Isn’t it disturbing and preventive of initiative in reaction? Isn’t the teacher trying to do it all without giving the pupil a chance? We may handle large groups, in a short time, for exhibition purposes in this way, but ours are not exhibition purposes; and for instruction and guidance in the physical development of the children in our charge the classes should be no larger than any classes formed for group instruction.

5.	Why do girls say of private class wrork: “This is more fun and more worth while than high school gymnastics. We didn’t do the exercises there if we didn’t want to, and there were such lar^e classes we never did much any waw and it didn’t pay to get dressed for the time we had.” ? Not all. bv any means, talk this way, but there is too large a number who do feel this way, and the numerous fake excuses in high school testifv to this fact. Some high schools have faced their problems, reduced the number in a class, graded the exercises, and provided time for dressing.

6.	Do we recognize the educative features of our work as well as the recreative, or are we going to the extreme of substituting one form of exercise, which happens to he popular, for all other forms?

Results that are worth while will surely include eager happy effort on the part of every child; the establishment of a consciousness of increasingly better standards; and a desire to test and prove the powers developed.

Digitized by e^ooQLe
— 221 —

The teacher’s results must show records of individual ability at different times ; records of accomplishment on the part of each child; and records of improved methods of instruction resulting in increase of the child’s capacity and acquirements with corresponding economy of effort.

Every pupil should improve in accuracy, strength, endurance, balance or poise, grace, and power of initiative, and of right helpful relations to others. And we should know something definite about our results.

HAS SCHOOL GYMNASTICS AN APPRECIABLE EFFECT

UPON HEALTH ?*

By WILLIAM A. STECHBR, Director Physical Education, Public Schools,

Philadelphia, Pa.

The chief aim of school gymnastics is to maintain and increase health, to develop and increase organic strength. Corrective work is a sub-division of this aim.

The second aim, is to develop and increase skill, also courage, determination, quick reaction and other mental qualities. Have these results been accomplished by modern school gymnastics?

Gymnastics was introduced into some of the schools of Europe in the early part of the last century. It now is an essential part of the schooling of all boys, and of a yearly increasing number of girls. In the cities, as a rule, the work is done in well equipped gymnasiums and is in charge of specially trained teachers of gymnastics. In the rural districts the work is in the hands of the regular class teachers who, where there is no gymnasium, conduct the work out of doors. These class teachers receive special training for conducting gymnastics at the different training schools conducted by the various states. Teachers attending the special courses are paid for their attendance. It may be well to insert here that in Europe most class teachers are men. That this fact has a direct bearing upon the teaching of a subject like gvmnastics is self evident. In several European countries the work of both special and regular teachers in the cities as well as in the country districts is supervised by inspectors of gymnastics appointed by the government.

So far as the United States is concerned one mav sav that gymnastics, generallv. have not been recognized as an integral part of school work. While most large cities have gymnastics it may be said that most small cities are practically all rural communities have no physical training at all.

The type of the work in most of our cities is instruction within the class room by the regular class teacher who, as a rule, is a

•Read August 28th at the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, N. Y., August 25-30th, 3913.

Digitized by C.ooole
— 222 —

woman. In several large cities the newer school buildings have either one or two gymnasiums. The work in these buildings is conducted in the gymnasium by the class teacher. A third type of work is conducted in several cities where new buildings have a gymnasium. This consists of having a specially trained teacher of gymnastics in such building who conducts the work of all classes in the gymnasium. Then, lastly, there is a type of work conducted by an increasing number of cities. This consists of work in the school yards. The corridors or class rooms are used only during inclement weather.

A handbook with complete, especially prepared lessons in physical training is generally used bv the class teachers. The work in all cities is usually supervised by special teachers of physical training who, generally, are graduates of ^hvsical training normal schools. As there is ho central authority in educational matters, the uniformity of aim and method found in European countries is entirely lacking in the United States. Each city, yes, at times, each district of a city does as it pleases.

Coming now to the time devoted to physical training we find that in Europe two hours weeklv. as a rule, are given over to gymnastics. In several German states three hours weekly is the . rule. During the last few years the demand for an obligatory play afternoon in addition to the two, respectively three hours of regular bymnastics lias arisen. This demand has been granted in a few cities. Where this play afternoon has been introduced the pupils and teachers report for several hours of play on one of the large plavfields of the city. These playfields often are as far as one hour’s walk from the home or school of some of the attending children. Where introduced this work is compulsory for all children attending school.

In the United States the time set aside for physical training in the elementary schools varies from io to 15 minutes daily, that is from 50 to 75 minutes per week. In the high schools during the first year it usually consists of two weekly periods of 45 minutes each, from which the time for changing suits is to be deducted. In some cities the second high school year is like the first, in others it consists of only one period devoted to physical training. Very few high schools have more than one period per week during the last two years; many having no prescribed work at all. It appears, therefore, that the time devoted to regular gymnastics in the United States is about 1-2 to 1-3 of that used for the like purpose in Europe.

The next question would be to determine the health-value of the work done. Does the physical training found in our schools have an appreciable effect upon the health of the pupils, and does it give to the participants the motor training, the neuro-muscular education generally claimed for it?

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 223 —

So far as the United States is concerned there are no reliable statistics available which give satisfactory answers to these questions. The statistics gathered by European nations, especially of those where every male citizen must become a soldier do, however, shed impressive light upon our problem. Let us take Germany for instance, whose economic conditions are sufficiently like those of the United States to allow one to use for comparison the results of the accurate inquiries undertaken there. In Germany every s^ble man must serve his country from one to three years either in the army or navy. Every recruit undergoes a rigid physical examination and no one is exempt from service unless he is totally unfit.

The following figures cover the condition of every ioo males

who presented themselves for service during the years  Improvable; Queftion^ble Percentage Will be Acceptable As to Future				1903 to 1911:  Unfit
Year	Acceptable	Later	Availability	Not Available
I903	57-i	147	19-5	8-5
1904	56-4	15.6	20.9	6.9
I9<>5	56-3	147	22.0	6.8
1906	55-9	147	22.7	6-5 '
I907	54-9	151	23.1	6.6
1908	54-5	152	23.8	6-3
1909	53-6	14.9	25.0	6-3
I9XO	sx.o	14.8	25-9	6.x
I9II	53-4	151	25.1	6-3

The men who in the above table are classed as not available are the totally unfit for military service, the cripples, the blind, the incurably sick, etc. This division in 1911, thanks to the increased efficiency in combating the causes leading to such total disability shows a decrease of 2.3 per cent as compared to 1903. An increase, however, of 5.6 per cent of those classed as questionable, that is of those classed as being so weak and under-nourished that it is questionable-if they can ever be brought up to the required physical standard is an ominous feature. The percentage of acceptable men, also, has decreased 3.7 per cent.

Th significant point of this investigation, the point that bears directly upon our problem, is the fact that irrespective of all that Germany has done for the physical improvement of its future citizens there has been a gradual decrease in military fitness during the years in question. The physical deterioration in cities, and also in communities preeminently industrial is further emphasized by the fact that in 1911 such parts of Germany show a lower percentage of-acceptable men than do the agricultural sections, vide Brandenburg with 42.3; Hessia with 46.6; Saxony with 48.6 and Silesia with 48.9 per cent.

The economic condition of the United States and of Germany)

Digitized by V-ooQle
— 224 —

(in fact of practically all nations of Europe) are very similar. In all we find an enormous increase of the urban population at the expense of the country districts. So far as the hygenic conditions in cities are concerned, sanitary engineers seem to agree that these are better in Germany than in the United States. If then, Germany with its two, respectively three hours of compulsory physical training work has not been able to stop physical deterioration and is trying to ward this off with increased time and better facilities devoted to rational body building, we readily can see that our io to 15 minutes per school day or our two periods of gmynasium work per week can have only a slight influence upon the health of the pupils, and can not prevent physical decay.

Practically all of the physical training work done in the schools of the United States is insufficient, first as to quantity and second as to quality. In the greater part of the schools it is mainly relief work. In the hands of properly trained teachers it somewhat mitigates the bad effects of poor and prolonged seating. Most schools in the United States, however, have no physical training work at all

In order to make school gymnastics a real health-factor we first of all must recognize the fact that a few minutes of arm-stretching or trunk bending between the desks in a school room can not be called physical training. If well executed this may be relief work. If improperly taught it often is an additional mental strain upon the pupils.

It was a grave mistake when here in the United States well-meaning enthusiasts told Boards of Education that the introduction of gymnastics into the schools could be accomplished with little expenditure of time and money; that all that was needed was to allow a few special teachers to go into a schoolroom, and teach a few calisthenics, and then have the class teacher repeat these with the pupils. So long as Boards of Education and the general public belive that what now is called school gymnastics is sufficient to safeguard the health of children we will accomplish little. It must be understood that health can not be increased nor maintained by 10 to 15 minutes of regulated exercise in a class room, in a basement or even in a school yard. Neither can this be done by 60 to 90 minutes per week spent in a gymnasium. If we take European experiences as a guide we must demand at least one hour daily of muscular work adapted to age and sex as the minimum requirement for effective school gymnastics.

Is it possible to get this time? Before answering this question it might be well to speak of a tendency displayed among some teachers of physical training to recognize as gymnastics only the work done according to their preconceived notions of what shall be embraced under this head. Generally, this means exercises done

Digitized by
— 225 —

under their direction during the official periods and upon the pieces of apparatus invented to allow the execution of certain specific movements. If, however, we recognize all natural forms of exercise like swimming, tramping, sledding, ice and roller skating, vigorous games, running, gardening, etc., if rationally conducted as valuable gymnastic material, a solution of the problem is not as difficult as may appear.

If we accept these forms of exercise our problem changes and becomes on of administration, of selecting and arranging for different types of work. We then can say that school gymnastics should embrace the following types of directed work:

1.	THE RELIEF EXERCICES, i. e., selected exercises lasting one or two minutes to be given by the class teacher in the school room whenever the pupils have been sitting for a long period.

2.	THE GYMNASTIC LESSON, to be given in a well ventilated room, hall or corridor, in the gymnasium or in the yard. In the elementary schools this daily period should last 20 minutes. In the high schools there should be three weekly periods of 45 minutes each, (dressing time not to be counted in).

3.	THE SUPPLEMENTARY WORK. In the elementary schools this work should consist of:

(a)	of exercises upon apparatus erected in the school yards and of organized games.

(b)	of skating, running, jumping, throwing and similar exercises that may be done in a school yard. This obligatory period should last 40 minutes following immediately the close of the afternoon session. One or more of the regular class teachers should supervise this period.

(c)	For the 7th and 8th grades, and for all pupils of the high schools there should be a weekly obligatory play afternoon lasting at least two hours. On this afternoon pupils should report upon a designated playfield. The pupils of the 7th and 8th grades play under direction of their class teachers (or some one designated by the principal of the

• school). The high school nupils play under direction of their regular teachers of physical training. The teachers are assisted by the regular employees: of the playfield. The pupils and teachers report upon the fields at 1:30. The time spent on the fields should be credited as regular school work. No home work is to be given to the pupils on days spent upon the playfields. On inclement days the pupils report at the school.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 226 —

The scheme outlined above has the following advantages over the forms of school gymnastics at present in vogue:

1.	It would give to all pupils at least five hours of regulated directed physical activity per week.

2.	It would utilize the play spaces now rapidly multiplying in most cities and rural communities.

3.	It would encourage Boards of Education to enlarge the

present school yards, and to buy large adequate grounds for new schools.	'

4.	It would get the major part of school gymnastics out of the buildings into the open air.

5.	It would give to the pupils the necessary amount of formal neuro-muscular training adapted to their age as well as the proper amount of free play.

6.	In many cities it immediately could be adopted without a great increase in cost.

7.	It would increase the health and vitality of the pupils and decrease the time lost by sickness. This would mean less backwardness, and a smaller number of repeaters.

While the money spent for physical training would be increased this increase would be offset by decreased expenditures in other departments of school work. The final result should be increased efficiency with the same financial expenditures.

Based upon the foregoing the following set of resolutions were presented:—

1.	The time at present devoted to school gymnastics, i. e. 10 to

15 minutes daily is insufficient to have an appreciable effect upon the health of the pupils.

2.	(a)	In the elementary schools the time devoted to school

gymnastics should be at least 20 minutes daily. This time should be supplemented by at least 40 minutes of play daily in the school yard. The yard should be equipped with simple forms of apparatus and with simple facilities for jumping, throwing and for the playing of games.

(b) For the 7th and 8th grades in place of this yard play one afternoon of 2 hours should be spent upon playfields located within one hour's walking distance of the homes of the pupils.

3.	(a)	In the high schools the time devoted to gymnastics

should be at least three periods of 45 minutes each per week during the four years' course.

(b) One afternoon of at least 2 hours should be spent weekly upon playfields situated within one hour’s walking distance of the school.

4.	The teaching of swimming should form a part of every scheme of school gymnastics.

RESOLUTIONS.
5.	All forms of sane bodily outdoor exercise like skating, tramping, rowing, sledding, etc., should steadily be encouraged by the school in order to increase the time spent out of doors. For the older children—Field days, athletic meets and all sane competitive sports should be encouraged.

6.	We heartily endorse the resolution passed at the July 1912 meeting of the National Educational Association urging upon Boards of Education the importance of providing school grounds of not less than one square rod (272 square feet) for each child, such school park to provide a space for play, and instruction in gardening as well as a place of recreation for all living in the district.

SMITH’S MULTIPLE HAIR DRYER.

By JOSEPH I. SMITH, M. D., Philadelphia.

Among the many problems to solve in conducting a well appointed Natatorium for women and girls, proper facilities for drying the hair are the most important. At least this was the greatest problem that we had to solve in conducting the pool of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde. In the evening hours for women were Mondays from 7:30 to 9:30, and Wednesdays from 8 to 10, the number of bathers ranging from 175 to 200 during these periods, nearly all requiring their hair dried before going home. After making a thorough examination of all dryers on the market at that time, we secured a combination electric and ^as machine which lasted only about two months, when it went out of commission. From then on we were disgusted, we were never without complaint either from the women or our electrician. The principle complaints from the women were, that only one could use the dryer at a time; that the machine was always out of order, and that they had to stay until almost midnight in order to get their hair dried. The electrician complained that the dryer could not stand the strain of the constant heat, the burner only being a few inches away from the fan; after running four hours at top sped it would get red hot and burn out all the bearings.

Finally the committee decided, if possible, to build a dryer to accommodate at least six women at a time, and the writer was selected to go ahead with the work. I had some definite ideas as to what was wanted, but absolutely no knowledge as to how we were to get it. First, as the fan did not supply sufficient air, we must get some form of a rotary blower which would drive the air at least five feet away, with the same degree of heat at the distal end. Second, the burner and blower should be as far apart as we could place them. Third, we should have hot air outlets for at least six persons, with sufficient heat to dry a head of hair in three minutes.

Digitized by 0,ooQle
— 228 —

After consulting with experts in heating, hardware men, ventilating, blower and gas-iron manufacturers, and finally, with a member of the society, Mr. Richard Guenther, we secured a blower that would give us a volume of 350 cubic feet of air per minute, the air pressure being the same at the distal end as at the first outlet. Now came the question of heating. After looking over the various schemes of gas-iron heating, we settled on a nest of ring burners, the largest 10 inches of diameter. Mr. Guenther built the stand, hood and shaft, with the outlets, and he is prepared to furnish one of these for the price of two single dryers. The hood is made of light sheet iron 12 inches in diameter, height from stand to slant 7.75 inches, from slant to pipe 3.25 inches. Two rows of ventilating openings, the first row one inch above the stand, size of opening V.2 inch, one inch apart; second row 3.75 inches from the stand, same size holes. Top ventilators 12.75 inches from stand, one inch holes, one inch apart, with sliding collar 4 inches wide. We found that these ventilators were necessary to avoid the suction of the blower, which was great enough to blow out the light.

--r-

Figure 1.	i

Digitized by
— 229 —

Figure i—Side view of stand and blower, pipe with outlets and table, showing Y inch gas feed, electric wire from chandelier, switch connected to electric switch and handle of burners, which turns off current and gas at the same time.

Figure 2.

Figure 2—Hot air shaft 5 feet eight inches long, 3.75 inches in diameter, with three outlets on each side and a cap at the end ;whidi can be removed for extension, if so desired. Distance between outlets 24 inches.

This dryer will dry six heads of hair in three minutes. The writer had a young woman dive and swim without a cap, emerging with water dripping from her hair. The time required to dry her hair was only two minutes and fifty seconds. Very few women leave the pool with their hair so wet. 100 heads of very wet hair can be thoroughly dried in one hour by this dryer.

A word of warning: DO NOT SOLDER ANY JOINTS! Ttie heat is so intense that with us it melted every joint and kept us constantly repairing until we riveted them. If possible have an attendant look after the dryer, but if you do not, then have the switches and gas stop cocks placed where none of the bathers can turn them off or on. A common mistake of the women is to turn off the electric current and not the gas, the result being that in an hour the hood and blower became so hot that one can not touch them.

1721 No. 17th St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 230 —

TWELFTH GERMAN TURNFEST, LEIPZIG JULY 12 TO 16.

REPORT BY THE NEW YORK GLOBE.

Germany has just witnessed the running of an athletic festival that in point of numbers and organization far outshone any set of Olympic Games the world has ever seen. The twelfth German Gymnastic Festival at Leipzig is what we have reference to, and the very magnitude of this athletic show makes it interesting to Americans. To begin with, the stadium in which the^ Leipzig festival was held, July 12 to 16, was twice the size of the Berlin stadium in which the 1916 Olympics are to be held. It seated 50,000 persons and there was standing room for 200,000 more. The cost of the structure totalled 600,000 marks, and even then the lumber necessary for the construction was merely borrowed—not purchased.

The opening day of the Leipzig Turnfest showed 60,000 gymnasts in line, in ten divisions. The parade lasted three hours, and in it were the banners of about 2,000 clubs from Germany, Belgium, Austria, Holland, England, Sweden, and America. The music for the parade was played by 225 full bands. At the head of the procession marched the American contingent, and the Yankees were wildly acclaimed by the German populace.

During the entire festival no smoking was allowed in the stands, and the only things on sale within the vast inclosure were milk and soft drinks. Guards were statoned all through the stands to warn the spectators against smoking, and not an attempt to “light up” was recorded.

So much for the wonderful discipline instilled into the German populace through the medium of army training. Imagine a crowd of 250,000 Americans sitting for three hours with not an attempt at smoking!

The big show at the Leipzig Turnfest happened on Tuesday, July 15, when 17,000 gymnasts, clad in spotless white, marched out on the field (see illustration) and went through a drill with wonderful precision. The marching and execution of the exercises was done to the accompaniment of a huge military band, and the sight of the 17,000 sturdy men in action was a beautiful one and one never to be forgotten. This performance was watched by the King of Saxony, who sat in the stand for three hours enraptured by the sight.

Besides the stadium proper there were three huge tents, 150 by 300 feet each; these being for special and individual competitions. In these were done vaulting, jumping, fencing, and work on the horizontal and parallel bars, horse, etc.

There appeared to be very little attempt at individual superiority in the Leipzig festival. Instead of individual excellence it was always class work that stood forth as the wonder part of the great meet. On one day 1,200 Leipzig women turners showed a drill.

Digitized by

Google
VIEW OF THE 17,000 ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS MARCHING INTO PLACE FOR THE FREE EXERCISES* (ILLUSTRATIONS OF THESE EXERCISES WERE PRINTED IN THE JUNE ISSUE OF MIND AND BODY). THE DOME-LIKE STRUCTURE AT THE LEFT HARBORED THE IMMENSE MILITARY BAND THAT PLAYED FOR THE EXERCISES.
— 232 —

These were followed by 9,000 gymnasts from the District of Saxony, and 10,000 boys and girls from the public schools of Leipzig in a wonderful mass drill. Then came 2,000 high school students in games.	1

Every turner scheduled to go on that particular day was required to be in his place in line at 6 A. M., and in many cases it was 8 P. M. before the last performer made his way out of the stadium. From early morning until late at night the Leipzig stadium took on the appearance of a gigantic sixty-ring circus, and eye witnesses declare that it was utterly impossible to give a look at more than one-fifth of the turners.

The prize competitions for individuals were divided into two parts, the “six-kampf” and the “twelve-kampf.” The former consisted of running high jump, pole vault for distance, shot-put, ropeclimbing for time, 150-metre run, and one-wand exercise. The twelve-kampf included running broad jumn 400 metre run, hurling the ball for distance, ioc-metre run, and eight exercises on gymnastic aooaratus. More than 1,500 athletes took part in the six-kampf, and of these 271 were “victorious” in that they scored the necessary 75 points.

In the twelve-kampf Edward Kessler of Leipzig won the first honor, scoring 1343/2 points in a possible 150. Fifty-two others qualified as winners by scoring the required 100 points out of the possible 150. In the field events in the twelve-kampf the best performances were as follows:	100-metre dash, 11Y* seconds; running

bigh jump, 5 feet 8l/> inches; 400-metre run, 52 seconds; and running broad jump, 22 feet. While these figures do not show very favorably against the performances made by athletes at track meets in America, it must be taken into consideration that they were made by men who do not specialize in track and field work, and many of the gymnasts that made these records were in as many as six competitions a day, lasting from six in the morning until after eight in the evening.

In the ioc-metre event in the twelve-kampf series over 3,000 runners started. Ten runners started in each heat, and each runner was timed separately by an electric device similar to that used so successfully at the Olympic Games in Stockholm last summer. The starting was also done by an electric gun, and the runners were required to start standing up. No comoetitor was allowed to wear spiked shoes. Seventy-five per cent, of the competitors in the twelve-kampf appeared on the field in American track suits, illustrating to what an extent the Germans are copying the United States in their efforts to become proficient in track and field sports.

A wonderful sight, too, at the Leipzig games was the rope climbing contest, in which 1,500 men engaged. There were sixteen ropes, and as many climbers went away at the crack of the electric

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 233 —

gain. As in the dash, they were timed by electricity. Another spectacular sieht was the relay race competition for gymnastic clubs, in which no less than 500 teams started. There were 100 heats, with five teams in each heat. The runners passed colored flags at the “touch-off,” and the electric clocks decided the issue.

The 100-metre dash for “old turners” showed more than 300 sprinters over fifty years of age. The average time done by the veteran was 17^4 seconds, and the best performance was 16 1-5, by a man fifty-five years of age. There was also a gymnastic exhibition by turners between the ages of forty and sixty, on twenty-four parallel bars, in which the most critical expert could not detect a single flaw. Three hundred fencers took uart in the foils and sabre competitions, which were held in a huge tent on ten strips of canvas. This comoetition lasted for two and a half days.

Besides all these features there was a swimming carnival, in which over a thousand aquatic experts took part; also fistball, strike-ball (resembling our baseball), socker football, basketball, field hockey, prisoners’ base, and dozens of other competitions that held the attention of the thousands that attended the games each day.

The wonderful success of the Leipzig turnfest demonstrated to the world at large the wonderful discipline and organization of the German Tumerschaft with its membership of over a million and a half. The 60,000 athletes that took part in the various games follow the sport for the sake of sport alone. There is no remuneration aside from the thrill of the sport and the physical benefit gained through it. Most of the clubs that took part in the competitions prepared their men for not less than eighteen months in advance, and the sole reward the athletes received carhe in the shape of certificates of merit to those who qualified and simple wreaths to those who excelled. The total expenditure covering the promotion of the games was something like 1,236,000 marks, and the gate receipts just about covered this amount.

Truly, Leipzig’s great festival of sport was a lesson for all the, world to follow.

-----44 « „ j---,-_4.

—Hygiene of the Table.—Dr. J. C. Ferreira, in the Brazil ico; Rio de Janeiro, Oct. 1, 1912, reiterates anew that tachyphagia and polyphagia—eating too fast and too much—are responsible fqr arteriosclerosis and the gouty diathesis and shorten our days materially. He quotes Flourens’ “Man digs his grave with his teeth;” Seneca’s “Man does not die, he kills himself;” Carton’s mourons de fantes alimentaires et sedentarite,” and Heckel’s “To the overfed: inertia, asthenia, short life; to the temperate: muscular action, power, endurance,” and “Those who eat too fast soon lose the normal sensation of satiety;” Montenuis’ “The modern table is ruining the health of the individual and the vigor of the race. Instead

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 234 —

of supplying the furnace with only enough fuel to keep it running in good order, the furnace is kept red hot all the time.” Ferreira thinks that the tuberculous should not be urged to eat so much.

THE LARGEST ARTIFICIAL SWIMMING POOL IN THE

WORLD.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, G. G., Captain, Life Guards, Fairgrounds Pool, St. Louis, Missouri. Supervisor, physical Education, Public Schools,

-	Reading,	P	ennsylvania.

The opening of the new Municipal Open Air Swimming Pool in Fairgrounds Park, St. Louis, Mo., July 16, 1913, came at a very opportune time. St. Louis and the middle West experienced one of the hottest summers in years, and the opening of the new pool filled a long felt want. The opening of no other public institution in St. Louis has ever been attended by such vast crowds and such prolonged interest. Countless numbers stood in line waiting their turn for hours at a time for a suit and locker. When the gong sounded every hour, admitting the bathers to the pool, it was a beautiful -sight to see the joyful stampede of thousands, men and women, great and small, toward the water. The bathers were allowed to stay in the water forty-five minutes, then the pool was cleared for ‘-the next shift. The attendance for the first month averaged twelve thousand daily. On the opening day sixteen people were rescued from the water and during the first month the number amounted to one hundred and sixty-three, with not a single serious accident. When the large expanse of deep water and the great number of bathers is taken into consideration, this is truly a remarkable record.

THE WADING POOL. THIS ADJ OINS THE SWIMMING POOL.

Digitized by
— 235 —

The pool is four hundred and fifty feet long- by three hundred feet wide and ten feet deep in the middle. The bottom is concrete: with a gradual slope from all sides to the center. Next to the large pool is a wading pool for children. The large pool holds 3,475,000 gallons of water and the small pool 465,000.

The large pool was drained and thoroughly cleaned once pef week and the wading pool drained three times a week. There was a constant flow of water from a six-inch main in both pools.

The entire pools were enclosed by an 8-foot wire fence. Admittance was only through the locker rooms and shower baths. Five cents was charged for a suit and one cent for a towel. If the bather had his own suit and towel no charge was made. Tuesday morning was reserved for ladies only, and proved very popular-many ladies coming then who did not come any other time during the week. The pool was closed every Monday for cleaning.

There is great agitation now for the establishment of similar pools in different parts of the city.

While there was no public instruction given in swimming many persons learned to swim and the swimming classes of all the private natatoriums doubled and trebled after the new pool was opened. It is planned next summer to give free class Instruction in swimming several mornings each week. The establishment of public swimming pools is a move in the right direction and cities not having pools will do well to investigate the popularity and great success of this new venture in St. Louis. •'

SHALLOW END OF THE SWIMMING POOL. THE DEEP ENp WITH THE "	OWING	TOWEtt	4s TtrTHE mGHT:-----

Digitized by LiOOQle
stutter

BfiAU NSCMWgjfT

\DctmoicL

>WESEL

^aderborn

DUISBURG

Wlrburg

LEIPZI

Bumlau-

b'netburgi

i>obauo

■>rrut

tcuvnbiiry

Orenburg

•y’Mark^uhL'

uhatlas

Hunfelt

rngenfebd/

'Schluchterrts

Bopphrii Ob WesJ}

fMunchbvy

\cha/f?nbury

^^Ihebury

tDARMSTADT*

iBenshm

Jd*£fiT*5obernhMWV 'WU*en/eld	Burst.

n	luduiqs

3f WtnddlZ	Burkhqurt

y** SiuirbritirAen- Land*

J-J—	Weiss	anbury

YOrofenberg

IURNBERG

^s_/lbumarkt

’Worth,



Bep'tiumj.s /fade1

RASSBURG



O

o

Chart showing the cities touched by the six relays, showing also how the runners from all parts of Germany will1 meet

at Leipsic on October 18+h*

Digitized by
TJNIQUEIRELAiYS TO LEXPSIG.

The Deutsche Turnenschaft has planned six uctiqpe relays, participated?in by 16260* men as its contribution to the great festivities which are to take place October 18lb afc beipsic, Simony, in honor of the dedication of the national'monument erected there in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the battle of Leipsic. These relays are a« follows:

I. Btemerttaven......... about	4*50	km.,.	230©	turners,	time	23>	hours.

Ia. Knivssberg— Hamburg.

II.	Ruegen	.			437	a	26309	44	li-	25
III.	Breslau.		<<	337	a	T9 00	14	ft	1»
IM.	Keftitint				14'	437	u	2100	44	4 4s	21
V.	Niedenwald		I4»	4d;6,	<«.	220©	*•<	ft	2m
Va. Metz (pact runA			a	232	*4-	U300	<1	44	12
V1S-.	Nassau (part run)/		a	39	il	360	44	ft	4
Vc. Strassburg (part run);..		it	142	• 4	800	<4	14	m
vx	Wesefc			52a.	(4	2700	a	41	2e%

The men running the first nelay, from- Bremerha-ven to Leipsic,, wilf carry the streamer donated by the North American Gymnastic Uniom Mr. By. Braun, formerly speaker of the N. A. G. H. will be its official representative at this great celebration.



o

o

_Q

Q
Misp ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Published Monthly.

BY

Price, $1.00 per Year. Foreign $!.?&.

LUIweM V», Wleconein.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W>*. Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

—The visit of <the representatives of the German Olympic Committee to study American training methods has brought forth many comments from our press, one of the most interesting being the following from the New York Times of August 10th:—

Will They Learn or Teach? Germany’s interest in competitiver as distinguished from what may be called developmental or hygienic,, athletics is of a date so recent that naturally she does not feel it a. humiliation, as England, for instance, would, to confess the need and show the desire to learn from American experts the art of winning* in the Olympic^ contests. Hence is it that her representatives are . coming over here to study the methods of our trainers, amateur and professional, and with the avowed intention of carrying back one or more of them to teach the German youth how to make glorious-scores at the next international meeting.

Of course the visitors will be welcomed, and of course by the use of the proper argument they can get as many competent instructors as they want, but whether they are entirely wise in making this quest is not beyond question.

To be sure, we are all proud of our athletes, of their records and their successes, but there is here a dubiety, already wide-spread and steadily growing, that the relation between athletics as practiced in this country'and the health and longevity which ought to be the objects of physical training is by no means close.

There is, indeed, in many quarters a firm conviction that there is no such relation at all—thf.t, on the contrary, the victor in competitive athletics pays for his brief glory a price far greater than it is worth, and, instead of storing energy and strength for future years, invites by an overstrained heart and deteriorated muscles an invalidism which those seemingly his physical inferiors usually escape. Our prize winners are called “old” long before they reach middle age, and that is a fate unknown to the German “turner.”

It is not improbable, therefore, that these pilgrims could teach Here as much as they could learn, and that we could profit more from their lessons than they from ours as to the best kind and highest purpose of athletics. Certainly it would be a pity if they set-

Entered at tbe Milwaukee Po«t Office as Second Class Matter.

Notes and Comments

Digitized by

Google
— 239 —

their boys to running in our abominable “Marathon races,” or their young men to rowing so hard and so long that they collapse in tears and hysteria as they pass the stakeboat. These and their like are not sport, but suicide, and the records they make are not written alone in the books of the timers. They are also collected by doctors for the mortality tables.

—Dancing Away Care and Taxes. To support the entire park system of Cleveland by dance hall tickets instead of taxes is the new plan broached by the city park department. A. J. Sindelar, secretary of the department, has just completed a study of municipal dance halls. In his report he estimates that one large dance pavilion operating in each of the five principal city parks at three cents a dance would yield the city a clear net earning of $300,000 a year.

This would mean that the $200,000 required to operate the entire park department would all be danced into the tills on three-cent tickets, doing away with the necessity for drawing upon taxation, and a surplus' of $100,000 a year would be left to take care of improvements now covered by bond issues. Cleveland’s extensive system of parks would be made self-supporting.

Mr. Sindelar’s estimate is based on the operation of dance halls all year round, and on floors measuring at least 100 by 125 feet. The first move in carrying out the plan will be to recommend the erection of such dance halls at the two large lake front breathing spots, Edgewater and Gordon Parks.

—Dances Opened With Prayer. Salt Lake City is one of the very few American cities that is handling the question of recreation for the public with advantage to all concerned. This is especially so as far as dancing is concerned. Salt Lake City is divided into 42 wards, each of which has a bishop and a church of the Mormon faith. Every Friday night, young and old, men and women, gather in these churches for the weekly dances, to which they invariably look forward with pleasure. The evening’s entertainment is conducted much the same as services in our ordinary churches and are better regulated, as a rule, than in the average dance hall.

The dance is opened with a prayer service, and it is not unusual to see over 500 persons in attendance. Since the establishment of the entertainments not a single act of disorder has been reported to the authorities. Decorum is the rule, and with decorum goes a large amount of enjoyment.

Of course, the ordinary pastor would never countenance such a thing as the conversion of his church into a dance hall, yet one cannot help being struck by the fact that Salt Lake City, shut off as it is from the rest of the world by its religion, should have solved a problem that has worried both the clergy and the social reformers of other American cities.

Digitized by
-240-

NEWARK’S RECENT FIELD DAY.

By ERNEST H. SEIBERT, Assistant Supervisor Physical Training, Newark, N. J,

On May 27th, the Board of Education sent notice to all the elementary schools that the Annual Field Day would take place on the 13th and 14th of June. Entries were to close on June 7th. The 13th was set as the day on which the girls were to compete in their athletic events and the 14th was given over to the competitions of the boys. Schools wefe dismissed at twelve o’clock' oh Friday, the day of the gitls* rtieet and the activities began at 1:3b. The boys oh Saturday started at twelve o’clock. The officials of the meet were selected froth the supervisory corps consisting of three men, from the elementary physical directors 13 men, from the high school teachers five women and five then, and last, but not least, from the sixty principals of the schools of the city. These latter men show a remarkable interest afid increased proficiency with each successive meet.

Formerly the meets were held at the Newark base-ball grounds, Wiedenmeye'f’s Park, but since the magnificent ne\V athletic field of the N. P. S. A. A. was completed in time, the meets were held there.

The girls are classified according to grade. Each grade above the 4th yeah has a Standard and a Prize event. 'Fhe Standard is a certain set event which experience has shown us as best adapted to the grade. Great care has to be exercised in the selection of the girls’ events, because of the harm which may be done to the rowing girl. The Prize events consist of short relay races in which teams of six to ten girls compete.

3,bbb girls took part in this year’s Field t)ay. It was not yet five o’clock Whetl the final of the last race was run. The events Were

8th year standard.

Throwing the Basket Ball for distance. 40 ft.

Prize—Oat Bag relay. (10 girls.)

7TH YEAR STANDARD.

Throwing a 4 lb. bag for height. (A disc 2 ft. in diameter and 17 ft. from the ground.)

Prize—440 yd. relay. (8 girls.)

6th year standard.

Hand walk on 16 ft. horizontal ladder (both ways.)

Prize—Indian Club Relay. (6 girls.)

5TH YEAR STANDARD.

30 yard dash in 5 seconds.

Prize—Potato relay race. (8 girls.)

4TH YEAR STANDARD.

Throwing indoor baseball for distance. 30 ft.

No Prize.

Saturday, June 14th. was the day of the official opening of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 241 —

field. Mayor Haussling and numerous other important city officials, as well as President Taylor and his fellow members of the Newark Board of Education, were present.	The band of the Newark

Parental Home furnished the music. Four thousand boy athletes, waving American flags, and led bv the officers of the city, joined in a most inspiring march around the 440 yard track. With this ceremony over, the games began.

The boys are divided into three classes. Junior, Intermediate and Seniors. A Junior is a boy over nine and under thirteen years, and less than four feet, ten inches in height. An Intermediate is under fifteen and not over five feet three and a half inches in height. A Senior is under eighteen, any height. Note—If a boy is over either age or height, he goes into the class above. Measurements to be made in stocking feet.

It is needless to say that intense^ but friendly rivalry marked all the contests. Several new records were made.. Not a serious accident happened to mar the day. The meet terminated with a thrilling 880 yard Senior relay at 5 130 o’clock.

The boys’ events included dashes of 50, 75, 100 and 220 yards; standing and running, broad and high jumps, hop-step and jump, pole vault, shot put, hurdle and relay races. In all, including the standards, thirty-two events.

A boy mav enter two events, one of which must be a field and the other a track event. In addition, he may be placed on the relay team.

When a girl or boy makes a standard event, he earns a button and the school he represents gets one point. Since a boy may enter two standard events, he may earn a better button and two pionts for his school. For the prize relay races, gold, silver and bronze medals are given and the points awarded to the school are ten, six, four and two. For individual prize events, dashes, jumps, etc., "old, silver and bronze medals are given and the points are five, three, two and one.

Sixteen silver loving cups donated b~ public spirited citizens are awarded for the following evidences of superiority, i. e.

For the school—

1.	Scoring most points in the meet, ("iris and boys.)

2.	Winning "reatest number of first places in prize events.

3.	Scoring most points in boys’ events.

4.	Scoring most points in girls’ events.

5.	Scoring most points in field prize events.

6.	Scoring most points in track prize events.

7.	Scoring most	points	in field and track	events.

8.	Scoring most	points	in standard events	(boys and girls.)

9.	Winning the	Senior	relay.

10.	Winning the	Intermediate relay.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 242 —

11.	Winning the Junior relay.

12.	Winning the Oat Bag relay.

14.	Winning the Indian Club relay.

15.	Winning the Potato relay.

16.	Winning the Dodge Ball contest.

In order to give the smaller schools a better chance, the points scored are figured on a percentage basis; by that is meant the total number of points scored is divided by the number of pupils on role above the 2nd grade. Up to the present, no large school has won the chief trophies.

A committee of five men has been appointed to investigate the method of figuring bv percentage now used, with a view to changing for something satisfactory to all.

Sussex Ave. school, the winner of the last Field Day, carried off ten cups, a most remarkable record. The school's percentage read .875; it's enrollment, 625.

The explanation of all the games, relay races, standard and prize events that took place at our recent Field Day, may be found in the handbook of the Newark Public School Athletic Association, which we should be pleased to send to anyone who wishes a copy.

Perhaps one of the readers of this article has a better scheme than our percentage basis. Newark would be glad to hear of the methods of deciding winners used by other cities.

At a faculty meeting held in one of the provinces in Southern Luzon, an American teacher from the Intermediate School, in discussing “The Bov Thinking," said that he had asked his Fifth Year Class for a definition of civilization and that a Chinese mestizo wrote: “Civilization was a mon wat was pent to college.,, The teacher accepted the definition as the best one given. He applied it and, reasoning with the boy, deduced that there were only three civilized men in the community—the Principal of the High School had to be classified with the “uncivilized." The teacher asked the 1 boy if he would admit of some of his teachers being ranked in a class with the Igorots and Negritos, whereupon the boy explained: “Civilization was a mon who studies mucho and is still." In answering this question impromptu the bov had been left on his own resources. He had never seen the answer in a book—he was simply voicing the sentiments of his home. His father would very probably have answered the question in the same way and his neighbors might have responded likewise. That is precisely the Chinese attitude and for that reason the Chinese in the Islands have not taken

THE FIRST CHINESE PLAYGROUND IN THE PHILIPPINES.

By HENRY STUCCATOR BERNARD, B. A.
— 243 —

readily to athletics. To the Chinaman athletics seem merely an excuse for undignified conduct. He identifies play with a lack of good breeding and enthusiasm with unnecessary noise that ought to be stopped. Devoted mothers and fathers look upon athletics as mere childish pastimes and hope that in time their sons will outgrow these youthful notions. Roughness and noise are not characteristics of the Chinese. John Chinaman is essentially a hard and quiet worker —the burden of the centuries seems to weigh heavily upon him.

These were the conditions to be met when the idea of starting a playground for the Chinese was first conceived. The Far Eastern Olympic Meet had helped in a measure to stir up some interest in athletics;, the prey was within reach of the lion—but the lion was asleep. Under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. it was hoped that a plan for building up a Chinese playground might be carried out. The matter was brought to the attention of some Chinamen, who had been schooled in the States, and their influence in setting their school authorities right was solicited.

On a Wednesday afternoon I appeared in the yard of the Anglo-Chinese School for the first time. Many Chinese boys do not attend the public schools in Manila, but go to private schools of their own where instruction is given in Chinese, though a little English is taught, with strong emphasis laid upon “little.” In the school yard there was assembled a motley crowd: the majority in abbreviated

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 244

clothes—shirt-tail out, some in bare feet, but most of them in chine-las. They rolled their almond eyes and seemed to prepare for some fancied ordeals through which they expected to be put. All tongues were going, but not one my way. We had no words, but there was a mutual kindly understanding that something was going to be done. It was not long before the youngsters were busy, broom, rake or spade in hand, making their first playground. They worked ahead cheerfully, laying out their Indoor Baseball Diamond, Volley Ball field, Basket Ball plot, their circle for ring games and squares for square games. At first one boy, after studying for some time, approached me with: “Sir, I no hear Eeenglees;” but only a short time has passed and they already shout “Queek,” “Heet the boll,” and “Owt” in understandable though very elastic English. To the Chinese as to the Filipinos, athletics are bringing the beginnings of the English language.

CHINESE PLAYGROUND, BOYS IN DRESS AL AMERICANO THE LITTLE CHINOS PLAYING “KOT AND MOOSE.”

John Chinaman must be convinced that play does not necessarily mean roughness, and that one does not consequently lose dignity by becoming an athlete. Only then will he develope a real enthusiasm for games—at present it is but a tacit consent. He is simply tolerating what persistent Americans make it difficult for him to obviate. At a meet where “American Civilization” might have rooted his head off, Chong looks on with the eye of a fatalist: “But, Sir, I hope my son will outgrow this soon and get down to the serious business of life” are his sentiments.

However, the Chinese are the coming leaders of the Orient— their industry and eagerness to learn will give them the ascendency in time. Could they speak English or we Chinese it is possible
— 245 —

that not so very much more could be accomplished. The Oriental may get our words but he does not get the Western spirit. He will have to go through the birth throes of a similar civilization before he can truly understand us, and before we can learn from the history which he will make to appreciate him fully.

Physiology and Hygiene.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

The fourth international congress on school hygiene convened at Buffalo, N. Y., from August 25-30, 1913. The proceedings, with the papers read at the meeting, will be published in book form in due time. The following report is taken from the pages of the Buffalo Express:—

“Those who engage in the work to uplift humanity are frequently looked upon as dreamers,” said William B. Wilson, secretary of labor, at the opening of the fourth international congress on school hygiene at the opening session. “But the dreamers of today are the practical men of tomorrow. The dreamers of today are the men who move fortune and progress. You have your dreams and out of those dreams will come a more perfect manhood and womanhood for future generations.,,

Men who undertook to solve the problem of the sanitation of cities were looked upon as dreamers, he said. Before they began their work it was nothing unusual for plagues to visit our cities and wipe them off the map.

“Our schoolrooms are little cities in themselves,” he continued; “they are cities composed of those not yet of mature judgment who have not become familiar with the principles underlying proper hygiene. They must be taught those principles and before you can begin to teach the children in our school-rooms proper principles of hygiene it is necessary that you should begin with thpse who have reached maturity and press upon them the necessity of proper hygienic conditions in our schools and proper hygienic training for our school children.”

In the name of the President, secretary of state, congress and the people of the United States, Mr. Wilson extended a welcome to\ the delegates.

Mr. Walter H. Kilham, the Boston architect, spoke on the hygienic construction of school-houses and referred particularly to the great advance in the cost of school construction in the last decade.

“Experiments with open-air classes,” he said, “have not yet demonstrated that perfection has been attained, but the testimony in general shows that pupils in these rooms make a great advance both mentally and ohysically.”

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 246 —

“It is the plain duty of the state to provide segregation of the defective, the insane, and the habitual criminal, in order to prevent the breeding of human beings from such stock. It is not yet clear how good breeding can be promoted among free men and women, but it is clear how bad breeding can and should be prevented.”

This is a paragraph from a rather startling address given by Dr. Charles W. Eliot, president emeritus of Harvard university, and president of the International Congress on School Hygiene, an idea which has been advanced by psychologists for incorporation in the statute law, but which has not been countenanced by public opinion. In common terms it means that the state should see to it that the insane, the ^defective and the habitual criminal should be sterilized.

Dr. Eliot expressed extreme ideas regarding the obligation of the state towards the person of the individual. He declared for the general medical inspection of school children to discover and correct defects of the body, and for the teaching of sex hygiene in the schools. He told that “prostitutes are mental defectives,” and that to an extent prostitution can be prevented by the correction in youth of ills that makes for that condition.

“It is only within about five years,” he said, “that any considerable attention has been directed to this subject—for this reason among others, that until recently there were no accurate tests for the latent presence of the diseases which in mankind accompany perverted sex relations. Moreover, the laws and the public hospitals took no cognizance of the worst of contagious diseases; the state, church and family were silent about the worst of human vices.”

He advocated shorter hours for all factory work, work that tends to become automatic effort. He would keep children out of the factories. Ills of work, he held, came not so much from overwork as from “uninteresting and worrisome work, done without cheerful motives and, therefore, without enjoyment.” For the most part that was the character of factory work. So “any school work which at all resembles factory work may safely be condemned.” He would have “short periods of school work for strenuous attention,” and much work of the kind in which the child takes interest.

Sir James Grant of Ottawa, president of the Canadian section, talked on School Hygiene and Child Life. He urged particularly the duty of mothers to give careful attention to their children in infancy. He pointed out the evils that come to the child that is bottle-fed and the happy state of the breast-fed child. Careful study had shown that the chances of the breast-fed child over the bottle-fed infant were better than two to one.

It was the opinion of Sir James that the average child ought not to be sent to school before the age of seven years. If the general school system was built on his ideas, the lot of the small boys
— 247 —

would be verry happy. For Sir James impressed on his audience the great need of “frequent days off” for the school children. He didnt’ believe in the driving method for a minute.

Dr. Walter W. Roach of Philadelphia read a paper on Vitalizing School Children. He told of an interesting experiment with two classes of third-grade pupils in Philadelphia. One class occupied a room heated and ventilated in the usual way. The second class studied all winter in a classroom with the windows wide open.

“The windows of the one room were kept constantly down from the top and up from the bottom, and the room was cut off from the regular heating plant of the building. The ordinary desks were removed, and replaced with chair desks which could easily be moved by the pupils themselves to clear the floor space for frequent physical exercises. As cold weather approached the children were provided with woolen sweaters, worsted caps, soft woolen blankets and knitted woolen gloves. Thus their lower extremeties were protected from the cold floor with no disturbance of the circulation.

Week ly week during the fall and winter and spring we weighed and examined these pupils, watched their study and their play and compared their scholarship with that of the children in the warm air room. The children from both rooms came from the same kind of homes, so that the test was as fair and as accurate and searching as possible. As might have been expected, we found at the end that the pupils in the open window’ room had gained on an average more than twice as much in weight as those in the warm air room.* They kept wholly free from colds, and were much more regular in attendance than the others.

Whether or not the teaching of sex hygiene shall be introduced into the public schools, the most absorbing topic of the congress w’as discussed and debated by eminent educators before an audience of nearly 2,000 persons at Elmw’ood Music hall. The debate was earnest, but not bitter. The opinion that the time had arrived when the attitude of the world's educational institutions toward the subject should be revolutionized was practically unanimous. The experts divided on the question of how it was to be taught. They saw in the silence of the past on the subject a growing menace to the future of the race that must be combatted by a system of education that must be without exaggeration or morbid suggestion.

Dr. Charles W. Eliot, president of the congress, the Reverend J. Tierney, S. J., of Woodstock College, Maryland; Dr. Hugh Cabot of Boston, Miss Laura B. Barrett of New York, Mrs. Ella Flagg Young, superintendent of the Chicago schools; Dr. Alexander Me Kay of Toronto, Ont.; Professor Owens of Chicago Normal School and other delegates read papers on the subject or joined in the discussion that followed.

Digitized by
— 248 —

“A remarkable change in public opinion has taken place in regard to sex hygiene,” said Dr. Eliot in the opening address, “using the term in its broadest sense. The policy of silence has been almost universal. Medical discoveries have contributed to the shift in public opinion, which also has been moved by the many signs of physical deterioration consequent upon the rush to city life. Fathers and mothers feel a new duty toward their children. Churches take a new interest. The most important question for us to consider is: What force can now be put into play against the formidable evils which gravely threaten the very life of the race? No one force or agency can be completely relied upon.”

The nearest approach to sharp debate was in Mrs. Young's reply to some of the statements made in Father Tierney's address. Father Tierney had said that his convictions were not favorable to the movement in all its details; neither were they adverse. In forceful, eloquent words he declared that if sex hygiene was to be taught* the details should be eliminated; that the youqg should be taught that purity is noble and possible; that the family is sacred.

“Knowledge is not moral power,” said Father Tierney. “Christ* not hygiene, will cleanse the world.”

Mrs. Young pointed out the impossibility of attaining Father Tierney's high ideals under existing conditions in the public school, “where it has become almost impossible to ^mention the name of Girist.”

“We are forced to take up this subject without the ideal,” said Mrs. Young, “which the previous speaker (Father Tierney) knew could not be incorporated in public school teaching.

“On the other hand,” added Mrs. Young, I am not fully in accord with those who have advocated sex hygiene in the public schools. I have my doubts about the emphasis thal some desire to place on reproduction before classes of children in elementary* schools. Imagination prompts children to sins which they do not realize.

“I believe that there is one way to begin this work if it cannot be done in the homes and that is in training in personal purity in the elemental schools.”

Mrs. Young said that the board of education of Chicago had spent $10,000 on educating adults in sex hygiene. That work, however, does not belong to the board or to the school, but to the clergy* societies like the hygiene congress, municipal, state and federal governments. Mrs. Young said that when the high schools of Chicago open this fall the board is ready to begin the work under the direction of physicians, selected because of their training as physicians and the high moral tone that would pervade their presentations on the subject.

Dr. Eliot said the attack must be made against the three princi-
— 249 —

pal causes of the present evil conditions—first, lust in men; second, the mental deficiency and lack of moral principle of the women who supply the demands of men; and third, the greed and depravity of the wretches who maintain a profitable commerce out of the traffic.

“Defensive agencies against lust,” he continued, “include full occupation of mind and body, manly sports, ambition and energy in the earning of a livelihood, timely knowledge, temperance in food and drink and deliverance from mischievous transmitted belief. The best source of information is the parent, but schools, churches and other social agencies must be utilized. The public press must aid. It must be made impossible for either young men or young women to plead ignorance as an excuse. It is not likely that any short or easy road can be found to the redemption from licentiousness of males. There is, therefore, all the more reason for entering at once on the best roads to be found that lead in the desired direction.

“Commercialized vice should be attacked in all its forms by all the powers of law. The ancient policies of toleration and licensed segregation and regulation must be uprooted. Segregation nowhere has been successful, even in Japan, where it has existed for centuries.

“The laws against undesirable marriages need to be revised and the public must be convinced that no law can eradicate the evil. Laws must provide that candidates for marriage shall be free from disease and proper provision must be made for the certificate to that effect to come from a trustworthy physician appointed by the state.

“Public progress in regard to sex hygiene and eugenics is to be procured chiefly through educational methods. The work must be done delicately, without morbid suggestion, without interference with parental rights or religious convictions, and in general, in a pure, high-minded, disinterested way. The pioneering, voluntary association should enlist gradually the public authorities in this vast undertaking and transfer to the public the support of those parts of the work that prove to be sure and permanent public advantages.”

Dr. Hugh Cabot of Boston followed Dr. Eliot. He is president of the American association of genito-urinary surgeons and is connected with the Massachusetts general hosoital. His subject was education versus punishment as a remedy for social evils.

“The problems arising from misdirected or undirected play of the sex instinct,” he said, “are as old as the world, but the sound majority is against those who still oppose its discussion and they i i st now listen. We shall probably uncover most of our sources of error, if we consider what has been done in attacking these problems during the latter half of the nineteenth century. The dangers arising from the mismanagement of the sex instinct are increasing. The sex instinct should be a potent force in the determination of character, but our system of ignorance and denial has tended to break down rather than build up. We have meted out punishment without benefit.

Digitized by CiOOQle
— 35Q —

‘‘To secure comprehension instruction this must be given early in life and be continuous and progressive and must teach the true nature and effect of the sex instinct. It must be given by men and women of breadth and strength of character and must not be isolated in form.”

Philander P. Claxton, United States commissioner of education, spoke on teaching the morality of sex relations. Among* other things he advocated vocational training for girls. The age of marriage, fixed by custom and prejudice, he said, generally came too late in life.

Father Tierney was next introduced. His subject was The Catholic Church and Sex Hygiene. He warned the delegates that unless their campaign was based on religion it was doomed to failure. “If the presence of the omnipotent God is insufficient to check the passion of man, will hygiene do it?” he asked. He also warned the congress against the use of textbooks and charts on sex hygiene in the elementary grades. Wrong ideas, he said, would crowd into little brains like bats, into an	house	and the age of lax morals

would be put forward several years rather than checked.

“Safety lies in diverting their attention and the safety of many adults lies in the same direction/' said Father Tierney. “Modesty and shame are the natural protectors of our youth. Character training is the first step toward chastity, but it is only one. Religion alone will be of lasting benefit in this campaign. God not hygiene is the need of this hour.

“Sex hygiene concerns the eternal destiny of man, the fate of his immortal soul as well as his temporal interests. It is not merely a pedagogical question. In the last analysis the question concerns the abolition of sexual sin.

“The proposed courses involve two elements, the intellectual and the ethical. The former is detailed, the latter vague and purely naturalistic. The main result aimed at is knowledge. The appeal is to the wrong faculty, the emphasis in the wrong place. Information cannot keep a man upright. Knowledge is not moral power. Christ, not hygiene, saved the world, will clean the world, and keep it clean.

“Damaged Goods, the drama now being presented at the Star theater teaches that knowledge does not protect. The foundations of chastity are in elemental character building. Sex instruction cannot give character; without character it is as chaff before the wind. Life on the highest plane is impossible without God and religion, and chastity belongs to the life on the highest plane.”

“My convictions are not favorable to your movement in all its details,” said Father Tierney in conclusion, “Neither are they adverse. Eliminate the details of sex hygiene, train character, teach that purity is noble and possible, that vice is vile and carries its own

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 251 —

-punishment, that marriage is inviolate and that the family is sacred.

“Teach boys that their bodies are vessels of honor, the habitation of a soul made in the image of God; train them to reverence womanhood and to venerate motherhood. Teach girls reserve, ■modesty of manner and dress, purity and self-sacrifice. Carry your •campaign further. Purge the press, cleanse the novel, elevate the theater, abolish animal dances and frown on co-education after the age of puberty. Labor that any men may realize the great obligation of life, which is to know God and do His behests.”

Thomas M. Balliet. dean of the school of pedagogy, New York university, spoke on the points of attack in sex education. He said in part:

“Sex instruction is needed by children, by youth and by adults. Where shall we begin? We can give it to. children who especially need it privately in the elementary -schools, but not. in class. It should be given only by the principal or by a specially qualified teacher designated by him. We can prepare for it by emphasizing In connection with Nature study the facts of reproduction in plants and in animals below the mammals. To go beyond this in class instruction at present would be premature and arouse prejudice Public sentiment is not ready for it and the teachers are not trained for it.

“We can teach it in the high schools in connection with biology, hygiene and ethics. We can teach it in colleges in a similar way. Public sentiment is ready to support such instruction to bodies of mature men and women, under right conditions, my means of lectures and conferences.

“It is most of all needed by parents. A beginning can at once he made in the parents’ meetings, now held in most city schools from time to time.

Professor Owens of Chicago Normal School disagreed with many of the Speakers in regard to the age of children who should receive instruction on the subject.

“Knowledge is one of the first essentials for the control of impulse,” he said. “To leave the child to pick up that knowledge haphazard and from improper sources as they all do is not fair. I do not fear the public classroom teaching of sex hygiene. It is far better to have an efficient person talk of these things in a proper way than to leave them to the alley and the barnyard.”

The American Federation for Sex Hygiene held a business session at which these officers were elected: President, Charles W. Eliot, Cambridge, Mass.; vice presidents, Dr. David Starr Jordan, Leland Stanford University; William T. Foster, president of Reed College, Portland, Ore.; Felix Warburg, New York, and W. T. Wumner, Chicago; secretary, Dr. Donald R. Hooker, Baltimore; treasurer, Henry L. Higginson, Boston.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 252 —

The federation voted to amalgamate with the American Vigilance Association to form a single organization.

The permanent international committee on school hygiene approved the arrangements of the permanent bureau to hold the fifth-international congress on school hygiene in Brussels two years hence.

The amount of exercise, mental and physical, that a growing boy or girl should have, was one of the questions upon which the delegates to the congress expressed divergent views. By some it was held that there should be more open-air athletics, while others said a vigorous mental life is the greatest source of health and that too much of a fetish had been made of air and exercise. Papers onv this subject were read before the play and athletics section of the congress of which Joseph Lee of Boston, president of the Playground Association of America, was chairman.

Mr. Lee held that a vigorous mental life and a good teacher made the best hygienic prescription.

“Better a stuffy schoolroom with zealous work than fresh air,, muscular development with mental flabbiness,” he said.

The other extreme view was expressed by Mr. William A. Stecher, head of the department of physical training in the Philadelphia schools.

“A few piinutes of arm stretching and finger twisting cannot be called physical training,” he said. “We must demand at least one hour daily of muscular work adapted to the child as to age and sex.”

Mr. Lee held that the size of the classes in the public schools* was much too large. He advocated cutting them in half, no matter what the cost. He also advocated special schools, not only for the deaf, the blind, but for all requiring peculiar treatment, including* the bright pupils “to whom the regular grades are an intellectual hobbleskirt spoiling their natural gait.

“The home must be conserved as a spiritual means of healthr not as a mere boarding-house. School feeding should be confined to sick children; and these should pay, or their payment be supplied by outside expert agencies.

Dr. Luther H. Gulick, president of the Camp Fire Girls, spoke before the same section on the social function of play.

“When it became necessary to formulate a plan for a national leisure time for girls—the Camp Fire Girls,” he said, “it became necessary to study afresh the social needs of society.

“During the last few years we have been endeavoring to provide spare time and leadership whereby young people might have interesting recreation and some times play, but, on the whole, we have been disappointed in the shifting character of our attendance. Chil-

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 253 —

dren drift in and out of our playground without becoming caught in the meshes of social customs so that they are thereby lifted to a higher level of life. This has led to an examination of the forces involved and the significance of the facts.

“Human nature makes two demands upon life—for food and for love. Life at its finest is the result of the wholesome and successful pursuits of these two ends. The one is the basis of business where man leads. The other is the basis of social life and the home where woman leads.

“People are soul hungry without knowing it. They long for companionship more deeply than they long for anything else. Social adventure, sympathy, friendship, that is for genuine social life, the opportunity for which is disappearing from .our domestic relations.	*	~

“This demand of the soul is the demand for life itself. The deepest demand of the soul is to eive and receive love. For this all other things exist. The love of mothers for children is one of the deepest and earliest of loves. Out of this has grown the family and the home. This is the basis of the social spirit. To conserve this is the fundamental social service.”

“It was with these ideas in mind that the Camp Fire Girls were organized. Their aims are to find interesting things to do together in keeping with modern conditions and to provide an incentive social machine and physical opportunity for wholesome social relations and the promotion of soul satisfying happiness.”

In the section devoted to mental hygiene and the hygiene of the mentally abnormal child, Elizabeth Irwin, field worker of the committee on hygiene of school children, public education association of New York, presented a paper on the particular need of mental classification in special schools. This is a subject upon which many of the speakers at the congress have dwelt and the opinion seems unanimous that immediate steps should be taken to secure classification so that the normal child may not be hampered by the mentally defective and that the bright child may have an opportunity to find its proper level. She spoke particularly of study in a poverty school in New York.

Thorough medical inspection of schools and the use of discarded battleships for open-air schools or hospitals were among the radi-cad recommendations made in the resolutions adopted by the fourth international congress on school hygiene. Part of the resolution reads:—

“That the congress expresses its appreciation to the Italian government of the example it has given by consecrating three of its discarded men-of-war to the combat of tuberculosis.”

Digitized by
— 254 —

G. Stanley Hall, president of Clark University, Worcester,. Mass., spoke on The Hygiene of Appetite. He reviewed in a scholarly way the most recent experiments and studies on taste and the nutritive processes. These, he said, have shown how intimately connected is every stage of the digestive activities with cerebral centers. Appetite he characterized as the mainspring of about all the processes of the entire alimentary tract.

“As a result of study on this question/" he said, “there seems to be now some hope that we will rise above the innumerable fads and craftky dietary theories to which human nature has such a sad proclivity of superstition, and learn better than we now know how to eat aright, which is about as fundamental a precept as anything in the whole field of physical or mental hygiene.

“There is almost nothing in the entire environment of eating that does not affect the appetite. We eat more or better, or both, if the dining-room is illuminated and sunshiny, the walls artistically treated and the service satisfies us.

“People who eat alone and especially those who cook their own food are prone to eat less with less mastication, more rapidly, with less variety, and become careless and irregular. Man is gregarious, and social converse at meals is one of the best appetizers, while depression and a sense of isolation are keenest to those who are solitary.

“By a clever use of all the resources of antiseptic surgery it has been made possible to measure the quantity of salivary secretion which hunger excites, and to demonstrate its stimulating effects upon association and thus to show, after a series of 40 experiments, that as much saliva (measuring expectancy of food) flows when a specific note, color, form, local, touch, heat, etc., has been used as a signal food, as when the food itself is given.

“Appetite has a striking influence on gastric secretion. Not only the quantity of gastric juice varies with mathematical, but the quality with chemical, exactness with the amount and kind of food.

“From these facts we may infer that appetite, however we define it, is the very best guide and test of hygienic feeding, both in health and disease, and that we have from all these data the basis of a new conception of its rank and place among dietary agencies. Normally, it points true as the needle to the pole, too, to the actual needs of the body, although, of course, one must never forget that, like the magnetic needle, it is subject to many aberrations.”

Two sections of the congress were devoted to the preservation of school children's eyesight.

Dr. Lewis spoke on Mind Making Through Sight Seeing. He said that it was generally conceded that nearsight is developed and increases during school life until in maturity more than one quarter
— 255 —

of the school population has acquired myopia. It is due in its beginning to bad hygienic surroundings and is found as much among the rich as among the poor.

Explaining the start of the trouble and its correction, Dr. Lewis

said:

“It starts primarily as a result of a strain of the eyes having that congenital irregularity of the front part of the eyeball known as astigmatism. In order to produce a clear image on the retinae of the eyes so malformed an abnormal strain is put upon the muscles of accommodation within the globe. This weakens the resistance of the ball, allowing it gradually to stretch more especially in the back part. The stretching having begun, it is steadily but surely increased by continued near work such as reading or writing.

“Notwithstanding this fact there is no modification in the rigid curriculum of our schools for pupils having eyes so affected and we have as a result the development of a condition which predisposes to other and later destructive changes in the eyes.

“The remedies are obvious. First, the correction of the focal defect at the earliest possible opportunity; but when the stretching process has begun this is not enough. Near work, such as reading and writing, must cease. Happily the training of the mind and the development of the brain can be carried on as effectively if not more so without the use of books for study than with them. Book study is convenient, but not essential. In looking on the printed page we often see without thinking. The child should learn to thing without seeing. Teaching from the concrete object, the use of pictures, the developed sense of touch, and of smell bring into play various parts of the brain through the association fibers, and lead to more clear, exact and rapid thinking, than where the student is obliged to interpret the symbols employed in the printed page and which require an added mental effort for their understanding.”

Dr. Wessels spoke on the defective vision of school children from an economic viewpoint. He placed the percentage of children attending school having defective vision at 25 per cent. These, he said, were backward in their studies and ultimately were costly to the community. The department of public health and charities in Philadelphia believes they have solved the problem. Last year 2,500 cases were treating. The difference between the cost of treating the children and the expense that would have been involved had they continued handicapped by defective vision, was a saving estimated at $87,000.

“But few children remain in school after the age of fourteen,” said Dr. .Wessels, “so it is important that the examining of their eyes shall begin in the kindergarten or first grade.

“This is an economic question rather than a charity, as it reduces the cost of education and at the same time increases the efficiency of both the pupil and teacher.”

Digitized by Google
— 256 —

Dr. Lucien Howe used a four-week-old baby, taken from a local hospital, to illustrate a lecture in the Broadway auditorium on one of the worst forms of disease of the eye.

“This infant’s eyes illustrate better than words the terrible results of disease in the parents,” said Dr. Howe. “It is one of the most powerful arguments that only healthy men and women enter the married state.”

“Nine tenths of the disease of the eye and the blindness in the world are due to loathsome diseases contracted by either parties to the married state,” said Dr. Howe.

Another handicap to a good many school children—malnutrition—was the subject of several interesting papers. On this subject Miss Mabel Hyde Kittredge of New York said in part:

“The difficulty of this education for the eradication of malnutrition is realized by everyone. In 1910 the chief medical officer for the board of education in London stated that ‘While defective nutrition stands in the forefront as the most important of all physical defects from which school children suffer, there is no condition harder to grapple, none with such complex and interwoven causes.’ “Not understanding the complexity of this problem, I still believe that we will have taken one step forward when we realize clearly that the penny lunch, if taken alone without the perfectly possible accompanying education in foods, food values and education in buying, does but little toward lessening the evil of malnutrition among school children. The greatest danger, perhaps of a provision of meals is that they act as a slave to the conscience of the community who, seeing the children being fed and thinking ‘all is well,’ look no farther.

“I believe the school lunch will lessen the understanding just so far as it gives to those children, who by the full knowledge of the kind of food they are buying, knowledge of its preparation and its value over impure, unwholesome food.

“In a list of cases of malnutrition, I notice that in England poverty is put first, but it seems to me in this country ignorance comes first, and this ignorance cannot be conquered by handing out a penny’s worth of soup and tempting children to buy graham crackers and rice pudding and fruit from a penny table.

“Every child in our schools should be taught that health is only possible with regular meals; not taught it once, but repeatedly. Every mother should be made to understand that the school lunch is simply one way to make more possible regular hot meals for her children, that we are not feeding her children because of poverty, but because we realize the confusion of conditions that she is obliged to meet; and incidentally that if she does not give her child at least three cents a day for his lunch, she has not done her part.”
— 257 —

The child welfare and hygiene exhibits in connection with the fourth international congress on school hygiene drew a large crowd. 'This exhibition was held in one of the large armories in Buffalo. IMany cities, universities, school systems, etc., exhibited the work •done by them related to hygiene. Several of the largest and most comprehensive exhibits were those of the city of Buffalo, which •showed the splendid work done in physical training in its city, by 'Sweden, by Cincinnati, New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Syracuse, Pittsburg, the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. at Indianapolis, Chicago, etc. In this armorv clinics were held daily showing “how mentally defective children are examined. Stereopticon and motion pictures in an upper hall alwavs drew large crowds. The •exhibition of publications in all languages, of subjects relating to Tivgiene was another most interesting exhibit. The congress as a; -whole undoubtedlv was the greatest gathering of persons interested in the advancement of school hygiene ever held in America.

PREPUBERTAL SEX HYGIENE.

By STANLEY HALL, Ph. D.

EXTRACT FROM A PAPER READ AT INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL HYGIENE, BUFFALO, AUGUST 30, I913. . .

First Stage. The Infant. Sucking (Lutschen) a nipple, not attached to a bottle filled with milk appears to lead to a predisposition to self abuse. This resultless sucking creates a paroxism of aroused passion showing itself in flushed appearance.

Young children have an interest in their excremantal experiences, in the workings of the alimentary canal. They appear thereby to be gratifying a natural instinct.

Children of 2-3-4 years appear to receive strong subconscious impressions. Exposure of person are strongly remembered. This fact appears to indicate the wisdom of early sex-instruction.

In children of 3-4 years the parent appears to shape the ideal of the opposite sex. A father shapes the manly ideal of his daughter, and a mother shapes the womanlv ideal of her son. In some cases this ideal becomes over-emphasized resulting later in disharmony in married life. Too much idealism is bad for eugenics, for the higher function of parenthood.

Sex distinction should be pushed to the limit. A man should be trained for manhood, and a woman for womanhood.

The first three years of a child's life are the time for corrections. A child should be taught fear of doing wrong things. It also should have the right to be angry when conditions are wrong.

Digitized by L-ooQle
— 258 —

EXERCISE FOR THE TUBERCULAR.

By ADOLPHUS KNOPF, M. D.

EXTRACTS FROM LECTURE AT INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL HYGIENE, BUFFALO, AUGUST 2g, I913.

People with tubercular joints should not walk nor exercise the joints affected.

No exercise is to be allowed when the bodily temperature is ioo degrees or more.

Never overwork the tubercular.

Never exercise when tired. Rest whenever tired. Lie down. Never exercise 10 minutes before nor until half hour after meals. Singing is an excellent outdoor exercise.

Tramping, if not overdone, is an excellent outdoor exercise for the tubercular.

Free exercises when combined with breathing are very valuable for the tubercular.

Free exercises to be recommended are as follows:—

Stand erectly,

1.	Raise arms sideward with inhaling deeply; hold this position

during three counts then lower the arms and exhale deeply.

2.	Raise the arms side-upward with inhaling deeply; bend the up-

per trunk backward holding this position during three counts and return to the fundamental position, exhaling deeply.

3.	Raise the arms sideward, then bend them forward, the finger

tips touching the chest inhaling deeply. Hold the breath three counts and return to the fundamental position.

4.	Raise the arms forward, then move them sideward and back-

ward (like in breast-stroke swimming) inhaling deeply; hold the breath four to five counts; drop the arms exhaling deeply. \

5.	Raise the shoulders, and then force them backward inhaling

deeply; hold the breath five counts; resume the fundamental position.

6.	Place hands on hips; slowly bend backward inhaling deeply.

Hold for five counts and return to the starting position.

Lastly, after some practise it is advisable to increase respiration j by increasing exhalation. This may be accomplished by displacing as much residual air as possible by a second forced j exhalation. This is done bv a forced inward movement of the arms accompanied by a strong contraction of the pectoral and other accessory muscles of respiration.

Notice to Subscribers.

We kindly request onr subscribers when reporting’ changes of address to give both the old &n& netr one as wfe will be greatly cohVenibnc£d t)f doing so

Digitized by U.ooQle
— 8M —

FEDERAL CONTROL OVER “ANTI-SOCIAL LABOR.”

A comprehensive and novel plan for federal prohibition of child labor is embodied in a bill which Congressman Ira C. Copley of Illinois has introduced in the House. This measure calls for a distinct expansion in theories of federal control. A machinery of administration is presented which has no duplicate in the federal government. If in actual operation it should fulfill the expectations of those who worked out the details, a new field of federal legislation will be opened up.

The fundamental principle of the bill is that of Senator Beveridge's proposal of 1907 denying the right of interstate transportation to the products of child labor, but the methods of enforcing this prohibition are distinctly new. The bill is a result of the labors of Congressman Copley, with the aid of the Legislative Reference Bureau of the Progressive National Service, to fulfill the pledge of the Progressive Party’s national platform. Profs. William Draper Lewis of Pennsylvania, George W. Kirchway of Columbia and Walter E. Weyl gave counsel and advice in determining the problems presented. The responsibility of drafting the measure was laid upon Donald R. Richberg, director of the Legislative Reference Bureau.

In the bill the labor of children in certain industries and under certain conditions is defined as “anti-social child labor.” The next section defines this phrase as “the employment of a child under fourteen years of age in any mill, factory, cannery, workshop, manufacturing or mechanical establishment, or of a child under sixteen years of age in any coal mine, coal breaker, coke oven, quarry, or in any establishment where poisonous or dangerous acids, gases, or dyes are used, manufactured, or packed, or in any establishment wherein the work done or materials or equipment handled are dangerous to the life and limb or injurious to the health or morals of such a child.”

The phrase “anti-social child labor” is used to give legislative expression to the intent of the proposed legislation; the protection of society from the stunting of future generations. The second section of the bill designates such labor as “detrimental to the general welfare and debasing to commerce.” In passing the bill Congress would thus exercise its power, as recently sustained by the Supreme Court, to deny the right of interstate commerce to commodities so debasing to the community in production and trade as to be designated “outlaws of commerce.”

The limitation of the scope of the measure is designed to avoid as far as possible, practical defects involved in the maintenance of an elaborate machinery of federal inspection. Mr. Copley’s proposal is to establish a minimum standard and to insure that it is nationally enforced. The administrative provisions are:—

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 260 —

Section 3. The secretary of labor shall make a public list of the businesses and industries affected, together with a list of their products.

Section 4. Any manufacturer or producer may make affidavit that he does not employ the aid of anti-social child labor and be authorized by the secretary of labor to stamp or label his goods as registered under the act.

Section 5. No carrier shall transport and no manufacturer or jobber shall ship, initially in interstate commerce, the products of anti-social child labor, provided that if goods so produced bear the label of registry all persons except the manufacturer are presumed to be ignorant of the use of child labor in their production.

Section 6. The secretary of labor, after examination of the laws, shall certify what states have laws which “substantially prohibit and effectively prevent” anti-social child labor as defined— whereupon the provisions of the act shall not apply to such states.

Section 7. Unlawful shipment or transportation or a false affidavit is punishable by fine of from $100 to $5,000, or imprisonment for not more than one year.

Section 8. A false statement to a common carrier concerning the fact of employment of child labor or whether the shipment is an initial shipment is made punishable by fine. A carrier is permitted to refuse to accept shipments where the shipper refuses to make such a written statement on demand.

Through these provisions, the drafters of the bill aim to designate clearly by administrative definition the businesses and products involved; to avoid unnecessarily elaborate administration and needless restrictions of commerce, by exempting states having satisfactory standards and manufacturers who conform to the federal standards; to prevent vexatious interference with interstate transportation business by relieving carriers of responsibility when they take easy steps to protect themselves.

It is the hope of the proponents of this measure that interstate traffic in the products of child labor can be effectively prevented without placing any risks or annoyances upon innocent persons or without proposing heavy obligations upon government prosecutors. A notice of violation of the law from the secretary of labor to a manufacturer or dealer should promptly terminate the traffic or leave little ground for defense in case of disobedience.

While the primary intent of this bill is to prevent in large measure the successful exploitation of child labor, its provisions if sustained by the courts and successful in administration are put forward as possible of wide application. Many evils persist through the impossibility of obtaining simultaneous state action against them and the supposed limitations upon the federal power. The advocates of the measure contend that this is a vicious perversion of the doctrine
— 261 —

of states' rights. To do away with unfair competition of convict labor and many other industrial abuses, they urge that effective means of federal control must be found and that the Copley bill points the way.—The Survey.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School, 59th Street and 10th Ave., New York City

—Athletics in China. Wu Ting-fang, who as Minister from China to the United States was one of the most popular diplomats in Washington, is now a promoter of athletics among his countrymen.

Enthusiastic sport lovers are organizing a series of games for 1915, known as the Far Eastern Olympiad. Mr. Wu has been elected chairman of the committee in charge of arrangements for the Olympiad, and correspondents of New Yorkers write from the Orient that he is devoting a great deal of his time to his new duties.

In this line of activity Mr. Wu is aided by Secretary Swan of the Young Men’s Christitan Association in the Far East. The 1913 Far Eastern Olympiad held in Manila was attended by forty athletes who obtained their physical training from officers of the association.

—The most remarkable aquatic performance ever accomplished in New York waters was made Sept. 14 when Samuel Richards, Jr., the long distance swimmer of Boston, representing the L Street Swimming Club and a registered athlete of the New England Branch Amateur Athletic Union, swam from the Battery to Sandy Hook and then began a return trip, swimming one mile on the homeward journey before he abandoned the attemot. He covered the actual distance between the Hook and the Battery, twenty-two miles, in eight hours and twelve minutes, which time reduces that of Commodore Alfred Brown, a local professional life saver, the first man to achieve the task, by almost five hours.

Ideal weather, perfect temperature, and favorable winds helped the Boston swimmer in his wonderful performance, and, with the aid of a skilled pilot, the task did not really show his real ability, for he could have probably gone a greater distance on the return trip, but for a strong tide which set in at the Hook at the time. Only once during the tedious journey did he show signs of faltering. This was when he was recovering his second breath, which he finally got off Hoffman Island. From this point to the end of the journey his progress was made without apparent fatigue, and when he stood in the shallow waters of Sandy Hook his physical condition showed no traces of his long journey.

Richard’s performance establishes a record in the event, inasmuch as he comnleted the swim on his first attempt. Brown, the

Digitized by LiOOQle
263 —

only other man to make the complete journey, failed several times before accomplishing it. Richards is a powerful swimmer, unusually fast for a distance man and supremely confident. His stroke never deviated, and he used the English overhand stroke, with a leg action peculiarly his own. Satisfied with his work, he immediately announced his intention of attempting the swim of the English Channel, and if arrangements can be made next summer he will make the trip to Europe.

—Bristol, R. I., Sept. 14.—-Robert W. Emmons, 2nd, of Boston, was formally chosen to-day by the so-called Vanderbilt syndicate to manage their boat for the America’s Cup honors next year. Mr. Emmons, if th£ syndicate boat is selected to meet Sir Thomas Lip-ton’s challenge, will be the first amateur in many years to handle a defender of the “blue ribbon of the seas.”

The yacht’s suit of canvas, it was announced, would be made in Bristol of a silk texture with a double weave. It is understood that she will be designed to spread 15,000 square feet of sail, and | in the choice of material the men behind the Herreshoff. boat have made plain their announcement intention to spare no expense.

NEWARK NOTES.

With the opening of the new term three new gymnasiums were opened—the South Side High, the Miller Street, and the Abington Avenue Schools. The teachers appointed to these schools, respectively, were Mr. Mathias Macherey, Mr. N. Norman Richards, and Mr. Carl V. Baumann.

Mr. Herman Seibert was appointed director of the Ridge and West Side Schools, and Mr. Percy Hermansen of the Hamburg Place School.

It is with regret that we announce the resignation from the Newark physical training corps of Miss Theora Williamson who has become most happily wedded; also of Miss Christine Dobbins and Miss Eliza Morris, who have accepted positions in New York City. ^ The teachers who have been appointed to fill the vacancies are Miss Gertrude Breunig, Miss Wucherer, Miss Mae Dolan, Miss Louise j French, Miss Fay, and Miss Margaret Raleigh.	j

Miss Mara Falkland-Falken was appointed physical director of	i

the ne wState Normal School. This school was built by the city of	|

Newark and then turned over to the state of New Jersey.

Mr. James K. Alverson was appointed physical director of the Newark Athletic Field which was opened at the end of last term.

Nine gymnasiums will be opened this season in connection with the Newark evening schools.

The first monthly meeting of the Newark Physical Education Society was held on Wednesday afternoon. September 24th.

E. H. Seibert.

Digitized by	1
-263-

Book Review.

—“Sex Culture Talks To Young Men ” by Norman E. Richardson, Ph. D., Professor of Religious Psychology and Pedagogy in Boston University, School of Theology. MA by 7 inches, 93 pages, published by Eaton & Haines, New York.

In this little book Prof. Richardson has put in easy reading form the essential facts which everybody should know concerning bis sexual nature. He has constructed it in a conversational manner picturing the father as an elder brother of the boy and telling him in plain but understandable language those things which the boy must ultimately know in some form but unfortunately often garbled by the “smut” of the street.

—Marriage and the Sex Problem,” by Dr. F. W. Foerster, Lecturer in Ethics and Psychology at the University of Zurich. Translated from the third German edition by Meyrick Booth, Ph. D. 228 pages 5 by 8 inches; published by the Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York. Price $1.35 net.

This is a translation of a work entitled Sexualctliik und Sex-ualpadagogik bv Dr. F. W. Foerster of Zurich, Switzerland. The translator supplies a brief statement of Foerster’s personal development and his final adoption of a positive ethical and religious philosophy akin to the new idealism of Prof. Rudolph Eucken. On its positive side the book advocates undeviating adherence to the traditional point of view in matters of sex and marriage.. There is a section dealing with the education of boys and girls. In the opinion of many educators this belongs to the very best literature that has appeared on this difficult subject. The whole problem is treated from the standpoint of the Christian religion.

—“The Science of Human Behavior” by Maurice Parmelee, Ph. D., University of Missouri. 436 pages with bibliography; 534 by 8*4 inches. Published by The •Macmillan Company, New York. Price, net, $2.00.

This book, while it appeals primarily to psychologists and social scientists, will be of great interest and value to all those engaged in educational work, Be it intellectual or physical training. The main theme of the book is the evolution of behavior, phvchical and social phenomena being reduced as far as possible to biological terms. Chapters II to IV summarize most of the fundamental facts and principles of modern biology. Chapters V to VII describe briefly the behavior of the lower animals. Chapters VII to X give some of the most. important facts and principles of nemologv. Chapters XI to XVI cover the whole field of psychology in a concise fashion. The clear detailed treatment and the excellent illustrations and dia-
— 264 —

grams recommend the w.ork to the general reader as well as to the scientist.

—“The conservation of the child;' bv Arthur Holmes, Ph. D.r assistant director of the Psychological Clinic, University of Pennsylvania. 345 pages, 5 by 8 inches, 37 illustrations Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. Price 1.25 net.

This book is one of the Lippincott educational series, edited by M. G. Brumbaugh, Ph. D., superintendent of the Philadelphia public schools.

Few parents or teachers have the ability to distinguish the retarded or feeble-minded from normal children. Every one interested in child welfare knows that children exhibit individuality and peculiarities at an early age, but educators lacking the means of interpreting such symptoms have allowed both normal and abnormal children to be grouped in school under the same treatment.

Thus, the perverted feeble-minded companion often exerts an evil influence over the healthy average child. This condition is a poisonous canker in our social life and as such deserves the earnest care of all parents and teachers who are responsible for the upbringing of our young people.

The great value of Dr. Holmes’ book is the clarity with which he explains the problems and the very important illustrated tests for measuring intelligence and ascertaining the causes of a child’s retardation. These tests are applicable by any one.

It is through such a book as this that light will enter into the problem. The numerous illustrations have been selected with much care that each might illustrate a separate form or phase of the subject.

—“Physical Work ” Management and Methods. Compiled by a special committee of the Physical Directors’ Society of the Young Men’s Christian Association of North America; edited by George J. Fischer, M. D., M. P. E., and Martin I. Foss, B. P. E. 201 pages, 5 by 8 inches, published by Association Press, 124 East 28 St., New York. Price $1.60 net.

This hand book is a valuable presentation of the work of the Y. M. C. A. in the field of physical training. Beginning with a historical sketch of the beginnings of physical training in America the book in 20 chapters takes up all phases of work connected with physical education. While written primarily for teachers connected with the Y. M. C. A. most chapters will be of great interest and service to physical training teachers in all lines.

Digitized by 0.ooQle