MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	NOVEMBER,	1925	No.	343

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ms second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulmy Minnesota,, under the Act of March 3, /879.

-------------------------------- 4*

Original articles and reprint^

♦---------------------------------♦

SYNOPSIS OF THE 1925 HEALTH EDUCATION CONFERENCE

Fourth Annual Health Education Conference

"Health education is the child of two estimable parents public health and public instruction—and is an intelligent youth who is to be guided by the light thrown upon his path by each of you and by many others all over the world.”

With this figure of speech Professor C. E. Turner, Associate Professor of Public Health and Public Instruction at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, appealed to members of the Fourth Annual Health Education Conference, at the final meeting in Ida Noyes Hall, University of Chicago, to distribute more widely the contributions to health education that had been made by experienced workers during the week These workers came from the varied fields of child health, in nunber approximately two hundred, and geographically distributed from Salzburg, Austria, to the Hawaiian Islands.

Digitized by LjOOQle
722

The Conference was arranged by the Division of Health Education of the American Child Association at the invitation of the University of Chicago. The meetings were planned in three sections to meet the needs of the varied interests of the Conference members. Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Professor of Physical Education and Adviser in Health Education at Teachers College, Columbia University, was chairman of sessions.

The sections were: The Health Program in Secondary Schools, with A. S. Barr, Associate Professor, Department of Education, University of Wisconsin, as chairman; Teacher Training for Health Education, of which William B. Owen, President of Chicago Normal College, John W. Shepherd, Assistant Principal of Chicago Normal College, and Dr. John D. McCarthy, Instructor in Health Education, New York University and Specialist in Behavior Problems of Children, New York City High Schools, acted as chairmen; Materials for Health Education, with Miss Mary Murphy, Director of The Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, Chicago, as chairman.

The keynote of the Conference was sounded again and again by the appeal to universities and research institutions to assist in putting health education on a more scientific basis.

The members took stock of their problems. They felt that to solve them satisfactorily they needed: (a) A study of the present health knowledge and practices of student teachers and teachers in service; (b) a study of the individual needs of the student teachers and of the pupils for whom health education is being provided.

The members further asked that students who are being prepared for service in our normal schools and teachers' colleges be equipped with fundamental health knowledge. They asked that the everyday lives of these students should illustiate this knowledge, and that the dormitories and cafeterias should be organized to this end.

Another strongly-felt need was for an accumulation of facts gathered from research studies, which could be used in campaigns to convince legislatures, governors and communities of the necessity of a health education program.

The needs voiced by the field workers themselves coincided in part with the statements made by Dr. Franklin Bobbitt, Professor of School Administration, College of Education, University of Chicago. The following is an excerpt from his paper on “Guiding Principles for Secondary Health Education”:

“Education from the kindergarten to graduate school is being fundamentally reorganized. The modem purpose is to improve the quality of human living. This purpose is to take in hand human activities of every kind and to perfect them as fully as possible, and to keep them perfected.

"Health Education, therefore, is to be simply a guiding of the physical living on the part of the pupils to the end that they may develop proper habits and

Digitized by

Google
723

to the end that they may develop proper habits and valuations. The primary business of education is to see that the pupils live wholesomely 168 hours each week.

“The pupils live as individuals. Health Education, will, therefore, begin with examination of the physical nature and needs of the individual pupils; and it will supervise their activities along these lines where the physical examination shows that‘they need supervision.

“The objective of Health Education is not a mind stored with knowledge. It is, rather, a process of living continuously and consistently in a physically wholesome manner.

“For this living the pupils need guidance of two sorts: They need the guidance of teachers who themselves set an example, in the mode of living which is expected of the pupils themselves. They also need the guidance of a quite full body of technical health science.

“In the training of the teacher for health supervision, the main thing is that he should have traveled the same road which he expects the pupil to travel; otherwise he cannot have a genuine sense of reality for the things involved, nor genuine enthusiasms, nor the necessary contagious vsuuations.

“For the work of the teacher the main thing is not that he should have been taught, but that he should have lived.”

Health Education For Secondary Schools.

“In organizing a health education program for the Secondary Schools we need an expert in the central office who is a member of the staff, appointed to cariy out the health education program,” said Mr. Barr. “This person should be a coordinator of instruction, for we must bring together home economics, physical education and health education specialists. In case there is not such a health education director, the superintendent should assume the role of coordinator, or the principal in each building should be responsible for the health program. To set up a functioning health program we must look upon the children as human beings instead of cogs in a machine.”

It was the conviction of the Secondary School Group, that basic to a working health program is a feeling of health consciousness on the part of the teaching body. This health consciousness should be displayed in the teacher’s attitude toward the pupil’s health conduct and in her own personal health conduct. It should also include a willingness to assume a responsibility in daily health inspections.

Google
724

The question	of	teaching	health by	the “incidental”

health method, or by emphasizing a health fact or point of interest in whatever subject it may happen to occur was discussed. It	was	unanimously agreed	that an interdepartmental health	committee is	essential in	eveiy Secondary

School because of	the	potential	contributions which each de-

partment has for health education. The guidance of this committee and of the whole health program should be in the hands of one person, who may be the superintendent of schools, the high school principal, or a member of the staff appointed for this duty.

Minimum Essentials of Health Education Courses in Secondary Schools

Miss Cara L. Harris, Director of Health Education, Child Health Demonstration, Rutherford, County Murfreesboro, Tennessee, briefly outlined the outstanding essentials of a health education course: (1) Knowledge of the human body and its workings, so that it will be respected and properly cared for by the high school boy or girl; (2) physical examination of each student so that he will know how he stands in relation to the average, what his specific weaknesses are, and how he should care for them; (3) a close follow-up of individual physical defects; (4) a knowledge of the principles involved in sanitary surroundings and the ability to operate the mechanism of the heating plant and of the plumbing installation, etc; (5) the civic aspects of health, including instruction of the ways by which health can be promoted in the community; (6) necessity for specific immunity to communicable diseases as well as the development of a proper community attitude toward healthful habits of living; (7) knowledge of nutrition, rest and activity; (8) some mental hygiene to help the student adjust himself to his surroundings and to other people; (9) sex hygiene providing sufficient information to protect the individual student and foster an open-mindedness toward the subject.

Physical Examination of Students.

In discussing the physical examination of high school students the question was raised as to what should be the economic limits of service. Dr. J. W. Monilaw, of the College of Education, University of Chicago, in a paper outlined an unusually complete personal service program which included: (1) Pre-school inspection of all pupils for the purpose of control of contagion, checking on the physical condition of pupils after the summer vacation and procuring a record of new students; (2) follow-up procedure which places the responsibility upon the principal; (3) thorough physical examination of students during their birthday week. This last point is very significant in view of the facilities being offered by private and public agencies for yearly examinations for all people.
725

Specific Aims Desirable.

E.	F. Van Buskirk, Executive Secretary of the Cincinnati Social Hygiene Society, made the following contribution: "Specific aims in the Secondary School health education program should be set forth. We should study the required work to determine how and to what extent it meets these aims. We should study the school schedule to determine what percentage of the pupils is being reached by the health education program. We must avoid duplications and this can be done by each department producing in black and white its program as it is related to health education. We should make certain in our study of duplications that the treatment under question is actually duplication.”

Studies Suggested

The section on Secondary School health education decided that definite studies should be made in determining the needs and the achievements of such a program.

1.	What are the specific health practices, habits, knowledge and attitudes possessed by entering Secondary School pupils, and also by pupils graduating?

2.	What are the specific health interests of Secondary School pupils? (Dr. Wood is making such a study for college students.)

3.	What are the specific physical defects and deficiencies of entering Secondary School pupils?

4.	What are the causes of absences due to illness?

5.	What are the specific contributions of each of the several Secondary School subjects to the health program and what methods can be applied for their coordination?

6.	To what extent does the health instruction in present courses reach the whole student body?

7.	What are the specific opportunities offered in the Secondary Schools for the learning of health practices and precepts by the actual doing thereof?

8.	What are the minimum essentials of content of health instruction for Secondary Schools?

9.	What motives are most effective in interesting Secondary School students in forming health habits?

Teacher Training For Health Education For Student Teachers

The purpose of health education in the teacher training institution is twofold:

1.	Promotion of the highest degree of personal health and social efficiency among the prospective teachers.

2.	Development of an intelligent understanding of the essentials of child health and the means of realizing the objective of child health.

These determine the organization and selection of subject matter in training schools.

Digitized by Vi O O QIC
726

It was suggested that students be given an opportunity through access to laboratories and centers of observation to understand the method by which the validity of subject matter is established through experimentation and research.

The following were considered as fundamental to a health education program in the teacher training institution:

1.	A job analysis of the practical health education program of the teacher in service.

2.	Incentives to wholesome living on the part of the student should spring from professional, social and personal motives. Not enough emphasis has been placed on the professional and social motives.

3.	Every course in the institution should be conducted with a definite recognition of the contribution it reasonably can make to health education.

4.	An interdepartmental health education committee should be in each teacher training institution. The committee should organize the interdepartmental program and coordinate the work of the various instructors and courses.

5.	Tests and criteria should be developed for the practical evaluation of the specific contribution of each course to the school health program.

The discussion brought out these further points of emphasis in the organization of the program:

1.	The futility of attempting to teach nutrition or home economics without practical nutrition service.

2.	The necessity of public health knowledge based upon community needs.

3.	The importance of biology as an essential subject matter field furnishing the scientific facts for sex education.

4.	The indispensable value of developing wholesome attitudes toward sex, reproduction, and life, through direct and indirect factors and influences, to replace emergency, short or special courses in sex hygiene which are always unsatisfactory make-shifts.

Health Program as a Policy

President William B. Owen, of Chicago Normal College, believes that health programs instead of set courses should be the policy of all educational institutions and that the old courses of nature study should be displaced in the elementary school by a study of life processes, food values and rest with the main idea of teaching health control.

Referring to teacher training methods, Mr. Owen said: "We should apply the same measures to our student teachers that they will apply to their pupils. Unless certain standards in the care of personal health can be established in the two years in Normal School, the student is not qualified to go out to teach. Of teachers of music we require a certain ability to sing. We should require a certain health standard of all health teachers.”
727

Mr. Owen advocated an organized check-up and evaluation of all health work.

“Give the teachers health education, not as a course, but as something built up from the biological and natural sciences.” This was a recommendation made by Miss Katharine A. Pritchett, Consultant, Administrative Nutrition, Department of Welfare, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

Miss Pritchett said: “One of the very first things we must do is not only prepare course of study and provide scientific background for student teachers, but make it possible for the schools to give them good healthy living conditions. Our dormitories should provide wholesome food, pleasant and well ventilated sleeping quarters, and adequate bathing facilities. We must give the student teacher an opportunity to be healthy. To accomplish this we must educate the communities state-wide, making them understand the health needs of normal school students. Not infrequently we assign too heavy loads that prevent students from doing their level best. We must eliminate mental strain by reducing these loads and thereby allowing more time for rest and recreation.”

Arising out of the discussions, the following suggestions for constructive work, investigation and research were made:

1.	Studies of plans for administering the health program in teacher training institutions to discover types of interdepartmental health coordination, and their degree of success in securing—

(a)	Coordination

(b)	Dynamic organization of subject matter.

2.	An analysis, of current student loads with a view to determining the distribution of time spent in work, rest and recreation for the purpose of establishing satisfactory type schedules.

3.	A study of what constitutes adequate housing standards for student-living, covering

(a)	Feeding of students

(b)	Plan of school grounds and buildings

(c)	Structure of buildings (covering points of safety, energy conservation and sanitation)

(d)	Furnishings and equipment of building

(e)	Care of building and grounds in relation to all the above health needs of students

(f)	Adequacy of living conditions for students not resident in school buildings.

4.	An investigation of such personality studies as have been carried on to date with a view to—

(a)	Discovering procedures and personnel best fitted to carry on such studies
728

(b)	Uncovering the value of such studies in bringing about a satisfactory adjustment of the student.

5.	An investigation and analysis of typical plans for health examinations of students for the purpose of developing types of examination more nearly adapted to—

(a)	Producing immediate improvement of students’ health

(b)	Producing maximum educative effects in conservative and protective health measures.

6.	The construction of a scale for ranking Teacher Training Institutions in accordance with provisions made to further well-being of students. The scale should include—

(a)	Physical environment

(b)	Standards for health examinations and follow up

(c)	Student health as evidenced by improvement in standard of student health or living.

7.	Investigation and evaluation of existing course (required and elective) contributing to health in relation to the following:

(a)	Accuracy of subject matter

(b)	Organization of subject matter to further the health aims of the institution

(c)	Degree to wnich the courses given are paralleled by opportunities offered by the school to practice the theories taught.

8.	Study of existing practices in evaluating student work in Health Education classes with a view to establishing criteria for determining the part actual student health improvment and the student's effort in this direction should play in total credit.

9.	Collection and evaluation of child studies and researches from the points of view of anthropology in order to give basic material for the organization of course for teachers.

10.	In particular a study of the actual physiological requirements of growing children on various age levels.

11.	Such an organization of child study courses as will afford laboratory experience for student teachers in observing child behavior with reference to the child’s physiological, psychological and social ages and needs.
729

Teachers In Service.

The discussion revealed that there is no standard type erf -organization of health education courses for teachers in service; and it was the concensus of opinion that it is desirable avoid too much standardization in order that there may be developed different types of courses which will take into account varying local situations involving the scholastic attainment of teachers, the type of school administration, the courses of study given in the respective local community situations. It was also agreed that the courses for teachers in health education should be built around the nature and needs of the children and their home communities. A uniform method for inspection of children was advocated.

Essentials in Building a Health Education Program

The following essential points were suggested for the consideration of those building health education courses for teachers: 1. Inclusion of adequate scientific background and fundamental subject matter. 2. Recognition of pedagogical principles involved in health teaching. 3. Provision for the application of these principles in actual classroom work under direction and observation. This should include classroom visits, personal conferences and group conferences between the teachers and supervisors of health education, and a demontration school as a visiting center for teachers. Before a health education program is introduced a survey should be made of the health work in the community, the health education background of the teachers, and the local agencies that can be utilized and will cooperate in the school health program. Teachers should be cognizant of the community needs and the social and economic home conditions of their pupils.

More Attention to Needs of Child

In his contribution to the general, discussion, Dr. McCarthy pointed out the vital need for a’ deeper understanding of the pupils by the teacher. He said in part: “We have attempted to build up curricula and syllabi, plastering them down upon pupils without knowing anything about the children themselves. We ought to consider human beings as a totality—not as diseased tonsils, defective vision, malnutrition etc. Health is a matter of adjustment of an organism to its environment. Teachers should give more attention to the personality of their pupils and help them in making their adjustment to other people. The high school age is a critical age for children. We do not know enough of the lives of our ' pupils outside of the classroom. Often something at home is interfering with their normal efficient performance of school duties. That is one of the reasons why I believe that the visiting teacher movement is very important. As a conference interested in health education, what can we do in a constructive jway? We ought to include in the high school health education program a course in mental hygiene.”

Digitized by

Google
730

The following suggestions for constructive work, investigation and research arising out of the discussions were made:

1.	The development of health tests for teachers in ' service, involving habit, attitude and knowledge,

in order to provide a basis for organizing courses of further training for teachers in service.

2.	The development of a technique for determining base lines in relation to which health education work in any given community may be planned, and progress measured—such base line to include physical status of children and the environing conditions.

(a) A study of health status, customs and existing conditions influencing health of teacher in service.

3.	An evaluation of varied ways and means of giving aid, instuction and training to teachers in service (a) In particular—What new courses need to be given? How shdll they be organized and related to actual school practice?

4.	A study of the effectiveness of teacher training courses as indicated by the comparative effectiveness of health work done by young teachers who go out from teacher training institutions.

5.	An investigation of the relationship between health and scholarship with particular reference to the effects of improved health on scholarship.

6.	A similar study of the relationship between health and school attendance.

4

7.	A study to determine who is supervising health education and the training of such supervisors.

8.	Study to discover training being given in professional schools for supervisors of. health education.

Special Problems In Teacher Training For Rural

Schools.

t	The	Teacher	In Service

It was agreed in the section on rural problems that a greater knowledge of rural sociology and psychology was needed if teachers are to be successful in developing health programs in rural communities. The health education program in rural schools should be under the supervision of a director, properly trained. The rural teacher should be impressed with the definite aim that predominates her health work. She needs to be enthusiastic about her work, yet, according to workers in the
731

field, over-enthusiasm in rural districts is as detrimental as discouragement. The rural teacher should know the conditions of community health, the individual health needs of her pupils, the economic problems of the community, rural organizations that will cooperate with her in introducing a health

Erogram and the health agencies already in existence that can e relied upon to carry out the health education program. It was suggested that a survey of rural conditions should be made by the children themselves, to be used as one type of material in the health classes.

The Teacher In Training.

Specialists in the rural health field claimed that the normal schools and teacher training institutions of the country have an unusual opportunity for developing leadership in rural school activities. During their student days teachers should make excursions into rural communities to learn first hand the health practices and health needs of the country children. The normal schools should offer courses for developing concrete illustrative material, because the rural teacher needs more source material than is ordinarily offered in her training courses. Local health situations should be utilized as well as book materials in teaching health. The student teacher ought to have an opportunity to participate in the health examinations and school inspections, which will establish a closer relationship between the teacher and the existing health agencies.

The following suggestions for constructive work, investigation and research arising out of the discussion were made:

1.	A study of the special conditions affecting the health of rural school children, such as isolation and customs of field labor, early rising, etc.

2.	In particular, a study of transportation to and from rural schools, to determine the effect of the various factors involved on health.

3.	A study of existing organizations in rural communities which may be utilized in promotion of rural school health program.

4.	A comparative study of satisfactory methods of conducting the hot lunch in the small rural school.

5.	A study of measures directed toward the more effective control and prevention of diseases in rural schools.

6.	The establishment of a clearing house through which workers in Health Education may be kept in touch with significant activities and progress in the field.

Materials For Health Education.

Health Education materials were defined by the Conference as those which are useful in developing habits, establishing attitudes and acquiring knowledge in relation to health.

Digitized by Google
732

It was agreed that in developing habits the materials which are most useful are those which provide opportunity for healthful activity; i. e., facilities in schools and homes which provide the equipment for doing the things taught as fundamental to healthy living. It was pointed out that the best teaching materials in relation to cleanliness include the facilities for keeping clean, and that adequate instruction in selection of foods requires opportunity for selection and such materials as will guide right selection.

Among the materials most useful in developing attitudes are those which will increase the child’s experience. Plants and animals furnish first hand materials on which the child can observe the practical application of his knowledge. It was also suggested that, without undue self-consciousness, the child will observe, in relation to himself, the application of health knowledge.

Material for enlarging the child’s health experience and knowledge by actual observation of the activities of public and private enterprises supplying the communities’ needs, such as dairies, farms, city water plants, etc., may be provided. Where first hand observation or experience is not possible a motion picture of such activities may supply a possible substitute.

The printed page must supplement, interpret and enlarge these life experiences which the child gets through activity and observation. In addition to the information gained from the textbook, knowledge must be acquired from many sources, of particular value being those current sources which have the quality of reality, such as newspapers, magazines, materials from federal, state and municipal departments and findings of research laboratories. Such material should be selected according to sound, scientific and educational standards.

Selection of Materials.

The Conference concluded that materials should be adapted to the level of the student group and also the particular health needs and health building factors of the community in which the students live. The critical judgment of students and teachers in regard to the scientific soundness of statements should be cultivated.

The definite suggestion was left with the group on materials to gather in from the field, expressions and opinions of the materials that teachers find most useful, as well as what they most need.

Relation of Materials to Health Program.

The success of the health education program depends in large part upon the preparation of materials, their technique, and the physical form in which they are prepared, according to the statement of Dean William S. Gray, Professor of Education, Dean of the College of Education, University of Chicago.

Digitized by

Google
788

Dean Gray emphasized the importance of having available fundamental material to put into the hands of teachers and pupils. He said: “We should put emphasis on reading materials in health education as an important avenue by which children will improve and enrich their horizons. Reading leads to a rounded and well-balanced intelligence. It supplements a child's actual experiences. If properly organized and written it contributes permanently to any field in which he is interested. There is a great lack of accurate, scientific facts that teachers can use in health teaching. I should like to see our schools handle this health education program so that children will seek information about health practices and health conditions, year after year, as they grow older, just as today they seek good reading in their leisure hours."

In organizing the reading materials Dean Gray made these suggestions: “Do not pervert real facts to make them interesting, because clear, true facts are as interesting as fiction. Avoid selections having too hard words, too mature ideas and expressions, and see that the reading selected for the pupils is easier than their grades in school. Material when written, must be charged with interest whether it is prepared for informational or recreational reading. It must be adapted to the children for whom it is prepared.

“We must adapt material to our aim," he continued; “extensive reading is better than intensive reading if you are trying to obtain a range of ideas. Attitudes and ideals can be cultivated in the field of health education as in any other field. Set up the attitude you want to cultivate as a definite problem until the child becomes familiar with the processes in his daily routine. Acquaint children with the source material and teach them to interpret it."

It was the conclusion of the Conference that the development and improvement of health education materials would be furthered by three types of endeavor: (1) Constructive work; (2) investigation; and (3) research.

The three lines of work above suggested are interrelated and support each other and, therefore, no attempt is made to arrange suggestions in sequent order.

1.

2.

Constructive Work.

Pictures and other graphic materials which further the aims of Health Education should be collected and collections made available for circulation for classroom use.

True stories from the fields of history, biography, science and literature should be selected or written for use in Health Education.

Individual classrooms should be used as sources of vivid, fresh materials which are the direct outgrowth of pupil experiences and classroom activities.
734

4.	Qualified agencies should undertake to furnish critical analysis of current, scientific material as a professional service.

5.	Materials valid from the standpoint of content should be adapted not only to the level of the student group but also to the particular needs and resources of the community.

6.	Ways and means should be discovered for training the critical judgment of students in respect to the scientific soundness of subject matter.

I nvestigations.

1.	A critical analysis should be made of the tremendous mass of available health materials, and evaluation and allocation should proceed in the light of sound educational criteria.

2.	Studies should be made for the purpose of determining what health knowledge children need.

3.	Studies should be made of children's interests in the field of health knowledge.

4.	Health Education reading materials accepted as sound, should be compared with the standard reading scales, and in accordance with these, be assigned to their proper grade level as a means of assisting teachers in right selection.

5.	The practice school itself should be investigated as an unmined source of health materials, together with its equipment and apparatus, including the children themselves and the entire community, in its health aspects.

6.	The impressions, opinions and experiences of large groups of teachers in rural sections and small towns should be collected as a basis of adaptation of health materials.

7.	Particular types of material should be examined for their adaptability to the attainment of specific objectives and purposes.

8.	The specific effectiveness of material should be determined.

Research.

1.	Health materials should be analyzed for the purpose of discovering to what extent they are dynamic and effective in securing desired action on the part of children.

2.	Text books should be analyzed to discover causes of difficulty and factors which impede comprehension.

3.	Studies should be made to discover what are legitimate incentives as opposed to inducements used in Health Education.
735

4.	Ready made visual material should be critically

3ared with original visual materials produced by ■en with reference to the effectiveness in furthering the aims of Health Education.

THE PRELIMINARY REPORT OF A CONFERENCE OF INSTITUTIONS GIVING PROFESSIONAL TRAINING IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

The above conference, arranged by the Bureau of Education of the Department of the Interior, was held in the Auditorium of the Department of the Interior in Washington, May 7, 8, 1925.

In calling the meeting to order the chairman pointed out the importance of such a meeting at a time when we are on the crest of one of the periodic waves of interest in Physical Education. He spoke of the confusion in the use of the term Physical Education and the need for giving teachers of this subject a broad view of the relationship of muscular activities to the whole health work.

Dr. John J. Tigert, U. S. Commissioner of Education, spoke of the phenomenal growth of the training schools for physical educators both in numbers and quality. Thirty years ago there were but half a dozen private schools struggling for an existence, while today the institutions number over a hundred, and half of them are State universities and other public institutions of note.

He warned that, while there is evidence of a large interest in the subject, physical education is not yet assimilated with education and it is to the training schools and their product that we must look for. this fusion.

Dr. Zook, Assistant to the Commissioner and Specialist in Higher Education, spoke of the large funds needed for material equipment in connection with modem education and especially in departments of Physical Education. Whether this outlay is for the purpose of bodily development cr for the treatment of defects it should be looked upon not as mere expense, but as an investment and a most valuable investment in human lives. It is not education that costs but the lack of it. The real cost comes from not doing our full duty in this field.

The subjects for discussion were (a) Objectives or Aims, (b) The Curriculum, (c) Requirements for Graduation, (e) Responsibility of the School to its Graduates, (f) Post Graduate Study, and (g) Standards and Classification of Schools of Physical Education.

A nominating committee was appointed for the purpose of choosing special committees to work upon the various topics which had been discussed (using the material presented at the meeting) and report with concrete suggestions at a second conference to be held in 1926. The committee reported the following:

Digitized by *

L>oogie
786

Committee on Curriculum

Prof. Staley, Chairman.

Dr. Lewis (State Normal School, Pennsylvania)

Miss Musselman and Prof. Trilling.

Committee on Objectives.

Dr. Arnold, Chairman.

Miss Anderson (State Normal School, Illinois).

Dr. Hetherington and Dr. Norris.

Committee on Entrance Requirements.

Prof. LaPorte, Chairman.

Miss McKinstry and Miss Park (Cortland State Normal School)

It was suggested by Dr. McCurdy that there should be made available an annual list of the teachers of physical education from each of the institutions preparing these teachers with the year of graduation, years of attendance, and degrees if secured. This list should be available in the U. S. Bureau of Education, in the American Physical Education Association office, and in the State Departments of Education.

It was also suggested by Dr. McCurdy that an accredited list of schools should be constructed based on the periodic examinations 1 of—aV. Entrance requirements.

b The course of Study, c The grade of work done.

d.	The product of the institutions as shown by positions held by the alumni.

It was voted by the conference that the Council of the American Physical Education Association be requested to secure the necessary funds and to make the necessary arrangement for a survey and classification of schools by a commission of educational experts (including specialists in physical education) working in cooperation with the U. S. Bureau of Education. It was further voted that this survey should be carried out at the earliest possible date.

The conference adjourned with the understanding that the committees appointed and the Council of the American Physical Education Association should report at a second meeting to be held at about the same season in 1926.

Wisconsin now has a law which provides that every pupil attending a public school in Wisconsin must spend two and one-half hours a week in physical education. Recesses are not counted as a part of the required two and one-half hours, no matter how hard the children may play. The law provides that the state superintendent of public instruction shall appoint a member of his staff to have supervision over the physical education work of the schools. All schools giving courses in the training of teachers, for public schools, must give courses in playground exercises and games. “Physical education” is defined by the law as “instruction in the art of practicing physical exercises and hygiene.” “Physical education,” however, does not include medical supervision.

Digitized by VjOOQLC
737

OBJECTIVES FOR THE SPECIAL CLASS IN THE PUBLIC

SCHOOLS*

Francis N. Maxfield, Director Bureau of Special. Education, Pennsylvania State Department of Public Instruction

Author’s Note: This paper has to do with the educational objectives In a special class for subnormal children—those of the borderline and'moron groups. It is not a discussion of the work of special classes for restoration cases (adjustment classes), or for recent immigrants (steamer classes), or for Incorrigible children (disciplinary classes). A few imbeciles of high grade may be included; but most imbeciles and all idiots have such a low degree of educability that they are not properly enrolled in school , at all.

The first and axiomatic principle that should govern the organization of all school work is that it should be adapted to the capacity and needs of the pupils in content, method' and expected rate of progress. A uniform curriculum that can effect a classification of pupils only by frequent failure to promote and less frequent extra promotions have produced. in our schools a serious problem of retardation and overageness. This is discouraging to pupils and expensive for taxpayers. The standard elementary curriculum requires five grades of school work, since it is standardized for pupils of superior rather than average ability under present teaching conditions. Even where differentiated curricula are organized for superior, average and inferior pupils, a group of pupils will still be found at the lower end of the intelligence scale who can not make satisfactory progress even in the curriculum for the inferior group. The better this differentiation of curriculum is organized, however, the smaller this number of cases of low educability will be; but it is seldom less than one and one-half per cent to two per cent of the elementaryschool enrollment.

The first objective of the special class is to adapt school work to this subnormal group. To gain this end, the academic work must be of a very elementary character, and competency in the three R’s beyond that of the standard fourth grade will seldom be attained. Steps of progress must be small. The material must be concrete rather than abstract. Much that will be found in the standard curriculum for these first four grades must be omitted. Motor and sense training for younger children and prevocational work in manual and industrial arts for older pupils should receive a larger share of time and effort in the daily program.

The mental-age levels of these pupils will range approximately from four and one-half and five to nine and ten years. But even pupils with the same mental-age scores in the Stan-

*Read before the Mental Hygiene Division of the National Conference

of Social Work, Toronto. Reprinted from Menial Hygir**

Digitized by
738

ford-Binet and other standard tests will vary in their ability for different kinds of school work. Therefore, although group instruction is continued, the class must be small enough to allow a large amount of individual attention.

The second objective of the special class is a psycho-educational analysis of each pupil. Where possible this should begin with a careful individual examination, in which the school physician’s report, the previous school record if any, and the main facts of family history, home environment and individual development should be reviewod and studied. Intrepreta-tion is facilitated by a careful psychological examination—not just a Stanford-Binet mental-age result, but an all-round mental analysis. Remediable physical defects should receive attention. The co-operation and intelligent good will of the home should be secured. The psycho-educational analysis should determine a tentative classroom procedure and should be followed up by diagnostic teaching by a trained teacher.

The health education of the pupils of a special class, as in the case of normal children, is too frequently considered an added activity rather than an integral part of the educational program. Through well directed physical exercises, games, supervised play, folk dancing and the like, the pupils not only gain health and physical vigor, and improve in motor co-ordination, but acquire self-control, a sense of fair play and ability to get on with other children. In the formation of habits or personal cleanliness and attention to other matters of personal hygiene, they can compete on almost equal terms with normal children of the same ages. Developed in ways suited to their mental handicap, much of the content of the regular course in health education can be adapted to their needs. A large portion of this content is within the comprehension of eight-year mentality. No one of the health habits that are emphasized in such a course need be omitted. Moron girls can learn not only to know the difference between wholesome and unwholesome foods, the importance of fresh air, and why we must have a pure water supply, but can learn to bathe a baby, to care for young children and to practice some of the simpler form of first aid work. Health education that will cairy over into the home and into adult life is an important objective in specialclass work.

No special class should ignore the importance of mental hygiene. Both preventive and corrective work can be done. An even temper, a pleasing disposition and responsive personality count for more in social adaptation, both in school and adult life, than long division or English grammar. Extreme shyness, emotional instability, sullenness and the like, may be corrected in most cases. To this end, no matter how much individual teaching seems to be needed, there must be a large amount of group activity so motivated that the children participate eagerly and happily. A cheerful, sunny schoolroom with plenty of pictures, plants and pets, if possible, a varied

Digitized by VjOOQ
739

program with short periods for work that requires sustained attention, a well dressed teacher with a well modulated voice, all play their part in this mental-hygiene work. Pupils who do not respond to favorable conditions of this type should be studied carefully. In many cses a psychiatric examination is desirable. Problem children may be truly psychopathic, but their difficulties are more often found to be a combination of lack of intelligent home training and the failure of the school, to understand them. Those of the subnormal group who fail to make satisfactory social adaptations as adults are more frequently the ones described as “emotionally unstable” or of “inadequate personality.” One of the major functions of the special class is to stablize these boys and girls.

The unskilled or semi-skilled occupations that these boys and girls enter on leaving school at the age of sixteen are of so varied a character that it is not usually practicable to attempt strictly vocational training. The trade skills, except for the increased efficiency that comes from practice on the job, are not complicated or difficult in most of these occupations. The industrial arts work of the special class should therefore be primarily prevocational rather than vocational. Wood work for boys and household arts for girls will develop some manual dexterity which may be expected to transfer to most of the occupations that are likely to be open to these children upon leaving school. Exceptions may be made where a locality has only one or two industries into which these boys or girls go. Sewing, cooking and the care of young children are more or les§ vocational for girls who will live at home, or marry and have homes of their own. But the primary objective of these industrial arts in the special class as prevocational training is to cultivate an attitude of work—following directions, punctuality, dependability, cheerfully sustained effort, interest in the job and the like. Many moron girls can learn how to run a stocking machine or tend a loom in two weeks and compete successfully with normal operatives, if this attitude of work has been well established in the special class.

In smaller communities the special-class teacher, and in cities a trained sooial worker (visiting teacher),, should be responsible for some guidance and supervision of these boys and girls in the community after they leave school at sixteen. Local industries should be studied to find the types of work that these boys and girls can do. Some placement work and even training on the job should be done. If the teacher has made the contact with the home that she should while the pupil is in school, it will be easy through occasional visits to the homes to impress upon the parents their responsibility in home supervision. Whenever the pupil is clearly unfit for marriage and independent home life, this fact should be made clear to parents. Whenever the home is an undesirable influence, institutional care or supervision by some welfare agency in a boarding home should be arranged. The priest or workers

Digitized by V^jOO^lC
740

in the church to which the pupils belongs should be interested. Much of the success of the special class as a substitute for segregation in an institution, in the case of mental defectives, will depend upon this guidance and supervision after the child leaves school.

Private schools for subnormal children from wealthy families have taught us one thing of great importance. It is one of their primary objectives to make the subnormal child inconspicuous by making him as much like other people.as possible. Courteous manners, becoming but inconspicuous clothing, clearly intelligible speech, erect carriage and normal gait all count. Children who do not seem queer make social adaptations more, readily than those less carefully trained. The well behaved child, whose rating on a social conformity scale,—manners, morals, speech and conduct generally--is high, can overcome much of the handicap of his deficiencies on the intellectual scale. Much of the training in good citizenship of the standard curriculum has its place in the special class. Speech correction work must be patient and persistent. Awkwardness can be overcome fcy physical exercises, eurythmics and dancing. Moral training can go far without any clear comprehension of moral principles. In other words, the special class can do much to make the subnormal child grow up "just like everybody else.”

The last objective of the special class that I shall mention has little to do with the pupils in the class. One aim of the special class should be to influence the trend of elementary education for all children by directing attention to the needs of normal children who differ among themselves in so many ways. Superintendents tell me that starting a special class in a school district stimulates other teachers t6 make the child and not the curriculum the central fact in school work.

Let me summarize these objectives of the special class:

1.	An adapted curriculum. Trained teachers in well equipped rooms, by modifying the standard curriculum, give these children an opportunity that is not possible in the regular grades.

2. Menial analysis. A thorough analysis of each child must be made. Physical condition, family history and home background, as well as differences in intelligence, personality and emotional stability, must be considered. Teaching must continue this diagnostic process.

3.	Health education. The development of physique and of health habits is both possible and desirable.

4.	Mental hygiene. Mental as well as physical hygiene can be corrective and preventive. Emotional stability and normal social reactions in simple life situations should be sought.

5.	Prevocational training. Much of the academic work of the standard curriculum should be replaced by industrial and household arts. This work is prevocational rather than vocational,

Digitized by

Google
741

6.	Guidance and supervision. Responsibility for the mental defective should not cease when he leaves school at sixteen,

7.	Conformity. Well behaved boys and girls with courteous manners and clear speech are less conspicuous than others, and more likely to succeed.

8.	Influence on school organization and method. The special class can and should influence the organization and method of all elementary schools work by emphasizing the fact that schools are made for children and not children for schools.

MANUAL OF HEALTH FOR SCHOOL TEACHERS AND PUBLIC SCHOOLS*

M. L. Townsend, M. D. Director of Bureau of Health Education, North Carolina State Board of Health.

There are thousands of children in North Carolina who are this month beginning a new experience—they are starting to school. What for?

Why the need of all this parental sacrifice in giving up for several hours each day a child that is the life, hope and joy of the home?

Why should the state collect from its people millions of dollars each year to be spent in maintaining schools for its children?

There are two fundamental instincts which dominate all life, whether humans, animals, or plants,—one is self-preservation— the other is the perpetuation of the species. The little bird in the nest instinctively opens its mouth to receive the food which the mother bird is bringing. As it grows older it will flutter for safety when danger approaches. Food and safety are necessaiy for self-preservation—a fundamental instinct The mother bird, with the same instinct, also searches for food and seeks safety when danger approaches, but there enters into her bird heart the other instinct when she has little birds to care for. Usually so shy she will, when little ones are in the nest, show great courage and self-sacrifice to protect them. The instinct to perpetuate the species overcomes her natural fear and she fights and sacrifices herself to save her young.

Children go to school to the better prepare themselves to fight life’s battles and thus fulfill the instinct of self-preservation. The State provides schools and parents send their children to school because parents and the State are impelled by that other, even greater instinct of perpetuating the species.

Schools then, for the child, are instruments for the aid of self-preservation and for parents and the state, they are instruments for perpetuating the species.

Beside the home there is no agency so potent for good in the life of the individual, the state and the nation as the public

•From Health Bulletin, State of North Carolina.

Digitized by

Google
742

school. No wonder it occupies so important a place in the general scheme of our existence. The ultimate goal of all this effort is to make mentally and physically strong men and women who will carry on the burdens of life and lead themselves and the state to higher standards of living.

The time was when the great objective of schools seemed to be to cram facts into the minds of the young. The time has now come when educators agree that what is of greater importance is to develop a strong mind in a sound body that the individual may, with his own mental strength, fight life’s battles and, use the facts which experience teaches or which he may get by his own research. The school is a mental gymnasium where minds may be developed just as bodies are developed on the athletic field or athletic gymnasium. By exercise alone do we grdw.

Exercise, however, of either mind or body cannot be the most effective if there are defects which thwart endeavor. Such handicaps must first be removed that normal progress may not be impeded.

The dependence of the mind upon the physical body is so great that mental development cannot properly advance if the mind is constantly diverted by thoughts of physical pain or of physical incompetence.

The requisite of a sound mind is a sound body. The first consideration in any 'education effort must be to give the mind every advantage by first putting the body in the best possible physical condition.

Not only this but the body is a wonderfully complex organism and is therefore constantly subject to mal-adjustments, physical upsets and disease. It is not enough to start in with a perfect body, but that body must be constantly watched and cared for that it may continue to function properly. Only by starting right and then constantly keeping it right will the body be in condition to nurture a mind capable of its greatest development.

A prominent superintendent of schools in this State said to a body of teachers this summer, “The first and fundamental objective in education is Health, and it is one of the neglected objectives. There has been a little dab of Health Education here and there—put on as if it did not matter, when it should have been the main show.”

The idea is being brought heme to the public school teachers more and more each day, that “a sound mind in a sound body” is the ultimate goal for which all strive and that a sound mind depends in great measure upon a sound body.

Perhaps nowhere can health education be so effective as in the school room. No teacher should be permitted to pose as a guide for young and plastic lives who is not well grounded in the fundamentals of healthy living.

The foundation upon which all health work, whether public health or individual health, must be built is Education. The most wonderful constitution which beneficent nature ever gave to mor-

Digitized by

Google
743

tal man will quickly deteriorate and be of no avail without the guardianship of educated intelligence. With the help of educated intelligence and upon such a constitution may be built up a super man. Neither the individual, the community nor the nation can shun the dangers it knows not of. It must be knowledge that can put us on our guard. Neither the individual, the community nor the nation can accomplish results along lines of health promotion, or constructive medicine, without knowlege of what is helpful and what is not.

Knowledge, the end or product of education, is the one factor, and actually the only factor in the final analysis, which will make possible the building up of a strong people capable to the greatest extent of self-preservation and of perpetuating vigorous posterity.

• • <•

News, notes and comments

“THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION”

Bucharest, Roumania.

Information fumis' ed by Captain Constantine A. Botey.

The National Institute for Physical Education of Roumania is a school of an academic character, controlled by the Department of Education.

The Institute includes the following sections:

a.	The civil section, preparing teachers for physical education, and granting the degree of “bachelor” and “doctor in physical education”.

b.	The military section, preparing instructors for the army and navy.

c.	The coaching section, preparing individuals in certain branches of sports granting a certificate.

For the civil section the courses last 3 years, and they are as follows:

1st year—Anatomy, Physiology, Biology, History of Physical Education, Medical Gymnastics (massage), Rhythm, Mechanics, Kinesiology, Physiological and Biological Chemistry, Physical Practice.

2nd year—Anatomy, Dissection, Physiology of Exercise, Anthropometry, Theory Jof Play, Psychology (genetic—social), Esthetics, Principles of Pedagogy, Logics and Ethics, Organization and Administration of Physical Education, Theory of Swedish Gymnastics, Corrective Gymnastics, Rhythm and Dancing, General Hygiene, Physical Practice.

Digitized by CjOOQle
744

3rd year—Special Hygiene, Antropologv, First Aid, Bacteriology, Pathology, Physical Diagnosis and Examination, Vital Statistics, Child Study and Psychology, Seminar Practice and Physical Practice.

Physical Practice includes: Swedish Gymnastics, Athletics, Fencing, Boxing, Games (minor and major), Horseback Riding Dancing, Swimming, Climbing, Rowing, Rifle Target Practice, Camping.

Only the graduates of a lyceum after passing physical and intellectual examinations are eligible for admission to this Institute.

Only those who have a Doctor’s degree in medicine, philosophy/ education or physical education, are appointed on the faculty.

NEWARK N. J. PUBLIC SCHOOL STADIUM

The Physical Training of the Newark Schools will receive great impetus especially the department of athletics and sports, due to the completion on October third of the $200,000 concrete stadium. This stadium is built to seat 16,000 people. Newark has had, for a long time, a splendid athletic field with a quarter mile naming track, baseball fields, football and tennis accommodations but, altho the need has been great a stadium was not built until recently.

During the Winter of 1924-25 sentiment was aroused among the business men of Newark and through their intercession with the Board of Estimate, first $150,000 was appropriated to build a stand and later this sum was increased so that the complete stand will cost more than $200,000.

It is built in the shape of an oval bowl with one end left unfinished and it is planned eventually to close the stand at the free end. The stand is also designed so that a second tier of seats can be built and when this is done the stand will seat about 40,000.

At present the stand rises twenty-two seats high and each seat is so arranged that the faces of the spectators may be seen as you look from left to right. There are dressing room facilities and the stadium is modem in every respect.

The Newark Public School Stadium was dedicated October 17 with appropriate exercises by the Physical Education Department.

President Paul V. Voelker of Battle Creek college recently announced the expansion of the institution into a liberal arts college with the opening of the fall term. The three affiliated schools of home economics, nursing and physical education which have heretofore constituted the college course will form the nucleus for the creation of nine departments.

Digitized by

Google
745

In a recent memorandum to the Unit Members of the National Amateur Athletic Federation, Mr.- John L. Griffith, the executive vice president says the following:

The World Federation of Education Associations, which has been meeting in Edinburgh, has adopted a set of resolutions which contemplate making a greater use of the schools and of education in bringing about world peace. Sports and sportsmanship are the common denominator of our people today and their value in making for good will and understanding among individuals and nations as well can hardly be over estimated. John Galsworthy, in his article, “Peace or War,” suggests—"Sport, which still keeps the flag of idealism flying, is perhaps the most saving grace in the world at the moment, with its spirit of rules kept, and regard for the adversary whether the fight is going for or against. When, if ever, the fair-play spirit of sport reigns over international affairs, the cat force which rules there now will slink away and human life emerge for the first time from the jungle.”

Nations may carry their competitions so far that ultimately they throw aside all of the rules of the game and fight it out. In sections where sport has not gained a foothold and the ideals of sportsmanship are not understood we still hear about the losing team in an athletic contest attempting to prove their physical superiority in a rough and tumble fight. These cases are so rare, however, at the present time that when a riot or fight takes place it causes considerable comment. In athletics men have learned to compete to the limit of their capabilities and still regard the niceties of the game.

The purpose of this bulletin is to suggest that possibly the best chance of promoting peace and good will among men is by and through athletics. This Federation is committed to the task of improving standards of citizenship by promoting more amateur athletics throughout the nation. Would it not be well at the end of the year if each of the unit members were to take stock and determine to what extent athletics had been promoted and improved in each of the organizations that compose the N. A. A. E? If all of our Federation members are doing all that they can for the cause of athletics we may feel sure that they are also making a great contribution for peace and understanding not only in our own country but possibly also among nations.	____________________

Stuart P. Sherman, Literary Editor of the New York “Herald and Tribune” and former professor at the University of ' Illinois writes as follows:

“Historians in the future, surveying the monuments of our children’s time, are going to refer to this as the beginning of the great age of stadium-building in America. They will see in this movement a religious significance, not yet visible to us; and they will expatiate in glowing terms on the period when, with extravagant and sacrificial ado ‘ >f

Digitized by
746

an ideal, our youth exalted the cleanliness and hardness of athletic games, and religiously subjected themselves to the rules and rigors of the game—to that arbitrary, elaborate, inflexible yet self-imposed system of “ethics” which alone makes any good game possible. I am hoping that our children’s generation will contain more real sportsmen than ours did—fewer quitters, fewer squealers, fewer players crying out to have the rules changed after the game is on; and no one so silly as to suppose there can be a game without rules.”

XTRACTS AND REPRINT

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

Translated by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF WOMEN AT BERLIN IN THE INTEREST OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

From	“Die Leibesuebungen”,	Berlin, Germany.

The first National Convention of Women for the physical advancement of their sex was held in the spring of this year at Berlin. Emma Ender, the presiding officer, in her opening address credited Erich Harte as the originator of the convention.

“The league of women,” she said, “opines that physical training should be an essential part of a woman’s life. I rejoice that physical education gains in popularity among our sex.” Nearly a thousand women from all parts of Germany attended the opening session and warmly greeted the introductory remarks of the speaker. *	* Two years ago the leaders of physical

education met and discussed the ways and means to meet the changed conditions of the present time. It was admitted that changes were necessary to modernize the physical work. It is remarkable how the new idea took root in such a short space of time. The men paved the way and now the women follow, pledging their support in the interest of physical advancement of their sex. *	*	*	During	the	executive sessions many of the

delegates discussed the subjects under consideration from different viewpoints. In the course of events it became apparent, that three women, by their personalities, speeches and original ideas, but of entirely different types, attracted most attention. They were

Gertrude Baeumer, Berlin, Else Fisch, Berlin, and Margarete Streicher of Vienna, Austria.

*	* *Dr. Baeumer, a sagacious speaker, vividly outlined the

educational problems of the future. Her captivating power to keep an audience interested was a helpful feature to impart to the delegates new thoughts which for some were a revelation.

Digitized by

Google
747’

The generation of to-day, she said, derives its knowledge mostly from extensive reading; it is the product of book learning. This manner of intellectual pursuit reflects the relations of cultural endowments; it proves only the ability of assimilation. Surely such training of the mind can not be considered the essential point of proper knowledge; it forms the basis of supposition.

A gap exists between the power to grasp and absorb mental impressions and the ability to mold them into concrete forms. Socials gaps are breaches of culture. Means must be found, even without books, to improve the mental and physical conditions of the masses. Modern physical work demands that form and the rhythm of bodily exercises be the real expression of distinct individuality. The education of women must be based on lines which familiarize the girls with the consciousness, the responsibility and the duty of womanhood. Such attainments can be best acquired by physical training. Unfortunately many mothers, who are weak and suffering, can not attend lectures or do practical gymnastic work. It becomes, therefore, the duty of the physical training teacher, according to Gertrude Baeumer, to strengthen the pride of the future mothers in the external loveliness of their sex.

Else Fisch, president of the women employees, in the department of Post and Telegraph, chose for her discourse: Physical training of women in regard to their vocational activities.

With the courage of her convictions she spoke of the absolute necessity of physical education among women workers. Safety first! was her slogan. Life is an asset that needs constant guarding. Unfortunately nearly every vocation has its ailments which are detrimental to good health. The housewife and nurse are no exceptions. The flat foot and varicose veins of the saleswoman, the muscular atrophy of women workers in lighting plants, the hoarseness of the teacher and the tubercular conditions of the seamstress are all abnormalities which must be reduced, or if possible, stamped out. To combat the evil two things are necessary. Rest periods and scientific research as to the effect of certain work in relation to health. The best time for the rest periods would be shortly after the middle of the working hours. These periods must be used for physical training to counteract nervous and muscular fatigue. The one sided activity of muscular force results in the sluggishness of the muscles which become exhausted. Those muscles or group of muscles need stimulation. Exercise of a vigorous type will restore their normal force. In certain cases massage may be of special value to revive muscular energy. The time allotment for rest periods should be short; if unnecessarily prolonged these periods may perhaps interfere with the working arrangements of the mill, the factory, the office or the shop.

Some phenomena, attributed to certain kinds of labor, which workers in different trades experience, should be scientifically investigated. For instance, some occupations cause undue mental strain, some muscular atrophy.

Digitized by

Google
748

Whereever a remedy can be found to lessen the number of cases, it should be applied. Experiments in the department of Post and Telegraphy have already helped to better the physical conditions of the women workers. If all working establishments had a rest period, the health and physical standards of its men and women workers would rise to higher levels. .

The next speaker was Dr. Margarete Streicher of Vienna, Austria. She spoke with sound judgment upon the physical needs of the modem woman. In her opinion physical education should aim to arouse responsibility and mindfulness for one’s own body and to acquire health habits. Physical education is a matter of the schools, she said. In Austria bodily training of boys and girls is identical; no different methods are employed. The physical work rests upon biological principles. The curricula require no class aims, but point to the means with which execution and form can be improved. The sport movement favored high gymnastic standards. The girls soon trained to excess, with startling consequences. To avoid further temptations, overtraining of girls has been curtailed. For gymnasium work two or three hours per week are sufficient, because each week an afternoon is devoted to outdoor sports, swimming and skiiing, and a whole day each month for extensive hiking.

Although the curricula are identical for both sexes it is evident that not always the same kind of exercises can be used. Muscular power and skill are not the only means to standardize physical requirements. Physical training of women must be based upon the physiological peculiarities of the sex and be consistent with feminine inclinations. Girls’ training must be based on the same principle, and must be started at the time of their adolescence. In this manner we influence their inclinations for physical education. If we consistently follow this method it will furnish the key to conduct physical training for women on different and more modem lines. It will supplant any present day system which must always consider the three viewpoints: Is it natural? Does it breathe life? Does it produce an impression on mind and body? Women decidedly influence family and social affairs. If they extend their sphere of usefulness to matters of clothing, housing and sanitation, they will in unmeasurable terms be intrumental in raising the health standard. Should they become seriously conscious of their responsibility for bodily development their advancement will be of more value, than the demands of the knowledge of race hygiene. An education based upon such lines extends beyond school age and becomes productive when the girl marries and becomes the mother of sons and daughters. Then the question is asked, what has such a mother accomplished? The proper answer qualifies the expression that body consciouness and mental training form the base of morality and duty.

The quintessence of Margarete Streicher’s deliberations are embodied in the following lines:
749

“The woman who knows her worth, and is conscientious about her duties, and who strives with a lofty mind toward her highest development, and knows her limitations, this is the creature I have in mind in the uplift of womanhood."

Several other speakers participated in the discourse. They were adepts in the systems they represented. Exhibitions in physical training enlivened the lectures. Pronounced typical systems were purposely eliminated from the program. Those exhibited served mainly as an incentive for new ideas.

The convention covered the main points in the revival work of physical education. The delegates expressed the opinion that class work for girls and women should not be conducted by men. They went on record and adopted the following resolutions:

1.	Physical education of girls should be entirely in charge of competent women teachers.

2.	Normal schools of physical education should admit women under the same rules as men.

3.	Institutions which instruct and examine teachers of physical training should have competent women teachers as members on the examining board.

4.	Wherever supervisory and advisory positions are created to conduct physical education, the girls should be placed in charge of women teachers.

Further, they demanded from the school authorities of the German States:

1.	To increase the time for physical education in order to insure the health of the rising generation.

2.	Compulsory physical education in all trade, mercantile and special schools and also for women attending universities.

The convention was a notable affair for the reason that the delegates were eager to exchange views and gather new ideas in the interest of physical education of women.

SNOWBALL CONTEST

H. P. Blair, Schenley High School, Pittsburg.

During the winter while the classes were out on hikes it was difficult to curb the desire to throw snowballs. Rather than to allow the boys to throw promiscuously, we devised various snowball contests. Care was taken not to choose a time when the snow was too wet. One of the most popular contests was throwing at moving targets, the targets being boys.

A street was selected where there was no traffic. The class formed in a front line of ranks of threes (or fours) along the sidewalk, facing the street. The members of each rank were numbered from one to three (or four). Each boy was permitted to mold one snowball, which he placed in front of him at his feet. When all were prepared, the instructor would shout any number from one to four. If he called number two all number twos would

Digitized by

Google
750

run to the opposite side of the street with their heads down. The remaining members of the ranks would then pick up their ammunition and attempt to hit number twos. The number of hits made were recorded. After each number group had been led out an equal number of times the total number of hits against each group was taken. The group having the least hits recorded was pronounced the winner.

THE LAND OF NOD ON CHRISTMAS EVE.

Adapted from "St. Nicholas—Plays and Operettas,” Series I. From the original Operetta by E. S. Brooks.

Modified and arranged for a Physical Education Program on Christmas Eve. by Joseph Weissmueller, Louisville, Ky. The playlet portrays the visit of some little Sleepy-Heads to the king of the Land of Nod, and the wonders they saw at his court.

THE CAST (Any number of children may take part.)

Characters:

Little Sleepy Heads, boys and girls, ages	5—	7

Royal Pages, two boys	  10

Heralds, boys	......... 10—13

King, boy good in Elocution.

Babes in the Woods, girls	__________ 6— 9

Sandmen, boys	......... 5— 7

Fairy Queen, a good dancer

Fairies, girls	.......... 4— 6

Goblins, boys	__________ 8—10

Dream Sprites, girls	__________10—13

Jack's O'Dreams, boys	 14—16

Dream Princess

Maids of Honor to the Princess	__________14—16

Santa Claus

Properties

Scene, Forest. In the middle and back of stage the King’s Throne, raised’ about two feet off the floor; it may be in front of a gable roofed house, eight feet wide, six feet deep, six feet high, decorated with streamers of crepe paper red and green. A carved chair, high back, fitting for a King. Smaller chairs on either side of the Throne for the King's court. The court consists of two members of each group of our play. After each group has performed, two of the characters remain on the stage, and join the King’s court one on each side of the throne.

Small springboards are placed on the stage, covered with gunny sacks, These are the beds of the Sleepy Heads, who are asleep as the curtain rises. Fasten a cord to the boards so that they may be easily removed from behind the scenes. The beds are placed two on each side of the stage towards the front.

Digitized by LjOOQ 1C
751

THE PLAY

A bugle is heard in the distance, the sound coming closer and closer; the curtain rises slowly to a subdued light, getting brighter all the time.

Royal Pages enter, one takes a position of attention, while the other walks slowly around the stage on tip toe peeping at the Little Sleepy Heads lest they should wake.

He comes to the front of the stage and speaks to the audience.

First Page:

“All’s well, we may now proceed with our Entertainment.”

' He bows to the audience and beckons to Page No. 2 who comes forth, bows to the audience, and recites the Prologue “Welcome, parents; welcome, friends,

Here is our Christmas Greeting, “Welcome to the festive joys,

“Of this happy meeting.

“May the moments flit along,

“Timed to gayest measure;

“All that’s heard in speech or song,

“Give you greatest pleasure.

(Selected)

Both Pages leave the stage, (during this time our Sleepy Heads • awaken, rubbing their tired eyes). Pages return with his Majesty, the King, between them; the Heralds follow in a column of front couples. (See the exercises of the Heralds, Pine Twig Drill). The King bows to the audience.

Firsi Page:	(Speaking	to the audience)

“Allow me to introduce to you the “King Of The Land Of Nod.’”

King:

"I’m the jolly old King of the realm of dreams,

“The sweet, sleepy land of Nod;

“I follow the sun-king’s vanishing beams,

"And fly when his morning glory streams,

“For I’m the drowsy god; Yes, I am the drowsy god; “But I’m the King of the night in my castle of dreams, “The King of the Land of Nod!”

(The king and his escorts march towards the throne. The King and Royal Pages remain at the throne during the performance of the Heralds)

Drill No. 1, Pine Twigs. (See Page 756.)

Song: "When it’s Winter Time.” from “Santa Claus, Sr. —Schirmer:	Exit	Heralds

Babes in the Wood. The girls are arranged back of the scenes, coming out with a timid step, as if undecided whether to come out or to run off.

The King:	(On	seeing	the	Babes	leaves	his	throne	and	comes

to the front of stage and speaks to the first Babe)

“Who are you my little ones?”

Digitized by VjOOQIC
752

First Babe:

“We are poor little Babes in the wood,

“And we’ve tried all week to be good;

“But they have gone and left us here,

“And we really think it's a. little bit queer “For we’re poor little Babes in the wood;

“And tried all week to be good.

(“St. Nicholas II”—Laura E. Richards.

King:

“Very well spoken my lovely lass,

“Come let us know what you have to show,

“To the King of the Land of Nod.”

During the introduction of the music the Babes run to their respective places in open order; the King and escorts return to the throne, walking to the left of the stage.

Drill No. 2 “Babes in the Wood” (See Page 757)

The Babes, after their exercises, run to the front of the stage facing the audience in a front rank and sing (Husb-a-bye Lull-a-bye, Santa Claus, Jr—Schirmer). Exit on the last strain.

Sandmen:-

Enter, the first one a larger boy, pushing a wheelbarrow with sand, sand shaker on top of sand, the other sandmen follow.

King:	(comes	to	the front again, addressing the sandmen)

“And who are you my little men?”

First Sandman:

“We-we are the Sandmen bold,

“And are busy as busy can be,

“For we work when it’s hot,

“And we work when it’s cold,

“As we scatter our sand so free,

“Close to eyes of the children dear; “We c-r-e-e-p and we cr-e-e-p, we p-e-e-r and we p-e-e-r-

“We peer as with barrow we plod,

“Then we scatter, we scatter the sand so free, “Till the children ares-l-e-e-p-yass-l-e-e-p-y can be,

“And off we trot, the children with us,

“To the King of the Land of Nod:”

King:

“Scatter and plod, Sandmen odd;

You are trusty old Knights of the Land of Nod.”

(The Sandmen form in open order and perform their exercises; see Sandmen).

Drill No. 3 “Sandmen”. (See Page 758)

Fairy Queen enters and bows to the King.

King invites her in pantomime, as if saying, the Land of Nod is yours.

Digitized by

Google
768

Fairy Queen i

(Dances the "Fairy Queen” by Chalif, at the end of the dance she looks to left and to the right.

"Come, Fairies and Elves, bestirring yourself,

"Take hands in a joyous ring,

"With step so light, in our woodland white,

"We’ll merrily dance and sing.

‘No sorrow or care we know;

"Through the forest and field we go-"Then trip it, trip it, trip it, trip it,

"Over the sparkling snow:”—(Selected) Fairies enter: Rim to their places in a half circle (see Fairy Dance) And sing “Fairy Folk” (St. Nicholas,” second Series page 190).

After the song they perform Drill No. 4, Fairy Dance.

(See Page 760.)

Exit Fairies.

The little Sleepy Heads move to the, foot lights and sit down, with their backs to the audience.

King comes to front; two Goblins enter; bow to the King. First Goblin: (Speaks to the King)

“I am here on request (pointing to the Sleepy Heads) To attend to my little friends.”

(Addressing the Sleepy Heads, who are huddling close together)

"But if some children eat too much "Or on their backs recline,

“I jump and bump on all of such,

“Until they groan and whine,

“Tis not my fault, you'll all admit,

"I’m naught but a Goblin as you see,

"And I dance on Dreamland’s sod,

"But if children will stuff, why that’s enough "I know what to do, for I’m up to snuff,

"For the King of the Land of Nod.”

Second Goblin:

“Clank, clank, in my dungeon dank,

"I live far down among chains and dust,

“And I say to each girl, and I say to each boy, “I’m the grim old Goblin "Can and Must”. “When they go to bed ugly, and cross, and bad, "Leaving mother and father so sorry and sad, "Then I come-and I stand, and I say,

“Little girl, little boy, you are wrong, you are wrong,

“And this is the burden of my song,

“What your parents say, do, should be easy for you, "And you Can and Must obey.”

King:

"Bring in your chain and dust, 0, Goblin odd,

“Go to work for the King of the Land of Nod.”

Digitized by VjOOQlC
754

Drill No. 5, Goblins. (See Page 761)	•

King:

“Where are the Dream-Sprites? Dream-Sprites come forth!

“Now weave your chains, ye Dream-Sprites fair,

“And call the dreams from the mystic air.

“Stand back 0, Goblins odd, (the Goblins move off the

stage).

“Old Sandman scatter your sand apace; (Sandman goes thru motion)

“Over each drooping eye, on each little face,

“Come the dreams through the ring of rosy, chains, “Come the dreams so rare through the mysty air,' '

“To the King of the Land of Nod.”

First Dream-Sprite: (Addressing the King)

“We weave, we weave our,fairy chain

‘Round each youhg heart, in each young

brain.

“Our dream-spell chain so sweet,

‘Bright dreanj-sprites we, so gay and free “We come with dripping feet, with merrily dripping feet,

“To dance on dream-land sod,

“While we weave our fairy chain

“Roupd each young heart, in each young

brain,

“That beats and throbs in the sleepy train,

'‘Of the King of the Land of Nod.”

King:

“Cling, cling, by my scepter’s swing,

“By the wag of my beard so odd,

“Dream-Sprites so small, I summon you all “To the King of the Land of Nod.”

Drill No. 6, “Holly Wreaths”. (See Page 763) (Dream-Sprites perform their exercises, then form to half circle and sing Weaving Song, Series I, page 52.)

King:

“Oh, my pink, 0 my pet,

‘ You’re the prettiest yet, (Jacks are seen coming from behind the scenes)

‘Brave Jack O’Dreams so true,

“’Tis very plain that never again,

“A fairer lot we’ll view.

“Sleep soft, sleep well, oh children dear,

“On Dreamland’s pleasant sod.

“In the Land of the King of Nod.”

Drill No. 7, “Clown Dance” (See Page 764)

Dream Princess: (Enters on tip toe, passing the little Sleepy Heads, the King comes forth; she addresses the King.)

Digitized by

Google
755

“Daisies and Buttercups lowly bend-“Bend for me as I pass;

“For the Queen of the Dreams to the King doth send,

“His own little, sweet little lass,

“0, roses bright, and violets too,

“Rejoice as so swiftly I pass,

“I shall dance and flutter this day-dream through “I’m his own little, sweet little lass, “0, powers above; In your infinite love,

“Make them gentle, brave, and strong, “Make them fearless, manly, and true,

“As ye hasten their years along,

“Oh prince of the Isle of beautiful smiles,

“Send them pleasure and happiness rare;

“Send favoring tides, as their ship gaily glides, “Down life’s flowing river so fair.”

Drill No. 8, “Maids of Honor”. (See Page 766)

(After this dance the King becomes restless, walks up and down.)

First Jack O’Dreams (rushes in)

“Great King!, the sun is on the rim,

“The Lamps of Day to light,

“’Tis time to go oho, oho,

"With the vanishing shades of night.

“Dismiss your court, break off your sport,

“'Tis time that your way you trot,

“Around Cape-Horn, ere day is bom,

“To the opposite Land of Nod.”

King:

“Gather and plod, gather and plod,

“Up and away from the Land of Nod,

“I’m the jolly old King of the realm of Dreams,

“The sweet sleepy land of Nod-“But I fly from the sun-king’s morning beams

“To the kingdom of night and castle of Dreams. “Far away in the Land of Nod,

“In the Chinamen’s Land of Nod.

“For I’m not good at all when the sunlight streams-“I’m the King of the Land of Nod.”

Sleighbells are heard several times in the distance.

King:

"Hark the sleighbells,

“Now I wonder who—”

First Little Sleepy Head (Claps hands joyously)

“It’s Santa Santa Claus!”

Second Little Sleepy Head

“Oh, do you hear, perhaps we'll see him.”

Digitized by Google
756

King:

“Of course you will, tomorrow is Christmas Day!”

Drill No. 9 “Sleighbells”: (See Page 767)

After their exercises they run off to bring in Santa Claus on a sleigh, packed with gifts, etc. All children form on stage, little ones in front, etc. All sing “Dear Old Santa”

King: (With his escorts, now in front, to one side);

(as the large sleighbells are heard)

“Hark, we hear the jangle, jingle,

‘Hark, we hear the tangle, tingle,

“Hear, the jingle and the tingle, of the sleighbells sweet and strong,

“Welcome, welcome, rings our greeting;

“Joyful, joyful is the meeting,

“Sweet the meeting, and the greeting, sing the welcome loud and long,

“Jingle, jangle, tingle tangle,

“Christmas joy shall know no pause,

“Tangle, tingle, jangle, jingle,

“Welcome to you, Santa Claus. (King and Santa shake hands)

Song: “Greeting, greeting, Santa Claus”

Distribution of gifts to children.

Note 1. The songs	,

“When it’s Winter”

Hush-a-bye- Lull-a-bye-”

“Dear old Santa Claus is Coming”

“Greeting, Greeting, Santa Claus” are all from “Santa Claus, Junior”—Schirmer, N. Y.

Note 2.

Apparatus work for boys may be worked into the play, after their Drills

Drills for the Land of Nod

Drill No. 1 “Pine Twigs”

(For Boys about 9-12 years of age-)

Music- Stars and Stripes For Ever................John	P Sousa

Formation:- The boys are counted off by fives and are .lined up in the rear of the stage. The first two boys bring in the King, one on each side of his Majesty. The rest form in couples following the King and escorts. When King mounts throne, the boys angle march left, single file The first five face left, the rest follow. Open order, with closing steps to the left side. The Pine Twigs are carried like a pair of flags; the starting position is as it would be in a Flag Drill.

Introduction;- March in place for eight steps, with a 1-4 turn left, on the first of every two counts............................ 8

Digitized by

Google
757

Counts

Part I

1. Straighten the arms sideward, 1-2. Raise heels, the arms

sideupward 3-4; return movements 5-8................... 8

Repeat	three	times................................  24

2..	Straighten arms upward, 1-2; bend knees, lower arms sideward, 3-4 return movements 5-8......................... 8

Repeat	three	times................................. 24

3..	Lunge left, sideward, straighten the left arm obliquely

sideupward right, opposite, 1-2; 1-2 arm circle right downward (both arms are parallel left obliquely sideupward) turn head left, 3-4; return movements, 5-8....... 8

Repeat	right,	left, right........................... 24

4..	Lunge left forward, straighten arms obliquely sidedown-ward, 1-2; swing arms sideupward, cross the twigs, 3-4;

return movements, 5-8.................................. 8

Repeat	right,	left,	right.......................... 24

5..	In divided order

1	2	3	4	5

No. l-No.3-No.5 do exercise (1)

No. 2 face left No. 4 face right do exercise four times ... 32

6.. No. l-No.3-No.5 do exercise (2)

No. 2 start left foot,

No. 4 start right foot, do exercise (3) four times...... 32

Trio

1..	Marching on the lines of a square, No.l around No.2 passing in front, start left foot, No. 5 around No. 4 passing in front, start right foot

No. 2 and 4 rest; 3 four steps forward-4 steps backward

8	in place............................................ 16

As the above, but No. 2 and 4 do the marching........... 16

Pose ................................................... 16

Part II

1.	Straighten the arms left, sideward, 1-2; raise arms

left, side upward 3-4; return movements, 5-8............ 8

Repeat	three	times	i.e.	right, left, right........... 24

2..	1-4 turn left, on the first count, straighten arms sideward, 1-2,; Lower trunk forward, 3-4; raise trunk, 5-6; bend

arms, 7-8 .............................................. 8

Repeat this three times with 1-4 turn on the 1st of 8 ... 24

3..	Jump to side stride stand arms sideward, 1-2; bend trunk

left cross twigs over head, 3-4; return 5-8............. 8

Repeat	right,	left,	right............................. 24

4..	Pose	............................................... 16

Note:-Beginning with the 3rd exercise of part II, the mu^ sic begins again at the Trio.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
758

5..	Closing the Ranks to the center, all march to the front of the stage. The first Rank arriving at the foot lights, faces right, the 2nd does the same, etc. all remain in a flank line and sing “When it’s Winter”

While the boys are singing, the apparatus is quickly brought on the stage.

Drill No. 2 "Babes In The Wood”

For girls from 8-10 years of age.

Measures

Music:-"Garden Dance;” Schottische by G. Vargas.

Formation :-Ranks of even numbers in open order.

Introduction :-Girls run to their respective places........... 4

Part I

1..	Right hand holding “Nighty” in 2nd position, the left arm circles from 2nd position once around the left, 1-4.... 1

Same right, 5-8........................................... 1

As above, two measures, but lower trunk forward and

raise .................................................... 2

Repeat three times....................................... 12

2..	Repeat the first two meas. of part (1)...................  2

Turn once around to the left on the ball of feet arms to

5th position, 9-12; courtesy step left, 13-16............. 2

Repeat right, left, right................................ 12

3..	Face an eighth turn left step left, forward, rubbing eyes

as if sleepy, 1-4; turn once around to the left in 8 steps, the right hand placed on the left breast with the left hand fore finger pointing, counting the stars, looking upward, 5-12..............................................   3

Step left sideward, close right foot to left, bow; hands

holding Nighty, 13-16..................................... 1

Repeat right, left, right	12

4..	Four step-hops forward left, right, left, right hands hold-

ding Nighty, 1-8.......................................... 1

Feet together, turn once around left, in four light jumps,

two counts for jump, with a quarter turn left, 9-16....... 2

Four step-swings backward left, right, left, right 1-16

and turn as before........................................ 4

Repeat once .............................................. 8

5..	Step left sideward, turn head left, fore finger to mouth, as if saying hush, 1-4; 1-4 turn left step right foot forward, place right hand to right ear, in a listening attitude, 5-8 ..................................................

Digitized by v^,ooQLe

2
2

12

759

Turn twice around to the left, on the ball of feet, arms

in 5th, 9-16.........................................

Repeat right, left, right............................

6..	Repeat (4) ...............................:..........  16

Rim forward; form in front of foot lights, facing audience,

Sing: Hush-a-bye; Lull-a-bye; run off.

Drill No. 3-“Sandmen”

One larger boy, about 12 years of age, comes out on the stage with a wheelbarrow in which he pushes one of the Sandmen. He stops in front of the King. Dialogue, etc.

The Sandmen (boys of 5 to 6 years of age) come out .from the sides of the stage assuming their positions in open. order. Places are marked on the floor; any even number of even couples may take part, those in the front Rank are No.l, the rear Rank are No.2; they are placed so that they may pass between each other; see Figure.

-T“	T	T	T T T 2

*** T T X T T T )

Music:-Vienna Forever; or a good March.

A..

B..

C

D..

Part I .

Measures

Bend the arms to thrust, 1-2; straighten the arms upward, 3-4 ............................................... 2

Return	movements,	5-8................................. 2

Repeat	three times....... ...........................  12

Bend the arms to thrust, 1-2; straighten the arm, sideward, 3-4 ............................................... 2

Return	movements,	5-8.................................. 2

Repeat three	times...................................   12

Lower trunk forward in four jerky movements, the arms hang at the sides inactive, 1-4; in the same manner raise

trunk, 5-8 ..............................................    4

Repeat the above	exercise three times.................... 12

Rank No. 1 takes four steps backward, rank No. 2 four steps forward (they change places) all march four steps

in place 1-8	........................................    4

Perform	exercise C once, 9-16............................ 4

Repeat all of D, No. 2 going backward No. 1 forward..... 8

Part II

A.	. Raise arms sideward, 1-2; bend knees deep, 3-4............. 4

Repeat the exercise three times........................... 12

B.	. Squat stand, 1-2; straighten the left leg sideward, return

5-8	  4

Repeat the same to the right, left, right..... ..........  12

Digitized by

Google
760

C.	. The same as C of part 1....................... 16

D.	. The same as D of part 1..............v........ 16

Note: On the last four counts of the exercise D No. 1 face left about in four steps in place; the partners are facing each other now.

Part III

A.. The partners take a wrestling position, 1-2, sway each other from side to side, at the same time turning in place

3-16	.................................................... 8

B.	. No. 1 place their hands on No. 2 heads, 1-2 (as if pull-

ing No. 2 hair) pull down, 3-4; return the same way, 5-8 reverse, 9-16 ......................................... 8

C.	. Assume boxing position; box in pantomime and turning

in place ................................................... 8

D.	. Repeat all of part	III....................................24

No. 1 take their partners on their backs and carry them off 1 the stage.

Drill No. 4-“Fairy Dance”

For little girls 5-6 years Music:- ‘The Arabasken” by Carl Mere. H. S. Steadman, Indianapolis. The little ones are behind the scenes, half of the number on the left, the other right counted off by twos. Introduction- 4 measures; the girls run forward to a hal. circle which has been marked on the floor showing each one’s place.

Part I

Facing audience; hands are always holding dress; arms in 2nd position unless otherwise stated.

1.. Step left sideward, 1-2; point right foot forward, 3-4; same

to the other side 5-8..................................... 2

2..	Balance left forward, raise the left arm to 5th position

1-2; balance, right backward, 3-4..........................2

Repeat three times 1-48.................................. 12

Part II

1..	Run forward in the	next	eight	counts,	forming a circle ... 2

Turn once around to the left in many little steps, arms

in 5th position........................................... 2

All facing the center kneel on the left knee, slowly move

the arms from 2nd through first to 5th position, 1-8...... 2

Repeat the last two measures, coming to a stand on the last two counts....................................... 2

2..	Repeat the above ......................................... 8

Part III

1..	Grasp hands and face to the right, three steps forward and point right foot 1-4; repeat three times in the same

direction, 5-16 ........................................... 4

Face left about and	repeat,	back to	place............... 4

2..	Turn in place, 1-4;	kneel	as	in	part	II................. 8

Digitized by

Google
761 Part IV

No. 1 kneel as before No. 2 encircle, No. 1 facing in front

in three steps, and point four times......................... 4

No. 2 kneel. No. 1 facing in front.......................... 4

2.	Millwheel left, in three steps and point.................... 4

Millwheel right ............................................ 4

Part V

Executing three steps and point, each half of the circle moves off the stage to the left and right, respectively.

Drill No. 5. “Goblins”

Short Wands, about two feet long are wrapped with green or red crepe paper. A green or red cord is tacked on ends of wands in order that the Boys may sling them over the shoulder, in the same fashion as a gun is carried.

Boys are lined up in rear of right hand comer of stage in a long flank Rank, hands are on hips. Small-man’s walk, eight steps forward with knees bent, counts 1-8; bend trunk forward, counts 9-10; raise trank, counts 11-12; repeat last four counts, once 13-16; now alternate these two exercises until the performers are lined up in a Column of front Ranks of three, six or nine.

Open the ranks.	•

Music :-March National Emblem” by E. E. Bagly.

Formation :-Open ranks of three, six or nine.

M

Introduction :-Remove Wands from shoulders in two measures ............................................ 2

Wand horizontal in front of body; face left, four

steps in place........................................ 2

Repeat the last two measures three times .............. 6

PART I

1) Raise arms forward, counts 1-2, raise arms upward count

3-4; return movements,	counts	5-8..................... 4

Repeat three times,	counts	9-32....................... 12

2)	Raise arms left, sideward, turn head left, W. horizontal, right hand in front of left shoulder, counts 1-2, Raise arms upward, wands horizontal, counts 3-4; return movements, 5-

8	  4

Repeat right, left, right, 9-32............................ 12

3)

Stride left, sideward, bend arms to thrust, wand horizontal counts 1-2; Thrust upward, wands horizontal, counts3-4

Return movements, counts 9-8..........................

Repeat right, left, right, counts 9-32................

Digitized by

Google

4

12
762

4)	Stride left forward, bend arms to thrust, counts 1-2; Thrust forward, wands horizontal, counts 3-4; return move-

ments, counts 5-16.................................... 4

Repeat right, left, right, counts 9-32..............  12

5)	Kneel on both knees, counts 1-4

Paddling a canoe, pull on left side, wands, vertical, counts

5-6; pull on right side, counts 7-8. Repeat last 4 counts left and right, counts 9-12. Come to stand, counts 13-16	8

Repeat all, counts 17-32..................................... 8

6)	Files No. 1-2-3 close ranks to their center in 4 counts

Files No. 4-5-6 close ranks to their center in 4 counts 1-4 Four steps in place, counts 5-8; First column 1-1 wheel right; Second column 1-1 wheel left, counts 9-24; Open ranks, in counts 25-28; Four steps in place, counts 29-32 (on‘counts 5-8 carry wand on the right side, on counts 29-32, lower wands to starting position).................... 16

PART II Stand still for two measures.

1)	Raise arms forward, wand horizontal, counts 1-2; Raise

left arm upward, lower right arm downward, wand vertical, counts 3-4. Return movements, counts 5-8.... 12

Repeat right, left, right, counts 9-32................. 16

2)	Raise arms forward, wand horizontal, counts 1-2; cross left arm over right, wand horizontal, counts 3-4; Return

movements, counts 5-8................................... 4

Repeat right, left, right, counts 9-32................. 12

3)	Arm exercises like (1) but lunge forward on counts 1-2..

Return movements, counts 5-8............................ 4

Repeat right, left, right.............................. 12

4)	Arm exercise as (2), but lunge forward on counts 1-2; return on 5-8............................................. 4

Repeat right, left, right, counts 9-32...............   12

5) As (5) of Part 1......................................... 16

6) As (6) of Part 1......................................... 16

7)	Pose No. 1-&-4 Lunge forward, face left, grasp wand, on end, extend same obliquely foreupward, counts 1-2;

No. 3-&-6 Lunge right forward, face wand the same as No. 1-&-3, counts 1-2; No.2-&-4 jump to side stride stand, grasp wand on end, raise arms upward, one end of

wand extended upward; hold this up to 12th count.......	6

Return to stand, the wand on right side (or over shoulder), counts 13-16.....................................

Digitized by Google

2
4

768

8)	No.1-2-3 close ranks to the right. No. 1 take 8 small steps forward, No. 2-&-3 form in rear of No. 1; No. 4-5-6 do the same to the left; No. 6 marches forward; No.

4 & 5 form in rear of No. 6, counts 1-8................

All march forward, file on the right, angle march left. File on the left, angle march right. (Fig 1)

FIG. l

The two files meet in the center of stage, march to rear and off the right by twos.

Drill No. 6 “Holly Wreaths".

For girls from 10 to 14 years of age.

Formation: Front ranks of six, in open order.

Music:- “Harlequin Polka”—by Bohm.

The introduction is played twice, during this time the girls run out to their respective places. The Wreath is held in both hands, low in front, as starting position.

PART I	M

1.	Raise arms forward, Wreath vertical, counts 1-2; raise the

arms foreupward, counts 3-4; return, counts 5-8. Repeat three times.............................................. 16

*

2.	Place the left foot sideward, raise the arms sideward. Wreath in the left hand, counts 1-2; Lunge left sideward, ward, bend left arm oveF head, place right hand on hip, counts 3-4; return, counts 5-8. Repeat right, left right... 16

3.	Wreath to starting position. Jump to side stride stand,

swing arms foreupward, counts 1-2, bend trunk forward, lower arms forward, counts 3-4; Return, counts 5-8; repeat three times......................................... 16

4.	In Divided order, see Figure 1

1	2	3	4	5	6

F	H I ■*" H

Files No. 1 and 4 face left.

Files No. 3 and 6 face right all perform exercise 3 four times

Files No. 2 and 5 perform exercise 1 four times.......... 16

PART II

All remain facing in the same direction as in the previous Figure.

Digitized by t^-ooQle
764

M

1.	Three small steps forward forming a triangle see figure 2.... 2

FIG. 2

F 4 K d

Left hand grasps neighbor's wreath; raise the joined arms foreupward, counts 5-6; Bend trunk forward, swing the Arm down and back, counts 7-8; Return movement, counts 9-12: March	back to places, counts 13-16............ 6

2..	Change to couples. In couples Millwheel left in four Polka hops 1-8; Millwheel right in 2 Polka hops, counts 9-16.... 8

3„	Repeat ............................................... 16

PART III

1„ Swing arms foreupward, counts 1-2; bend knees, lower arms, forward, counts 3-4; return, counts 5-8; repeat three times, counts	....................................... 16

2..	Kneel left Wreath in left hand, raise arm sideward, count 1-2; Raise left arm sideward, right hand on hip, counts3-4 Return, counts 5-8; Repeat right left, right, counts 9-32.... 16

3..	Place left foot forward, wreath in left hand, raise left arm forward, right hand on hip, counts 1-2; Lunge left forward bend the left arm overhead, counts 3-4; return, counts

5-8; Repeat right, left, right................... 16

4.. In divided order, proceed as in (4) Part 1....... 16

PART IV

1. Repeat Part II.................................... 32

Closing ranks to suit exits, and march off.

*

No. 7.-“A Clown Dance”

Boys from 14 to 18 years of age.

Formation :-A long flank line divided into twos, the first boy in the line places his hands on hips; all the others place their hands on the shoulders of the one in front. They are lined up in back of the stage, ready to come out.

Counts

PART I

Drum beat.

All jump forward, feet slightly apart count-1, rest for one count, count-2; repeat the two counts 3-4; three jumps

forward, in three counts 5-6-7; rest count-8.......... 8

Repeat the above seven times until the performers have

formed a flank circle in the middle of the stage..... 56

PART II

The music begins now playing any good march.

1..	Lower the arms. March four steps in place, counts 1-4; face left and four steps in place, counts 5-8; four steps backward, counts 9-12; face right and four steps in place counts 13-16 ...........................................

Digitized by CjOOQle

16
765

Counts

2..	Lunge left sideward, raise the arms sideward, counts 1-2; bend trunk left, sideward, touch the floor with left hand,

counts 3-4; return counts 5-8......................... 8

Repeat right, left, right................,........... 24

3..	Face left, take four marching steps forward, counts 1-4; face right, march four steps in place, counts 5-8; the circle

is closed now, place the hands on front shoulders..... 8

Raise the left leg sideward and hop on the right foot, counts 1-2, displace the right foot and hop on the left foot, counts 3-4 (cut hop left, and right); Continue this for 24 counts, the circle moving forward............. 24

PART III

1..	Repeat (1) of Part II................................ 16

2..	All facing to the center of the circle. Bend the knees, hands on the floor, (squat stand) count 1-2; Straighten the legs backward to support lying frontways, count 3-4 to squat stand with the left foot in front of right foot,

counts 5-6; to stand with a 1-2 turn right coupts 7-8. 8

Repeat three times..................................  24

3.	Repeat all of (3) Part II............................ 32

PART IV

1..	Repeat (1) of Part II...............................  16

2..	No. 1 face the center, No. 2 face away from the center (they are back to back) lock arms at the elbows, counts

1-4; ...............................................   4

No. 1 bend trunk forward, lifting partner off the floor, counts 5-6; No. 1 straighten and lower the partner to the

floor, counts 7-8; No. 2 do the same, couts 9-12;..... 8

Repeat the last 8 counts twice, counts 13-28; face to center, counts 29-32...............................  20

3..	Repeat all of 3 Part 11.............................. 32

PART V

1..	Repeat (1) of Part II................................ 16

2..	All face the center, grasp hands in a circle; lunge left forward, swing the arms foreupward, counts 1-2; bend trunk forward, swing the arms fore downward and back, counts 3-4

return movements, counts 5-8........................   8

Repeat right, left, right............................ 24

3..	Repeat (3) of Part II................................ 32

PART VI

1..	Repeat (1) of Part II................................ 16

2..	No. 1 and 2 are facing each other, No.l in the center of

the circle; No. 1 raise the left leg forward, No. 2 grasp left heel with the right hand and place the left hand on No.l right shoulder; No. 1 grasp No. 2 heel etc.; in this position they hop around in a circle to the left for 16 counts then change foot positions and hop to the right for 16 counts.......................................

3..	Repeat (3) of Part II...................................

Digitized by kjOOQle

32

32
766 PART VII

1..	Repeat (1) of Part 11...............................  16

2..	Back to back (as in Part IV (2), the arms are locked)

the feet are about three feet away from each other, the boys are leaning against each other, sit down on the floor, counts 1-4; raise up to a stand (the feet must remain as they were), counts 5-8; repeat three times........... 32

3..	All face left No. 2 comes to support lying frontways in

four counts with legs straddled, No. 1 grasps the ankles of No. 2; in this position the performers march off the stage, (No. 2 on the hands, wheelbarrow fashion)...	32

No. 8 Maids Of Honor”

A group Dance for 16 Girls.

Pavlowa Costume.

Music:-“Dance of the Hours,” by A. Ponchielli

Begin with the short introduction.

Formatioif:-Single circle counted off by twos.

Introduction:- The Princess is on the stage. After her recitation to the King, the music begins to play. She turns in place, in many little steps, arm from 2nd to 5th position. After the 2nd turn she runs to her place at the head of the line.

Half of the girls come out from right hand front comer of the stage in single line, the other half from the left hand comer rear. All run out in many little steps to the end of the

Introduction; they are now in circle formation.................10

M

Glide hop left forward, two leaps forward, counts 1-4;

the arms in 3rd amplified left hand high, to 2nd position.... 2

Repeat Right ............................................. 2

Repeat six times, moving around the circle............... 12

PART II First Interlude A. All face the center of the circle, run forward in many

little steps, arms in 2nd position...................2	1-2

Glide hop forward, step swing hop backward, left, right the arms to 5th, to 2nd................................ 1

B.	. Repeat the above (A) but backward..................3	1-2

C.	. All face outward from the circle, repeat A-B.......... 7

D.	. Face partners, run to the left in a circle around each

other, in Bouree step left the left arm in Intermediate

the right in 2nd....................................2	1-2

Glide hop forward left, step swing hop backward right,

toward and away from partner, the arms as in (A)....... 1

Repeat the same to the right........................31-2

E.	. Repeat C & D.......................................... 7

Digitized by (^.ooQle
767 PART III

Grand left and right partners face each other and move in the opposite direction as follows: same step as in the first part, on each glide hop she meets a new partner, on

the last glide hop she is back to her original place...	16

Second Interlude Turn in place to the left in many little steps, arms to 5th 3

Face outward, kneel left slowly move the arms to 1st to 5th, trunk slightly inclined forward rise slowly, arms to

2nd ................................................... 4

Repeat the last four measures.......................... 4

PART IV

Repeat Part 1........................................ 16

PART V

In groups of four, join hands, form small circles, run to the left, in many little steps on the balls of the feet, the

body leaning away from tne center;.................... 6

Step-swing-tum left in two step swing hops, left, right,

arms 3rd to 5th........................................ 2

Repeat all to the right............................... 8

Third Interlude All turn in many little steps to the left, on the balls of the feet, arms to 5th position. This brings performers

back to their first place in the large circle......... 3

PART VI

No. 1, run to the center of the circle in many little steps

arms 2nd No. 2, turn in place......................... 4

No. 1, turn in place No. 2, kneel and rise, as in the second Interlude..............•.....................   4

PART VII

No. 1, join hands, face right, skip forward, 24 skip steps No. 2, face left, skip forward in 24 skip steps, swing the

arms naturally......................................  12

No. 1, run forward, raise the joined hand high, No. 2, with their backs to the center, run backward to center of

circle, arms in 2nd, trunk gradually lowered forward.	4

No. 1, run backward, No. 2 run forward, raising trunk,

the arms to 5th........................................ 4

No. 1, release their grasp; all No. 1-2 turn in place, twice around, and run off stage.......................... 9

Drill No. 9 VSleigh- Bells”

For eight or more girls.

Music :-Any good Polka

PART I

Formation :-Four enter from the left, rear comer, four from the right, rear comer of stage, in four Polka hops.... In two flank lines the leaders move forward to the front of the stage, all the rest follow this takes four Polka hops

Digitized by

Google

4

4
768

Millwheel left and right(partners face each other perform the millwheel left by grasping hands) in four polka hops; same right............................................ 8

PART II

The two lines facing each other, move backward in two step swing hops, left, right, counts 1-4; four skip

steps backward, counts 5-8............................ 4

Eight skip steps forward, passing to the other side of stage

the individuals pass to the left of each other........ 4

On the last skip step face about, eight skip steps forward 4 On the last count, face about, four skip steps forward to original places (in center of stage), lock left elbows with partner, millwheel left, in four skip steps........... 4

PART III

Both files face the spectators, file No.l on the right side of stage countermarch right back toward the rear of the

stage, file No. 2 counter left in four polka hops..... 4

The leaders of each file meet each other and form an arbor, the 2nd couple passes thru, in two polka steps; the 3rd and 4th follow in the same manner. After the two polka steps, the 2nd couple forms the arbor, then the 3rd

couple does the same etc, this takes eight measures.. 8

Partners millwheel left, in four polka steps.......... 4

PART IV

File No.l going to the right forms a double circle with

File No. 2 who go to the left in eight polka steps... 8

The performers now are in the center of the stage.

The first number of file No. 1 passes in front of the first member of file No. 2; all the rest do the same until the double circle has been formed......................... 8

PART V

Couples facing each other; glide hop forward on the left foot toward each other, arms 3rd intermediate, left high counts 1-2; two steps backward, counts 3-4; Repeat the

same to the right, counts 5-8...................................... 4

Change places in two heel-and-toe Polka steps, counts 9-

16	  4

Repeat all, back to places....,.................................... 8

PART VI

All face toward the Leader and follow her, in a single file, heel and toe polka step left, right etc, until all are in front of the footlights at a proper ending in the music. Place hands on the hips of the one in front; place the foot sideward in preparation for the cut-hop left, right sideward. In this step they sing Jingle Bells and move forward with the cut-hop until off stage.

Note:-At the proper time this group brings in Santa Claus in a sled.

Digitized by CjOOQle