MIND AND BODY

SEPTEMBER, 1911

Tol. 18.

No. 201

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER* Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M.D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown, PM., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By Henry Hartung, M. D., Chicago, 111.

(Extracts from an address delivered at a meeting of the National Educational

Association.)

WITH AN APPENDIX Showing the cost of introducing an effective system of physical training.

Physical training in its numerous aspects has gradually come to be a prominent feature in most of our educational institutions, as well as a daily requirement in the life of people of culture. Bicycling, lawn-tennis, gol'f, rowing, swimming, the various ball games and other popular forms of athletics known and practiced for many years by a privileged few, are now steadily gaining favor with the masses. Penal and reformatory institutions have introduced gymnastic exercise as a factor for the normal and physical improvement of their inmates and have recorded splendid results thereform. Military schools and academics have made it a part of the training of their pupils. There is scarcely an up-to-date physician who does not employ physical exercise, in active or passive form, for many bodily ailments, defects or functional disturbances of the different organs of the body.

Business men, laborers* and people engaged in professional work, men and women, young and old, flock to the gymnasium or practice at home for the purpose of recuperation,*stimulation of bodily development, to counteract the effects of a more or less one-sided, health-impairing occupation, or to regain that physical vigor, strength and mental equilibrium which is absolutely necessary for every individual1 in the performance of his every-day struggle for existence.

Our higher institutions of learning have special departments of physical training, placed under the supervision of well qualified teachers. Physical training is also being recognized as a necessity for the education of our children, and is slowly but steadily gaining admission to the curriculum of many public school systems.

This great variety of applications of physical training naturally implies manifold requirements and ideals, attained only by methods and means specially designed far such special purposes. Thus it can readily be seen

Digitized by
-194-

that the aim which the physician has in mind, does not coincide with that pursued by the college athlete, and that aims and methods adapted to a military training school would not be appropriate for the worn-out business man who looks to gymnastics for recreation and recuperation only. And again it is obvious that the principles guiding one in the physical training for school children must be different from those that govern any of the other cases.

ITS PROPER PLACE IN THE CURRICULUM.

One of the first and most important requirements is to give physical education its proper place in the school curriculum. Our educational ideals are still to a great extent influenced by the antiquated conceptions of mediaeval civilization,—the civilization of ages in which there was no other education but that of the mind, when the body belonged to the devil and was just good enough to be maltreated and chastised by all sorts of tortures. Slowly and gradually this emancipation of the body from its bondage has taken pl'ace.

Modern science has taught us that man is an organic unit and that a mutual relationship and interdependence exists between mind, and body. It is just as true that mental activities exert an influence on the body, as that physical activities produce corresponding effects on the mind.

It is only recently that educators have paid more attention to this process of correlation between physical and mental activities and begin to recognize it in their methods and theories of teaching.

In all those schools where physical training has been given a permanent place and a fair trial, its great value has been demonstrated and acknowledged. May it suffice to quote in proof hereof, a few words from one of the foremost, educators and thinkers that America has produced, the late lamented Col1. Parker:	“It	may	never	be	known scientifically what a

tremendous influence the body and all its organs, every nerve and muscle,, vein and artery, exert upon the brain, and consequently upon the intellect. The more I see of the good work (of physical training) in the school, the more I believe in it; the more I study psychology, especially physiological psychology, the stronger my belief becomes in physical training.”'

AIMS AND PRINCIPLES OF THE SYSTEM.

Being convinced of its absolute necessity and extreme value as a factor in modem education, we demand that physical education, with its influence on mental and moral training, be j^iven just as much attention as mental education. Only when this demand is realized, can we ever hope to do justice to the growing child, to produce a more harmoniously developed race and to reach a plane of civilization such as had been established thousands of years ago by the people of ancient Hellas.

To attain this lofty ideal it is first of all necessary to lift physical training from that inferior position as a remedial or therapeutic agent, as a repair-department for sins committed by faulty and obnoxious school methods and ways of living, to a higher* level and place it on a sound foundation as a truly educational department.

Therefore, we consider it the first and foremost requirement of anv good system of physical education for our public schools, that it have for its aim and object the harmonious development of all the different elements

Digitized by LiOOQle
—195—

and organs of the child’s body, according to well-defined physiological, psychological and pedagogical laws.

As such, it must furnish the foundation upon which all the higher mental and moral faculties may be built up.

The results to be aimed at by such a rational1 system of training must

be:

1.	Health, by which we understand the proper activity of all the organs of the body.

2.	Grace and agility, implying the correct carriage of the body and such control of the neuro-muscular system, as to perform movements of trunk and limbs with the least expenditure of energy and time.

3.	Vigor, or strength, by virtue of which we train and test the powers of the body to such a degree as not to endanger its health or structures.

4.	Training of the special senses, mainly those of sight, hearing and touch; endeavoring to acquire a multitude of conceptions and correct judgments, based on such sensory impressions.

5.	Such psychological phenomena as are a direct result of the proper training of the motor nervous system, comprising all those higher motor impulses which are necessary for the building up of will power and character, and which are recognized as obedience, precision, submission to rules and order, perseverance, courage, self-reliance and self-control.

The laws according to which such a system should be built up, must be in conformity with the demands of physiology, psychology and pedagogy. Physiology must serve us as much in a negative as in a positive manner. While it teaches us, in a general way, the good effect that physical exercise has upon the various systems, especially those of locomotion, circulation and respiration, and helps us to select proper work adapted to the physical condition of the pupils, it cannot be made the sole foundation for an adequate system of training, as, until now, no one has as yet determined the specific value and influence of certain movements upon special muscles, nerves, bones, blood-vessels, the heart or lungs. Therefore, anatomical and physiological considerations can guide us only in a general way. They are of greater importance, however, from a negative point of view, teaching us to avoid all such exercises as may be injurious and, therefore, contra-indicated.

METHODS OF TEACHING.

It is evident that in regard to methods of teaching, this special branch of school work must be subject to the same principles that govern other branches of our curriculum, that it must be graded in a logical, systematic, wav and adapted to the different stages of bodily development of the pupils. Progression must follow as much as possible the laws of growth, and the exercises must be arranged in conformity with ordinary school classifications for the kindergartens, primary and grammar grades, and high schools.

Children should be required to take regular exercise from the first year of school life to the last, subject, of course, to variations in form and intensity. In the primary grades they should follow up the work in the kindergartens. As a rule the exercises should take the form of games and plays, calisthenics and such forms of physical work as are apt to stimulate growth and agility.

From year to year there should be an increase in variety and difficulty;

Digitized by

Google
—196-

exercises of swiftness should be followed by those requiring endurance, strength and dexterity, culminating in the high schools in the various branches of track and field sports. Gymnastic games and plays should be a prominent feature for every age.

Classes in physical training should be graded on a physical rather than on an intellectual basis. While it is necessary under present conditions to drill large masses simultaneously, we must not lose sight of the wants and needs of the individual pupil; but to make the individual the centre of the whole system, as is often suggested by physicians and people engaged more in therapeutic than in educational gymnastics, is entirely out of place and wrong, considering that in some of our larger cities thousands or even hundreds of thousands of pupils must be cared for physically every day. Such a system of individual training may be the proper one for house and home training, or for a university, where a small number of individuals are often prepared for athletic specialties; it also may become a feature of necessity with children poorly developed or suffering from special defects;—but it does seem ridiculous under the present conditions to suggest, for instance, that each of the 270,000 pupils of the Chicago public schools should be subjected to a special physical examination and anthropometric measurements in order to prescribe separate exercises for each individual, even once annually. There is absolutely no need for any such procedure, just as little as for giving every child his lesson individually in reading, spelling, or arithmetic.

In the same way that we assume a certain average of mental capacity for each separate grade, in accordance with which we adapt our lessons in the elementary branches, we may give physical training in relation to an average type of physical development for every grade, without any harm to the individual.

If it is possible and does not interfere too much with other school work, subdivisions should be made in each grade, placing pupils with the highest physical qualifications in one squadj the medium ones in a second, and the poor ones in a third. The best way, however, of being as just as possible to the individual and still adhere to the collective training of large masses, is by taking gymnastics entirely out of the school room and placing it where it really belongs, into the gymnasium, limiting class room practice wholly to calisthenics for recreation, and to counteract the effects of mental overwork.

GYMNASTICS AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT.

This leads us to the consideration of another object of physical training in our schools, which, however, is only of secondary importance to its educational mission; namely, its office as a hygienic or therapeutic agent. As such it restores the mental and physical equilibrium of the pupil, counteracts the effects of mental overwork and the various impairments due to and resulting from school life, builds up weak and poorly developed pupils, and looks after the correction of bodily defects and deformities.

It is a deplorabble fact that in this role gymnastics is at present a matter of necessity in our schools and is of great value, so long as our schools and educational methods are not yet in harmony with sound physiological and sanitary requirements. But it will disappear as such with improvements in sanitation in schools and homes, and perfection of principles of

Digitized by
-197-

teaching; when we shall have fewer hours of school work, no home study, fewer pupil's in a room, proper adjustment of seats and desks, sufficient heat, light and ventilation, better arrangement of school programmes, with greater attention to the hygiene of sex, the proper diet, medical examination of school children, and individual care for such pupils as do not come up to the physical and mental standard.

General and personal hygiene should have a place in every school curriculum, but it should b* taught as a separate study outside of the department of physical education. The physical director cannot and should not take the place of a medical examiner and sanitary inspector in schools, except he be properly qualified for each kind of work and be employed for one school exclusively.

Special exercises of a corrective nature should be prescribed for pupils who are below the average of physical development of their grade, and also for those who suffer from defects or deformities and bad habits of carriage of the body. This special instruction should be given under the supervision of a qualified physician and outside of the regular school hours. The treatment of the more serious forms, of course, does not come within the province of school training and must be attended to at home.

Having determined the requirements as to the proper system and methods of teaching, let U9 examine the requirements concerning the teacher of physical training; the place and time of practice.

AS TO THE TEACHER.

Physical training is in some respects a more difficult subject to teach than any other educational branch, especially where it must be adapted to large masses. Very much, then, depends upon the efficiency of the teacher. If he be the right kind of a man, gifted by nature with all the qualities that make a pedagogue and a master of his art, a person imbued with the dignity of his profession, with an ardent desire to do credit to himself and to his calling,—good results will undoubtedly follow his labors and it will be an easy matter for him, by the results of his work to convince the public at large and educators in particular of the extraordinary value of proper physical training. It will not do to have this important branch taught bv mere drillmasters, military instructors, ex-circus performers or college athletes, according to arbitrary notions or cut and dried rules.

Time was, when anybody, by reason of some special gift of nature or result of training in athletics, considered himsel'f well qualified to teach physical training and, managing to get himself on the pay roll of some school, began to treat or maltreat children according to his individual conceptions. Owing to a more general demand for physical education, the last decade has seen the production of a small army of self-constituted professors and physical directors, some of whom are no more fit for the position of a teacher than a medical quack is entitled to the position of college professor. Still thev flourish, and so long as the public in general, and school boards and superintendents in particular, are in the dark as to the real object of physical education, they find their position a well-paying sinecure. They are the creators of monstrosities of so-called systems of physical culture. .

In spite of this oversuppty of so-called teachers of physical training; there are, to my mind, but few who can justly claim this distinction. The,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-198-

ideal teacher of physical training is a rather rare specimen of manhood, embodying qualifications which are seldom found perfected in one person.

If possible, he should be a graduate from a normal school or be sufficiently familiar with the fundamental requirements for elementary teaching and well informed on the subject of general education.

Gymnastics well taught is rich in impulses for developing will-power, good habits and a strong moral character, but it requires a thoroughly trained master to impart these principles.

In addition to this general teacher’s training he must be intimately acquainted with those special sciences which are closely related to his profession. He must know the laws pertaining to the physiology of exercise, mechanics of movements, anthropometry, hygiene, physical diagnosis, and, naturally, the theories and principles underlying that system of physical training which he represents. If he have the knowledge of a physician, so much the better, although the mere fact that he is a physician does not at all imply that he is a good physical director.

But any amount of theoretical knowledge and enthusiasm will never make a perfect teacher of physical training. One must not only know his subject, but also be able to practically demonstrate it when required. There is hardly any educational branch, except manual training, where theory and practice are more closely allied than here. A good teacher must have done enough practical work in the different departments of gymnastics to know from his own experience how to execute the elementary movements with the greatest amount of benefit and the least danger to the body, also how to avoid certain obstacles or faulty positions. His bodily perfection and gymnastic skill should be rated as high as his mental qualifications. He must come as near as possible to our so-called type of perfect manhood, and if possible. be a personification of the principles for which he works.

I cannot consider a person up to the average of requirements for this position who shows any marked defect or deformity or who by carriage and movement betrays that his neuro-muscular powers have not been developed to a high degree of coordination and self-control.

PLACE OF PRACTICE.

In most of our school systems, where physical training has been introduced, we find the work carried on between the desks, in aisles; in some places in the halls and corridors, and in a few instances, in a gymnasium. I cannot consider any system an efficient and perfect one which is limited to mere school room exercises. Such work is rather an excuse for physical education, apt to degenerate into a fad, and entirely inadequate to respond to the demand of a harmonious and all-around development.

Gymnastic activity requires freedom of motion, plenty of room, air, light, and a variety of apparatus, partly as a means of developing bodily structure and power, partly as a test for strength, skill, agility, and endurance. Limited to the school room, we shall never get much beyond the recreative or hygienic principle of exercise.

One of the most urgent requirements, then, which we must make, to which attention has been called again and again, and which must be insisted upon until it is put into effect,—is that every school be provided with an adequate place for exercises, with a complete equipment of gymnastic ap-

Digitized by C^ooQie
-199-

paratus, if possible a closed hall1 or gymnasium for winter and rainy days, and an open playground or athletic field for the balance of the year.

The number and variety of apparatus must be decided by the teacher of gymnastics in accordance with the system taught, but there should always be enough of each to afford a large number of pupils an opportunity^ practice simultaneously and thus derive the greatest amount of benefit in the least time.

TIME OF PRACTICE.

While there is not at present a uniformity of opinion among specialists and educators as to the length of time per day or week absolutely necessary for adequate physical1 training of children, we should rely on the experience and results obtained from schools where it is made part of the regular school work. Naturally allowance must be made for local conditions, the number of school hours, age and development of the pupils. It seems rational though, that wherever the demand of the school in regard to mental activity is greatest, and wherever bodily development is deficient and below the average of a certain age, there more time should be devoted to physical training than where the reverse is the case. Taking as a guide the experience of such schools as mentioned, it may be safe to require an average time of from 3 to 4 hours per week, divided into periods to suit local conditions, about one hour per school day, or a longer period 2 or 3 times weekly. There are schools where from y2 to 1 hour is devoted to gymnastics daily, and others where such instruction is given 2 or 3 times a week for 1 to 2 hours at a time, in both cases with excellent results.

These longer periods of gymnasium work should not do away with such exercises in the school room in daily lessons of 10 minutes each, which the regular class teacher may consider necessary for recreative and hygienic purposes. The hours for gymnasium practice should be placed either in the middle or towards the end of forenoon or afternoon sessions.

It is also desirable that more attention be given to physical training in the education of pupils in Normal schools, not only to improve their physique and make them more fit for their strenuous and enervating wdrk as future teachers, but also to enable them to teach the elementary forms of exercise which should be given in the school room, and to look after the proper sitting, standing, walking and carriage of the pupils.

It is to the teacher and principal in the elementary school's to whom we must appeal first of all, to convince them of the value and necessity of proper physical education in our schools. It is through their assistance and cooperation that we can influence school boards and the public at large, and convince these of the great benefit that will accrue irom it to the children of the present and the men and women of the future generation.

Physical education for school children is still in a stage of infancy in our country, but much is to be hoped for in the future. Let us all strive to get a hearing before the great public and let them see tilings as we see them. Let us be earnest and serious about our work and let our results speak for us. Let it be known, first of all, that it is not our endeavor to make a physical giant of every child, and that Sandows, Sullivans and Roman gladiators are not our ideals, but that we owe it to every child of this great commonwealth, that his physical powers be built up and trained

Digitized by v^ooQle
-200-

to the same degree of perfection as we endeavor to develop his mental and moral capacities. Let us keep on working and agitating until1 physical training is established in every school, and until our demand 'for a harmoniously educated body and mind is realized.

The following plan is suggested where there is a desire to introduce physical training into the schools of a city:

1.	Petition the school board to introduce physical training as a part of the regular school work in the elementary and high schools. Use this pamphlet (copies of which may be obtained from the North American Gymnastic Union) to convince the members of the board of its necessity and desirability. Have teachers, physicians and other educated citizens speak to the members of the board. Get the editors of your local papers to write of the value of physical training. Get local gymnastic societies, clubs, Y. M. C. A.’s, women’s organizations, etc, to petition for its introduction.

2.	When granted a hearing before the school board suggest that physical training be introduced on the following basis:—

(a)	' In the elementary schools there shall be a daily gymnastic period of fifteen minutes. The regular class teacher shall conduct the exercises according to the lessons outlined in a standard Handbook on Physical Training. (There are a number of good text books on the market.) The exercises are to be conducted in the school yard, in the corridors, in good, well-lighted basements or (if it must be) in the class rooms.

(b)	In the higher schools all pupils shall have two periods of physical training per week, this work to be in change of a regular teacher of gymnastics.

(c)	The schoolyards, basements or playrooms of all schools shall gradually be equipped with simple gymnastic and play apparatus.

(d)	The play of all pupils as well as all track and field work, games, etc., shall1 be organized so as to give to all pupils the same opportunities for exercise at recess, as well as before and after school.

3.	The physical training w>rk in all the schools shall be under the direction of a qualified supervisor.

(a)	By means of separate instruction-classes the supervisor shall so train the class teachers in the elementary schools that they shall be able to conduct the daily gymnastic lesson of their pupils.

(b)	The supervisor shall visit all the teachers. By means of showing • model teaching and by other helpful measures he shall increase the efficiency

of the work.

(c)	In large cities the supervisor must have a sufficient number of capable assistants.

___(d) Each special1 teacher of physical training can effectively supervise

from 260 to 250 class-rooms. Where this special teacher also has the supervision of the games after school-time 150 class-rooms are sufficient.

4.	The cost of this work should be approximately as follows:—Man supervisor, $1200.00 to $2000.00; man assistant, $1000.00 to $1500.00. This cost in small cities might be slightly less; in large cities with many assistant teachers it would be considerably higher.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for yourself or for your friends.

Digitized by L.ooQLe
—201—

WHAT THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SHOULD DO FOR THE PUPIL’S BODY.

HEALTH AND PHYSICAL TRAINING AS FACTORS IN GENERAL '

EDUCATION.

By Fred Eugene Leonard, M. D., Oberlin College.

(Read at the Annual Convention of the Ohio State Teachers’ Association, Cedar Point, June 28, 1911.)

Two contradictory views of the human body have at various times profoundly influenced the attitude of educators toward its care and training. One, which we may term the ascetic, reflects the dualistic philosophy of oriental religions. Since evil was believed to inhere in matter, of whatever sort, while mind or spirit was essentially divine and pure, soul and body waged perpetual warfare on each other. “The flesh was an incombrance to the spirit; a clog, a burden, a snare. Men had been exhorted to ‘keep the body under,’ and perchance this was thought to be an easier task if the body were small and weak.”* Through the Alexandrian school of philosophy this tenet found its way into southern Europe very early in the Christian era, and furthered by an inevitable reaction from the extreme luxury and self-indulgence which characterized the decadent pagan society of the Roman Empire, and by the effects of persecution, which led to a glorification of martyrdom and caused pain and torment to be considered meritorious of themselves, it gave its impress to Christianity, so that asceticism became a part of the accepted teaching of the Church and the practice of a large proportion of her leaders and adherents.^ Mortification of the body took on all the dignity of a religious exercise, and the self-torture of the hermit and the monk served at the time as a means and measure of spiritual growth.

When in transalpine Europe, from the sixth till the twelfth century, the Benedictine monasteries became the chief or only seats of learning, and education was almost wholly in the hands of monks of that order, the ascetic discipline in all its severity entered as a necessary factor into school life, and such a thing as physical training was inconceivable. The universities of the middle ages, too, which developed in the twelfth to the fifteenth century, felt the same influence. Provision for lawful amusements was rarely made, and harmless attempts at pleasure appear often to have been regarded with more hostility than was displayed toward actual vice and crime. Somewhat similar appears to have been the condition in our own country during the generation that preceded the Civil War, when, as President Walker tells us,** the college hero “was apt to be a young man of towering forehead, from which the hair was brushed carefully backwards and upwards to give the full effect to his remarkable phrenological development. Hi9 cheeks were pale; his digestion pretty certain to be bad. He was self-conscious, introspective, and indulged in moods* as became a child of genius. He had

* President Francis A. Walker, “College Athletics,” in Harvard Graduates' Magazine, 11:4 (1893, September.)

** L. c., pages 2 and 3.’

Digitized by CjOOQle
—202-

yearnings and aspirations; and not infrequently mistook lassitude for intellectuality and the gnawings of dyspepsia for spiritual cravings. He went through moral crises and mental fermentations which to him seemed tremendous. From the gloomy recesses of his ill-kept and unventilated room he periodically came forth to astound his fellow-students with poor imitations of Coleridge^ De Quincey, and Carlyle, or Goethe in translation. . . Speech-making, debating, or fine writing were the be-all and the end-all of college training. . . Physical force, dexterity, and endurance, capacity for action, nerve, and will-power went for little or went for nothing, so far as publjc admiration was concerned.”

tAccording to the second view, the biologic or physiologic, the body is a machine with wrhich man does his work in the world. Care and training are necessary that it mav be perfect in all its parts at maturity, and handled skilfully and economically^ Huxley stated the idea in a nutshell in an address to the South LondoffWorking Men’s College, in 1868, when he began his definition of a liberally educated man by saying that he must have been “so trained in youth that his body is the ready servant of his will, and does with ease ana pleasure all the work tnat, as a mechanism, it is capabIe"of.”* JoJirntocke, discussing theTiygtefie £>f childhood in his “Thoughts on Edu-cation” (1693), advises parents to “keep the body in strength and vigor, so that it may ITe ablT~to obeyand execute the orders of the mind. . . A souTTd^milTd "in'a sound body Is a short but full description of a happy state in this world: he that has these two has little more to wish for; and he that wants either of them will be but little the better for anything else. . . He whose mind directs not wisely will never take the right wayj and he whose body is crazy and feeble will never be able to advance in it.” The same idea was in the mind of Rousseau when he wrote, in Book I of “Emile” (1762), “The body must needs be vigorous in order to obey the soul: a good servant ought to be robust. . . The weaker the body, the more t commands; the stronger it is, the better it obeys.”

Herbert Spencer devotes one of the four chapters in his volume on “Education” (i860) to the hygiene of childhood and youth, taking up in order the subjects of diet, clothing, exercise, and the evils that result from excess of mental application. He agrees with the writer who remarks that the first requisite to success in life is “to be a good animal,” and he adds that “to be a nation of good animals is the first condition to national prosperity.” He believes that as “in this life of ours the physical underlies the mental, the mental must not be developed at the expense of the physical. . . We infer that as vigorous health and its accompanying high spirits are larger elements of happiness than any other things whatever, the teaching how to maintain them is a teaching that yields in moment to no other whatever. And therefore we assert that such a course of physiology as is needful for the comprehension of its general truths, and their bearings on daily conduct, is an all-essential part of a rational education.” Writing a few years earlier on “Saints and their Bodies,” Thomas Wentworth Higginson used the following language:	“Whatever	may be the exceptional cases, the stem

truth remains, that the great deeds of the world can be more easily done by illiterate men than by sickly ones. Wisely said Horace Mann, ‘All through

* “E9say9: Science and Education,” page 86.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-203-

the life of a pure-minded but feeble-bodied man, his path is lined with memory’s gravestones, which mark the spots where noble enterprises perished, for lack of physical vigor to embody them in deeds.’ And yet more eloquently it has been said by a younger American thinker, Wassori, 4Intellect in a weak body is like gold in a spent swimmer’s pocket,—the richer he would be, under other circumstances, by so much the greater his danger now.’ . . . Voltaire declared that the fate of a nation had often depended on the ^ood or bad digestion of a prime minister; and Motley holds that the

S Charles V. changed the destinies of the world.”

lis view of the body as the servant of the mind, and the recognition I health as fundamental to sane and happy living, have led to the general introduction of courses in hygiene and the rudiments .of human f physiology into the curriculum of our schools and colleges, and to widespread >attempts to supply facilities for bodily exercise, with more or less provision vof expert oversight and systematic instruction. Such steps mark a noteworthy advance in the right direction, and yet they indicate only a partial grasp of the real significance and purpose of physical training, so-called. For there is still a third view of the relation of body and mind, the psycho-

foreshadowed it in chapter 25 of the Essays (1580), when he says “Our very exercises and recreations, running, wrestling, music, dancing, hunting, riding, and fencing, will prove to be a good part of our study. I would have his outward behavior and mien, and the disposition of his limbs, formed at the same time with his mind. It is not a soul, it is not a body, that we are training up; it is a man, and we ought not to divide him into two parts; and as Plato says, we are not to fashion one without the other, but make them draw together like two horses harnessed to a coach.” Browning has put the same thought into the mouth of Rabbi Ben Ezra:

“Let us not always say ‘Spite of this flesh to-day^

I strove, made head, gained ground upon the whole!’

As the bird wings and sings,

Let us cry ‘Ail good things

Are ours, nor soul helps flesh more, now, than flesh helps soul!’ ” In an oration delivered before the Phi Beta Kappa society of Harvard University in 1893 President Francis A. Walker called attention to the fact that “the favorite athletics of to-day are, in great measure, such as call for more than mere strength and swiftness. They demand, also, courage, coolness, steadiness of ~nerveuTckness~~df" ap prehension, resourcefulness, self-knowledge, self-reliance. Further stHI7 they often demand of the contestants the ability to work with others, powgr_of combination,' readiness to subordinate selfish impulses^ person slides ires, andeven individual cfedtTio a common erf3T These are alt qualities Weful in any professibn j in some profes-sions they are of high value; and it earmot be gainsaid that it is the normal effect of certain kinds of athletic sports to develop these qualities among the

physic, which finds increasingly clear and forceful expression in the recent home and foreign literature of physical training, particularly that relating to playgrounds and athletic sports, and which suggests that hitherto we have barely crossed the threshold of opportunity and obligation. Montaigne

contestants, as well as to afford impressive examples to the minds of the
-204-

spectators. . . It is unquestionably the opinion of most educated Englishmen that the cultivation of (football) in the public schools of that country has had not a little to do witl^the courage, address, and energy with which the graduates of Rugby, Eton, and Harrow have made their way through dangers and over difficulties in all quarters of the globe.** Gymnastics constituted a necessary part of the education of the Greek boy, and because it trained the will, as well as the body. Some years ago selected forms of athletic contest were introduced among the inmates of the State Reformatory at Elmira, New York, for the definite purpose of developing self-restraint and respect for the rights and achievements of others. The experiment is said to have proved a success.* In a word, the whole man is reached through his motor activities, and is involved in them. Mind and body are inter-dependent, and what we have been calling physical training, if properly applied, may make direct and most important contributions to the intellectual, social, and moral progress of the individual.

Discarding the ascetic view as no longer tenable, and accepting both the biologic and the psychophysic as together supplying the foundation on which our argument is to be built up, let us next review briefly the part which motor activity has played in the evolution of higher forms of animal life, see how it has led to the type of body which man now possesses, and then remind ourselves that phenomenal changes occurring within the memory of our own parents have largely robbed the home and daily occupations of their power to furnish that activity, and made it necessary for the community to meet the need through the agency of the school and the playground.

The first point is compactly stated by Professor Tyler of Amherst College, in his “Growth and Education,” as follows:	“The	protozoa	developed

a single cell or grouped these cells in colonies with no tissues or true organs. During the zoophytic stage the digestive and reproductive organs were started. Worms introduced muscular locomotion. This step in advance vfos accompanied by the development of the respiratory, excretory, and circulatory organs, represented in our bodies by lungs, kidneys, and heart and blood-vessels. Swifter locomotion called forth the higher sense-organs, which reacted on the foremost ganglion of the body, and stimulated its development into a brain. At the same time the muscles were doing a similar work toward the development of a spinal marrow, though brain and spinal marrow do not actually appear until the time of vertebrates. The development of the appendages called out the cerebellum; and their higher use in mammals developed Meynert’s projection area in the cortex, which had arisen in consequence of the greater use of the sense of smell. The cortex develops steadily through mammals. The association areas become large in arboreal mammals, and culminate as the mental centers in man. The development of the heavv fundamental muscles necessitated and stimulated the development of our vital organs: heart, lungs, and kidneys. These form a closely related group. Muscular exercise is still necessary for the development and maintenance of these organs in the individual man or child. They respond to muscular stimuli as they never do to those of the brain. . . Mental exercise of a logical sort has added only the finishing touches to the development of the brain. It originated as a switch-board between sensory

* Twenty-third Year Book of the Reformatory, 1897—98.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-205-

stimuli and muscular movement. It is still a part of the great neuromuscular system. Brain and muscle are never divorced in the action of healthy higher animals or of healthy men. They should not be divorced in the education of the child.”

The muscular system, then, as Professor Tyler says, “must be of far greater importance and have far larger latent capacities than we have usually supposed. It is the strategic center from and through which we can reach, exercise, and strengthen ... all the organs essential to life, but which are beyond the direct control of the will.” It is also “the key to the development of the brain. . . Nervous development followed the increase of locomotion and increased use of the sense-organs, especially of the eyes. Arboreal life and the use of the hand were exceedingly important factors in the development of the cortex.” In the case of man himself, physical exertion has been an almost universal condition of existence, down to recent times, and to it we largely owe our present type of body. In the words of Dr. Gulick,* “During the unnumbered years of evolutionary time, muscular exercise in labor, war, or the chase has been one of the major elements of human experience. Upon neuromuscular ability the race has depended for survival, even when its ancestors were in a condition of development yet more elementary than that of savage life. A biologist, having brought to him a human body and being asked for a statement of its functions from an examination of the structure, would say that both in form and function the organism must have been adapted to a life of considerable muscular exertion; that the lungs as well as the heart indicated far more capacity than would be needed for a life exclusively or even largely sedentary; and, finally, that the nervous system was designed predominantly for the initiation or control of muscular movements. . . No argument is necessary to the evolutionist to show that the necessity for muscular exercise has been constant and predominant throughout the whole history of the life of the species; that it has been so constant and so large a factor in adjustment to the total environment as to have had a chief share in determining the character of the organism itself: and that those conditions which have been decisive in determining the form and functions of the organism are the conditions in whic^Jt functionates the best.”

late as the middle of the last century it was still true that the farm, and in the town the home with its “chores” about house, barn, yard, and Jgarden provided for a large majority of the young a motor training that was in many respects ideaD But now, with an abruptness of transition that is fairly startling, the massing of population in cities and the substitution of machinery for human muscle have practically banished these factors in education from the lives of all but a few. To quote again from Professor Tyler, fTTis a fact beyond all doubt that a very large fraction of our population mtTexchangcd rural for urban life during the last two generations, and also that as fast as we can we are exchanging^ life of muscular effort ifl^the open air for one of brain-work lndoorg^^Ve avoid manual labon) QJe farms are deserted; store, office, and deskare crowded. The average child needs far more outdoor exercise to-day than a century ago; he actually has far less than used to be furnished by the farm, and in the city he has

“Physical Education by Muscular Exercise,” pages 2 and 3.

Digitized by L,ooQle
-206-

very little, if any at al]x He begins going to school much younger, and the school year is almost three times as long. A hundred years ago the school could rightly lay all its emphasis on books and learning; home and farm insured physical health and vigor, all kinds of manual training, ingenuity, [perseverance, and efficiency!!)

^ TK& /^mrqnnify^ then, is confronted with a new problem, one which hitherto the family has for the most part been left to solve for itself. It must not only safeguard the bodily welfare of the child, under the changed conditions, and in a variety of ways undreamed of by our fathers; it must also take over the task of providing the growing boy and girl and the adolescent with an amount and kind of motor training which will be sufficient for his jiegds-at^gvery stage of growth and development. The groinasium and The^aygrQunrT have become a "necessary part of the educational plant, and the school is called upon to extend its curriculum and enlarge its powers in order to incorporate and control these educational agencies. Its task is a four-fold one: first, to conserve the health of the individual pupil and the group; second, togive instruction in the e^rltiah 6f "personal, domestic, and public^ hygien^; third, to provide systematic afld progressive physical training^throughout alFTnit the earlier yeai; • and lourth,~to organize and superviseThe activities of~the playground, and the athletic field. ’ ~ Themeasures employed to prmec^a^'^^VloVe^ Hie health of pupils in-dud^ medical inspection,	, caretu 1 attention

fo^nitation^a^	otcertain precautions in the planning^ and

conduct of the educational process. Medical inspection aims to guard the whole school community by detecting and excluding cases of contagious disease, such a6 diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, whooping-cough, chicken-pox, and mumps; and it also seeks to discover and remedy those abnormalities which are found to reduce the efficiency of the individual and retard his progress. Prominent among them are defective vision and hearing, adenoids and enlarged tonsils, and bad teeth. For the benefit of backward children special classes may be organized, and ^pemair schools in the case of the anemic and those predisposed to tuberculosis. The school nurse sees that the directions of the rriedical inspector are carried out, attends to minor accidents and ailments, follows cases back to the home and gives instructions to parents regarding diet and the various details of household.management, and in other ways seeks to promote the health of the school population. School sanitation is concerned especially with the problems of good air and suitable lighting, the choice of proper seats and desks, the banishing of common drinking cups, and provision of adequate bathing facilities. In some cities free meals are furnished to poor children, or wholesome food is supplied at cost. The daily routine should be planned with a view to avoiding long-continued eyestrain and the onset of general fatigue by wise alternation of studies and the introduction of frequent short periods of relaxation and physical activity, in addition to the longer recess.*

A newspaper review of a recent bulletin (Number ioi) issued by the

* See Gulick and Ayres, “Medical Inspection of Schools,” and Parts I (Health and Education) and II (The Nurse in Education) of the “Ninth Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education” (The University of Chicago Press, 1910 and 1911).

Digitized by L.ooQle
-207-

Department of Child Hygiene of the Russell Sage Foundation shows what rapid progress is being made in these particulars. We are told that “ten years ago the number of American cities having systems of medical inspection was eleven; at the present time it is 443. The first school physicians were employed by Boston in 1894. Now there is an army of nearly 1,50a of them. The first school nurses were employed by New York nine years ago. Now they number between four and five hundred and are employed * by eighty cities. Sixty-nine cities are regularly employing dentists to care for the teeth of their children. . . The number of cities supplying individual drinking cups is nearly three hundred, while those having schools equipped with sanitary fountains number almost eight hundred. The figures show that the deadly feather duster is being rapidly banished. More than sixty per cent, of the cities use moist cloths for dusting purposes, and nearly eight hundred use dust-absorbing compounds for sweeping. Eighty-nine cities are cleaning their school rooms by means of vacuum cleaners.” What should be included in a school course in hygiene, and how the instruction should be imparted, are topics that deserve much more extended consideration than is possible in this paper, and they are therefore passed by with mere mention. It seems to be generally admitted that the present practice leaves very much to be desired. I may refer to the discussion by Dr. T. D. Wood in the Ninth Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education (pp. 62-74), and to the plan followed in the series of five textbooks edited by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick (Ginn & Co.)

have said that the^ school must provide systematic and progressive^ I physical training throughout" tne greater part of its cOUise. Regarding the r I reasons foF this^measure7 arid the manner of carrying It out, there is still a surprising confusion of ideas, even among men who have made a professional study of the subject and who occupy conspicuous positions of leadership. {Play, games, and athletic sports, although their value can hardly be exaggerated, are no more able to take the place of formal gymnastics than are the popular magazine, the picture-show, and the public library to serve as substitutes for the orderly discipline of the school and college. There are drooping heads and shoulders, bowed backs, and flat chests which must be made To yielcT to carefully chosen corrective exercisesr The nadiments of neuromuscular control must be acquired through frequent practice of varied I forms-of movement graded according to difficulty and advancing from the' ^simple-nu tliL' Complex! The confinement of the class-room must be offset by"vigorous~ use of the large, fundamental groups of muscles, those of the shoulders, trunk, and legs, whose contractions stimulate the activity of heart, lungs, and skin. The foundations of self-reliance, courage, and decision of. character must be laid by means of exercises that call for the overcoming of some difficulty, like maintaining one’s balance on a narrow support or when raised above the floor, or that present the element of danger involved in hanging and swinging by the arms and in broad and high jumping and vaulting over obstacles.

The almost endless number and variety of such exercises makes it possible to meet the needs of the most backward and to progress by easy gradations to any desired degree of proficiency. Character and will-training, no less than the purely physical effects, are to be sought from the start. Hanging and climbing exercises have played an important part in bringing the

Digitized by L.ooQle
.-^OS-

human thorax to its present shape and are indispensable factors in promoting its due development in every individual, giving him at the same time valuable training in self-confidence and steadiness of nerve. Exercises in jumping and vaulting ar,e a veritable school of courage. It follows then, that a fully equipped gvmnasium, indoors and out, is needed for all but the tmost rudimentary and meager physical training. Every pupil must be reached by this orderly discipline, and .economy of time and space require that the system and method be most carefully elaborated. Late fall, winter, and early spring, when the playground is usually deserted, are seasons when the need for regular exercise is greatest. .

But the hour or so a day devoted to formal physical training is far from supplying all the motor activity required for the normal development of the child and youth. It is desirable that a still longer time be spent on the playground and athletic field. Here organization and supervision are again demanded, but. only with the object of giving each individual a chance to play and of preventing the few from usurping facilities that all should enjoy. Freedom for self-expression and self-control, subject only to the rules of the game and the dictates of true sportsmanship, ar£ the very essence o£ play. Social and moral training are chief among its benefits, and the teacher’s business is to suggest and lead, not to dictate or compel. The last ten years have witnessed such a rapid spread of interest in and appreciation of the educational value of games and athletic sports, and the regulation of the latter in schools and colleges has been the topic of so much discussion, that we need not dwell further upon them here. It seems to me that in our enthusiasm for such activities, and may I add folk and artistic dancing, as well, we are in danger of forgetting or neglecting other agencies in physical training which are no less essential.

SPORTING AT THE INTERNATIONAL HYGIENE EXHIBITION

AT DRESDEN.

By Max A. R. Brunner, Berlin, Germany.

By far the largest undertaking this year in the German Empire is the Hygiene Exhibition at Saxony’s capital, the first undertaking of its kind ever held anywhere. Matters pertaining to health are so many and varied that a whole book could be written about this wonderful representation of what has been done in hygiene. And if we consider only one branch of the exhibition, say sports, we would require a whole issue of this journal to describe the interesting exhibits.

Besides one large hall reserved exclusively to sporting matters, a large square has been set aside as a model outdoor gymnastic ground. There is also an amphitheatre for giving public performances for practically all kinds of sports. Here on this new “Sportplatz” the champions of all countries meet and show what they are capable of accomplishing in their respective fields. The “Sportplatz” looks like a stadion. The running track of about 500 yards in length is surrounded by a well kept green lawn, this also being used for various sporting events. Adjoining are the sport cafe, sport laboratory, seats for the spectators, a model indoor gymnasium and an open-air ground with different kind of gymnastic apparatus, six tennis grounds,

Digitized by CjOOQle
—209—

a swimming bath with artificial waves, and, in the rear, a big hall* for sports and for costumes. The entrance to the Sportplatz is marked by a large statue in bronze of a ball-thrower. After the wonderful sporting place in Frankfort has closed its doors for ever* the Dresden grounds will take its place and be an added attraction to a city which is much visited by many Englishmen and Americans. For the Sportplaz will be a permanent feature while the halls and other exhibits will vanish at the end of this year. The location is the best possible, being within the city. It is reached by numerous street car lines while in most other German cities the sporting grounds are far out, at the edge of or beyond the city limits.

There is practically no sport which is not practised this year on this square during the Hygiene exhibition, and numerous prizes are offered to the winners. For instance, there were International Olympic Competitions in which the leading German clubs, also some from England, Austria, Hungary, etc., participated. Other contests will take place in hockey, golf, football, tennis, archery, wrestling, lifting, swimming, horse racing, rowing, gymnastics, cricket, athletics, boxing, pistol shooting, bowling, walking with baggage, military sports, aviatics, pigeon flying, motor boating, etc. Many associations devoted to sport in one form or another chose Dresden for holding their annual congress. Numerous public lectures about the hygiene of sport in general and the various kinds in particular are given. This all is very remarkable if we consider that only a few years ago sport was practically unknown in the fatherland, while in Great Britain and in the United States it assumed gigantic proportions. Rational sport at present has no serious enemies, especially as we are almost free from exaggeration. Expert physicians, retired generals, prominent scholars and educators have done much to change public attitude, at the same time warning of any overdoing. A happy, strong “Voune-Germany” is growing up. But one thing so far was wanting. This is a scientific basis of-this important affair, by which any doubt as to the hygienic effect and the importance of this popular occupation could be removed. There has been so far a scarcity of experimenting material and an incompleteness of results. To fill this gap the Dresden Hygiene Exhibition is destined to become a great factor. Through the erection of the sport laboratory, with the assistance of eminent learned men, the path will be smoothened for fixing the limits of a reasonable practice of a.healthful sport, also by showing the effects of training, and lastly its find* ings will prevent any tendency toward overdoing. The physiologic researches extend over anthropometry, kardiography, Roentgen ray inspections, breathing, digestion, etc. Besides this the sport-hygienic-scientific department by means of numerous objects such as apparatus, curves, and diagrams showing the results of experiments, models and the like, will try to lay the basis for a modern physiology and hygiene of sport. The sporting department of the Dresden Exhibition has ordered the publishing of a bibliography of sporting, which for the future will be of inestimable value to literary workers and to others interested in the history and development of Sports. It is another proof of German thoroughness that this nation has taken this step even prior to the mother countries of sports, viz., to close th^link between sports and science so earnestly desired by all educators. . iY:

It is pleasant to report that other nations are taking part actively bry exhibiting matters pertaining to sports not only in the large building re-

Digitized by (oiOOQle
-210-

served for* this, but also in their own national palaces. Many nations are also competing on the sporting grounds in various ways. Englishmen, Americans, Swedes, Norwegians, Austrians, Swiss and others are well represented in different sports. There exists in the Dresden Exhibition a so-called foreign avenue or a road of nations, a fine broad avenue on both sides of which are the twelve pavilions of as many nations built in their own style. The intermingling of men and women of all nations is hereby facilitated and the exhibition thereby becomes truly international.

THE HYGIENIC AND THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF THE

AIRBATH.

By Dr. Paul Grabley, Medical Director of the Sanitoritmi “Kurhaus Wolters dorfer Sclileuse” near Berlin.

Translated by D. M. FErd. Krogh, M. D.f Philadelphia.

It is. astonishing that our educators of the people and with these we physicians, have not returned to the natural means, the air, to strengthen the nerve of life and the power of resistence, especially for the rearing and education of youth. The necessity of sufficient fresh air for breathing purposes is a generally accepted demand of hygiene. We know how many cubic meters of air there should be for each sickbed, for each schoolroom, for each room of a factory. As necessary as all this is, cultural development and with this degeneration, perhaps, also, the cool climate in some cultured countries, have allowed us V' forget that we also need the air for our skin, that our skin is no dead cover, but an important part of our body which serves excretion and breathing, and which is a regulatoi* of the temperature of the body.

Medical experience obtained from modern i. e. natural therapy of the present day with airbaths, allows us to properly appreciate this natural stimulation of our body. It is to the indisputable credit of the new medical therapy that it has again taken natural stimulants into its armament and wrought weapons from old iron (which culture had long ago cast into the store-room) for the battle against disease and degeneration. I must, therefore, begin with the modes of therapy. The remedies upon which modern treatment is based are not new.

Herodot gives us the first authentic historical data concerning light— or ray—therapy. He calls attention to the indications and technique of lt^ht—or sunbaths. We also find numerous hygienic data on this topic in the writings of Hippokrates, who tried to show that the hygienic value of Jight and air was greater than its therapeutic value. Antvllus correctly mentions the physiologic effect of sunbaths. We also get similar interesting data from Cicero, Plinius, Vitruv, Celsus, Gelen, Avicena and Aurelian.

From these historical data as well as from archeological discoveries of |l(>man architecture we can see how highly developed the comprehension of the ancients was (that of the Romans being still higher than that of the Greeks) for the conscious application of light as a therapeutic measure. While we, now-a-days, work and fight for the establishment of air-light-bath-institutions, solarbaths were instituted in almost all of the Roman

Digitized by c.ooQle
-211-

houses of the better kind. A great deal worth knowing and of utility lyas * lose with the loss of ancient culture. But for our purpose the historical example of the Greeks is of importance in as much as their free-air gymnastics in the gymnasium and palaestra present the ideal of the popular air-bath, even though the gymnastic end was more prominent than the conscious hygienic result. But, sensible sport is also popular hygiene. This is fortunately also emphasized at present by prominent physicians and pedagogues, who warn against one-sided mental development and advise symmetrical physical exercise and development. Frequently objection is raised and attention called to the climate of the countries on the Mediterranian, and that the Greeks and Romans had the advantage in their popular hygiene, consisting of free-air or out-of-door gymnastics, and that they could therefore go about in lighter scanty garment. That this objection does not hold good and that habit only is the deciding factor, is proven also by historic examples in northern countries. Principally our ancestors,' the Germans, according to the first historical reports of Tacitus went about half naked, the young entirely so. One of the sportive joys of our ancient forefathers consisted in riding stark naked down the snow-covered mountainsides on their shields. Now-a-days we take our tobaggan-slide down the hill dressed and wrapped up like mumtnies. This only goes to show what habit may do. I believe tuberculosis was in those days an unknown and unfeared disease.

The observations on patients, the therapeutic experiences with air-baths have, as I have said at the beginning, pointed out to us their enormous hygienic importance. The therapeutic value of this remedy is clearly conceivable by taking into consideration the physiological effect of the airbath. Which factors influence the skin by the airbath, and how are the functions of the skin affected by them? The main factors are, the atmospheric air and the light. If we take the air as a gas of a certain composition with changeable density and humidity we must consider the physiological stimuli of temperature, oxygen and also the relative humidity and movement of the air. Even though we must not take heat alone as a potent factor of the physics of the airbath, but also consider skin-breathing evaporation and excretion, which are dependent on the quantity of O. The dampness and motion of the air, the chief stimulus of the skin in the airbath, must be said to be the temperature irritating and affecting the vasomotor nerves. The other physical stimuli and their physiological effect occur and are closely connected with this. The small blood vessels of the skin and glands are profusely filled with blood as this flows rapidly from the internal organs and the mucous membranes to the surface of the body on account of the stimulating effect of the temperature on the bare skin. A great quantity of heat thus accumulates in the skin, from which the emanation into the surrounding medium, the air, is very small; cooling off therefore, and with this the danger of catching cold is not as great as in taking a waterbath of equal temperature. This is proven by physiology and nature study because the air is a poorer conductor of heat than water, and because man is warmblooded and does not belong to the amphibia or fishes. Air is man’s natural medium, and not water. The accumulation of blood in the vessels of the slcin spreads over a large area, facilitating skin-breathing. Physiolocrv has established the fact that the taking up of O and the discharge of CO*

Digitized by Google
—212—

by the skin is very small. Skin-breathing can not be compared with lui^;-breathing. Jlut this does not give us the right to suppressing instead of promoting the physiologic function of the skin. Generally an evaporation of water from the surface of the body takes place during the airbath. This evaporation is from the well-filled capillaries of the skin. Although the watery consistancy >of the blood remains nearly the same the amount of haemoglobin in the blood of the capillaries is greater during this temporary loss of water, and the momentary capacity of taking up oxygen and giving off CO2 is increased. Nothing will hinder this exchange of gases as the capillaries of the skin are almost walless endothelial tubes. Cellular oxy-dation is therefore enhanced by the airbath. That the temperature ofThe body is raised by several tenths of one degree is a fact and physiologic proof for this assertion. Increased oxydation brings about, and goes hand-in-hand with increased metabolism. Metabolism is indirectly facilitated by a greater secretion of the skin during the airbath. The glands of the skin being well flooded with blood are better nourished and they are stimulated to greater activity by the accumulated heat. In direct connection with greater cellular oxydation must be placed the enhanced and deeper respiratory function of the lungs during the airbath, this being still more increased by properly selected physical exercise, free-air gymnastics. Summing up the physical effect of airbaths so far as we have gone, we have the stimulation of the vasomotors affecting the circulation, the enhanced respiratory function of the skin as a facilitated cellular oxydation, and lastly the stimulation of the glands of the skin for increased secretion. By the stimulation of the vasomotors we bring about a general distribution of the blood from the internal organs and the mucous membranes to the usually bloodless skin of civilized man; we relieve congestive conditions. A natural resistance against the influence of varying temperatures is brought about in the body by the re-establishment of the equilibrium in the circulation, (This is in accordance with the fact that people, in the autumn of the year, after air and sunbath cures, have lost all sensitiveness for changes in all temperature. They may go out without an overcoat, bathe in cold rivers. They do not catch cold, and wonder why they could not do this formerly.) Undoubtedly we have by the new habit educated the thousands of nerve-organs of the skin, and have awakened to new life protecting organs, all of which stamps the air-bath as the best and yet the most harmless means of increasing one’s resistance. If the correct technic is applied neither a patient nor a healthy person has the sensation of feeling cold during nor after an airbath. Even the anaemic, who continually complain of feeling cold, after gradually becoming accustomed to the airbath will feel warmer and better. This subjective effect of the airbath is sufficiently explained by the physiologic action mentioned above.

The other factor coming into actiop in the airbath is the light; the diffused rays of light as well as the continual rays of the sun acting as carriers of heat. Really light, heat and electricity are only modified energy. In what form of energy lightwaves, transmitted through and into our atmosphere from the ether, strike our body and change in our organism cannot be explained. We know that electrical currents circulate in our body, we understand the regulation of bodily temperature by means of metabolism

Digitized by
-213-

and muscular activity. Notwithstanding our knowledge of these physiologic occurrances we are not able to discern to what degree the effect of light is of a chemical or of a physical nature. Light is surely not taken up by the receiving organs of the skin (in this case the nerve cells) like oxygen is, but undoubtedly light is changed into some other form of value—stimulants of metabolism. The experiments of Quinke give exact physiologic proof brought out in his work on the effect of light on the body of animals. Qdinke proved experimentally the effect of light on animal cell activity by pointing out the conduct of the leucocytes of animal blood under the influence of sunlight. He concludes that the process of oxydation in the living animal cell is increased by light. The number of red blood corpuscles and the amount of haemoglobin is increased after air-light-baths. I have been enabled to prove this experimentally by examinations of the blood of anaemic and chlorotic patients. Two groups of experiments were instituted under identical conditions of modes of living and of nourishment. One group was placed on air-bathTtherapy, the other on iron and arsenic medication. The results, as shown by figures, were in favor of the air-bath-therapy. An increase of the cellular processes of life to a higher degree of activity by the application of the light-air-bath manifested itself by increased growth of young persons. We know that every plant, every living organism, succumbs in the dark. Measurements made of thousands of school children by Professor Demme are interesting, as they show that the child grows principally only during the summer months. We see, therefore, that physiological experiments and empiric studies are in accord.

One other factor must be considered with the light-air-bath, which cannot be valued too highly from a therapeutic and hygienic point of view. This factor is the psychic effect. I have seen the most grouchy neurasthenic get jolly in the airbath. The air-light-bath will not tolerate peevish, cross people, its therapeutic significance as a nerve remedy is therefore great. The airbath has become a remedy of the first rank in every modern sanatorium for physico-dietetic-therapy. It is very frequently used with grati-chronic pathologic changes of the blood. The airbath is a nerve tonic, a blood builder and an agent to promote metabolism.

I will not cite anv statistics because the hygienic significance of the air-bath is explained by its therapeutic importance. Surely all the light-air-baths established within recent years in the larger cities, chiefly in Germany, have served their purpose in maintaining the health of city dwellers and serving as the most simple and yet the mightiest means thereto. But these establishments do not do justice to the hygienic importance of the airbath, because they serve adults only. In instituting prophylactic measures we must think of our youth: “Little can be done with adults; let us be wise and begin with youth and our endeavors will meet with success.” We are standing before a problem of eminently 'national significance. I, and who does not, willingly appreciate the immense work that has been done by prophylactic and therapeutic measures to combat tuberculosis. But of what use is all phrophykxis and theraphy for the adult who, thanks to the wrong education and rearing, has carried with him the predisposition for this disease. We must put the lever at the rearing of youth and we will move the earth also in this direction. The compulsory introduction of airbaths

Digitized by CjOOQle
-214-

in our schools, gymnasiums and playgrounds for free-air gymnastics would effectively combat anaemia and chlorosis in our school youth. Physical hardening and strengthening would go hand in hand with this, and the resistance to disease, as well as greater ability to work, would be the result. A population free from disease, strong men and healthy mothers would thus grow from the future generation. We physicians, as educators of the people must help to attain this end! The ethical phase which the general introduction of airbaths into the curriculum of the educatiop of youth would bring about is the prevention of sexual aberration, and, later on, of alcoholism. The hardening and circulatory compensatory effect of airbaths in connection with sportly activities, according to experience, brings about better results than all instruction on these lines.

Boards of education of all countries concerned are requested to strive and work for the introduction of school-airbaths for free-air gymnastics. I would have the highly satisfying feeling that my humble suggestions have advanced a deed of culture. I would consider and appreciate this satisfaction as highly as the accomplishment of any scientific ambition.

The Tragedy of the Closed Roof.

In the article upon sleeping out of doors which appeared in the Fresh Air Magazine for July, the importance of using the roofs of dwellings for bedrooms was urged. Undoubtedly, when the healthy as well as sick members of families use the waste space on their roofs as bedrooms, people, as a whole, will increase in strength and vigor. Before this can be accomplished, however, houses must be built in such manner that the roof will be easy of access.

Philadelphia, like all other large cities, has miles and miles of flat roofs which would be splendid to sleep upon, and yet, unbelievable as it may seem, the great majority of these cannot be used for any purpose. There is no way to get to the roof of the ordinary workingman’s dwelling in most cities, except to climb out of a window, stand upon the top of a shutter, and from there raise oneself up to. the roof. A plumber performs this feat when the roof is in need of attention, but how utterly impossible it is for a sick person can be imagined, even were there any way of placing a bed or a shelter up there for him.

To realize what hardships this closed roof works upon the consumptive poor it is only necessary to go with one of the tuberculosis nurses of the Visiting Nurse Society, who visit consumptives in all parts of the city, the Society providing special nourishment, ice and outdoor shelters when these are needed and cannot be afforded by the patients’ families.

In a house far down town a young man lay gasping for air in the front parlor of his home, that room having been converted into a separate bedroom for him. Though the window was wide open he obtained little air on a hot day. For a short while previously he had been allowed to have his bed upon the roof of a nearby club house, which, however, he had to vacate the week before because alterations were begun on the building. He still remembered the ease with which he

Digitized by

Google
-215-

drew breaths up there, and begged the nurse to try to get him out again. The first thing the nurse accomplished was to induce the family to allow a carpenter she had brought with her to take the window entirely out of the frame, and this, and an open window in the back room, sent a currant of fresh air over the bed, bringing instant relief*. Then the nurse considered the possibilities for getting him outdoors. The roof was inaccessible, the pavement before the house was narrow and hot and open to the curious gaze of neighbors. The yard behind offered1 the only-solution, though a poor one, because in the afternoon the sun shone into the small, boarded area, with great heat, and there was never such pure, open air as might have been obtained higher up. However, the carpenter nailed an awning to the roof of the shed, and fastened the other end to the back fence, leaving the ends up, so that air stirred beneath. Then, stretching a piece of carpet upon the ground and placing a camping cot thereon, the best outdoor sleeping place possible under the circumstances was constructed. By moving from this bedroom to the parlor whenever it was too hot or stormed heavily, the patient might be made more or less comfortable.

A case where the use of a roof would have been invaluable was that of a young colored girl whom there was a good chance of saving if she obtained proper care at once. Her mother refused to allow her to go away to a sanatorium, as the child had never spent a night from home in her life. There was a porch to their home, but the mother was afraid to allow her daughter to sleep out there or in the yard at night, or even to sleep there with her. The roof they would gladly have used h,a^l ^that been available.	*

Another woman who had been sitting at home for months rather than go so far away from friends as the State Sanatorium might haye been saved from developing from an incipient to an advanced case if there had been either a hospital near the city or a roof at her service. As it was,.she tried to get fresh air by walking about the streets, occasionally resting upon a bench in a park—a process which tired her exceedingly, so that she has grown steadily worse, endangering the health of a married daughter and grandson while so doing.

These cases were met with in a single morning’s rounds with the nurse. All over the city are hundreds pf similar ones, suffering from lack of a nearby hospital or a roof, either of which it should be easy to give him.	*	Fresh	Air	Magazine.

—The proper period for exercise is when the system is not depressed by fasting or fatigue, or oppressed by the process of digestion. The robust may take exercise before breakfast, but delicate persons, who often become faint from exercise at this time, and are languid during the early part of the day, had better defer it till from one to three hours after breakfast.

Exercise prevents disease by giving vigour and energy to the body and its various organs and members, and thus enables them to ward off or overcome influences which tend to impair their integrity. It cures many diseases by equalising the circulation of the blood and the distribution of nervous energy, thus invigorating and strengthening weak organs and removing local torpor and congestion.

Digitized by
Published Monthly.

-216-

Mind amp body^

• ‘ Subscription Price, $1.00 per Yenr.

$®7 Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CP., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W»* ’Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—We are glad to say that it has been possible for Mind and Body to secure an European correspondent. Mr. Max A. R. Brunner, whose first article appears in this issue, will regularly send us letters dealing with the various phases of physical education and allied subjects that arise in Europe, and that may be of interest to our readers.

—The success of any business is measured by its results. We are glad to see that wide-awake school men are trying to find out what effects school yards equipped with play and gymnastic apparatus have upon the pupils. Mr. John Shroy, one of the most progressive school men of Philadelphia, has long been a most ardent playground advocate. (Our readers will1 remember his poem “Give us a chance to Play,” printed in Mind and Body and since, reprinted in many magazines.) About a year ago Mr. Shroy was made principal of a new, large school. One of his first efforts, after getting his school well in hand, was to get the business men in his neighborhood and the parents of his pupils to subscribe a sufficient sum to equip the school-yard. Naturally, he succeeded. The following clipping from the “Marshall School1 News” will be of interest to all teachers:—

“Two months is too brief a time to see any large results from our playground activities, but some things have been noticeable and we wish to mention them, so that contributors may know in what ways, besides giving happiness, the playground equipment has been helpful.

1.	Lateness has decreased as follows:	February,	four	tenths per cent.;

March, three-tenths per cent.; April, two-tenths per cent., and May, one-tenth per cent. The pupils begin to gather at 8 o’clock in the morning. At noon some hardly take time to eat before they are back again. Some bring their lunch, so as to be on the ground all the noon hour.

2.	No. 2 grows out of No. 1. The policemen on the beat tell us that they are having no trouble at all with Marshall boys along the streets.

3.	A number of troublesome boys (not belonging to Marshall) come here regularly at 3:30. At first they caused a great deal1 of annoyance. Now they play as fairly as our own.

4.	A number of Marshall boys, who gave continual trouble in their rooms, have developed sufficient self-control to behave for weeks at a time. A boy thinks twice before he “acts ugly” when he knows he will lose the privilege of playing on the apparatus for two weeks for such outbreaks.

5.	Eight boys petitioned the principal to have their names removed from the list of those reported to the office for misconduct. We call this the “Discipline List.” Each petitioner had to secure the signatures of

*

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,,

MllwaukM, Wlacopadn.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-217-

three-fourths of his class-mates whd said they would "try by advice and •otherwise to see that he behaved himself.”' The teacher's signature was also required upon the petition. Of these eight only one broke faith. He thus forfeits his right of petition for six months. Hereafter he must stay on the list and not use the apparatus until his time has expired.

6.	The teachers were asked to give frank statements of the effect of the playground upon their classes. None report the results bad. Some see no difference. Some see a great improvement in a few pupils. Some see good results in more than a dozen. Seven of the 18 teachers claim a general improvement in all of their pupils-. This is but the beginning. Good results will grow as the months go by.”

Mr. Shroy also has another feature in his school which shows how intimately he connects scholarship with honorable conduct, and this again with bodily proficiency. Here is a clipping relating to ‘‘Presentation Day:” “A number of the friends of the Marshall School indicated their intention of giving prizes to the 8B boys on June 15. The prizes were as follows :—

Mr. Becker gave tickets to the best speller of the grade, entitling the holder to five plates of ice-cream. Winner, George Dugan.

Mr. A. Christian gave a pair of ”sneaks” to the fastest runner of the grade. Winner, Horace Crankshaw.

Mr. Howard George gave the choice of a catcher's, a baseman's or a fielder's glove to the most* popular athlete of the grade. Winner, Horace Crankshaw.

Mr. Shroy gave a $2.50 gold piece to the boy who stands highest in school work and athletics. The method of selection was as follows:—

First place on exemption list (i. e. pupils who pass from one grade to the next without examinations are placed, according to their daily workr record, on the exemption list) will count 100 points; second place 95; the third place 90, etc. First, second and third places in bar chinning, throwing basket-ball, potato races 60-yard dash will each count 25, 20 and 15 points, respectively. The points made on* the exemption list will be added tp the points made in the athletic contest, and the sum will be divided by two. Winner, Walter Wall. ’

Mr. Allen gave a box of chocolate buds as a consolation prize to the boy that stands second in the contest for the $2.50 gold piece. Winners, George Dugan, Robert L. Turner.

The Woman's Christian Temperance Union, of Frankford, presented Legion of Honor medals to the five boys who stand highest in the character contest. These medals are made of bronze, and contain the picture of Miss Willard on one side and the ideals of the Legion on the other: “Temperance, purity, fidelity, industry, good citizenship.” The boy's name will be engraved upon* the one he receives. Winners: George Dugan, Warren H. Thorne, Robert Laird Turner, Russell R. Haines, Walter Williams.

A third feature, also found in many other schools, are the competitions in different games and sports designated the “Athletic Competition.” These competitions, managed by the class teachers, last many months and keep the interest of all the pupils in the school up to a high pitch.

The boys of the grammar grades held an athletic competition with these results: "Rooster fight:” First place, Blosch, Miss Blackman's room;

Digitized by C^ooQle
—218-

second place, Ott, Mr. Jones' room; third, Siegel, Miss Blackman's roanu "Relay races'." First place, Mr. Jones' room; second place, Miss Starkweather’s room; third place, Miss S. A. Sprowles' room. "Potato racez” First place, Emmett, Mr. Jones' room; second place, Quirk, Miss M. R~ Sprowles' room; third place, Knight, Miss Starkweather's room. "Tug-of-war:' First place, Miss Cocker's room; second place, Miss Gray’s roomr third place, Miss S. A. Sprcwles’’ room.

In all of these games first place counted five points, second place three points and third place one point. The rooms which won championship* pennants are: First, Mr. Jones' room; second, Miss Blackman’s room; third,. Miss Cocker's room.

The pennants will be held by these rooms until the next competition in the fall.

We hope that many of our readers will undertake movements of like-character, or encourage school principles to do so. Here is a type of competition which engages every pupil in the school, in which honorable conduct counts as much as physical ability, and which keeps the boy (or girl) who “acts ugly” away from active participation until he resolves to do-right and become a useful member of his commttnity. Gymnastics, play and competition used in this manner must produce good results which wilT show themselves in the upright life of the pupils who have thevgood fortune-to receive their training in schools of the type of the “Marshall.”

—There is, among our readers, an increasing demand for a short article-that may be placed in the hands of members of local school boards, favoring the introduction of gymnastics into the schools. Other readers have asked for a similar article which, in cities where physical training is already introduced, would enlighten some rather luke-warm members of the board of education as to the real meaning of the work. Several years ago Dr. Henry Hartung, formerly one of our most efficient teachers of gymnastics, now a very successful practising physician, and at the time of writing the article printed in this issue a member of the Board of Education of Chicago, III., addressed the members of the N. E. A. advocating the introduction of gymnastics into the public schools of our country. His address, we feel confident, will satisfy both demands spoken of, while the appendix may be of service to some readers in showing them how to organize an effective campaign.

TEACH SEX HYGIENE.

The annual conference of the American School Hygiene Association in New York in March was the occasion of a careful paper by Charles W* Eliot on school instruction in hygiene. This body of educators and physicians has l'eft off discussing whether or not sex hygiene should be taught, and addressed itself to the method of teaching. This is perhaps no less significant of the times than the fact that the subject was presented by an expresident of Harvard University in such way as to attract the attention of the whole school world.

Dr. Eliot finds only two objections to the teaching of sex hygiene in schools. The first is that it is an unclean subject about which we should continue our world-old conspiracy of silence. A sufficient answer to this

Digitized by CjOOQle
-219-

objection is its universal failure, he said. The second objection is that such instruction should be given to children only by their parents. To this opinion Dr. Eliot would subscribe—and gladly subscribe because the talking over of such vital matters between mother and child would establish a new and stronger bond than ever—were it not for the fact that “the great majority of parents do not now possess the necessary knowledge or the faculty of expression,” and for the number of families lacking father or mother. Therefore, he argued, school instruction in the subject is necessary. We have given up trying to teach reading and physiology at home; why cling to another and equally important subject which most of us do not even pretend to teach our children?

An exact outline for such teaching may not yet be made, but the general lines may be laid down with confidence, Dr. Eliot said. The first essential is prolonged teaching of natural history, beginning early with botany, going on to the elements of zoology, “both subjects being taught in the most complete manner possible with incessant illustration indoors and out-of-doors.” With this should be associated geography, and in rural schools agriculture.

Based on this nature study should be demonstration of the various modes of transmitting life which is the highest and ultimate bodily function of every plant and every animal, including man. Demonstration of the various processes of producing plant life can be carried on with the greatest exactness, and to this a few years later can be added the animal world. Dr. Eliot said:

“These subjects if properly taught with collecting box, scalpel, microscope and paper and pencil are just as pure and innocent for children under thirteen ^s chemistry or physics are. There is nothing sensual or unclean about them, nothing which does not tell of order, purpose, adaptation, cooperation, and achievement. Through much of the botanical instruction and more of the zoology runs the thought that the transmission of life requires two individuals of different quality. Children should be made thoroughly acquainted with this principle before any sex emotions begin to stir in them.,,

Following the zoology should be physiology, in which the courses should be enriched by greater instruction concerning the “causes of disease, including the recognized contagions and the modes of infection,” in which the venereal diseases should receive their proper place. Further, Dr. Eliot held that “all school's should teach explicitly in due season those elements of good manners and customs which have to do with health and the preservation of bodily and mental purity.”

Finally Dr. Eliot urged the single standard of morals for men and women—a subject which he has persistently and skillfully presented before many kinds of audiences the past few months. He said!

“Does anyone protest that this educational process will abolish innocence in young manhood and womanhood and make matter of common talk the tenderest and most intimate concerns in human life, let him consider that virtue, not innocence, is manifestly God’s object and end for humanity, and that the only alternative for education in sex hygiene is the prolongation of the present awful wrongs and woes in the very vitals of civilization.”— The Survey.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-220-

THE YOUNG CHILD AT SCHOOL.

The received ideas with regard to the proper training of the child in the kindergarten stage are rudely perturbed every now and then by educators who delight in heresies and are always ready to entertain hospitably the most advanced and radical notions. When new theories are made welcome not just because they are queer, but because they may be useful, such mental receptivity is to be commended. But the child is too valuable a “corpus vile’ to experiment upon inadvisedly, and it is not well permanently to adopt innovations in his education without making sure that the new method has some merit apart from its novelty to recommend it.

Dr. Woods Hutchinson, professor of clinical medicine at the New York Polyclinic Hospital, has at any rate the courage of his convictions in taking issue with the kindergartners in the July Cosmopolitan. He says, bluntly enough, that “nothing could be much worse for an active, sturdy, growing child, who wants to run and tumble, wrave his arms about and kick his legs in the air and shout, than to be planted in a footsy little chair at a dolls’-house table, pricking tiny holes in a sweet little piece of perforated card-board. It were better for him to be out in the street learning to fight and crawl through sewer pipes.”

The child, he says, is not born to the meticulous scrutiny of small objects such as are handed him by the teacher to examine; his eyes are given him to view the universe by and large—to see big things moving within a reasonable radius of vision. “To compel him to concentrate his attention, for hours at a stretch, upon small, intricate objects at close range is to throw upon his elastic and readily movable eyeballs a strain for which they are utterly unfitted and which is exceedingly likely to result in compressing them out of shape, pausing them to elongate and to become myopic, or shortsighted.” Doctor Hutchinson thinks that for the little pupil the school hours ought to be materially abbreviated. “If school hours were cut down to two hours a day, and the time saved devoted to intelligently supervised natural play, gardening, carpentering, etc., in the open air, children would make just as rapid progress in their studies, even under our present antiquated curriculum, as they do now.”

Food, air and exercise he styles the trinity of growth, and of the triad food is the most important. Three square meals a day are only the beginning, the foundation of the adequate food supply for the growing lad. He does right to make a business of eating and a fetich of his food. Doctor Hutchinson declares he cannot understand the superstition of “Three meals a day and no eating between meals.” Cows and horses eat most of the day, and sometimes in the night watches, too. The child should have not only the temptation but the opportunity to do likewise. The stomach does not need rest to form gastric juice between whiles, for the gastric juice is not created on an empty stomach, but in the process of digestion. The Doctor would, therefore, give a child a bill-of-fare something like this:	For	break-

fast, bacon and an egg, toast milk, an orange; for 11 o’clock luncheon, milk and bread and butter; for mid-day dinner, bouillion, a chop, potatoes, celery, bread and butter, pudding; for tea at 4:30, cocoa and cookies; for supper, minced beef, lettuce, bread and butter, stewed fruit, sponge cake. ^ This is

Digitized by LiOOQle
-221-

largely a meat diet, for there is not much dynamic energy to be had from muches and puddings and potatoes.

“Our programme also calls for a large amount of sleep—io to n hours at night and an hour in the middle of the day, but that again is simply one of the Magna Charta rights of the young, growing, human animal. Sleep is not a negative, but a positive process. Our upbuilding processes are at a maximum during sleep; our down-breaking ones, while we are awake.”

As for the mental development of the happy little pagan that Doctor Hutchinson believes his system would develop, this is essentially his scheme: “Let the child learn to speak by speaking under correction and intelligent supervision; to read by hunting for the names and stories of his favorite pictures; to write by sending messages to others about what he has found out for himself, or wishes to communicate to them; to cipher by actually counting his jackstones and marbles and pocket knives, by adding his gains and subtracting his losses, by multiplying his own profits and dividing the other fellow’s, and he will master the Three R’s without so much as the sight of a bench or the taste of a stick.”

“Primary literature and history can both be taught in the form of the story, regular visits can be made, as the weather permits, first and most important of all to woods and brooks, and fields and gardens in the neighborhood ; then if the club be in a small town, or the country, to poultry yards, dairy farms, sheep shearings, and harvest fields. If in a city, to zoological gardens, botanical gardens, museums, markets, docks, etc.

“Then if the children be encouraged to compare notes with, and describe to, one another what they have seen, in clear, simple correct English, to write down their impressions, to make pictures of them, sing the songs, or chant the poems, or dance the dances appropriate to the place and things, the season and time of life, they will make a healthful, natural, happy progress and growth toward even the highest standards of intellectual and moral accomplishment with far greater certainty and comfort, and just as rapidly as under our present, unnatural indoor, forcing system.—Philadelphia Leader.

A GIRLS’ WALKING CLUB.

By Jessie Rawley, Fairview School, Philadelphia.

For some years, I have been much interested in the attitude of our public school girls as regards outdoor exercise. Theoretically, their ideas are admirable. They obediently study innumerable pages of the physiology text-book, listen attentively to talks on hygiene, discourse most learnedly upon the benefits of rowing, walking, swimming and ball playing, and present convincing arguments as to the necessity and value of fresh-air recreations. But in practice, the majority of the older girls feel that dignity vifill be compromised bv entering into outdoor games, and that time is too valuable to be “wasted” in mere walking.

Since my appointment to a sixth grade position in a girls’ school I have tried very slowly and almost imperceptibly to convert my girls to the joys of rambling through the woods and fields, of excursions over our country roads, and of tramps through the park.

Digitized by
-222-

As the school is within twenty minutes walking distance of the Wissa-hickon, the wildest, most picturesque part of Fairmont Park, these walks frequently take place at the close of the afternoon session. Sometimes, when -a long tramp is contemplated, we reserve the whole of Saturday afternoon, making an early start. On one occasion my girls walked for nearly four successive hours, with only a few short intervals for rest. Of course, this was after they had been prepared by a series of shorter walks, gradually increasing in length.

When school re-opened last September, my new class listened enthusiastically4 to my plans for a walking club. I explained that we should explore new parts of the country, visit many historic spots in the vicinity of Philadelphia, collect flowers, nuts, and autumn leaves, and best of all, play many of the gymnastic games so often interrupted in the school yard. On the streets of the city the girls were to remember that they were ladies, and that ladies always endeavored to attract no undue amount of attention in public, but as soon as the woods, fields, or country roads were reached, they might make as much noise as they wished. Each girl then wrote a letter to her mother, explaining the benefits of fresh air, exercise and good times to be gained through the walking clubhand asking permission to join.

The first tramp was a short one of about four miles. On a warm September afternoon, we tramped down a shady lane, past a moss-grown farm-house, to the Wissahickon, on the alert for new varieties of golden-rod and aster, watching an alarmed squirrel scamper off at our appearance, and after examining a tablet commemorating the Battle of Germantown, entered a wild looking glen, finally reaching the birthplace of David Ritten-house, astronomer and clock-maker. Here we halted for rest. A short

Playing Ball during a “Restperiod.”

Digitized by
-223-

pause, and then another start,—on to a more conventional part of the park, where a shady rustic bridge thickly embowered in trailing vines, provided broad, comfortable seats for twenty-five tired children.

Here we played “quiet” games,—(quiet for all muscles save the tongue), then a game of tag through shady woods to the country road beyond, on to where a splendid broad bridge, spanning the entire Wissahickon 7 Valley invited us to join hands and practice our beloved “dancing steps,” for which our physical training period, during school hours, is all to short. On we skipped, twenty-five abreast, over the smooth concrete floor, far above the tops of the trees on the hillsides. The chorus of “Pony Boy” supplied a good swinging rhythm for our steps, and when the rough fields adjoining the bridge forced a slower pace and single file, and the singing continued.

The music and “steps” are now a popular part of each tramp. The former, as a study in evolution, has been most interesting to me. At first “Kelly,”’ “I Wonder Who's Kissing Her Now,” and others of the same class were favorites. I suggested some of the school songs, but did not condemn the popular ones. Gradually, of their own accord entirely, the girls discarded their old favorites, and now, as we walk home in the early winter twilight, the soft, sweet strains of old-fashioned ballads and “two-part songs” are a delight to my ear.

The snow which fell so early in December did not interrupt our walks. On one occasion we took our sleds with us, taking turns at being horse and driver on the levelst and coasting down the hills.

My girls are learning that “a good time” does not always imply an outlay of money, and the taste for the simple, inexpensive, refined pleasure of the “Wanderlust” is developing rapidly. After an afternoon's ramble, eyes are brighter, faces happier, body and mind refreshed and invigorated by the r influence of air, sunlight, good fellowship, and new things to think about.

Need one say, that the taste for this form of recreation once developed, it will never be entirely lost? I trust and believe that when my girls leave school, whether for the factory, the shop, the office or the home, each one will have firmly engrafted in her a strong belief in the tonic effects of exercise combined with fresh air,—so strong that she will frequent the country lanes rather than the amusement parks, the fields rather than the moying picture shows, and the woods rather than the crowded city streets.

YOU FRESHMEN!

By Reginald Wright Kauffman.

This is the time when the young man that left college in June is going to work, and when the young man that left school in June is going to college. The latter has something to learn from the former. You remember the two youths that were the biggest figures in college last commencement day. One had stuck to his books, learned all that was in them, and graduated with first honors. The other had captained his football team, stroked his crew, and—he just graduated. If you are the sort of boy that the typical parent wants his son to be you will imitate the first of these. If you

Digitized by
—224-

are the typical boys' boy you will imitate the second. Succeed in being either, and you will be a failure.

For your honor-man, if he is like most honor-men, will have paid for his learning with his strength. The lad that has glued his eyes to what the old educators called “Humanities'' will be too near sighted to see Humanity. The student that has sacrificed all his energy to master theory will be ground to dust in the mill of practice. He will have had his day, and that in the class-room which no longer recalls his name.

The athlete's life is generally short. That casual injury on the gridiron has developed a chronic weakness; that strain of the four-mile row has maimed his heart; that constant and sudden variation from training to the lack of training has sapped his virility. The man has offered up his constitution to his muscles. If he has escaped, in what stead will stand him that athletic education acquired at the cost of his brain? His football captaincy will have qualified him for coaching other young animals; his rowing-arm will enable him to boss underpaid toilers for an illiberal wage. But his day was before a grand stand that forgets.

. “A sound mind in a sound body" ? Excellent. But not the mind developed to the point of physical enervation; not the body developed to the point of mental sterility. The successful education fits you not for topping your fortune with one cent more than you earn, nor yet for making books or muscles an end rather than a means; the only education is that which makes you of some use to your fellow men and forbids you to forget that vour fellow men are all mankind.—Cosmopolitan.

MARATHON RACES.*

PHYSIOLOGICAL and PATHOLOGICAL EFFECTS of SEVERE EXERTION By Dr. Watson L. Savage.

A SYNOPSIS.

Dr. Savage's report at the meeting of the College Gymnasium Directors' Society at Columbia University Dec. 31, 1909, contains many highly interesting points concerning not only the immediate but also the remote effects of the severe exertion in Marathon races.

The tests were divided into three groups:—(1) The general observations; (2) The X-Ray examinations; {3) Observations upon the cardiovascular and renal systems.

Of 55 men, who started in the race of 24.85 miles, 29 who finished and 20 who failed to finish were examined. The remaining six did not report for the examinations.

The course over which the race was run was a hilly one and the race took place on* a rainy day. Some of the runners dropped out after covering distances of from 4 to 7 miles, some at 11 Yz to 14 miles, and others after the 16th to 17th mile.	*

The first hill to climb was 510 feet high. Seven dropped out here. The second climb wa9 310 feet, between the 12th and 14th mile. Here 6* stopped racing. Four more quit at the 16th to 17th mile.

* Digest of the paper made by D. M. F. Krogh, M. D.f Philadelphia.

4i

Digitized by L.ooQle
-225-

The age of the runners ranged from 18 tp 52 years, the most participants being under 23 years of age. The greatest number of any one age were 18. More , than half of the contestants were 22 years of age. One man was 52 years of age. He did not finish. Among those who finished three were 36, one 35 and one 31 years of age. The first 8 were respectively 22, 22, 26, 18, 28, 31, 36,, 18. The examinations show that persons over 40 and under 20 years of age should notary long distance races. The most serious effects were shown in the case of the man of 52* and of the boy of 18 yeats of age.

The height of the contestants was on the average 5 feet 6.4 inches; the greatest number were 5 feet 7 inchs tall. The range of height was from 5 feet 2 inches up to 6 feet 2 inches. The large men, relatively, showed up best. The first four men averaged 5 feet 4 inches, or 2.4 inches below the general average. The second four men averaged 5 feet 9 inches, or 2.6 inches above the general average. The third four men averaged 5 feet 5 inches, or .9 inches below the general average. The fourth four men averaged 5 feet 7 inches, or .3 inches above the general average.

The general1 average of the contestants showed a better development of the lower limbs than the upper. Those who finished showed the hest developed chest. The weight of the competitors averaged 140 pounds, but the greatest number weighed less than this. Their work-hours ranged from 9 to 9y2 hours per day. Their occupations were that of laborers, coachmen, drivers, mill hands, etc. Three-eights of all used tobacco. Among them were 6 vegetarians, one of whom was not permitted to run on account of an irregular pulse and a general poor condition; the other five did not quite hold their own with the meat eaters.

60 per cent of the abstainers from meat finished.

65 per cent of those eating meat once daily finished.

70 per cent of those eating meat twice daily finished.

The greatest number of failures were those who began training at 18 years of age or before. This is “more than likely due to the fact that their organs had not reached sufficient development at this time of their natural growth and maturing years to withstand so severe a strain as this form of sport demands.”

The average daily run at practice was 7 miles. The average loss of weight while training was 6.4 pounds. One lost 23 pounds, another 15 pounds. These two were 6 foot men.

“It does seem that the race can injure and incapacitate the inexperienced runner.”

Runners usually do best in their first race.

The loss of weight during the race varied from nothing to 8.5 pounds. The average loss was 3.1 pounds. Men weighing from 170 to 180 pounds lost more than those weighing less.

The temperature of the racers after the run varied from 97 2-5 degrees

F.	to 104 degrees F. The one with the highest temperature felt no discomfort after the finish. He lost the second greatest amount of weight, and had a systolic murmur after the race which he did not have before the run.

“Of those who finished the average temperature was 101 degrees F., ranging from 98 3-5 degrees F. to 104 degrees F.”
-226-

Very little variation in temperature was found in those having the best records in the tests before the race.

The first organ to show fatigue and cause distress was the diaphragm* Deficient oxygenation of the blood perhaps is caused by this. And this may, perhaps, account for the lower temperature found in those who quit.

Dr. Savage thinks those best fitted for the Marathon are those between 20 and 40 years of age and of l'ess than average height and below weight for his height. “He will have a light upper body, a relatively large chest capacity and well-developed legs. He must have a sound heart, healthy lungs and well-developed diaphragm. His training should have continued over a period of from 9 months to 3 years. He must be temperate in his habits, moderate in his diet, work and exercise and sleep at regular hours,, and of sleep he must have enough.”

The X-Ray examinations are very interesting. Of 6 men with small hearts, none finished. Of 8 men with medium hearts, 4 finished. Of 7 men with large hearts, 4 finished. Of 2 men wdth very large hearts, 2 finished. Thus 6 of the 9 with large hearts or 66 2-3 per cent finished, while 4 or 28 1-2 per cent of 14 whose hearts were not enlarged, finished. “A successful Marathon runner must have a heart above the average size.” As to the shape of the heart we observe the following:—8 of the 23 examined had hearts placed almost vertically in the chest. Of these eight, 6 had abnormally small hearts. None of these finished. Six others had horizontally placed h'arts. Of these 5 or 83 1-3 per cent finished. The one not finishing w^as ihe man 52 years of age. The other 9, of whom 5 or 55 1-2 per cent finished, showed no special1 shape of the heart wdth which comparison could be made.

The athletic heart should be particularly large, especially the ventricles. Men with a small vertical heart have a predisposition to pulmonary tuberculosis and should never enter a Marathon race.

After the race 11 of 14 men examined had a larger heart than before the race. One who finished had no enlargement. His heart showed an ideal shape and size for an athletic heart. He is a well-trained athlete and has been engaged in running for 9 years. His general condition after finishing the race was excellent.

One week after the race two of eleven of those previously examined still showed the same enlargement of the heart they had directly after the race. One of. these was the man 52 years of age. The other one had a small vertical heart. The other 9 men showed a smaller heart than before the race. “This fact show’s that these men u; training for the race developed a temporary enlargement of the heart to provide for the additional work placed upon it during the race, and after the abnormal demands upon it ceased, the heart returned to its normal size.”

The diaphragm did not only show a decided change in its position and range of motion but there was also a decided difference in the two sides. In two cases the right side was much higher, even on forced inspiration. This show’s that there was a decrease in the range of motion of this muscle. In 6 cases the position of the diaphragm on the right side was, while at rest, the same as before the race, but it did not descend as far upon forced inspiration, this shows that its range of motion was less than before the race. Eight cases show’ed a less degree of range of motion than before the race.
-227-

In 3 cases the range of motion on the right side was the same as before the race. On the left side this condition was practically reversed. In 8 cases the position of the diaphragm was higher than before the race both at rest and after forced inspiration. Four of these showed a less range of motion, two were the same, in two others the range of motion was increased. In two the position was the same but the descent was less.

Therefore, of the 11 cases, on the left side there was a decrease in the range of motion in 6 cases, an increase in three and two remained the same.

“The tendency seems to be after prolonged, violent exercise for the diaphragm to occupy a higher position in the chest and to have a decidedly decreased range of motion than before. In three of these cases the diaphragm on both sides did not descend on full inspiration and on urging the man to further efforts of inspiration, actually ascended into the chest, in-one case flattening out at the same time. This action was undoubtedly due to the fatigue of the diaphragm.”

The greatest strain during long distance races is on the circulatory system. The pulse rate was greater in the evening than in the morning, varying in different individuals from nothing to twenty beats a week before the race. Those further advanced in age showed the highest blood-pressure, as may be expected. The pulse rate directly before the race varied from 50 to no. Of 55 men examined 27 had a pulse rate of 55 to 75 and 18 had a pulse of 75 to 85.

The average maximum blood pressure of 53 cases was 126.5 mm. Half of the over-weighted men and a little over a third of the underweighted had higher than average blood pressure. Those whose daily occupation required greatest physical strain showed the greatest average above the normal blood pressure. The contestants who had taken part in previous Marathon races all showed average blood pressure.

Irregular rhythm of the pulse and heart murmurs were found in 7 of 55 cases before the race. Increased apex heat, indicating hypertrophy, was found in a number of cases. Blood pressure was also increased in the cases with heart murmurs. Comparison of body weight in these heart cases showed that this was of no consequence, as in some cases the weight was normal, in others below and in again others above normal.

The average maximum blood pressure before the race was 126.5 in 53 cases and only 107.3 in 38 cases after the race. The fall of blood pressure was greatest in the murmur cases. It is also of interest to note that 4 of the 5 cases with murmurs ran the full distance while one ran 19 miles. Three of these were among the first twelve to finish and they were all novices in long distance running.

The time-limit of the race was 4 hours 15 minutes. Twenty-nine finished within this limit and of these five showed heart conditions.

Table 16 of the report is especially interesting and is therefore copied below.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-228-

TABLE 16. PULSE PRESSURE BEFORE AND AFTER THE RACE. RUNNERS WITH HEART SYMPTOMS.

Finished.	Before Race.	After Race.	Pulse  After	Pressure  Before.
2nd	Muffled apex beat.	Intermittent and weak.		
3rd	0	Systolic base.		
4th	Systolic apex.	Systolic apex.	7	20
5th	0	Systolic apex.	15	34
7th	. Systolic apex.	0	?	32
12th	Systolic pulmonic.	0	20	45
29th	0	Irregular		
39th	Systolic apex.	0	10	29
47th	Systolic apex.	Not examined.		
50th	Arrhyshima.	Not examined.		

“These heart subjects had more rapid pulses and smaller pulse pressures as a result of the exertion.,, It took io days after the race for the blood pressure to become nearly normal. Before the race the blood pressure averaged 126.5 in 53 cases. Immediately after the race the blood pressure averaged 107.3 in 38* cases. Ten days subsequently the blood pressure averaged 124.7 in 19 cases. “Six months later we examined five of these runners and found the blood pressures lower than at the previous examinations; their pressures were gradually lowering toward the normal average.”

In one case, in which a heart murmur was heard before and after the race, it could be found, ten days after the race, only upon exertion, and it had disappeared altogether at the end of six months.

URINARY FINDINGS.

No.	of cases.	Albunim.	Blood.	Casts.	Acetone
Before		24	1	0	0	0
Immediately after		19	19	18	19	18
One week subsequent		19	4	0	6	0
Three weeks subsequent		3	0	3	0

Conclusions. Before the race: “In the contestant who as a result of hard training, or because of some unknown preceding state of his heart, has developed a heart murmur, there will be found the very large heart and higher blood pressure. Body over-weight, laborious occupation, short and severe training are productive of higher than average blood pressure and associated hypertrophy.”

After the race:	As	a	result	of this inordinate exertion, if he is of the

average class, the contestant will have a fall of about 20 per cent in his blood pressure; if he is of the heart murmur cases he will have a still greater fall in his blood pressure. If his heart shadow with the X-ray shows a marked increase in size (much dilatation), his blood pressure will have a greater fall than if his heart shadow remains about the same size (slight dilatation.)

At the end of six months the blood pressure is still nearer the normal level than at the previous examination.

Most of these contestants had been running during the preceding six or nine months, and it is natural to expect a gradual disappearance of the established hypertrophy, as our findings bear out.

The effect of this severe bodily exertion on the kidneys is definitely proportionate to the degree of general circulatory disturbance of which the renal circulation is part.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-229-

In these studies we have had the rare opportunity of observing the transition stage from health to disease. Beginning as physiologic changes many of these cases have transgressed the dividing zone entering into that of the pathological. The exciting factors once removed, in some cases reaching the physiological quickly, others slowly, while some, it may be, will never return to normal.

PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY, ST. LOUIS, MO.

• Saturday, May 27, 1911.

CALISTHENICS FOR PUPILS OF GRADES III AND IV. Arranged by A. E. Kindervater, Director of Physical Training. Music : March, Peter Piper. Time, 4|4.

During the introduction of 8 beats the ranks will open sideward, the outer files taking two teps.

The music and outer pupils start at a signal by the leader. An interlude of 8 beats will follow each part, during which the pupils pause.

PART ONE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a)	March forward three steps, closing heels at four, with raising arms

slowly sideward shoulder high .................................... 1-4

(b)	Mark time, face left and l<*arer arms slowly....................... 5-8

(c)	Two follow steps left sideward with raising arms slowly side upward

to a circle...................................................... 9-12

(d)	Mark time, face left, and lower arms slowly ..................... 13-16

Repeat a-d ...................................................   17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms forward and stride left, forward.......................  1-4

(b)	Raise left arm up, right arm backward and raise heels ............. 5-8

(c and d) Return movements............................................ 9-16

Repeat a-d to the right........................................  17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms sideward and stride left sideward....................... 1—4

(b)	Raise arms up to a circle, cross toestep right in rear and turn trunk

right, Ys circle...............................................    5-8

(c and d) Return movements..........................................   9-16

Repeat a-d to the right......................................    17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms fore-upward and stride left backward.................... 1-4

(b)	Lower arm to side position and turn left about on heels............ 5—8

(c and d) Return movements..........................................   9-16

Repeat a-d to the right......................................... 17-32

4x32 = 128 Beats.

PART TWO.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a-d Repeat first exercise of “Part One,” facing to the right when marking time*

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Place hands on hips and full kneebend............................. 1-4

(b)	Straighten arms forward, straighten legs and bend head forward..	5-8

(c-d) Return movements..............................................  9-16

Repeat a-d..................................................... 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a) Place hands on shoulders and bend left leg sideward.......-	  1-4
-230-

(b) Straighten arms, left side obliquely down, right side obliquely upward,

close heels and turn head left................................  5-8

(c-d) Return movements............................................... 9-16

Repeat a-d to the right.....................................   17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Bend arms to circle over head and bend left leg backward......... 3-4

(b)	Straighten arms sideward, close heels and bend head backward..... 5-8

(c-d) Return movements..............................................  9-16

Repeat a-d to the	right...................................... 17-32

4x32 = 128 Beats.

PART THREE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a) Step and hop forward left and right with bending the raised leg in

front......................................................... 1-4

(b) Running in place with bending legs backward, facing left about and

curving right arm over head .......................................... 5-8

(c and d) Repeat a and b..................................................  9-16

Repeat a-d to the right...........................................   17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms fore-upward and hop to straddle stand, left foot in front.. 1-4

(b)	Lower trunk forward and place hands on hips............................ 5-8

(c and d) Return movements................................................  9-16

Repeat a-d to the right............................................. 17-32

THIRD EXERCISe.

(a)	Raise arms sideward and hop to side straddle stand..................... 1-4

(b)	Bend trunk left, curve right arm over head and left in rear of back ...	5-8

(c and d) Return movements...........,....................................  9-16

Repeat a-d to the right............................................  17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms backward (palms forward) and hop to stride stand, left

foot backward......................................................    1-4

(b)	Bend trunk backward and raise arms side upward to a circle over

head.................................................................. 5-8

(c and d) Return movements................................................. 9-16

Repeat a-d to the right............................................. 17-32

4x32 = 128 Beats.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—A writer in the “British Medical Journal” says that if the patient will give the toes free play by adopting boots and socks having a straight inside line, avoid the conventional eversion of the foot, acquire the habit of pressing the toes against the ground in every step, callosites (corns under the soles of the foot) will disappear. They are due to defective function of the toes. Removal may, of course, be hastened by the use of solvents, such as a mixture of salicylate acid and collodion.

—-Exercise is essential to health and long life. No one in health should neglect to walk a moderate distance every day out of doors, if possible in the country where pure air can be freely inhaled. This will help to ensure the proper action of every important function. The walk for health should be diversified, including ascents and descents, and varying scenery; it should

Digitized by CjOOQle
-231-

also be alternated, when circumstances will admit of it, with riding on horse-back, rowing, swimming, gardening, and similar pursuits. Such modes of exercise, practised moderately and regularly, and varied from day to day, are much more advantageous than the exciting, immoderate, and irregular exertions of the ball-room, the rowing match, and even, perhaps, of the hunting field. For feeble and infirm persons, carriage exercise, if it may be so called, and frictions over the surface of the body and extremities by means of towels and bath gloves, may be substituted for active exertion. "Healthy London.

—According to Riviere (Pediatrics) it is of the utmost importance that the neurotic child be recognized early, and steps taken for his protection. In infancy he should lead as “vegetable” an existence as possible, and must not be stimulated and exhibited for the amusement of an admiring circle; indeed, a quiet, uneventful childhood is essential to his normal development. The question of schooling is of vital moment, and the problem must be separately considered in each individual1 case. As a rule the large public schools are not to be recommended for these children.	If the teachers

would learn more about the pathological aspect of child life, or give their medical officers more latitude in dealing with such, children of this sort might be more safely trusted to run the gauntlet of school life.

—Philadelphia has established its first open-air school. A test of the advisability of the plan to establish class-rooms for the use of anaemic children and those suffering from incipient tuberculosis, on the roofs of public school buildings, has been made possible by the offer of the Phipps Institute to build the necessary shelter, furnish all1 the extra clothing required by the pupils, as well as milk, eggs and a noonday meal. Scientific observations will be made, and reports on the results of the experiment rendered by workers of the Institute. The Board of Education will be at the expense of providing teachers only. The roof of the college settlement, 433 Christian street, has been selected for the first experimental class.

—Van Lint (La Policlinique, Nov. 15, 1910) says that one of the necessities in a modern school! is running water in every schoolroom, in order that the hands of the pupils may be frequently washed. The child comes to school with clean hands and he should be sent home in the same condition. The children handle all sorts of things—ink, paints, pencils, clay for modeling, chalk, clothing, etc. They touch their eyes, ears, and other parts of the body as well. There is also danger of carrying disease germs from one pupil to another. By frequent washing the spread of infectious diseases will be lessened. In shaking hands when we meet our friends we hand to them all the germs that we carry on them and make them a present of all sorts of things. Frequent washing of hands is a necessity under these conditions, and especially for children who touch everything.

—We look for a new earth—a condition of things right here, into which it will be safe for a child to be born; safe for his body, his mind, his soul.

Digitized by
-232-

“We look for a new earth, and we have set ourselves to fashion it-We see a holy city coming when we build it.”—Herbert C. Lord.

—Dr. Isabelle T. Smart, in a very interesting paper on Nervous Children {Am. Jour, of Obstetrics and Diseases of Children), asks the very pertinent question: Shall the Nervous Child Attend School? and says that this is a question which cannot be answered positively either in the affirmative or in the negative. Here again the individual child and its particular and peculiar needs must be studied. It is within safe limits to state that the hours in school should be shortened for all nervous cases, where the child is especially neurotic, suffering perhaps from chorea, easily excited and made restless and unhappy over the daily routine or grind of the class room. Such a child should be drawn from school entirely for a time, and, if possible, be given a complete change of environment. If this last is impossible it should be taken out of school and should spend as much time as possible out of doors; and if the parents have a good, suitable roof on their house, let them fit it up as a play space and keep the child up there. Or if they live in an apartment house and can make use of the roof, let them have a corner set aside for the use of their child.

Many practical plans may be devised for such a playground. The morning and afternoon naps may be taken up there and such a means can? become the strongest element for the development of healthy nervous system in the healthy body of the child. Sunshine and fresh air are far better remedies than medicine.

Physical training and baths are both excellent therapeutic measures. If one can afford to have a special teacher come in for an hour each day, for three days in the week, to give the child special exercises arranged for its especial needs, so much the better, but if not one may be able to devise some scheme whereby it may have some such training. A nervous child should be placed under the care of a physician who has an understanding of child nature, who is sympathetic and at the same time firm. With such a counsellor, to advise a mother, and with teachers and nurse carefully-chosen because of peculiar fitness, or by the personal sacrifice of pleasures and little personal comforts by parents who cannot afford helpers, much can be done to strengthen and steady an unstable nervous system.

—A nervous breakdown is always a serious matter, and though in some cases it seems to come without warning, a very bolt from the blue, that is only because the premonitions were so obscure as to be unrecognisable by any save a doctor. Very frequently, however, there are forewarnings plain enough to be read by anyone, and if these are heeded there is no reason why the threatened breakdown should not be warded off successfully. Excessive 'irritability is a common result of over-work in the case of those who drive their brains hard. Its meaning is that to the overtaxed nervous system the least discord or unnecessary effort is painful. But this nervous irritability is to the exhausted brain what pain is to a broken limb, and it is-therefore often enough a distinct preservative of health, because it wakes the man up, as it were, to a sense of his danger in time, and forces him to give his nervous system a rest. Far more dangerous is that condition in which

Digitized by Google
—iJ33—

the brain has become so benumbed as not to feel the peril, and demand a halt.

Headache is another symptom which calls the attention of the brain worker to his state. The head is often attacked by unpleasant sensations which cannot be precisely classed as headache, but which, as the signs of mental overdriving, are of even more consequence. A feeling of weight on the top of the head, or a constriction of the forehead, when they occur after prolonged strain, are always significant, and should not be treated lightly. Actual sleeplessness or very disturbed sleep are common signs, and when persisting in spite of simple remedies, they call for proper advice. Other still more serious warnings are numbness of the hands or feet, loss of power, perhaps only momentary, over some groups of muscles, failure of memory, or inability to fix the attention on any subject. Anyone who notices either one of these symptoms cannot do better than seek medical advice at once.—Health, London.

—We Wish to call the attention of our readers to “Open Air Crusaders” a report of the Elizabeth McCormick Open Air School together with a general account of open air school work in Chicago and a chapter on school ventilation, which will be supplied free to libraries and clubs upon application to the United Charities, 51 La Salle Street, Chicago.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—On July 9 H. Rau of the Berliner Sport Club, whose short career as a sprinter was mentioned in the May number of “Mind and Body,” proved all that was said and thought of him. He took the measure of Ramsdell, the former American Intercollegiate Champion, In both the ioo and 200 meter events winning in .10 3-5 and .22 respectively. The time for the 100 meters is 1-5 second later than the world’s record, now held by Reggie Walker, the winner of the Olympic short sprint in 1908, and James Rector of the University of Virginia. Rau must now be taken as a serious contender for Olympic honors at Stockholm next year.

—Recent performances in the English championships warrant the belief that Germany will be a factor from now on in athletic matters, as attested by the wonderful track and field work of three of the citizens of the German Empire. The trio are R. Rau of Charlottenburg, H. Braun, Muenchener Sport Club, and R. Paseman of Berlin.

The fine jumping, high, broad, and with the pole, by the latter has never been equaled by any man in the world, and he can beyond doubt beat any one at his specialties who is now competing.

This great athlete won the titles at pole vaulting with the fine height of 12 feet and supplemented this with a six-foot high jump. Prior to these events he had taken second in the running broad jump with the really great leap of 23 feet 2% inches, a performance which would win nine out of ten competitions anywhere.

Paseman won the German championships last year at vaulting and high

Digitized by t^ooQle
-234-

jumping and was third iii the broad jump. That he must be a great all-around performer almost goes without saying, as shown by his versatility at jumping, which requires good speed and stamina.

Braun is the man who beat Gissing among others in the haltanile, while Rau last Sunday showed Ramsdell, the American who had won the English sprints, the way in the ioo and 200 metre events at Berlin.

Pasemann’s pole vault mark equals the best on record in the English championships and makes him a joint holder with E. B. Archibald, a Canadian, who won in 1908.

—The combined teams representing Oxford and Cambridge Universities defeated the representatives of Harvard and Yale last July in the fifth meeting of the leading universities of the two countries. This gives the English team three meets to Americas two meets. The struggle for supremacy depended on the last event, the one-mile run.

Until the final event there was no demonstration of any kind—nothing but a moderate amount of applause for the winners. But when six young athletes toed the mark for* the crucial test silence fell over the scene, followed by a wild demonstration when Baker of King’s College, Cambridge, running a clever race, sprinted in a winner by five yards from Moore of Oxford, who was second, and Lawless of Harvard third. The time was 4:27 3-5* Baker, who will be forever illustrious in the annals of the Light Blues, was carried off the field on the shoulders of his comrades, while the band played “God Save the King.” It was such an uproar as might have been witnessed at some American meeting.

Summary of the events:—

Hammer Throw.—Won by George E. Putnam, Oxford, with 151 feet 5 inches; C. C. Childs, Yale, second, with 140 feet 7 inches; T. E.-Cable, Harvard, third, with 137 feet 10 inches.

Running High Tump.—Won by Wooster Canfield, Yale, with 5 feet 11% inches; Albert D. Barker, Harvard, second, with 5 feet 10^6 inches; H. A. Dubois, Cambridge, third, with 5 feet 8% incnhes.

Half-Mile Run.—Won by B. M. Preble, Harvard; G. L. R. Anderson, Oxford, second; H. L. Jaques, Jr., Harvard, third. Time—1:57 I”5-

100-Yard Dash.—W onby Duncan MacMillan, Cambridge ^ F. A. Reilly, Yale, second; D. D. Thatcher, Yale, third. Time—0:10 1-5.

Running Broad Jump.—Won by R. T. Holden, Yale, with 22 feet 9% inches; J. R. Kilpatrick, Yale, second, with 21 feet 9J/2 inches; M. J. Susskind, Cambridge, third, with 21 feet 5 inches.

Two-Mile Run.—Won by E. Gowan Taylor, Oxford ; C. H. Porter, Oxford, second; Paul R. Withington, Harvard, third. Time—9:29 1-5.

Quarter-Mile Run.—Won by F. G. Black, Cambridge; Duncan Mac Millan, Cambridge, second; John H. Stewart, Jr., Yale, third. Time— 0:49 4-5*

One-Mile Run.—Won by P. J. Baker, Cambridge; W. C. Moore, Oxford, second; H. P. Lawless, Harvard, third. Time—4:27 3-5.

120-Yard High Hurdles.—‘Won by George A. Chisholm, Yale; J. B. Cummings, Harvard, second; P. R. O’Rourke Phillips, Cambridge, third. Time—0:15 2-5.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-235-

—Dr. Dudley B. Reed, director of physical training in the University of Rochester, has been chosen assistant* professor in the department of physical training at the University of Chicago. Dr. Reed succeeds to the -duties of Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft, who has just designed his position at Chicago to become director of the new department of physical training at Princeton University. We extend our heartiest congratulations to our colleagues.

—New Pole-Vaulting Record for Women\. Miss Ruth Spencer of Mansfield, Ohio, broke the world’s intercollegiate woman’s pole-vaulting record last May at the Lake Erie College track meet by clearing the bar at 5 feet 4 inches. Miss Spencer also won the standing high jump at 4 feet.

—Swimming Pool Cleanser. Tests made at Brown University show that hypochlorite of lime is an efficient sterilizer of swimming pools. The strength' employed was one part available chlorine in 2,000,000. After the hypochlorite had been in the pool for one hour complete sterility of the water was effected. The pool remained practically sterile for four days, when the count began to rise. There was no odor and no perceptible taste.

—At the annual1 Intercollegiate Championship held in Boston May 27

J.	P. Jones of Cornell broke the World’s Amateur Mile Record held for 16 years by Tommy Conneff by covering the distance in 4 min. 25 2-5 sec., 1-5 second faster than Conneff. He also broke the half-mile intercollegiate record held by Parsons since 1905, lowering the mark from 1 min. 56 sec. to 1 min. 54 4-5 sec.

T. S. Berna of Cornell created a new American record for two miles— 9 min. 25 1-5 sec.

Joe Horner of Michigan raised the short put mark to 46 ft. 7 1-8 in.

H. S. Babcock of Columbia raised the standard for pole vaulting from 12 ft. 5y2 in. to 12 feet. 8^4 in.

The final point score was as follows:—

Cornell,	30 %

Yale,	24%

Michigan	24

Pennsylvania 18%

Dartmouth 0 Princeton 8 Harvard 6 Columbia 5

Amherst 5 W. J. T. 3Ys Williams 3 Rutgers 2

Penn. State 2 Brown 1

—The Athletic League of North America, composed mainly of Y. M.

C.	C.’s, has severed its affiliation with the Amateur Athletic Union on July 17. This means that no athlete from a Y. M. C. A. who desires to compete in any set of games under the jurisdiction of the A. A. U. can do so unless he registers again with the A. A. U. What this fight will lead to will be closely watched by representatives of both bodies.

—International Baseball. In the March issue of Mind and Body (page 38) mention was made of the Japanese baseball team. This team has returned the American compliment by visiting the United States the past two months and playing exhibition games in many of the larger cities. They were greeted with enthusiasm wherever they played and according to Teport made a good impression. They probably did not win as many games as they may have wished to win, but under the conditions they gave a good account of themselves. Come again!

Digitized by CjOOQle
—The annual “Twelve-Mile-Swim” of the Missouri River Canoe Club took place at Kansas City, Mo., on Saturday, August 12th. Among the eighteen starters were two well-known teachers of gymnastics, Miss Lena Hoernig and Mr. Martin Trieb, both of Kansas City. They were among the ten that finished the course. The best time made was one hour and fifty minutes. This pace seems impossible to one who has not 9een the rapid current of the “Big Muddy.”

Books on Physical Trailing ail related Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10 °|0 for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.26 to Foreign Countries COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. 1, 2, 9, 24, 72, 149, 181 and 191 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D......... 1.50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D............................. 1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen.............................................•.......... 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D............ 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey....................50-

Physical' Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D. *......................................................    75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D..................................25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture .........................................................20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—Bv Rud.

Faries, A.	M., M. D.........................................  1.00

Tactics.

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson..........................3a

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden..............50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton...........................................  30

Drills and Marches, by Rook............•..........................  .25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren..	.5a

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman.................................30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry......................75

Digitized by L.ooQLe
-237-

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen..................................................... 1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse...................50

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander.................50

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse...................... 3.00

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D.............................................	.35

Tactics, School.—By Wm. A. Stecher..................................60

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................50

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann.......75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz.............................. 1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00

Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Chib Exercises..........................25

Exercises with the Dumb-Bell, Indian Club and Steel Bar, 1000.—By

F.	J. Harvey...................................................50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen..................................................... 1.00

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch........................................io

/

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton..........35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P.	Middleton....................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz......................60

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rings and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey.................................................50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. 'Specially adaDted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth............................ 1.00

Games.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner............ 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer..............50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford..................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal....................................................   1	*50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson................ 1.00

Games; Captainball, Dodgeball, Soccer, Football.....................10

Digitized by
-238-

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton...........................................   1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold.......................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnasltic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen.............75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey..........	.70

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer...........75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School1 and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft................................................   1.50

Gymnastics. A Textbook \jf the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson...... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell................................ 1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch.........................15

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton.........................  .30

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin............................    .75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................7$

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G.. M. Caskey;.......50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................5a

'Dances and Games, Folk.:—By Caroline Crawford................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal...........................................‘........... 1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison........................... 1.10

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nil's W. Bergquist...................... 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer....	.75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.5a

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin...............................  75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Sudej.............................75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D............. 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood....................................................25

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott..............2$

At Home in the Water, by Geo. II. Corsan..........................  75

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages.................................25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.......................25

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn........................  .25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D.. .	.25

Digitized by Google
-239 -

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth.............................*................... 1.00	,

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner.....................................25

Muldoon’s Wrestling...................................................25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each...............45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part 1.	80	Pyramids	on	one Parallel Bar........................jo

Part	II.	50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars........................55

Part	III.	50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs....................... 55

Part	IV.	70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.........................70

Part	V.	100 Free Pyramids........................................85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Pant: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses.........................70

Second Part:	40	Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses......................5a

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders...................... 1.00

Pyramids for Strong Men and Gymnasts, by F. J. Harvey.................50

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan...................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated...... 2.5a

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling .....................................................25

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E. H. Arnold, M. D............................................... 35

Gymnastic Exercises for Elimentary Schools, by Harriet E. Trask. . .	.67

Gymnastics, Progressive Lessons	in.—By	Anton Leibold................75

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold... .65

Physical Training, Manual of.—By T. Toepel, M. D......................50

Physical Culture. Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson......................35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin......... .. 1.00

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each.................20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades...................................35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades..................................35

Part III. Fifth Grade ..........................................  5a

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

75c, III 75c, IV..................................................6a

Subjects related to Physical Education.

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D......................$	.02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.50 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. 1.00

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren...............50

Civics and Health, by William H. Allen............................. 1.40

Control of Body and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett........................ 50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.5a

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D........................   1.20

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D............................... 50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing, Eating; by W.

A. Spinney.................................................     1.2a

Digitized by Google
-240-

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock........................ 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...............55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.. .„ 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw............................... 1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D........... 1.00

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ell'a B.

Hallock........................................................45

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett....................... 1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D......................60

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D..	.75

v Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L...................25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......................  1.20

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift.......................... 1.50

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustrated.......................... 1.00

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. H. Arnold

M. D.......................................................    35

Open-Air Schools, 'by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D................... 1.35

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams........................... 1.95

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..	.75

Playgrounds, American.—By E. B. Mero..........................   2.00

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer...........10

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart.......................... 1.65

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Lorna Higbee

Leland ..................................................... 2.50

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D...................... 1.50

Physical1 Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe................... 1.00

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D......55

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D..... . 1.75 Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch ............................................. 1.00

Reproduction, by W* S. Hall, M. D............................... 1.00

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D....................... 1.25

Sex and Society. Studies in the Social Psychology of Sex. By William T. Thomas................................................   1.50

The Body at Work, by F. Gulick Jewett..............................50

Training in Theory and Practice, by A. Maclaren....................50

Tuberculosis a Preventable and Curable Disease, by S. A. Knopf,

M. D.....................................................    2.20

Tuberculosis in the United States, The Campaign Against.—Compiled

by Phil. P. Jacobs........................................ 1.00

The Playground season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to nse the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such teachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

By	<&r<*»♦

Mailing price 75 cents.	MIND AND BODY,

Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia.

Digitized by