Vol. 2.	OCTOBER,	1895.	No.	20.

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the technical committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin 8t., St. Loui8,Mo. HANS BALLIN, managing editor, southern Illinois State normal university, Carbondale, III.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By Hon. RICHARD BARTHOLDT, Member of Congress, formerly President of the St. Louis Board of

Public Schools.*

(Concluded.)

While disposing of the more or less vague and unreasonable objections, a point that might be made comes to m3’ mind, namely: J:hat education means mental training only, and that children are sent to school merely to receive instruction in reading, writing, arithmetic, and so forth. Well, every one of you knows better. You know that education, in its comprehensive sense, means much more; requiring you to train the mind and the bod}', and to mould the character of the pupil as well.

Physical training is, therefore, not a hobby of its advocates, but should be considered by all thinking pedagogues as one of the “essentials,” the neglect of which would render all educational effects incomplete. That its introduction would undesirably enlarge an alread3’ crowded course of study will be urged only by those who have given the subject no thought at all, for the very reverse is the case, physical exercises having certainly the effect of relieving rather than increasing the mental strain which modern school methods subject our children to. On this point X could cite the highest official authority in the land, the U. S. Commissioner of Education, Dr. Wm. T. Harris, who, by the way, is a warm advocate of the German system of physical culture and in his last annual report devotes considerable space to it.

The reason why the physical part of the school programme was neglected for centuries is attributed to the invention of gun powder and lucidly explained by the writer first quoted in this way:	“The	ancient

Digitized by G-OOQle
—142—

Greeks had their Gymnasia, the Romans their Thermae; and we are told that both were fostered so as to counteract a tendency to increasing luxury and indolence ... It goes without saying that to their careful, systematic and constant training these ancients owed that perfection of bodily grace and beauty which has never since been surpassed by the human race, if ever equalled. But physical culture among the ancients was confined almost entirely to men, and its primary object was to thoroughly equip them for single combat in their almost constant warfare. The invention of gun powder and consequent introduction of a system of distance-fighting caused the military drill to be substituted for a general body training, and the gymnasium was practically closed.” The revival did not come before the close of the 18th century, when science had advanced enough to show by facts and figures that, in spite of the more favorable sanitary and social conditions then obtaining, the race had visibly degenerated. The revival of physical culture extended rapidly all over Europe, and in most countries, with the exception of England, it is to-day an obligatory part of the course of study. Without entering into details, it may be stated that the result of England’s indifference and neglect in this respect is that the physical condition of the people, if not actually deteriorating, is not improving, and that within the last years it has even been found necessary to lower the standard in the British army. In one of his reports Dr. Ord states that out of 5,567 boys examined, 4,410 were rejected as under the standard of width of chest and height. Similar observations have been made in this country. Alas, we have in the United States no general statistics on this point, but many individual cases and our personal observations tell the tale only too clearly. Look around in the school room , and you will see dozens of boys and girls, pale, weak-chested, with heads bent forward, suffering from spinal curvatures, and short of breath at the slightest exertions. I have seen many of them, whose lot would have been an early grave, saved by proper exercises. They walk the streets of St. Louis to-day, broad-shouldered, strong, with heads erect, easy respiration and sound lungs— very pictures of health. “Acting upon the well grounded opinion,” I read in the Encyclopedia Britannica, “that neither mental serenity nor mental development can exist with an unhealthy animal organization, and admonished by the sad deaths of two promising young men, and the breaking down in health of others just at the end of their college course the authorities of Amherst College were impelled to demand that the college officials should give a proper attention to physical health. In 1859 a department of physical education was created, concerning which we read in the catalogue that “its design is to secure healthful daily exercise and recreation to all students; to instruct them in the use of the vocal organs and movement of body and to teach them, both theoretically and practically the laws of health. This daily physical training is a part of the regular college course. While the gymnasium will furnish opportunities for the highest physical training, the required exercises will be such as can be performed without undue effort or risk of injury.” The statistics of this department show some interesting facts in reference to the duration of sickness among students. While the

Digitized by tjOOQle
-143-

average amount of time lost on account of sickness by each laborer in Europe is found to be 19 or 20 days each year, the returns of Amherst College sick list for term time give 2.64 days as an annual average of time lost to every student, and 11.36 days to each sick student for 17 years. The decrease in the amount of sickness is traced directly to the introduction of regular physical exercises.

These few remarks will, I hope, convince you not only that any and all objections urged against physical education are invalid, but also of the existence of many cogent and unanswerable reasons for the absolute necessity of its introduction in our schools. And this leads us to the positive side of the question.

Is there to-day a conscientious educator in the country who, in the face of the facts, would deny the obligation of looking after the physical welfare of the children? Of all men and women the teacher should be the first to advise and warn people and to insist on the necessity of physical culture in the schools. Where every one is engaged in the -struggle for subsistence, having no leisure time to ponder over problems of education and to study the means of preserving the race, of prolonging our children’s lives and of increasing their power of resistance and vitality, it is the province of our teachers, yea, their solemn duty, to speak and to give the people the benefit of that superior knowledge which is derived from better and increased facilities of observation and study. And if I were an educator, I would speak in this strain:

“Physical culture is as inseparable a part of education as the foundation is of the house. It is indeed the foundation upon which we erect our intellectual structure. We give our instruction at an age when the child’s frame is still weak, and to neglect means to strengthen the frame, would be like building a house on sand. Modem civilization requires more learning than was required in olden times, but while we must subject the pupils to increased mental strain, their physical condition has, as a result of that same civilization, become notably weaker. At the present day there is only one thing known to mankind that can counteract and neutralize the effects of an over-tax on mental and nervous powers, and that is constant physical exercise, conducted with a view to strengthen the body and to fit it for the exactions of mental work.’’

Thus every teacher should speak, thereby adding expert testimony to current knowledge on one of the most vital problems of our time. Now let us see, whether our expectations are justified and the propositions as above expressed, are virtually correct. Is there anything in this world more important than health, health of mind and body? No. All other values, be they honor or Wealth, sink into insignificance as compared with this. In man and woman health means life and beauty and grace and attractiveness. A healthy person is at the same time a beautiful person; to lose one of these physical properties means to lose the others. And when we see thousands who have lost their health willing to sacrifice every particle of their worldly possessions for its recovery, should we ignore the means to prevent its loss, we in whose hands is given the future of mankind ? Would such a neglect be a blunder? No, a crime! If there is a way to raise the standard of health

Digitized by (^oogle
—144—

of coming generations; if there is a chance to make growing manhood and womanhood happier by perfecting their physical condition and strengthening their powers to resist disease; if there is a means to prolong life by the uniform development of the human organism and to imbue man with vigor, energy, manliness, and woman with the spirit of self-reliance and the faculty of an easier performance of the duties required of her outside or inside of her home; if there is a way to bestow such blessings upon humanity, and we would yet remain indifferent, none of us are good and strong enough to bear the responsibility of such culpable disregard.

In all European countries where physical culture is practised, the duration of life is—comparing relatively the same classes—longer than in the United States. Have you ever thought of this? I have not the statistics at hand, but it is a fact; and it has even been asserted that if our people were not, as a rule, better fed, better clothed and better sheltered than those on the other side, the showing would be still more in favor of Europe. Does not a comparison of social conditions teach that the reverse should be the case? The reason is plain. The lack of attention given to systematic bodily training is the cause; there can be no other. In Europe, as stated before, this training begins in the school room and is continued and supplemented in the military barracks. In Germany, for instance, there is not now a school of any pretensions in which physical culture is not an essential part of the programme; and that country’s splendid victories in the late wars have justly been credited to the German schoolmaster, to the two-fold education of mind and body, which results in superior discipline and endurance.

In our Republic there is no equivalent for this splendid life-long school for raising strong and healthy men. Having no army of the people—and I am glad we havn’t—our public school is left as the only place where we can instil the elements of health and strength and the spirit of genuine discipline into our people. Before school age the limbs of the little ones are perhaps too tender and after school time, which is too frequently abreviated, nine-tenths of our boys and girls are being sent into stores, and factories, and workshops to help the parents earn a living. There are thousands, it is true, who, after their day’s labor, attend—no doubt because they instinctively feel the necessity of it—gymnasia, and secure the training afforded by our gymnastic or turn societies; but these exceptions merely confirm the rule of an almost general neglect, by our people, of that regular and systematic movement which, for instance, keeps a watch from becoming rusty, and insures the human organism against decay.

Fortunately, physical culture has become a science. Enough has been demonstrated to you by the teachers of this branch—who, I am happy to say, rank among the best in the country—to fully appreciate this fact. Utilizing the experiments of half a century, we enjoy the benefits of a complete system of gymnastics which to-day is not only recognized as bv far the best and most comprehensive one, but comprises also all other systems. Its originator is the great Jahn; it was afterwards so improved that all other so-called systems had to give way to it—even in France. Other systems do not fill the bill, nor does mere

■\

Digitized by Google
—145-

athleticism or sport. “Athleticism,” says an authority on this subject, “tends to develop a single faculty or part of the human frame to an unnatural degree. In other . words, instead of aiding nature in the development of the perfect human being, it tends to develop an abnormal one. In sport only some of the human organisms are incited to activity, and these are frequently over-strained to the extent of positive injury. It is needless to add, that in no sense can the brutalizing exhibitions of the prize ring be considered as having any connection with true physical culture. The science of “Turning,” or of true physical culture, part of which we have introduced into our schools, aims at the harmonious and uniform development of all the human faculties. It is so varying in its form and so adjustable, that it adapts itself to the needs and requirements of each sex and to all ages and conditions. Beginning with the simplest movements for the beginner, either in the gymnasium or in the schoolroom, by a gradual evolution the pupil is passed to a higher state of muscular and functional development. For girls and ladies separate appropriate exercises are arranged, suited for the development of grace, agility and strength, and no parent or lady participant need fear that the gymnasium will cause the loss of one iota of female shapeliness and modesty, any more than would the participation in those out door games which girls and ladies love to indulge in. Yet another code of rules, more easily' to be followed, is prescribed for older men who are desirous of still retaining the health and elasticity of youth.” Nothing could better characterize this grand and only true system of health-giving gymnastics than the following words of GutsMuth, the author of a book on the subject:	“We	are	not	athletes,	and	our	youth	shall

neither knock out their teeth, nor crush their ribs: they shall neither kill others nor wrench their own limbs. In our exercises we seek health, not its destruction. We seek strength, not the unfeelingness of the cannibal ; we strive for manly sense and courage, not for unrestrained wildness and license.”

Let us now briefly recapitulate the principles upon which we base our programme: The development of the mental and physical forces must be simultaneous. The means for their development are bodily exeicises in their systematic order. Exercise is life and vice versa. The organisms of movement are the muscles, and by their exercise they become stronger, more solid and elastic. Physical exercises give strength, und strength produces agility, and agility gives courage and self-reliance. Instruction in gymnastics is intended to make the body a tool of the mind, as perfect as possible, and enters therefore, into the service of mental and moral education. Such instruction requires attention and thought; it incites the intellectual powers and develops the forces of the mind. It does even more: It cultivates the sense of beauty, furthers intellectual alertness, obedience and punctuality, and begets discipline and public spirit; it teaches the children that “man was created for mankind.” Let us then combine the educational methods of Sparta and Athens, of Lycurgus and Solon. Let us utilize schools to rear a people at once sound in mind and body; and for this grand and noble work I hereby solicit the hearty and active co-operation of every educator in the country, and of all intelligent and public spirited men and women.

Digitized by v^ooQte
-146-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School Envelope.

XI.

Parallel Bars.

Apparatus.—Four (or more) parallel bars, placed parallel to each other, proper distances apart. Height—adjustable.

Class Formation.—Eight files of six pupils each (48) at a distance from and facing the ends of the bars—in flank order ; or, at a distance from and left of the ends, in front order.

Marching Order.—First pupils advance to front positions end of bars and return to rear of files, passing left or right flanks, files moving a step forward with each succession.—Or, pupils leave files by stepping forward, beginning at the right flank, and pass rear of files to resume places (front formation.)

I.

Explanatory.—The length-axis of bars (end to end) and breadth-axis of pupil (shoulder to shoulder) parallel, the pupil has ‘siDE’-standing, side-stem-support, or side-sitting position. The length-axis of bars and breadth-axis of pupil at a right angle, the pupil has ‘cROSs’-standing etc. position. [The pupil has a ‘side-stand’ position when standing sideward left or right of either end of or between the bars, or, when facing or with back toward either left or right side of bars; ‘cross’-stand position, when standing with face or back toward either end, or left or right of either left or right side of apparatus.) The correct stem-support position is similar to the fundamental standing position (feet closed)—chest active, head up, back straight.

Pupils proceed to fundamental standing position front of bars upon the command ‘March !’ Hands (arms slightly extended) are placed on the bars from the inside, body poised on tip-toe, at ‘one!’ Deep knee-bending position is taken at ‘two I’ The jumping to position is executed at ‘three !’ The standing position is resumed at ‘oue, two !’ Exercises on the apparatus are commanded or counted separately. Pupils succeed each other at the apparatus upon the command ‘March!’ (the next in order advancing, the last in order returning to places in line, rear of files.)

END EXERCISES.

See Horizontal Bar Exercises.—Execute exercises under T (in 'hang-stand’ position) from cross- and side-stand positions, several pupils from each file exercising at one time. Add exercises (facing outward in hang-stand positions) as swinging body forward to standing position, retaining hand-grasp, (changed to suit the\movement—back-bending ex.) Add leg movements to last exercise.

Jump to cross-stem support position—1, 2, 3 ! Down—1, 2. Repeat several times.

Same, with left leg (bent) raised over bar in front of left hand. (Back of left thigh rests on the bar close to hand—foot extended under knee.) Down—1, 2.

Same, with right leg over bar in front of right hand.

Same, with legs astride—extended outward over both bars.

Same, with both legs (extended, closed) over left bar to oblique sitting position. (Sit close to hands, trunk erect ; face opposite end.)

Same—legs over right bar.

Same, with a quarter turn left. Legs over left bar to side-sitting position.

Same, with a quarter turn right over right bar.

[Alight to ‘starting position’ (deep-knee-bending pos. etc.) from sitting positions.]

>

Digitized by G.ooQle
-147-

Jump to cross-stem support position—1, 2, 3 ! Lift left and right hand alternately (touch hips etc.)—begin. (1, 2.) Down—1, 2.

Jump to side-stem support pos. on left bar (quarter turn left between bars)—1, 2, 3 ! Down (to 'starting pos.’)—1, 2. Repeat, turning right.

Jump to side-stem support pos. on left bar—1 ! Face'left to cross-stem support pos. (face outward by placing left hand on right bar)—2! Down (alight backward, between bars—body erect, arms extended) —1, 2 ! Left about—face ! Repeat, facing right.

Jump to sit astride left bar in front of and close to left hand—1! Swing legs upward (carrying body sideward) to sit astride right bar—2 ! Swing astride left bar—3 ! Down—1, 2.

Jump to oblique sitting pos. over left bar—1! Change to oblique sitting pos. over right bar—2! Over left bar—3! Down.

Jump to cross-stem sup. pos.—1, 2, 3! Raise left and right knee alternately (foot extended under knee)—begin. 1-4. Down.

Same, but raise both knees. 1-2.

Same, but raise legs forward alternately, slowly, height of bars. 1-4. Same, but raise knee and extend leg forward, left and right alternate^. 1—8.

Same, but raise both legs forward. 1—2.

Same, but raise both knees and extend legs forward. 1-4.

II.

(From front cross-stem support position.)

Swing forward and backward—begin. 1-2. Halt! Down.

(In swinging forward bend the body sharply at hips, trunk nearly erect. In swinging backward hold the body fully extended, back slightly arched, head back—body horizontal end of backward swing. The correct swinging poise is essential in all swinging exercises.

Same, with side-stride and cross-stride-movement of legs end of backward, forward, and both backward and forward swings.

Same, but bend and stretch legs end of backward swing (bend legs backward without forward thigh flexion.)

Same, but raise and stretch knees end of forward swing.

Same, repeating exercises end of both swings.

Short swinging forward and backward: Lift both hands and regrasp, end of backward, forward, and both swings.

Same, with leg ex., as above—end of backw., forw., both swings.

Short, quick arm-bending, end of backw., forw. and both swings.

Same, concluding with stride- and oblique sitting positions end of forward and backward swings. [To last ex. (swinging to sitting positions end of backward swing—jump to back-stem support position, facing outward, by placing left or right hand on the opposite bar to jump, turning about.] Alight to ‘starting pos.’

Digitized by CjOOQle
-148-

III.

(From front cross-stem support position.)

Swing forward and backward, bending arms sharply end of forward, backward, and both swings, stretching with close of each swing.

Repeat in connectibn with above exercises.

Repeat, alighting end of backward swings with quarter and half (about) facings.

Repeat exercises in back-stem support pos., alighting end of forward swings, with facings.

Repeat ex. from front cross-stem sup. pos., carrying the body sideward over left (right) bar end of forward swing to alight. ‘Back-vaults.’ Repeat ex. with back-vaults end of forward swings in connection with facings inward and outward (toward and outward from apparatus) to side- and cross-stand positions left and right of bars.

Repeat ex. from back-stem sup. pos., carrying the body sideward over left and right bar end of backward swing to alight. ‘Face-vaults.’ Repeat ex. with face-vaults end of backward swings in connection with facings, as above.

Repeat facewaults, with facings, from a running start.

Brief Remarks Suggestive of the Relation of Music to Gymnastics and Physical Training.

By CARL BETZ.

THE question whether melody originally suggested rhythmical movements of the body, or out of rythm in dancing was developed the idea of song, will, probably, never be positively answered.

I, for my part, incline to the opinion that dancing is the older of the two arts.

The first dancers undoubtedly accompanied the movements of their bodies with exclamations of joy or anger, according to the state of their feelings. Out of this promiscuous shouting and wailing there were slowly developed simple melodies. These primitive songs were suggested by the pulsations in the rythm of the dancing movements.

Naturally it occurred to these first “artists” that the rhythm of the dance and song could be made more distinct by keeping time with some instrument, such as the pounding of some object with a stick or bone. This habit led to the invention of drum-like instruments, which, in turn, suggested other musical devices, until, finally, we have the perfected orchestra of the present day.

However this all may have been, it is certain, that in the historic dawn of all races and nations, the two arts, dancing and music, were in separately connected and so completely blended that even the classic mind of the old Greeks did not conceive the idea, that music contained in itself all the elements of an independent art.

Digitized by Google
-149—

From the beginnings of human affairs up to the present day, in times of peace and of war, all races and nations, civilized and barbarous, accompanied their marches and dances with either singing or music, or both. And this, it seems, is but natural.

Music has the power to excite in the human heart every shade of feeling, from intense hatred to purest love. So, too, has gymnastics, — the outgrowth of dancing, hunting and military evolutions, — a like power to arouse certain general feelings, for instance, enthusiasm, patriotism, etc.

We find in the history of all races and people, that marching and dancing, music and singing were among the most conspicuous features upon all great occasions. And this too seems natural.

For, if we reflect, that the movements of the body are the only visible means by which the soul can express itself, the importance of this means of communication among souls, and the influence thus brought to bear upon the actions of men, at once becomes evident.

And, again, if we consider, that the voice is the only audible means the soul possesses to make itself known to the outer world, this attribute, too, must appear to be of the greatest xsignificance.

Music and gymnastics are not only closely related, but, viewed from a certain standpoint, seem to be identical arts, only acting upon the mind through different senses, the one through the nerves of the eye, the other through the nerves of the ear.

Both arts are immaterial, vanishing as soon as produced, and have existence only in the realm of fleeting time.

What has thus far been briefly said, goes to show, that the sisterhood of the two arts is not only sanctioned by long usage, but is a necessity by nature of the human organism.

However, it is not the purpose of the writer to pursue this line of argument further, but, rather, to point out certain fallicies, as it seems to him, of the American mind to view the correlation of music, gymnastics and physical training.

In the first place, it is necessary to discriminate between gymnastics as an art and gymnastics as a means.

There is, for example, the same difference between the two, that there is between the artistic rendering of a chorus of many parts and voices, and the means and methods employed in the training of voices for the production of such music.

Physical training has for its aim and purpose the development of the body and its training to meet all the requirements of civilized life. Its sole object is : Health, strength and happiness of the individual.

The gymnastic art, on the other hand, deals with the perfected positions, movements and posings of the body acquired in the school of training. The movements are performed for their own sake and not to demonstrate the excellence of any particular exercise as a means for developing or training the body.

The object of the gymnastic art is purely the presentation of the beautiful in the outlines and movements of the human form.

Physical training is the work of the schoolroom and the gymnasium. The gymnastic art is for the public gaze and is the medium through

Digitized by C^ooQle
—150—

which is to be implanted in the hearts of men a reverence for the human body.*

When the gymnastic work of the schoolroom or the gymnasium is to be exhibited before the public eye, it must be presented in a different way from that of the everyday routine. An audience is seldom, if ever, interested in means and methods ; it not only prefers, but instinctively demands to see results. The teacher must, therefore, arrange his gymnastic material thoughtfully and artistically. Everything must be taken into consideration in order to produce the desired effect. He must study the place with its surroundings, accommodations and facilities ; take into account the time of day and season of the year; perfect the arrangement of each single exercise as well as the arrangement of the entire programme ; must take into consideration the dress of the participants and many other things of equal importance. The object of the teacher in thus presenting his work is, to show the good carriage of the pupils, the ease with which they perform different exercises ; to exhibit their power of endurance and the spirit in which they act, in a word, to prove that the spirit has completely mastered the body, — and not to show how these results were obtained.

Those among the audience who desire to study, or merely observe the means and methods employed in the training of the body, have ample opportunity for so doing, by visiting the schools and gymnasiums.

Is this principle not followed in every other branch of education ? A teacher of music, for instance, who desires to show his patrons the progress pupils have made under his particular methods, — does he present the everyday routine of the schoolroom, or does he instruct his audience entertainingly by rendering well executed songs and choruses ? Or a teacher of elocution, in demonstrating the results of his work before the public, does he not present finished readings, recitations, oratories and bits of dramatic art, to the utter exclusion of everything that pertains to means and methods ?

If this be true of music and elocution, why should it be otherwise with gymnastics ? And, if true, what else could intensify the enjoyment of the graceful movements of the body, or add more to the glorification of the mastery of the spirit over the body, than music and singing ?

Truly, I think, those teachers who are training the bodies of our youth, and do not appreciate the great value of music as a factor in the mind’s estimate of the body, nor realize the energizing and inspiring influence singing and music combined with gymnastics has upon the growing moral qualities of the child, have yet to learn the highest and brightest side of physical education.

* Our esteemed contributor defines here a difference of words, but he does not, in our opinion, succeed. The gymnastic art is a means of physical training, it is one of the means. Physical training includes all that is beneficial to the furtherance of bodily welfare. Physical training is only in part, through the aid of the art of gymnastics, fostered in the gymnasium, and—should never, it is a pity that it is—be practiced by physical exercises in the schoolroom. That the gymnastic art is intended foi the gaze of the public and that at such occasions only the perfect should be exhibited, is incidental. But, well rounded and perfected work should also find a place in the school. It is the child in the first place that is to be educated, then, as a witness in audiences he will prove “a reverence for the human body.” There is, indeed, no difference in this in music. Not the orchestra and the primadonna aroused an enthusiasm for music ; this was in and with the people that produced orchestra and primadonna.—Editor.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—151—

THE ACTIVITY OF LITTLE CHILDREN MUST *

BE DIRECTED!

By ANNE E. ALLEN, Cook Co. Normal School.

THE natural function of all normal animal life is activity. Animal structure demands movement and the most economical movement is the result of co-ordinated, rhythmical action.

From the harmonious action of every muscle with every other one, is born a gracefulness that nothing else will produce.

In the education of the very young, from infancy to the age of six,

— during the most sensitive time of life, this question has been sadly neglected and the result is plainly manifested in the awkward, untrained bodies with which we are surrounded.

Every movement of an unconscious baby is graceful and expresses truly, if simply and in an embryonic wray, the strivings of the birth of the thought within him.

He responds to sound and motion long before wrords have any meaning to him and is never so happy as when swayed to and fro in rhythmical time to the measure of some soft and sweet melody.

As soon as he grows old enough to observe the movements of others he imitates, unconsciously, of course, but by the repetition of these imitations, habits are formed.

What do we give him to imitate ?

Watch a group of grown people in their every day occupations, then wonder not that with such objects for patterns, our children have awkward, untrained little bodies that respond with difficulty to the rhythm of any marked time.

A free, clear instrument of expression is the best preparation for a free, clear expression and our bodies are the only instrument we have for revealing ourselves to the world as well as the only avenue through which the world reveals itself to us.

This granted, our question now is how to build the bodies of children so that they may grow into to most flexible machines best able to perform the work for which they are ordained.

The little one on a fence, kicking his heels against the boards in measured time, is longing for the hand that will help him to an outlet free and pleasant, for the activity bursting through those same little feet.

This motion, this sound may satisfy his longing temporarily, but what next will be his question, and we, his mothers and teachers, are the ones to answer it for him in work or play in which his restlessness will be appeased by the rest of congenial movement. Physical training must begin for him as all his training should, in the joy of doing what will best help him.

Froebel would begin it in the cradle and continue it through babyhood, when the school takes it up — or should do so. We should no more begin with tactical drill with our youngest children than we begin with the technical language of psychology but they may be gradually prepared for concerted action of such character. How ?

Digitized by kjOOQle
—152—

Froebel’s Mother Play Book will reveal his best thought on this subject and from the age of three when a child should enter the Kindergarten every hour of the week then carries with it its full measure of physical training.

The hands clap in time to different rhythms, the feet and in fact all the body responds in marching, skipping, sliding, hopping, swinging, swaying, flying, creeping etc, etc. to appropriate, musical, measure.

Concerted action comes into play in these responses, by each and all, to the changes of rhythm the piano indicates — and is built into his consciousness by leading him to feel the discord of a failure on the part of one person to act in harmony with all.

Mr. John Dewey in his analysis of a sensation physiologically demonstrates the necessity for a movement of the body in response to a sensation, no matter over what nerve track it travels.

An afferent nerve receives a message from the outer world, carries this message to its nerve center when it is translated into motion through its connecting efferent fiber.

If this “organic circuit” (as he calls this whole process) is broken the operation is incomplete and the result in the organism, stunting. Preserving the completeness of this circuit is the prerogative of the parent and teacher and the Kindergarten games surely should solve the problem for very young children, building) on their imitative ability the creative power born of a “growing image’' of the thing to be represented.

In connection with this freedom of action necessary in these games for true expression or the completion of the “circuit”, as the child grows, may come concerted movements as given in the ordinary, no, I should say, the extraordinary gymnastics when the ,,whole” child is happily active.

This supplies, a lack that may perhaps be felt in the games, a lack of quick response to a somewhat arbitrary external stimulus which reacts in exactness and orderliness. The fact that is before the directors of the education of little children and is no longer a disputed one, is that activity of little children must be directed and I should add, big children as well ; and our problem is the yet unsolved one. How shall this be done in the way most helpful to the child ?

« the general plan of Jackcon Park particular attention is to he paid to grounds for out-of-door sports. The bicycler will be at home in the park. Twelve buildings will be at his disposal as places of rest or as sheller for wheels where they may be checked. There will be three racing courses for wheelmen, one of these a mile long and the others a quarter of a mile each, 'the mile cour*e will be in a specially prepared drive around a grass plot in the southwestern portion of the grounds. The quarter-mile stretches, one for men and one for women, will circle the open air gymnasiums situated near Stony Island avenue and Fifty-seventh street.

These gymnasiums will be the most completely fitted of any of their kind in the coun-

try. Provision for all sorts of games ard con tests will be made. One of them will be fitted up for women, one for men, and a third — sma’ler but no less complete— will be arrang d for the children.

Particular attention will also be given io utilizing the lake to the greatest possible extent. A great bathing pavilioi, complete in every respect, will be built out from the north inlet. This, with harbor room for the largest yachts, is considered to be a feature ol the scheme

On the site of the old Manufacturers Building there will be stretches of level lawn, with tennis courts, baseball fields, and grounds for football This is to be the great gathering ground for players and spectators.

Digitized by LaOOQle
MIND!AND* BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

TS/H1 -wac-uJcee,	*Wlocoaa.»laa..

Subscription Price, -	=	$	1.00 per Year.

JfcS“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

What we need most are educators. Educators who resist any unpedagogical demand, who profess frankly educational truth and who are able and willing to educate the public. With these self-sacrificing apostles we would avoid many dangers of .blundering.

Mosso. admits that he is not familiar with German school gymnastics, as practiced in Germany. He knows it, as taught in Italian schools. He is not, as he assures Dr. Schmidt, such an admirer or adherent of Swedish gymnastics, as is claimed, and does not want it substituted for the German. His viewing is simply as a physiologist.

“Encyklopaedisches Handbuch des Gesamten Turnwesens und der Verwandten Gebiete,” edited by Dr. Carl Euler. We have received numbers 31 and 32 of this most useful work which was planned to be complete in two volumes. This was found impossible; for the subject matter has been swelled to such a degree, as to make an other volume necessary. We recommend this work most heartily to all friends of physical training.

Our plays and games are not youthful; they are not adapted for all youth. We provide for youthful games and plays as an educational measure not at all. We experience the most lamentable outgrowths of rudeness, instead of culture, by what is practiced at present. School teachers show little or no inclination to foster youthful activity under their guidance. Our facilities for play are worse than in any other country, especially in larger cities.

Abroad, in Europe, a most interesting discussion has ensued among educators on the one, and physiologists and psychologists on the other hand. If wc were to term it briefly, we would say, the art of teaching gymnastics is undergoing physiological investigation. Are the educators yielding to the charges made by physiologists? Are they accepting the suggestions to modify physical training to meet the physiologists’ conclusions ?

Truly, the formal value of gymnastics is not rated by all those who see in physical exercises but a means to acquire health. All the profound knowledge of Mosso and La Grange and the undisputed integrity and enthusiasm of the former, will not outweigh formal considerations which physical training with apparatus renders in educating the child. Here the schoolmaster is to be listened to; and physiology is but an aid, not the nervous rerum of pedagogy. ____________

Carl Betz’ sixth edition of Free exercises has been published by A. Flanagan, Chicago, 111. What shall we say about it, as we view physical training? It is a makeshift, adapting itself to the most inadequate provisions granted for it. It is a mockery of the peremptory

Digitized by GiOOQle
demand for physical education when we endeavor to live up to it by exercises in the aisles. No matter what may be said of the ingenuity of the writer to make the best of it, it will remain a makeshift.

Fads of most detrimental character are advanced in alarming ways. Delsarte physical culture and military drills are not extinct by any means, but come to the front sporadically in many places. In Chicago military drills are again advocated with the influential G. A. R. to back it. In many of our principle colleges and universities they have been taught these many years. These institutions of learning exercise a great influence in moulding the character of physical education, much to misapprehend its educational value as a school method.

It cannot be a surprise when we see a good share of this interest bestowed upon physical training. The work of the intuiti\e educators has been received with thankfulness by their pupils; the kindergarten, manual training, and, in fact, all other means for education, are now brought under scientific test of a more enlightened age. Not in a single case has this age rejected as false and erroneous, what these fathers of modern education have bequeathed to us. Science has established the usefulnes of the bequest and has given us in many instances better means of understanding and appreciating it.

Physiologists and psychologists are at present earnestly at work to investigate the systems of physical training. Educators greet this assistance. Education needs help from every earnest worker, and

surely, physiologists and psychologists have stood long enough aloof, while they may justly be considered the primary co-workers ot the pedagogues. Physical training, no matter what may be claimed for its scientific basis, is rather an intuitive art. This may, with as much justification, be stated for general education. As long as physiological psychology which must give stability to pedagogy, is evolving to an accurate science, education has not attained a solid scientific basis.

There are many points of interest for us in this discussion. Where we have failed, we should endeavor to correct. Surely, we shall not go amiss, if we avoid the errors of our European co-workers. First of all, when we compare the state of physical training in our common schools, we will not hesitate to admit that it has been introduced by no means as universally as in European countries. In about eighty-four cities and towns some sort of physical training, it is claimed, is practiced. In most of these cities, the most unnatural method, schoolroom gymnastics between the aisles, is in vogue. Here is surely just cirticism in place.

The training of teachers to interest physical training is quite insufficient. Most of our Normal schools have not placed it on a footing with other branches. In these schools teachers are engaged in the work who have had themselves but very inefficient training. Most of them have picked up some knowledge in one of the many summer schools, have never become thoroughly trained in the art themselves and advance the most ludicrous theories and methods. Some of our most prominent men and women in the

\

Digitized by L.ooQle
—155—

cause of physical training have never undergone a day’s work in a gymnasium and are professing a profound knowledge on the subject.

English sport and out-of-door-life, it seems, will be outdone in Germany. Voices are heard that demonstrate the difference of nationality, and that German youths are not like their Albion brethren. It has to be listened to, for there is truth in it. We are not afraid, but that the German schoolmaster will solve the question of child nature.

At no other time has the theory of education received such close attention. We are always inclined to make a statement of this kind for the present. Especially those eagerly at study and work, proclaim its superiority over the past. Some old people with old hearts lament over the deterioration of the times, and how everything was better in their youthful days. While youth is inclined to be too sanguine, some old people, with old hearts, are too pessimistic. But, it is surely a fact, education is receiving wonderful attention. The physiologist, the psychologist, the physician, the statesman, in fact all men of learning, and in all walks of life, are paying attention to the better understanding of how to bring up the child.

Then came during the last decade influential men who proclaimed the need of youthful activities under the clear sky, in nature’s own garden. Strong was their plea. It was greeted by all educators. The gymnastic teachers saw in these enthusiastic champions their allies. Men, as Hartwig, Dr. F. A. Schmidt, von Schenckendorff, Schnell, Riidt, Koch and many others of other countries, were successful in arousing senti-

ment for youthful out-of-door activity. They were carried away with the endearment of their noble cause, and placed it above all other consideration. Gy’mnasium work was willfully or unwillfully pronounced as inferior to the life in fresh air.

To all this the German school teachers have listened and filed their answers. They have declared that the charges of confining the pupils in closed halls was rather a matter of necessity than their wish. They have alluded to their own wishes which were quite in favor of renovation, if only time were given for more extended work. Theirs, and the advocates of youthful plays energetic demonstrations have been most successful. What has been done to furnish better means for children to play, is a work which is unequalled in the history of physical education. Thousands of places have granted the most elaborate means to carry into effects their wishes. Many teachers have undergone special training to fit themselves for better work.

To augment the credibility of their argument came the physiologists who from the laboratory denounced the drill work at apparatus as ‘unnatural’ and contra human inclb nations and wants. They were assisted through the insufficiency of the mode in which physical training was carried out. Mosso describes the places as found in Italian schools, where the halls and dark garrets serve as gymnasiums and pensioned sergeants as instructors. Burgerstein criticises the Austrian state of affairs, schools which are under the influence of jesuits and retrogression. La Grange compares some exercises of the apparatus, most detested by him, with the

Digitized by t^ooQle
-ir,6—

movements of the ape, and as entirely unfit for human culture.

England has adapted, what she calls a compulsory law for physical education in her common schools. It is a law that applies to all the kingdom. Mr. F. J. Harvey wrote a book, “The Teacher’s Manual of Physical Exercises,” which should furnish the teachers with a useful means to carry out the spirit of the law. His book is also an excellent makeshift. We will not ponder over its merits as such, but behold clearly in mind that only “the best is good enough for our children.” “Mind and Body” will endeavor to ask for a just recognition of physical training. Let us have finely equipped halls for school gymnastics, ample playgrounds for youthful plays and games and competent teachers to instruct. This is our platform and we make no concessions.

Physical training has been introduced into the schools after a prolonged struggle by its advocates. Its place has been subordinate to other studies and the means supplied for its teaching have been in almost all cases insufficient. The ideals of Jahn and Spiess and Ling and many others, have not been verified when physical training ultimately found a place in education. It remained a makeshift even in the schools most favorable to it. The grand plan of Jahn, the popular participation of all youth, the time granted for it, and the place to execute it, were dwarfed by underrating its importance. Spiess’ and Ling’s democracy of education, the advanced step to Jahn’s nationalism, did not find the approbation in monarchial schools. Thus, physical training was not carried on to the

full extent of its possibilities. The play, the out-of-door-life, especially, found not the place that was claimed for it.

In the last report of the Anthropometric Laboratory of London the relative strength and length of limbs in men and women are given. In man in 50.9 cases out of 100 the right arm is stronger than the left. In 16.4 cases the two arms are of equal strength. In 32.7 cases out of 100 the left arm is the stronger. Thus (and here is a fact that ap-pear’s to be little known) out of every ten men there are more than three whose right arm is not as strong as the left. The proportion is better distributed in women. Out of 100 only 46.9 possess more strength in the right arm and 24.5 (say neaylv one-fourth) have more strength in the left. Dynamometric experiments have likewise proved that in women the upper limbs possess the same strength much oftener than in men. since out of 100 there are 28.6 that have given the same results in the two arms.

—Ex.

“There is still another point which should be emphasized in urging the Board of Education to adopt the Thornton resolution providing for military drill in the schools. It w’ould be not only optional and without expense to the taxpayers, but it would not encroach upon the time devoted to the regular studies as fads do. The drill would take place before or after school hours or during Saturdays, so that it would in no way interfere with the school studies. The only difficulty in the way would be the proper selection of pupils for the school regiment, for once it was decided to have the drill and evolutions every boy in the schools of Chicago would want to



Digitized by
-157-

get into uniform and parade. But this is a matter which could be easily settled by the natural processes of selection.” Editorial, Chicago Tribune.—“Forgive them, for they know not what they do.” Luke, 23, 34.

We have noticed with great satisfaction that Supt. Albert G. Lane is opposed to military drills in the Chicago schools. He says that physical training is not only a good substitute, but does more and better work than can be expected of military drills. We should judge from the fiasco of military drills in French schools that its advocate in our great republic, Messrs. Morgan of Cincinnati, Thornton and Captain Irwin, of Chicago, would take advice. Paris papers advertise at auction all the costly equipment used for the drills. Why not buy the whole outfit, it is quite new yet. And, when we have made ourselves immortally ridiculous, we will find an Eastern neighbor in the Chinese or Japanese, and sell it to him at a profit. We suggest that the three “R” editor of the Chicago Tribune who is opposed to all the “fads”, and advocates military drills, for they do not take up any time, become the negotiator of this sale.

A series of Physical Culture Exercises for the promotion of Grace, Health and Beauty, in twelve numbers. General editor Frank Stuart Parker. Published by the Physical Culture Extension Society, 160 Adams Screet, Chicago, Ills. Instructors:	Frank Stuart Parker,

Chicago, 111. Former teacher in Boston University School of Oratory and the Cook County Normal School, author of “Order of Exercises in Elocution.”—Genevieve Steb-

bins, New York, N. Y. Principal of the New York School of Expression, author of “Dynamic Breathing and Harmonic Gymnastics,” and “The Delsarte System of Expression.”— Charles J. Kroh, Chicago, 111. Principal of Physical Training in Cook County Normal School; for twenty-five years member of and leading instructor in the North American Gymnastic Union (Turner-Bund).— Martha Fleming, Chicago, 111. Teacher of Elocution in Lake Forest University, 111., and of Physical Training and Dramatic Expression in its Relation to Kindergarten Work, Chicago Kindergarten College.— Anna Baright Curry, Boston, Mass. Former teacher in the Boston University School of Oratory, former principal of the School of Elocution and Expression.—Jenness Miller, Lecturer, editor of many books and publisher of Jenness Miller Magazine. —Cora M. Wheeler, Utica, N. Y. Graduate of Boston School of Oratory, principal of Utica Conservatory—Henry Lawrence South wick, Boston, Mass. President of the Boston School of Oratory and Expression in Art.—Eleanor H. Denig, Chicago, 111. Principal of Delsarte in Soper School of Oratory, Gott-schalk Lyric School and Sacred Heart Academy. — Edna Chaffee Noble, Detroit, Mich. Principal of the Detroit Training School of Elocution and Literature.—William James, Cambridge, Mass. Professor of Psychology in Harvard University.—W. B. Chamberlain, Chicago,

111.	Principal of Elocution and Oratory in the Union Theological Seminary. If it is the intention of this society to promote a better understanding of physical training, and to expound it more thoroughly, we greet it most cordially. A little pamphlet of this series, by Karl J. Kroh, is received.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—158—

ftGAMES A	mPLAYS.i#

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 55—62.

Reprinted from C. J. Kroh’s Program of Exercises and Description of Games, Cincinnati, 1887.

The Leg: of Mutton.

The players place their hands one | upon the other, the hand which is lowermost being withdrawn and placed on top of the pile, each, as he withdraws his hand, counting one, two, and so on, to nine. As soon as the ninth hand is placed on the top, the whole pile is overturned, each hand being withdrawn as quickly as possible. The player who has pronounced the word ‘nine’ must endeavor to catch one of his companions by the hand, saying, ‘This is my leg of mutton.’ Failing in this, he pays a forfeit. Succeeding, he says to the player caught: ‘Will you do one of three things ?’ If the player is polite he simply answers : ‘I will, if I can.’ The winner then gives him three things to do, and he performs either, at his choice.

Strike-a-Mark.

Pile up a heap of pebbles, or place an empty paper-box or band-box in some convenient place on the lawn. The blindfolded strikers are led in turn to a distance from the pile, turned around a number of times, given a stick and told to strike the mark. The rest of the players watch the solemn air and care, with which the strikers advance, the vigor, with which they strike—many feet amiss.

Tugging: Game.

Eight or ten boys standing behind each other, facing the centre of their line, (one half their number on each side of the centre) place their arms around the waist of the front player and lock or clasp hands, taking the best attitude for the exercise to follow — a halfstride position forward or backward with body slightly bent forward. The two strongest boj'S, who were selected for the centre‘stays,’ place their right arm over each other’s left shoulder, and the left arm under each other’s right shoulder, locking or grasping their hands or wrists on their backs. Or, a like number of boys stand in a line in

front (next each other) and lock arms. In the first instance all pull backward upon a given signal, in the second sider ward from the centre. If a ‘break’ oc-, curs in the line the two centre players may be relieved by other players. The pulling is frequently continued when all the players are on the floor.

Stick Wrestling:.

Two boys face each other in full stride I position sideward. Each holds with | reversed right hand the one end of an j iron wand held horizontally between them and places the left hand, which is not reversed, next his opponent’s right hand. Upon the signal to begin both wrestle for the possession of the stick. Whoever loses his grasp, standing, falling, or otherwise, is loser. The players should always be evenly, or as nearly as possible, matched.

Prison Bars.

Eight to sixteen boys form a circle, hands grasped. A prisoner in the centre endeavors to get outside the circle by forcing the line — breaking the grasp or hold of hands — (players may grasp each other’s wrists) ; or, the players may leap or jump over or under the arms, or push their way out by uplifting arms etc., making good their escape as best they can. The players forming the circle endeavor to frustrate all attempts of the prisoner to get out. The player responsible for the escape of the centre player, exchanges places with him. Two prisoners may be stationed within, who may play in concert. All unnecessary rudeness must be avoided.

Running: Game with the Sack-Beetle.

A lot of twenty or thirty little girls or boys form a circle, on the outside of which one of their number, holding the beetle in one hand, cries out:

Turn not around, turn not around — The beetle comes and you’ll be found.

All the girls will stoop, any one caught in an attempt to look around, receiving a blow with the beetle. The girl running around the circle will drop the beetle on the back of a girl or boy of her choice, all holding their open hands on their backs. The girl or boy receiving the beetle, quickly grasps it

\

. Digitized by G.ooQle
—159—

and turns upon her right neighbor and with a series of blows chases her around the circle and back to her place. If the neighbor can run faster than the holder of the beetle she will of course escape the blows. The holder of the beetle now takes the place of the last leader.

Beetle Hunt.

Twenty or thirty boys are seated on the floor in a circle with knees closed and bent, hands passing the sack-beetle along under the- knees. The centre player endeavors to find and hold the beetle which must be passed to and fro quickly and not be held by any one player. To create doubt as to its whereabouts, all players must move their arms as if passing the sack-beetle. Players must be seated closely together, allowing barely room enough for the centre player to turn about. If the sack is being passed in the rear of the centre player, the player having it at the time, may hit the centre player with it as often as he can without danger of having it taken from him, passing it again to the next or throwing it across the circle in order that the centre player may not get it. When found and held by the centre player, the player from whom it was taken enters the circle.

First in, first out.

Clubs, balls, bean-bags, (indoors,) or apples, potatoes, or stones, (out-doors,) are placed in a straight line, two, four, six, or eight feet apart. Five, or as many as ten, can be placed in a line. If a large class is to be engaged in the game, several lines of clubs (or stones) may be placed and the class divided into a number of files. The game consists of gathering the articles of a line in the quickest possible manner without dropping any of the pieces and without stopping — walking, hopping or running, — and signalling a victory by first regaining the starting point.

A small chalk circle can be drawn at the starting place, from which the players may start and within which the articles gathered must first be placed properly before a victory can be claimed. — The articles can be carried out in a similar way by the next players, care being taken that no second club, for instance, is allowed placed until the last stands on the proper mark.

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

New York, Oct. 5. - [Special.]—Yale scored another triumph today. Her skilled athletes won a signal victory over the experts from Campridge University, England, at Manhattan field. In eight of the eleven events carded the American collegians finished in front, thereby delighting the brilliant assemblage of 8,000 spectators who paid high prices for choice seats in the big grandstands. It was in the quarter, half, and one mile runs that the Englishmen were successful and they were enthusiastically cheered by the followers of both sides.

AMERICAN VICTORIES.

It has been a trying year for British supremacy on land and sea One after the other England’s representatives of athletics and sports have gone down before the victorious Americans, and now they lie in a heap so dense, promiscuous, and dispirited that it is hard to \ ell, which was the worst whipped. Lord Dunraven s bad temper and backdown in the races for Amarica’s cup are fre.-h in memory. The litte half-rater Spruce III. made a gallant fight for the special cup, but had to surrender it to the American Ethel-wynn. A representative team of English cricketers came over and were speedily gathered in at England’s own game by the Philadelphia boys. When the latter were, through with them the Britishers didn’t know they had been playing. Then came England’s chosen team of athletes and failed to carry off a single item in the program of sports, and now the ancient Un'versity of Cambridge sends her athletes, to contend for the supremacy in brawn with the athletes of Yale, and they are allowed to take but three out »>f the eleven items on the program. Meanwhile the New York Central railroad flyers have broken the world’s record previously held by the British for locomolive speed, and American commercial and war vessels have set the standard of speed for British vessels to reach.

What does all this mean? Are British youth deteriorating in physical strength ? Is British engineering skill on the decline ? And is this to be followe i by the intellectual supremacy of the Americans also? In a recent article in the London Queen Walter Besant, no mean judge of literaiy events, acknowledged not only that the American editors were making better magazines than the English but that ihe Amencan magazines were displacing the English in their own home market. Will the American book be next victor? That old insulting question, “Who reads an American book?” may yet be satisfactorily answered in England itself. - Ex.

4

Digitized by LjOOQle
-100-

Last year the United Stales government, in withdrawing its approval of the annual football game between Annapolis and ,West Point, put itself on record as to the question of thr- terrors of the sport That opinion has been emphasized by a more recent relusal to allow Mr. Van Dot zer, of the Evans on lifesaving station, to play on 'he university team The opinion given by General Superintendent Kimball says briefly that 4 I would not be justified in advising a modification of the rules of the service lor the purpose of enabling him to participate in a sport which presents so many chances of disabling him for future service entirely, or at least to such an extent as would deprive the station of his services for a considerable period.”

This is the ultimatum from Uncle Sam Parents, guardians and the professional corps at colleges and universities will take notice that the fascinating game of football has been officially pronounced “dangerous4* ly the United States government They will also remember that Uncle Sam did not hazard this prominciamento until he had taken several years of observation and had given the committee on rules plenty of opportunity to amend the playing restrictions. So that now, whatever may be urged by college professors, who use athletics as a means to advertise their institutions of learning, or by the enthusiastic youngsters themselves, footbill has been officially condemned by the government as foolishly and unnecessarily dangerous. W e sympathize with the Northwestern University and with President Rogers, but wc cannot be disloyal to a government edict. A well-advanced theory has been stamped with official sanction and should be accepted — Ex

The following is a complete list of fixtures in the various lines of sport:

BOXING.

Oct. 15—George Godfrey vs. Billy Woods, 25 rounds. Eureka Athletic Club, Washington, D. C.

Oct. 31—James J. Corbett vs. Bob Fitzsimmons, championship of America, $41,000 purse and $20,000 stake, Hot Springs, Ark.

Nov! 1—Tommy Ryan vs. Billy Smith, welterweight shampionship of the world, Hot Springs, Ark , $5,000 purse; winner take $3,750.

Nov. 2—Peter Maher vs. Steve O’Donnell, heavyweight battle, Hot Springs, Ark.

GOLF.

Oct. 17 to 19—Country Club, Philadelphia, Pa.: tournament and fifth club handicap for annual cup.

Oct. 19—St. Andrew’s Golf Club ; sixth handicap.

Oct. 26—St. Andrew’s Golf Club ; final handicap ; open only to winners of monthly handicaps.

Oct. 26—Shinnecock Hills Golf Club, Southampton, L. I.; handicap matches.

Nov. 2—Country Club, Philadelphia, Pa.; sixth club handicap for annual cup.

Nov. 5—St. Andrew’s Golf Club (election day); seventh matc*> for the championship of the club.

Nov. 28—St. Andrew’s Golf Club (Thanksgiving Day) ; handicap sweepstakes.

Dec. 7—Country Club, Philadelphia, Pa.; seventh club handicap for annual cup.

ATHLETICS.

Oct. 19—Columbia College, annual games, at Columbia Oval, Williainsbridge, N. Y.

Oct. 23—University of Pennsylvania, freshman games, at Philadelphia, Pa.

Oct. 24—Harvard University, freshman games, at Cambridge, Mass.

Oct. 29—Harvard University, autumn games, at Cambridge, Mass.

Feb. 1, 1896—New Jersey Athletic Club, carnival of athletic sports, at Madison Square Garden, New York city.

. FOOTBALL.

YALE.

Oct. 16—Dartmouth College at New Haven.

Oct. 19—Orange Athletic Club at Orange, N. J.

Oct. 23—Williams College at New Haven.

Oct. 26—Boston Athletic Association at New Haven. Oct. 30—Dartmouth College at Springfield, Mass.

ILLINOIS.

Oct. 26—Wisconsin at Madison.

Oct. 26—Iowa at Champaign.

BELOIT.

Oct. 19—University of Wisconsin at Beloit.

Oct. 26—Ripon College at Ripon.

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO.

Oct. 19—Northwestern University.

Oct. 29—University of Minnesota.

HARVARD.

Oct. 16—Carlisle Indian School at Franklin field.

Oct. 19—University ofVirginia at Franklin field.

Oct. 23—Pittsburg Athletic Club at Pittsburg.

Oct. 26—Lafayette at Franklin field.

Oct. 30—1‘Brown at Franklyn field.

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.

Oct. 16—Olivet at Ann Arbor.

Oct. 19—Case School at Ann Arbor.

Oct. 26— Lake Forest at Ann Arbor.

Nov. 2—Harvard at Boston.

Nov. 9 and 16—Open; both probably at Ann Arbor and Pudure probably the 16th.

Nov. 23—Minnesota at Detroit.

Nov. 28—University of Chicago at Chicago.

LAKE FOREST.

Oct. 19—Chicago Athletic Association.

Oct. 26—Ann Arbor.

Nov. 2—Champaign.

Nov. 9—Beloit.

Nov. 16—Evanstou (probably).

Nov. 23—Grinnell. Nov. 25—Knox.

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY.

Oct. 15—Upper Iowa University at Evanston.

Oct. 19—University of Chicago at Chicago.

Oct. 28—University of Minnesota at Evanston.

Nov. 16—University of Chicago at Evanston.

Nov. 23—University af Illinois at Champaign.

FOOTBALL.

Madison, Wis., Oct. 5, Wisconsin 52; Armour 4. Minneapolis, Minn., Oct. 5, Iowa 6; Minnesota 4. Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 5, Michigan 34, Orchard Lake o.

Champaign, 111., Oct. 5, Illinois 48, Wabash o.

Ripon, Wis., Oct. 5, Oshkosh 22 ; Ripon o. Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 5, Harvard 24 ; Amhurst o. Albany, N. Y., Oct. 5, Yale 26; Union o.

Princeton, N. J., Oct. 5, Princeton 22 ; Rutgers o. Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 5, Pennsylvania 22 ; Franklin and Marshall o.

Evanston, 111., Oct 12, Northwestern 44 ; Armour o. Chicago, 111., Oct. 12, C. A. A. 8; Unv. of Illinois o. Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 12, Univ. of Mich., 42 : Detroit A. C. o.

Boston, Mass., Oct. 12, Boston A. A. 20; Amhurst o. West Point, N. Y., Oct. 12, Harvard 4 ; West Point o. Brooklyn, N. Y., Oct. 12, Yale 8, Crescent 2. Prineton, N. Y., Oct. 12, Princeton 12; Lafayette o. Madison, Wis., Oct. 12, Wisconsin 26; Lake Forest 5.

Digitized by C.ooQle .