PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 13.

OCTOBER 1906.

No. 152

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE PLAY OF CHILDREN.

By DR. E. H. ARNOLD.

IT is about a year ago since those of us who had passed the forty year mark were somewhat agitated by a statement, made by Dr. Osier, that after we were forty we were not much good for this world and we might as well make our exit. Lately another man of science, a sociologist of high standing, has confirmed what was first intended only as a remark in an after dinner speech, namely, that after forty years of age a man does not much good; that all his deeds are done at forty years. These statements by men of this standing may be well calculated to make us distrustful of the progress of the world and of the progress of our race, if we take into consideration the phenomenon which must thrust itself on anyone, that the period of preparation for active life is being lengthened at a very rapid pace:	It would seem that if our

activities are cut off at forty, and the period of preparation is being lengthened, that the period of valuable activity is being cut off more and more. This view would naturally discourage a youth looking out on life, to think that his preparation must last till 24 or 25 and his activity end at 40.

Digitized by Google
-226-

Thc one trouble with both Dr. Osier and the sociologist is that they come a little late in the day. We have known for a number of years that the average age of a man is not so much as forty years. It was only thirty years in the middle seventies, but know it is 33 years. Now it stands to reason since these statements apply to average men, that the average man is seven years dead at forty; so that both Dr. Osier and the other man have understated the case. But when I say they have been rather late in the day stating the fact, we should be consoled by the observation made within the last two decades that the average age of civilized man is increasing and increasing very fast. Well up to the second third of the last century, the average age has been kept down to 31 or 32 and had not gained much for a hundred years; but improvement in ways of living has brought a gain of two years in the last twenty-five years, which means that we may not be afraid of having our activities cut short, but that we may have a better chance to be useful after forty than we had before.

LENGTHENED PREPARATION PERIOD.

With these facts in mind, we are only troubled now by the phenomenon! before mentioned that the period of active life is rapidly being lengthened. When we read of men like Melanchthon, the great reformer, being a master of arts at 12, a doctor of philosophy at 14, and a full professor of theology and exegesis in Wittenberg at the age of 16; and when we look around for a professor of that age now, we find that only those who are of the age of well prepared manhood can attain to full professorship today.

We do know that the period of preparation, the period of youth, bears a direct ratio to the mental and moral efficiency of the animal. Show me an animal that has a long period of youth and I will show you an animal that has a high mental life. It requires a long period of youth to make the life efficient. Let us take two examples. The crow, in fact all the raven famity, is a long lived family. I have seen a crow that I have every reason to believe wa3 over two hundred years old. But the crow is of low mental life, and at 250 years does not know more than at the end of the first year. Another example is the horse. The average life of a horse is not so great as man’s. A horse is very old at 15 years, few live to be 25 or 30, and rarely do we hear of one of 35. Now a horse is of high mental life and needs a comparatively long time ofr preparation. The youth of a horse is at least three or four years.

A LONG. YOUTH NEEDED.

The most intelligent being is man. He has reached a stage of development that is beyond all measure of the other animal world, and therefore he needs, in order to attain this, a long period of preparation, a long youth. When we contemplate this period of preparation, we may ask why it is necessary and what is the activity of youth and to what does it devote this time of preparation. Besides eating, drinking and sleeping the youth uses up his time in growing. Growth is one of the peculiar phenomena of youth. Man grows longer than any other animal, and we grow mentally and morally as well as physically.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-227-

What is the agency that brings about mental growth? You say, education. And what is the education? You say, school. But stop a moment. Is the main part of this period devoted to school training? No, this is not so. -Taking the period of growth of the male to be twenty-four years, I think that up to six years he does not go to school. Therefore, formal education does not take one quarter of his life at least. Even if he does go to school the next eighteen years you will find that only a small portion, perhaps a quarter, of the remaining time does he devote to formal training in school. The question is, what does he do with all this time? The answer is that he plays. The main activity of all young animals is play. We may take courage if we find ourselves of a playful turn of mind, for that assures us that the period of development is still not at an end. If you can still play, you are still young. It is very true that one is as old as one acts. If you find yourself burdened down with a great deal of dignity at 25, the hope that you can do a great deal in the world is small. But if you have not much dignity at 40, you may be reassured. The period of youthful activity reaches over into maturity. We will find of the men who have done work after forty that the playful attitude has been one of their characteristics.

EXPLANATION OF PLAY SPIRIT.

The playing activity is important in childhood; and it behooves us to look to the purpose of this activity, and inquire what is the purpose of this predominance. Any number of theories have been brought up. Many say that when a man plays he wants to get rid of surplus energy. No. Sick children play. We know that we play when we are really tired. We have then no surplus activity. Children play away their surplus energy and up to the time when they are exhausted. This is also true of other animals. The idea that this play instinct is placed in our life simply to get rid of surplus steam would make us doubt if our life is well ordered. This is not the way of evolution. No such waste must occur. We must look for an other explanation.

We do find that the purpose of play in our lives is that of education, that it is an educational interest, and that education takes place through playful experiment. Therefore, playing childhood is a vast laboratory in which all the arts and sciences are being experimented in. In order to make good this claim let us see what the child will gain by play. 1 cannot tell you in the time allotted all the things he gains. I wish simply to pick out a few for your contemplation.

LEARNING TO PAY ATTENTION.

Hagenbeck once made the statement that if he wanted to train an animal he first decided whether that animal could be trained at all, by seeing whether the animal could pay attention. If he could once get that started up there was hope. When he could draw the attention, then he had hope of developing the animal to suit his purpose. The very first condition on which mental growth rests is the power of attention, and nearly all plays ask for the power of attention, mostly the attention of interest.

A child can pay attention for a long time if he is interested, even

Digitized by Google
-228-

when very young. You can readily see this even in a baby when he is given a chance to raise up his toe into the field of vision and he looks at it and looks up and looks at it again for five or ten minutes. Then .you find him the next day looking at that toe or another, and by the third day he comes to the conclusion that a bite of that thing would be good. He did not think that that thing was himself, but he reaches to grasp it, and than he bites it and finds out there is a sensation and he gains the knowledge that it is himself he has been biting. Now that discovery is something that is overwhelming to him. He has discovered more in a day than most of us do in a lifetime. That Boding of himself has only been accomplished through paying attention for a long time to this interesting object, his big toe.

THE MOMENT OF REFUSAL.

But one of the painful moments for the parent or nurse is when he refuses to pay attention. You give him a doll and for a half minute he is quiet. You give him in succession a ball, a square, a cube, and for a little time he notices them. He wants something new every minute. That is the nature of his heart. He is experimenting with his attention. You do not understand what he is doing, but it is useful for himself.

This experimenting with himself goes on. He soon finds that he has certain powers and certain ones he has not. He cannot govern his arms, which are not made symmetrical. They are unsymmetrical. Certain muscles are so strong that he always has a clinched fist as if he could grow up to be a very pugilistic fellow. But this clenching is not because he wants to do it*. He has to. He is just as apt to hit himself on the eyes or miss his mouth when he tries to reach it, and he commences to experiment as to whether there is still some other power in his arms. (You see we assume he has conscious thought at this young age, but really he has not.) He experiments to see if he can let go of things. In his trying to let go of some thing, his moral training begins. And here comes another period. He sees something and makes you understand that he wants it. You give it to him and he drops it. He continues this performance four or five times and you become impatient. But he knows better than you do. He is experimenting with the very difficult feat of relaxing his flexor and contracting his extensor muscles. Eventually he will throw, and then he is happy. He has mastered part of his body. He has learned self-control through playing.

EDUCATING THE EYE.

Then he begins educating the eye. All the games of hide and seek make the eye keen. All the games of blind man’s buff serve to educate his sense of hearing or touch. Later on he comes to play games that will make his movements accurate. Now after a short while he brings method into his madness and he begins to play such games as jack stones, popular with girls, and throwing and catching. Children are infatuated with such games, while we wonder how a child can sit and play such a stupid game. But jack stones help the girl in washing dishes and keep her from breaking so many. She will learn accuracy in a game that she would not learn in formal teaching.

Digitized by

Google
-229-

Boys have a great many games that prepare the arm carefully and correctly to do what is intended. All ball games are intended to bring up the power and accuracy of motion. I have no fear of the ultimate success of a boy entering the blacksmith’s or other mechanic’s shop if he can play ball. If a fellow can play ball he can make a good mechanic. If he cannot, you will have to send him out for a post-graduate course in ball playing.

GAMES OF IMITATION.

Again, children early play games of imitation. But do not think that all classes of games are in successive order; many of them run parallel. The child is often at the same time developing senses, muscles and imagination. But games of imitation can only be played if the senses of sight, hearing and touch have been trained and you can only play well if you	are accurate.	The games of imitation are a great

and good thing.	Imitation is	a	great	teacher in all	animals. Let a

boy learn horses in a game and he has a zoological idea that cannot be learned from books. Birds can be learned in the same way and properly classified bv gait or flight, and the knowledge will be permanent.

Games of imitation go a step further and become dramatic. The child not only copies what he sees, but he dramatizes it. That is the most beneficial for life. A boy plays horse all by himself. At one time be may imagine	himself to be	a	horse,	the carriage,	the lady in the

carriage and the driver. And if	a	wheel	becomes loose	in the dramati-

zation, he is the wheel, or perhaps the whip. We can imagine such things no more. He does it readily. In order to give the dramatizing instinct a chance to work, in order to give children a chance to imagine, the toy, doll or plaything must not be like real life so as to allow the child to imagine something. The child knows much more than we do along that line. The more complete a toy is the less chance you give the child to develop its own ideas, and you handicap that child for life. I have treated many children whose only shortcoming was that they had parents that defrauded them. How can a boy ever acquire knowledge of spinning a top if the top you give him spins itself by a spring. Anybody who will furnish such a toy ought to be find with ten days in a good kindergarten.

The imagination which children develop at this time is a serviceable thing. It is mental speculation, and because it is mental speculation, casting beforehand into the future, it is the foundation of all scientific investigation. Anyone can learn by text book, anyone can recite, but to put things together, tojproject them before they happen, that is what most people cannot do. They must have someone to do it for them. This is unfitting people for life.

My time is limited, so I shall simply mention one thing more and omit others. We talk a great deal about the value of rhythm. We think Johnny or Jennie must be taught rhythm by giving them music lessons, but in this we put the cart before the horse. In games and all kinds of natural locomotion we have rhythm. If a little girl has no sense for rhythm, here is an old game for the development of rhythm. The jumping rope is as old nearly as humanity' itself. It does a thou-

Digitized by
-230-

sand things for people. Children learn first to jump in slow rhythm, then with a shorter rope and faster and finally to swing the rope themselves. The jumping rope makes more for rhythm in a day than a music teacher can give in a year. Jumping the rope does other things for girls. Girls are in need of courage, and here is an implement that makes for a kind of courage. Show them that their fear is unreasonable, and that if their movements are rhythmical they can get over the rope. Then you have made them courageous. Courage is a good moral quality, and the jumping rope gives this moral quality.

A great many of the simplest elements of playing give things that cannot be developed by formal training. Therefor the plea for children's playing.

THE ESTHETIC SIDE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By K. ZAWADZKI.

(Translated by CARL L. SCHRADER.

UNDER the mass of criticisms with which the subject of physical education is always loaded there is hardly one which is so well founded as the claim that the disciples of physical education are affected with a certain and conscious coarseness and clumsiness. On the strength of this observation physical education has been charged with nursing an unesthetic element peculiar to itself. Now indeed, on unbiased search into the history of our subject the ^harge may be easily refuted. At first glance the first charge would seem generally true, but the second and no doubt hostile charge originates merely from a developmental symptom of the practice of gymnastics. Such a concession in the matter would suggest that the material of gymnastics, its exercises, be submitted to an esthetic critique. And this again will lead us to the conviction that mainly the faulty application of the subject matter may produce the conditions under critique. After so much is once ascertained future attacks of the subject itself may easily be silenced.

The results of a physical education from an esthetic point of view are perceptible in two ways: First, they must manifest themselves in the physical culture of the body itself, and secondly, they must be demonstrated in the relation of the individual to his environment. The reasons for this are: increased sensitiveness for esthetic sense impressions by a keener capacity of differentiating between the beautiful and the beautiless.

That physical exercise does not only render man strong but also supple and beautiful, has been amply demonstrated by the Greeks; but how far the results reached by them are attainable and desirable for us has frequently been discussed and needs only a brief reconsideration. Just as the principle of beauty of that sensual people of old was superseded by the principle of necessity of today, just so will we who have unlike the Greeks only limited time to observe all the esthetic rules, be unable to satisfy this esthetic demand on a large scope. We shall endeavor to assign the limit of the demands approximately to three main obstacles to esthetic impressions of man upon the observer: Clumsinecs, Affectation (conceit) and Carelessness.

It will be granted that we find in physical training a means by

Digitized by v^ooQle
-231-

which we may render agile a clumsy individual, natural a conceited one and selfconscious a careless one, allowance to be made for exceptions.

Inborn clumsiness is dominant mainly in the descendants of the country people and of the lower strata of the laboring class, while the general physical awkwardness prevalent in various trades is owing to the peculiarities of the respective occupations and may disfigure any naturally agile body. It is a constantly reocurring experience that when such pupils first come to the gymnasium they give marked preference to all exercises making them stronger but also tending to increase their physical clumsiness, and that they shun everything that might discover their awkwardness, a natural propensity that, of course, can only be remedied by the practice of exercises of skill.

In many a gymnasium a great deal of time is devoted to strength exercises, which bad better be assigned for free jumping or vaulting exercises to enhance a more harmonious development of the various parts of the body.

How, otherwise, could the fact be explained that in exercises of general skill, as for instance in wrestling, these Goliaths so frequently meet their Davids? Yet no one will deny that a high degree of strength must also be attained by both wrestlers. Skill exercises simultaneously develop a proportional amount of strength, but strength exercises never develop muscle skill. This trite truth should impress every director of a gymnasium to reduce the typical strength feats to a minimum.

One may, furthermore, frequently notice that while instructors insist upon exact execution they do not stimulate what we may term critical conception in the one exercising. Distainful as is the impression of soulless, albeit correct, singing, so meaningless is to 11s a mere correctly performed difficult exercise. Grace, which imparts the esthetic impression, necessitates the involvement of higher functions than merely those of muscles shaping straight knees and pointing toes. Of this combination of functions the pupil must constantly be reminded. If the exercise is to be of esthetic value it must be conceived according to its peculiar character. A squat vault over the horse requires quite a higher degree of imagination and combination than does a swinging uprise on the horizontal bar. The former necessitates a lightening-like shortening and a like short stretching of the body if it is to make a beautiful impression, the latter demands a deliberate long arm swing with a perceptible constant and sudden control of the arms carrying the entire body.

Further to analyze exercises seems unnecessary; to the teacher be it said, however, that this conscious grace, which is essential, must never become affectation or conceit. This is an acquired passion for showing off certain postures and poses which the conceited pupil imagines to be graceful. Its secret origin is vanity and finds its main materialization in the dress-fads of our days, in the dancing schools and in the schools for so-called etiquette.

Persons who are afflicted with this conceit need physical exercise in horse doses of such a quality as does not permit of any affectation. Of course, where an individual has advanced to manhood all that we may hope for is to lead him back to the rational ways from some of the general and most repulsive mannerisms and habits. Above all may we

Digitized by v^ooQle
-232-

look for results in persons who either by too little or too much effort in their movements or by awkwardness in general render themselves ridiculous. A skilled gymnast early acquires a remarkable talent that enables him to measure exactly the effort necessary, and not more, for any task so that he will neither expend too much nor too little energy— and that which is moderate is generally beautiful, to boot.

Here then lies a wide field for the cousiderate teacher to cultivate the esthetic sense of the individual by critique, praise, emulation and by his own demonstration. It is after all the oral instruction in the teach-ing of gymnastics which forms the mental bridge over which the demonstrated exercise passes into the understanding of the pupil.

We have tried to indicate what might be expected of physical education esthetically and suggested in the beginning that too much must not be expected. We are, nevertheless, of the opinion that gymnastics, correctly taught, are capable of inspiring one’s self with pleasure of the activity of our body as well as prompting taste and self-respect, and with such a foundation higher esthetic requirements can be satisfied individually as well as collectively.

It is evident that gymnastics alone cannot accomplish it and that only the mentally better endowed will be able to meet the higher demands. Generally, however, it is to be hoped that the gymnastic art will have an influence on the sense of beauty of physical man in general, and that every individual gymnast may unconsciously melt all experiences of his body into his daily life and thus by comparison and reflection cultivate the artistic sense.

One need not go far to find that a gymnast will notice bodily deformities and weaknesses in others much quicker than an untrained person; that he takes delight in seeing beautiful body forms, and that conceit, carelessness and awkwardness are generally hated by him. After one has learned to differentiate the temperate from the intemperate on his own body he will apply this knowledge to objects of art, he will learn from all what is necessary to beautify life and what is necessary to life only for the sake of existing and he will learn to separate the unnatural and ugly from true art.

It has already been suggested that only a careful treatment of the gymnastic material can bring such good results. May physical directors and their assistants pay due attention to this side of their profession.

NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE A. P. E. A.

The convention will open Wednesday evening, December 26th, and continue through Frida}' evening. This change of time of the convention from spring to the Christmas vacation will be in the nature of an experiment. The convention coining at the vacation period will prevent any large demonstration of practical work, but it will afford a larger opportunity for social acquaintance and conference on the part of the members. The physical training profession has received a large impetus along aggressive lines through this society ; it has knit together the various sections of the country, and the different groups of workers. The general program, together with the \arious sectional programs will afford opportunities for a careful consideration of the interests of the different groups of teachers. While the main theme is on athletics the section programs will afford opportunity for the discussion of a variety of topics.

Digitized by ^.OOQ
-233-

SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

WITH the present school year the Board of School Commissioners of Indianapolis has taken another step in the direction of improving the hygienic conditions of its school children. - First the hours of instruction were shortened in the afternoon and lengthened in the morning. All grades are now dismissed at 3 o’clock p. m. instead of 3.40, as formerly. Instead of 9 o’clock a. m. the two upper grades now begin at 8.30, and the balance at 8.45. The school play grounds, by order of the bonrd, will be open for free play from 3 o’clock until 3.30 under the supervision of one or more teachers. While some of the school grounds are rather small quite a number are of good size so as to allow all sorts of games except perhaps baseball. The equipment with gymnastic apparatus is being made more complete each year. The first apparatus bought is usually such as does the greatest good to the. greatest number of children. Then, as the funds allow it, other pieces are bought. The order of introduction according to the plan works as follows:

First, two giant strides, one for the boys and one for the girls. If enough money is available four strides are installed. The strides are simply iron posts and a revolving disk with eight knotted ropes, and cost $12.50 a piece.

Next in order are a number of basket balls. In the upper grades they are used for playing basket ball and captain ball, while in the other grades they are in great demand for simple tossing and catching games. They are also used for playing hand-baseball.

Then come the footballs. Now, we don’t run with the football under our arm, but we do kick it, girls as well as boys, and then run and try to catch it. .The little folks stand in a circle and kick a small black rubber football.

Tetherball also comes in about this time, so do simple devices for high jumping and pole vaulting, also teeter boards and sand piles for the little ones. Then, if more money is available, come stationary horizontal ladders.

Our latest device is a gas pipe frame of climbing poles. Some schools whose janitors are mechanics have horizontal bars, see-saws and swinging rings.

To teachers it may be of interest to know that the equipment of our playgrounds is the work of each school. The school board does not appropriate money for this purpose, its mechanics, however, “set up’’ the apparatus. Intelligent care for the physical needs of the children has been the stimulus which has resulted in the apparatus equipment we now have.

BICYCLE RIDING.

To what extent the wheel is used in Europe is shown by the following figures: On a beach road leading from Copenhagen to the bathing resorts 15,083 wheelmeri passed a certain point between the hours of 6 a. m. and 12 p. m. Besides, 1371 ordinary vehicles, 1082 electrics and 31 riders on horseback passed the same point on the same day.

Digitized by Google
-234-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

ORTHOPEDIC GYMNASTICS.

IN Weimar, Germany, orthopedic gymnastics have been introduced into the public schools as compulsory school work after having been an optional study for several years. This department is in the charge of the school physician and a specially trained instructor of gymnastics. At the close of the first year according to the first annual report 20 out of 45 girls and 9 out of 31 boys were restored to the regular gymnastic classes as physically improved pupils. The new branch of instruction is proving a blessing to the community.

SWIMMING.

A remarkable record of distance swimming was attained by an amateur named J. Wollfe of Glasgow on the 23rd of June. He swam in the open sea from Brighton to Worthing and back and covered the distance of 23 miles in 12 hours and 16 minutes. The first five miles were made in 2 hours and 8 minutes. After partaking of some fluid nutriment be continued his task and finished the remainder of half the distance in 4 hours und 49 minutes. The return trip was made in a rough sea, but he stuck to his task and could not be induced to enter the boat.

WHEELING IN GERMANY.

The fact that the “Deutsche Radfahrerbund” has a membership of

43,000,	proves that the bicycle is still in great popularity in Germany.

LENGTH OF STEP IN MARCHING.

When we observe a passing regiment of soldiers we always find that to obtain an even and less fatiguing step men of the same height are placed together. A French scientist has declared this a mistake. The step itself does not stand in relation with the entire body length, but mainly is controlled by the length of the legs. Among people of equal height we frequently find some with long legs and short trunks and vice versa. Thus in order to obtain an easy and even step length in marching the men should be selected and grouped according to the length of their legs.

DR. KARL WASSMANNSDORF f.

Dr. Wassmannsdorf, a pioneer and prominent promotor of gymnastics in Germany, died in Heidelberg on the 6th of August. He was 86 years old. Born in Berlin on the 26th of April, he was active in his work for the cause until his death. It was he who worked out the modern nomenclature of German gymnastics, a task which will stand as a monument. He will also be remembered as a teacher and writer.

GERMAN GYMNASTICS IN SOUTH AMERICA.

It is a remarkable fact that the love of gymnastic activity acquired during school life binds together the Germans on whatever part of the globe they meet. The recent report from South America again demon-

Digitized by

Google
-235-

strates this fact. The various “Turnvereine” show steady growth and strength. They appear annuallj' before the public with the usual festivals. The oldest one of these organizations, the “Deutsche Turnverein” in Buenos Aires, recently celebrated its 50th anniversary. Other societies are: the “Teuto-Brazilo Turnverein” in Curityba; the “Deutsche Turnverein” in Sao Paulo, Brazil; the ‘Deutsche Turnverein” in Santa Cruz, Brazil; the “Deutsche Turnverein” in Sao Joa de Montenegro.

THE HEAVIEST MAN IN EUROPE.

The heaviest man in Europe, hotel proprietor Hans Fromm, died recently in Willenberg, East Prussia. Fromm weighed 528 pounds and was prominent in Europe because of his high measures. His height was 1.71 m.. his chest measured 1.80 m. and his abdomen 1.80 m. In spite of this size Fromm was able to enjoy life, although he could move but slowly. He had accepted an offer to exhibit himself in Paris, but as he could not get into a passenger coach and refused to travel in a freight car he never saw Paris. Up to 1004 an Englishman, Thomas Longley, claimed the Weight record, who at his death weighed 584 pounds.

JOY AND HAPPINESS AWAKENED BY PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.

This is the heading of part of a paper written by J. H. Schaeffer. The title of the paper is:	“The	Significance	of Gymnastics for the

Moral Education of the Young.” The writer quotes a number of sayings of eminent men, some of which are given here:	“Joy	and	delight

are of as great importance to the youth as eating and drinking,” Luther; “Joy is the heaven under which everything thrives, poison excepted,” Jean Paul; “Pleasure is the mother of all virtue,” Goethe; “During a pleasant class hour one feels nllmighty among his pupils,” Salzmann ; “Gymnastics is work cloaked in youthful pleasure,” Guthsmuths.

PHYSICAL POWER OF INDIANS.

Much has been written about the extraordinary ability of Indians to carry heavy burdens. In a recent article which appeared in the “Deutsche Rundschau fur Geographic und Statistik” Heinrich Lembke calls attention to the Mexican Indians in this respect. He writes that their endurance in running is remarkable, that in fact a sort of dog trot seems to be more natural to them than walking. With or without burden.they conlinue on the run even when climbing mountains, and with it all breathe almost naturally. A little roasted corn bread suffices to supply their nutritive need for long journeys, often covering a distance of from 15 to 20 hours in one day. Upon such journeys they frequently carry loads weighing between 40 and 50 kilogr. and often over difficult and steep mountain trails. They transport freight upon paths over which the mules cannot travel, and sometimes they even carry travelers along these lonesome trails on their shoulders. These messengers are so much accustomed to being heavily loaded that if they are merely given a letter to deliver over some distance they make up for themselves bundles of stones weighing from 5 to 6 kilogr., in order not to forget that they are on an errand. The most remarkable demonstrations of strength are given by the Indians employed in the mines where they carry the ore to the surface. The fact that they are paid accord-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-236-

ing to the amount of ore they carry per day explains this remarkable ability. Lembke cites instances where a man will carry 250 kilogr. of ore from a depth of over 700 m. and upon ladders consisting of tree trunks with hewn-out notches only for steps. Another instance is an Indian who carried immense stones weighing 30C kilogr. from a quarry for a distance of a fifteen minutes’ walk.

HANDSTAND FOOTBOXER.

Cittorio Georgetto, who can draw an ordinary carriage in which four people are seated along the street while walking on his hands, has issued a challenge with a premium of 800 Marks for anyone who can untie a loop which is fastened below his right knee while he stands on his hands, keeping off the attack by boxing with his feet. Georgetto remains on his hands two minutes per round.

RECORD IN WEIGHT THROWING.

M. P. Radojlovits, a young Servian student, in competition threw a stone weighing 33V& pounds to a distance of 7.93 meter.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

Rather unusually favorable conditions exist in this city for the promotion of the physical care for the young. The recent anuual ap-piopriation of 101,420 Mk., which is to meet the expense of various forms of physical education outside of school gymnastics gives ample proof of the liberality with which this movement is supported. The following are the items as they are designated for the various branches:

Maintenance of play in 25 public	schools..... 10,775	Mk.

Maintenance of play in high	schools.......... 3,975	“

Supervision of the playgrounds................ 4,550	“

Swimming........................................ 460	“

Instruction in swimming..................  ..	360	“

Marches on foot................................. 400	“

Excursions ..................................... 700	“

Shower bath service........................... 3,000	“

Rowing........................................ 3,000	“

Orthopedic instruction.......... ............ 2,300	“

Play and touring for special	pupils............. 400	“

Vacation colonies............................ 24,000	“

Forest schools..............................  47,200	“

Total................................... 101,420	Mk.

STATISTICS OF GYMNASTICS AND SPORT IN GERMANY.

For the first time the German Annual Year Book contained statistics concerning them. There are 8113 gymnastic societies in Germany with a total membership of 828,574.

CORRESPONDENCE.

The Temple College, Philadelphia, October 6, 1906. Freidenker Publishing Company, Milwaukee, Wis.

Gentlemen,—I have read the book of “200 Indoor and Outdoor Games” which you were kind enough to send me. It is a valuable aid to all teachers of physical training and a boon to the beginner.

Again thanking you for courtesy I remain Very truly yours,

Horace Butter worth.

Digitized by Google
-237-

GRADUATES OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION 1868-1902.

The following list of graduates does not contain the names of teachers that completed the course now designated as Course A.

(Concluded.)

Kittlaus, ’91, Director of Physical Training, Central High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Klenk, Fr. P., ’86, deceased.

Knapp, Carl, ’98.

Knoch, Dr. Arthur, ’91, Director of Physical Training, Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Kntieppel. Gust, ’85.

Kothier, Herman, ’82, Director of Physical Training, U. S. Military Academy, West Point, N. Y.

Koenig, Ed., ’86, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, South Bend, Ind.

Koenig, Joseph, ’81.

Koenig, Otto, ’99, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

Kopp, William, ’86, Director of Physical Training, High Schools, Chicago, III.

Krimmelj Fritz, ’90, Director of Physical Training in Drisler School, New York City.

Krogh, Dr. Fred., ’88, Practicing Physician, Philadelphia. Pa.

Kroh, Karl, ’79, Director of Physical Training, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111.

Knettner, Fritz, ’95, Instructor in Physical Training, West St. Paul Turn-yerein, St. Paul, Minn.

Lampe, Otto, ’77.

Lang, Oscar, ’88, Instructor in Physical Training, Turngemeinde, Peru, 111.

Lautenbach, Rucl., ’94.

Lehmann, R., ’71.

Lehr, Fr., '71.

Lehrmann, Hans, ’99, Instructor in Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

Leibold, Anton, ’77, Supervisor of Phys-isal Training, Public Schools, Columbus, Ohio.

Lentz, W., ’68.

Leppcr, Louis, *82.

Lindentlial, Carl, ,73.

Lindenthal, Edw., ’73.

Lohse, Gust, *81, deceased.

Lueck, Frederick, '93, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Rochester, N. Y.

Lueders, Carl, ’88.

Luther, Henry, '95, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools,Cleveland,0.

Magnus, Dr. M., ’84, Practicing Physician, San Francisco, Cal.

Mautlie, Otto, ’95, Director of Physical Training, AthleticClub,Shreveport,La,

May, Herman, ’91.

Meier, Otto, ’94, Instructor of Physical Training, Lincoln Turnverein, Chicago, 111.

Meller, Richard, ’90, Director of Physical Training, Meller Gvmnasium, Buffalo, N. Y.

Melms, Carl, ’75.

Metzger, Mrs. Albert E. (Frances Mueller), ’90.

Meyer, H., ’71.

Meyer, William, ’98, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Mols, Adolph, ’91, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Bloomington, 111.

Muegge, Geo., ’75. deceased.

Mueller, Andrew, '92, Director of Physical Training, Concordia College, Milwaukee, Wis.

Mueller, Ernst, ’76.

Mueller, Frances (Mrs. Albert E. Metzger), ’90.

Mueller, Francis, ’77.

Mueller, Otto L., ’94.

Nathan, Albert, ’88, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

Neubauer, Christ., ’93, Director of Physical Training, Turnverein, Springfield, Mass.

Nolir, Dr. Robert, ’90, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Nuess, Francis, ’75.

Ocker. Dr. W. 0., ’92.

Oppenheimer, A., ’90, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Moline, 111.

Osterheld, David, ’90. Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.

Osterheld. Herman, ’91, Instructor in Physical Traiuing, Social Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo.

Pantzer, Dr. H. 0., ’76, Practicing Physician, Indianapolis, Ind.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
Pertuch, Richard, ’78, Director of Physical Training, La .Salle College, Philadelphia, Pa.

Pfaff, George, *84, Director ofPhys-ical Training, Public Schools, Memphis, Tenn.

Poos, A., ’91, Director of Physical Training, High Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Preusse, Louis, ’75.

Rahm, Emil, ’90, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Atchison, Kans.

Rasmussen, Dr. H., '88, Practicing Physician, Milwaukee, Wis.

Rath, Emil, ’98, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.

Rathke, Henry, ’77, deceased.

Reinhard, Aug., ’75.

Rettich, Dr. Jacob, *92, Director of Physical Training, High Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Retzer, G. W., ’93, Director of Physical Training, Helena, Mont.

Reuter, Robert, '79, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein lialm Frei. Milwaukee. Wis.-

Reuter, William, ’78, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Davenport, Iowa.

Rhein, Ferd., '90, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Rhode, Carl, *86.

Rieken, Robert, '7(5.

Riedel, Ad., ’82, Instructor in Physical Training, Labor Lyceum, Baltimore, Md.

Ritter, Herman, ’91, Director of Physical Training,PublieSchools, Berlin, Germany.

Ross, Carl, ’95, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Los Angeles, Cal.

Rothfuss, Carl, ’80. Director of

Physical Training, Y. M. C. A., St. Paul, Minn.

Rut her, Oscar, ’92, Instructor in Physical Training,PublicSchools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Schacht, Herman C., ’78.

Scheer, Oscar, ’79, deceased.

Schlaefli, Gust., ’86, Inctructor in Physical Training, South Side Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.

Schmid, Robert, ’79.

Schmidt, Jacob, ’84, Supervisor of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Denver, Col.

Schmitt, Louis, ’92.

Schneider, Francis, ’97, Director of Physical Training,PublicSchools, St. Louis, Mo.

Schneider, James, ’97, deceased.

Schoening, Ad., ’68.

Schoening, George, ’98, Director of Physical Training, Young Men’s Hebrew Association, New York City.

Sehroeder, Richard, ’76, Chief of Police, Bloomington, 111.

SeifFcrt, Berthold, ’90, Director of Physical Training, East Side High School, Detroit, Mich.

Seikel, George, ’73, Instructor in Physical Training, Newark Turnverein, Newark, N. J.

Scuss, Nicholas, ’97, Instructor in Physical Training, North Side Turnverein, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Shaw, Dr. J., ’94, deceased.

Si eel. Dr. Tobias, ’86, Practicing Physician, Detroit, Mich.

Spcidel, August, *91.

Spitzer, R., ’68.

Sputh, Oscar, ’82, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago. 111.

Staiber, Carl, *93, Instructor in Physical Training, New York Turnverein, New York City.

%

Digitized by CaOOQle
-239-

Stecher, W. A., '81, Supervisor of Physical Training in Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Stehn, G.ust., *91, Instructor in Physical Training, Stern Turn-verein, Cleveland, Ohio.

Steffens, George, '94, Director of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Chicago, 111.

Steinmetz, Carl, '69, deceased.

Stoesser, Frederick, '88.

Strass, Max,'97, Instructor in Physical Training, Social Turnverein, Chicago, 111.

Snder, Henry, '75, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Suetterle, Dr. C. J., '88, Practicing Physician, Chicago, 111.

Suetterlin, G. A., '91.

Sultan, Dr. B. W., '81, Practicing Physician, Baltimore, Md.

Sutor, Carl, '97.

Thieleeke, Emil, '81.

Toepel, Dr. Theo., '95, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Atlanta, Ga.

Toll, Curt, '92, Instructor in Physical Training, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Yette, Maria Fr., '79.

Yiehweg, Ernst, '90, Supervisor of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Shebo3rgan, Wis.

Yiola, George, '94.

Yonnegut, George, '81.

Yorsheim, Henry, '95, Director of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Chicago, 111.

Weber, Louis, '86.

Weege, Francis, '95, Director of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Chicago, 111.

Weinebrod, Oscar, '86, deceased.

Wendelburg, Otto, '92, Instructor in Physical Training,1Turnverein, Des Moines, la.

Wer.er, Guido, '95, Instructor in Physical Training, West Cincinnati Turnverein, Cincinnati, 0.

Weissenbach, J., '84, deceased.

Widdekind, H., '82, Director of Physical Training, East Hampton, Mass.

Winter, M., '69, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Hudson City and Hoboken, N. J.

Wissbauer, Herman, '73.

Wittich, G., '82, Director of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union, Milwaukee, Wis.

Woemer/ Emil, '91, Instructor in Physical Training, Allegheny Turnverein, Pittsburg, Pa.

Wolter, Max, '90.

Zapp,August, '79, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Zapp, Dr. Carl A., '75, Director of Physical Training, Germania Turnverein, Jewish Orphans' Home and Trinity and Pilgrim Churches, Cleveland, Ohio.

Zenker, '69, '73.

Ziegler, Dr. Carl, '86, Supervisor of Physical Training,PublicSchools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Zschernig, Max, '93, Instructor in Physical Training. Turnverein, Manchester, N. H.

GRADUATES OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL 1903-1905.

COURSE A.

Andrae, Hilda, '04.	I	Andressohn, John C., '03.

Andressohn, Dorothea, '05.	I	Blankenagel, Ida, '04.

Digitized by Google
-240-

Frahm, Alma K., '03.

Fuhrmann, Gertrude H., '03. Grebner, Elsa, '03.

Grebner, Paula, '03.

Greubel, Otto, '05. Gummersheimer, Hilda, '04. Haack, Paula, '05.

Halben, Wilhelm von der, '05. Ilerre, Irma, '04.

Kroetz, Millie, '04.

COURSES B,

Berndt, Carl (B), '03, Instructor in Physical Training, Central Turn-verein, New York City.

Bornheim, Caroline (Mrs. S. S.

Judd), (C), '03.

Burkhardt, Carl (B), '05, Physical Director, Public Schools and Y. M. C. A., Wilmerding, Pa. Carstens, Agathe (C), '04.

Douglas, Lulu (C), '05, Physical Director, Y. W. C. A., Topeka, Kans..

Glasow, Frank (C), '05, Director of Physical Training, Coe College, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

Hofer, Carl (C), '05, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Toiedo, Ohio.

Joerschke, Carl (B), '05, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, La Salle, 111.

Ranters, Christine (C), '05, Instructor in Physical Training, School of Dramatic Art, Seattle, Wash. Plag, August (C), '05, Physical Director, Y. M. C. A., Minneapolis, Minn. *

Rieker, Meta (C), '03, Instructor in Physical Training,Public-Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Rothe, Emil, Jr. (B), '05, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein Aurora, Chicago, 111.

Lindemer, Louise, '04.

Lueders, Victoria, '03.

Mendel, Louise, '05.

Meyers, Rosa, '04.

Mueller, Herman, '04. ltieder, Rudolf, '05.

Rose, Doris, '03.

Schapekahm, Florentine, '05. Schenk, Gretel, '05.

Stuckert, John F., '03.

, C AND D.

Schmidhofer, Max (D), '03, Instructor in Physical Training, Turngemeinde, Dayton, Ohio.

Schmidt, Adolf (B), '05, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Washington, Mo.

Seiffert, Else (D), '05, Director of Physical Training, High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

Seitz, Bertha (C), *05, Director of Physical Training, High School, Dayton, Ohio.

Sputh, Carl B. (C), '04, Instructor in Physical Training, Social Turnverein, Indianapolis, Ind.

Taube, William (B), '03, Instructor in Physical Training, High ' School, Cleveland, Ohio.

Tompkins, Mabel (C), '04, Director of Physical Training, Racine, Wis.

TJtz, William (B), '03, Instructor in. Physical Training, Turnverein, San Antonio, Texas.

Voss, Fred C. (C), '04, Director of Public Bathing Beach, St. Paul, Minn.

Wagner, Carl (B), '04, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein Vorwarts, Denver, Colo.

Wucsthoff, Ernest (C), '03, Director of Physical Training, High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $4..00 for 4 new subscribers.
-241-

A/VnD AND BODY, ys

Published Monthly.

BY

SabMriptloi Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

Milwaukee. W!econalia.

9T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ADVERTISING.

IN this age of publicity and advertising not even educational branches can be managed successfully without resorting to either or both. Almost daily we are in receipt of announcements, catalogs, illustrations and folders from various gymnastic institutions, showing that the necessity of judicious advertising is recognized.

As a matter of fact the institutions and societies resorting to this means of increasing their membership must invariably be counted amongst the most successful ones.

Their action indicates that they are very much alive indeed and brimful of good business ideas to boot. And without a proper business foundation no private organization can expect to thrive.

Many Y. M. C. A. branches distribute a great deal of printed matter among the inhabitants of their respective communities, showing forth the value of bodily exercise and calling attention to the facilities available.

Only recently we received from the Dayton, Ohio, branch different pamphlets, a brilliantly illustrated postal card, showing the present and the prospective new building, and even blotters with the picture of the senior leaders’ class.

The Turners can with profit take a lesson from the Y. M. C. A. With the exception of the North Cincinnati Turnverein and a few other societies little has been done in this direction. Even the Normal School is way behind the times in this respect. The only thing published by it, the handsome annual announcement, hardly reaches those that might be interested.

Dr. E. H. Arnold has been advocating business methods for the Turners and we heartily agree with him. We would suggest a regular advertising campaign for each society as a starter.

It is paramount to success that such publications should be gotten up neatly illustrated, if possible, and should contain none but well selected advertisements.

—Captain and Mrs. Hermann Koehler of West Point announce the marriage of their daughter Beatrice Ottilia to Lieutenant Edmund Leo Daley, U. S. A. Our heartiest congratulations!

—We call attention to the article of Mr. Wm. Stecher, Supervisor of Physical Training of the Indianapolis Public Schools, which we print

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND REMARKS

Digitized by

Google
-242-

in this issue. It has been remarked that few cities in the Union have accomplished as much for school hygiene and public playgrounds as has Indianapolis since Mr. Steelier is at the head of the physical department. Hardly a week ever passes without one or more visitors from other cities coming for inquiry into the Indianapolis physical department and studying the playgrounds. One of the features in connection with the work is that the school board had to defray no expenses whatsoever in support of the latter.

—Dr. Max Hempel of St. Louis, n former member of the Executive Committee of the Turnerbund, died'after a short illness at the age of 43. He was a power in the Turnerbund and his initiative will be missed in the future much indeed.

In days of old it was the habit of men who could swim to imitate the motions of the frog, i. e.f push both arms out in front, then bringing them fully extended with a sweeping motion to each side and kick with the legs in frog: fashion. It was also the idea to keep the head as far out of the water as possible.

Later came the overhand stroke in which the arms were brought high up out of the water and thrown in front after the fashion of a dog swimming. Then came the English overhand, a modification of this, whereby one arm was brought over and the other used under the water while the swimmer lay on his side. This was regarded as a very fast and useful stroke aud, with modifications, it exists today as the side stroke. Some years ago the trudgeon came into fashion and still remains the fashionable stroke for swimming over 100 yards.

Modern swimming is directly opposed to the old idea, which was that a swimmer should keep his head high out of the water. Swimming the trudgeon, his head is under water five-sixths of the time. By simply turning the face between strokes so that the mouth is clear, the swimmer takes a breath. Having filled his lungs, he ducks his head once again, strikes out and stays down until he comes up for air again.

Some swimmers breathe after every second stroke Others stay down for three or four strokes. Harry Handy, the crack long-distance swimmer of the United States, stays .down while he takes seven strokes, then comes up, takes air, goes down, comes up again on the next stroke and then resumes his seven strokes.

The principle of letting the head go down is vital in that it permits the rest of the body to come above water. This gives the swimmer the skimming dish bottom, that is, half of him is above water and he glides along the surface instead of plowing through the water. Then, as the head is comparatively the heaviest part of the body, ducking it relieves the swimmer of a deal of labor which could otherwise be emplowed in keeping it up.

The trudgeon stroke has been superseded by what is kown as the crawl for short-distance races. The crawl depends mostly upon arm motion, as the legs afford little assistance. Handy does not use them at all, even in his distance races, but he is the only man who uses the crawl over distances and he is a very light fellow in the limbs. Crawlers sometimes kick a bit up and down with the feet, but depend almost encirely upon their arms. The advantage this stroke has over the trudgeon for short distances is that there is none of the reflex action which comes in the motion of drawing up the legs for a kick. This motion, of course, somewhat retards the swimmer. In the crawl it is obviated.

The trudgeon swim for pleasure is the acme of graceful action. The legs are used in a sort of scissors motion as the swimmer rolls on his side. One leg is brought up until the knee is opposite the abdomen, the other drawn back as far as possible. Then when the swimmer makes his kick both are brought across each other with a short, snappy motion, which affords great power .—Day ton News.

NEW METHODS OF MODERN SWIMMERS.

Digitized by
-243-

THE NEW FOOT BALL RULES.

THE Foot Ball Rules Committee, which consists of L. M. Dennis, Cornell. Chairman; W. T. Reid, Jr., Harvard. Secretary; James A. Babbitt, Haverford; John C. Bell, University of Pennsylvania; Walter Camp, Yale; F. Homer Curtis (Texas), Southern colleges; Charles D. Daly, West Point; Paul J. Dashiel, Annapolis; J. B. Fine, Princeton; E. K. Hall, Dartmouth; James T. Lees, University of Nebraska; C. W. Savage, Oberlin; A. A. Stagg, University of Chicago, and H. L. Williams, University of Minnesota, have completed their revision of the rules, and they are published in Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide, which has been designated as the official publication.

The chief alterations in the rules for this season are as follows:

The officials of the game shall be a referee, two umpires and a linesman. It is, however, allowable to dispense of the second umpire at the discretion ot the two institutions involved.

The length of the game has been shortened by ten minutes, making the two halves each thirty minutes in length.

The line of scrimmage for both sides is an imaginary line parallel to the goal line and passing through that point of the ball nearest the side’s own goal line. It will be noted that there are thus two lines of scrimmage, one for each team, and the two teams are thus separated the length of the ball.

The snapper-back must place the ball flat upon the ground with its long axis at right angles to the line of scrimmage.

It has also been provided that a player to be on the line of scrimmage must have both hands or both feet up to or within one foot of this line. Or he must have one foot and the opposite hand up to or within one foot of it. He must also stand with both feet outside the outside foot of the play r next to him unless he be one of the two men standing on either side of the snapper-back, in which case he may lock legs with the snapper-back.

A player attempting to make a fair catch must signal his intention by raising his hand clearly above his head while advancing toward the ball.

Further addition has been made to the rule regarding “down.” That is, that the referee shall blow his whistle whenever any portion of the person of the runner with the ball, except his hands or feet, touches the ground while he is in the grasp of an opponent. The ball is also “down” when, as specified in the rules, it goes across the goal line on a kick which has struck the ground in the field of play, except the kick-off, and also when it goes over in the same manner from a forward pass.

Tripping is specifically defined as follows:

A player trips another player when he obstructs him below the knee with that part of his leg that is below the knee.

Hurdling is defined and forbidden. Hurdling in the open is jumping oyci* or attempting to jump over an opponent who is still on his feet. Hurdling in the line is jumping over or attempting to jump over a player on the line of scrimmage with the feet or knees foremost within

Digitized by CjOOQle
a distance of five yards on either side of the point where the ball is put in play.

Regarding the taking out of time, it is provided that either captain may ask for time three times during the half without penalty. If thereafter either captain requests time, his side shall be penalized by loss of two yards lor each call, unless the player be removed from the game.

Further provision is made against interference with the man snapping* the ball back. The opponents must neither interfere in any way whatever with him, nor touch him nor the ball until it is actually put in play. The snapper-back is allowed to have his head, also the hand or foot used in snapping the ball, off-side.

There must always be at least six men of the side in possession of the ball on the line of scrimmage, and if only six are on the line, one of those not on the line must have both feet outside the outside foot of the player on the end of the line.

Furthermore, no player of those ordinarily occupying the position of center, guard or tackle, that is the five middle players of the line, may drop back from the line of scrimmage on the offense unless he goes back at least five yards, and another player takes his place on the line.

It is furthermore provided that there shall be no shifting of men to evade this rule, the intention being that the big men in the middle of the line shall not be dropped back for the purpose of carrying the ball or using their weight in the interference. The dropping back of a single man five yards in this way is to enable the team to use a kicker if he happens to play on the line.

Holding has been more specifically defined to include the following:

Grasping an opponent with the hands or arms, placing the hands upon an opponent to push him avvav from the play, circling in any degree any part of the opponent with the arm, any use of the arms to lift an opponent in blocking. The only allowable use of the arm in blocking or obstructing an opponent is with the arms close to the body.

The most radical of all changes made, however, has been the introduction of the forward pass, the rule for this reading as follows:

“One forward pass shall be allowed to each scrimmage, provided such pass be made by a player who was behind the line of scrimmage when the ball was put in play, and provided the ball, after being passed forward, does not touch the ground before being touched by a player of either side.”

The necessary distance to be gained in three downs has been doubled, that is, the side in possession of the ball must gain ten yards in three downs instead of five, as formerly. This is the most direct legislation against mass plays.

When the ball has been kicked bv a player other than the snappier-back, any player on the kicking side shall be on-side as soon as the ball touches the ground. This is also a very radical change.

It is also provided that such a kicked ball striking the ground, thus putting the kicker’s side on-side, may' not be kicked further or kicked at from its position on the ground, or while bounding. This is in order to prevent what might be dangerous complications Iro n men kicking at a rolling ball.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-245-

The rather indefinite expression of “charging” has been changed to “starting forward beyond the restraining line” in all cases throughout the rules.

The kicker in trying at goal by a place-kick from a touchdown may touch or adjust the ball iii the hands of the holder so long as the ball does not touch the ground.

The rule regarding foul play has been amplified and specifically covers striking with the fist or elbow, kneeing, kicking, meeting with the knee by any player, or striking with the locked hands by linemen when they are breaking through.

Furthermore, a player on defense is forbidden to strike in the face with the heel of the hand an opponent who is carrying the ball.

These offenses are punishable not only by disqualification of the player, but also the loss by the offending team of half the distance to its own goal line.	#

Tripping and tackling the runner when clearly out of bounds, piling up on a player after the referee has declared the ball dead, hurdling, and other acts of unnecessary roughness, are punishable by a fifteen yard loss. Tackling below the knee is punishable by a five yard loss. Unsportsmanlike conduct, abusive or insulting language to opponents or officials is punishable by suspension for the remainder of the game.

It is provided that a tackier who has fairly tackled a runner above the knee shall not be penalized if he slides down below the knee after making the tackle.

All the officials are expected to penalize offenses enumerated under unnecessary roughness, unsportsmanlike conduct, and disqualification.

On penalties that would carry the ball to or across the goal line, where formerly the distance has been halved, the ball will now be placed at the one yard line.

Suplementary to the rules is a section containing thirty full page halftones, posed especially for the Committee, which show clearly the plays that are permissible and prohibited, in addition to which several other new features are also incorporated, the most important being briefs of the rules defining the jurisdiction of each official; a very voluminous yet simple index, and the insertion of the penalty for violation of a rule in the rule itself, the paragraphs being printed in a distinctive style of type, which enables the penalty to be seen instantly.

In the matter of size and contents this year’s Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide surpasses all previous numbers, its 320 pages containing a fund of foot ball information. Walter Camp, the editor, gives a review of the season of 1905, with his selection for an All-America team, and a list of All-American teams for the last seventeen years; sectional reviews are also a feature, that from New England being by Joseph B. Pendleton of Bowdoin; George Orton of the University of Pennsylvania contributes the Middle States article; John Longer de Saulles the Southern; Bert Martin of Denver the Colorado; Utah, by W. D. Rishel; the Pacific Coast, by Harry B. Smith. The other chapters include scores of all the leading college, school and athletic teams; forecast of the season of 1906; schedules; list of captains for the coming season, and the illustrations, which comprise every team of note in the country, over 4,000 players being shown.

Digitized by Google
-246-

Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide is for sale by all newsdealers or will be sent to any address on receipt of ten cents by the publishers, the American Sports Publishing Co., 21 Warren Street, New York.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public School*.

(Continued.''

A CLASS DRILL, apparatus work in divisions and closing with the games “Footin-the-ring” and “Tug-of-war.” As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After receiving wands, form ranks of fours from a flank line while marching forw. as:	Form fours 1. oblique in successive order after four

steps—march! During the first four counts only the first four form a front line by obliquing, during which time the other members continue marching in flank order. On the fifth count the second four in order begin to form. On the ninth count the third rank, etc., throughout the class until all have formed.

When all have arrived on the one side of the gymnasium—halt ! Class 1. face and immediately open order forw. to two steps distance on the last count when the heels are to close, turn 1. or r. face so that the shorter members stand in front.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower! I, 2!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

1.	a) Raise 1. or r. leg forw. alt. and stretch arms forw.—1,4!

b) Raise 1. or r. leg backw. alt. and stretch arms upw.—1, 4! Wand—down!

2.	Raise heels and raise wand forw.—1! Bend knees, move wand in front of shoulders, bend arms, 1. forearm over r.—2! Asl—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5,8!

3.	a) Raise wand overh.—1 ! Bend trunk forw. and lower wand in front of ankles—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) Raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk backw. and lower wand behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

4.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders—1 ! Bend

1.	knee, extend arms and move wand forw. upw. obi., the 1. hand to glide down to the r. (wand and arms in same line)—2! As 1-3! Pos.—4!

Stride pos. outw. and raise wand overh.—jump!

5.	a) Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alt. (arms remain in pos.)—1, 4! b) Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alt. (arms remain in pos.)—1, 2! Pos.—jump!

Wand on shoulders—place!

Class march forw. in square 1. -us: Three steps forw. and close heels on fourth count—1, 4! Two follow steps sidew. 1.—5, 8! Three steps backw. and close heels on 12th count—9, 12! Two follow steps sidew. r. to starting pos.—13, 16! Same opposite (start with r. foot)—17, 32!

Digitized by Google
-247-

Repeat 1. and r.—1—32! Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

6.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew*. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee, move wand overh.. then lower obi. behind shoulders (1. hand over

1.	shoulder, r. arm sidew. downw. obi.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! or—5, 8!

7.	Raise wand forw\ to Vertical pos. (1. hand upw., r. hand downw.)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1., move wand upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1—4!

8.	a) Stationary run, with raising extended legs forw. alternately and

hold wand in the various positions, each to about six oreight steps, b) As a, but with raising knees forw. alternately.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh, in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in one count. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry !

R. or 1. face and close ranks lor\v. Then file 1. (or r.) to a flank line; deposit wands; form divisions (squads) and mirch to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division:	Flying rings and long horse.

Second	“	Long horse and flying rings.

Third	“	High 'horizontal bar and storming-board (Battoute-

board) combined with high-jump.

Fourth “ Storming-board, etc., as third division.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

1.	Short swing to flixing thighs over body; lower 1. leg on 1. wrist and kneeswing up forw.; return in reverse order; short swing and same r.; refurn in reverse order, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, but r. leg on 1. wrist, etc.

8.	As ex. 1, but kneeswing up backw., etc.

NOTE.—As the leg is about to rest on the wrist turn the forsarm so that the leg can rest on the back of the wrist, otheiwise the hand cannot retain its grasp.

4.	As ex. 1, while swinging forw. and backw\ i. e.:	Flex	thighs over

body at the end of the forw\ swing; swing backw. in this pos.; at the end of the backw. swing rest the 1. leg on the 1. wrist and kneeswing upw. forw., then swing forw. and backw*. in this pos.; at the end of the backw. swing lower backw\ with thighs fltxed over body, swing forw*. and extend hips to hand hang; intermediate swing and execute the same opposite.

5.	Swinging.—At end of backw. swing pull up to straight aim rest, swing forw*. in this pos. and lower to hand hang. Repeat 2 or 3 times.

0.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the long horse.

Digitized by o.ooQle
CJl oo to

-248-

First Division,—Long Horse.

A run of sufficient length precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest on neck and straddle vault forw. As ex. 1, but hands rest on saddle.

As ex, 1, but hands rest on croup, then neck.

As ex. 1, but hands rest on croup only. ,

Front scissors mount (Vz turn 1. or r.) to front leaning rest, hands on croup; lower to riding seat on saddle and immediately roll over backw. to front cross stand.

6.	As ex. 5, but instead of leaning rest, to riding seat on neck; place hands in back of hips on end; front scissors dismount to back cross stand.

7.	An -exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Offer assistance when exercises 3 to 6 are executed.

Second Division.—Long Horse.

A run of sufficient length, precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault swing sidew. r. (r. leg in front) to side leaning rest; dismount backw. to front side stand.

2.	As ex. 1, then add rear vault mount 1. to riding seat on neck; place hands in front of thighs,raise both legs backw. to momentary free front rest and straddle dismount forw.

3. Straddle vault swing sidew. r. (as in ex. 1), with M turn r. to riding seat on saddle; feint with r. leg and flank vault 1. to back side stand.

4. As ex. 3, to riding seat on saddle (or on neck, if possible); place hands in front of thighs, back scissors dismount (Vz turn 1. or r.) to front cross stand and immediately add rear vault r.

5.	Jump to momentary free front rest on neck and straddle vault forw.

6.	As ex, 5, but straddle vault backw. (Vfe turn 1. or r.).

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the first division on the flying rings.

Second Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height).

1.	Short swing forw. and backw., the thighs to be well flexed over body at every forw. swing.

2.	As ex. 1, with the second forw. swing V2 turn 1.; intermediate swing, then Y2 turn r. to first pos. Repeat several times. Same r.

3.	Short swing to flexing thighs over body, extend hip and Yz turn J. to hang; intermediate swing, then V2 turn r. to first pos. Repeat several times. Same r.

4. Pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs to r. angle; lower slowly to straight arm hang with legs held forw. at r. angle; lower legs to hang, and down.

5.	Pull up to straight arm rest and raise both legs forw. to r. angle; turn over forw. and lower to straight arm hang, swing backw., then forw., and turn over backw. to back hang, feet downw.; down ,

The next member in order push the one hanging for a start.—

Digitized by
-249-

6.	Long swing forw. and backw.; at end of second forw. swing, swing both legs upw. sharply and Ya turn 1.; at the end of the next forw. swing Ya turn r. to first pos. Repeat 2 or 3 times.

7.	As ex. 6, but from the pos. of both legs flexed over the body, extend the hips and a sharp Ya turn 1. at the end of the forw. swing to hang.

An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute the movement I. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. While the third division is executing the exercises on the high horizontal bar the fourth is to work on the storraing-board in combination with high-jump.

High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm side hang, hands in ordinary grasp and—

1.	Raise both knees, feet to bar; squat backw. 1. and lower leg to knee hang between hands, the r. leg to be extended forw. in line with the trunk; exchange pos. of the legs; then first pos., i. e. feet to bar; lower both legs to hang, and down.

2.	Raise both knees (if possible extended legs), feet to bar; pass r. leg under bar and lower to knee hang on the outside of the 1. hand; lower both legs to hang; return feet to bar, then 1. knee hang on outside of r. hand; same opposite, lower to hang, and down.

3.	Hands in close grasp.—Raise knees as before, then squat backw. under bar on outside of arms to double knee hang; release grasp, slowly lower to head down; regrasp bar; feet to bar and lower extended legs to hang, and down.

4-. As ex. 3, to double knee hang, head down; swing forw. and backw. by the knees 3 or 4 times, then swing off to back side stand.

5.	Raise both knees, feet to bar, then extend both legs upw. and front hip circle backw. to front rest; reverse grasp; swing off forw\ to bent arm hang and down at the end of the backw. swing.

f>. As ex. 5, to front rest; Ya turn 1. or r. to back rest; lower backw*. slowly to back hang, feet down; release grasp of 1. hand and turn r. and regrasp bar, then down.

7. An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Offer assistance wh?n the 4th exercise is executed.

Storming-Board (Battoute-Board) Combined With High-Jump.

Start the bar at about four feet and raise the same two or three inches after every jump ot the division.

1.	Spring off of 1. foot. Same r.

2.	Spring off of 1. foot with V* turn 1. and swing arms sidew*. r. Same opposite.

3.	As ex. 2, but Ya turn 1. and swing arms forw. overh. Same r.

4.	Try for height.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus. Form a front line of the entire class. Describe two small circles of about two feet in diameter at a reasonable distance apart for the game “Foot-in-the-ring.”

The first and last members place their 1. foot in one of the circles and fold arms forw., the next in order advances to start the game. Sec rules of the game.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-250

After all have had a turn divide the class into two equal squads for “Tug-of-war.” The side that wins three out of five trials is declared the winner. Return to front line, clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES.

(From Program of Exercises in Physical Training, Chicago Public Schools. IV. Series, Part II, Eighth Grade.)

By HENRY SUDER.

EXERCISES WITH ONE CLUB.

Group I.

Part I.

INNER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Small arm circle inward left with hand circle behind shoulder, 1—8 counts; at the eighth count change club into right hand and at

b. Repeat a, but with the right arm.

2.	As exercise one, but with the arm circle bend trunk right and left.

3.	As exercise one, but large arm and lower hand circle.

4.	As exercise three, but with arm circle rise on toes.

5.	As exercise three, but large arm and upper hand circle.

6. As exercise five, but with the hand circle bend knees.

7. As exercise one, but hand circle backward (or swing over).

8.	As exercise seven, but with the arm circle step sideways left (right).

Remark.—The idle arm is placed on small of back or hand on hip. Take the first count for arm, the second count for hand circle.

POSE.

Part II.

INNER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Small arm and hand circle behind shoulder and small arm and lower hand circle 1—4, 5—8 counts; with the eighth count change club into right hand and at

b. Repeat a, but with right arm.

2.	As exercise one, but with the arm circle bend trunk forward; with the arm and lower hand circle rise on toes.

3.	As exercise one 1 and 2; at 3 and 4large arm and upper hand circle.

4.	As exercise three, but bend trunk sideways, with the arm and upper hand circle bend and stretch knees.

5. As exercise one, 1 and 2, but at 3 and 4 arm circle and swing over.

6. As exercise five, but turn trunk, with the arm circle and swing over, at 3—4 rise on toes and lower heels.

7.	As exercise one, 1 and 2, but at 3 and 4 arm circle and hand circle behind body.

8.	As exercise seven, but at 1 and 2 bend trunk forward, with the arm circle and hand circle behind body, at 3, 4 bend and stretch knees.

Remark.—Each exercise in the above part is a combination of arm and two different hand circles. The arm and hand circles behind shoulders are indicated as the fundamental exercises, but any arm and hand circle may be selected. The arm circle in these exercises must be executed at the odd, the hand circle at even counts. Changing the club from one hand to the other must be done at the eighth count.

.	POSE.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-251-

Group II.

Part I.

OUTER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Small arm circle outward and three hand circles outward behind shoulders, 1—4 counts.

b. Repeat a. With the eighth count change club into right hand.

' c and d. Repeat a and b, but right.

2.	As exercise one, but with the arm circle 'bend trunk forward, with the hand circle rise on toes.

3.	As exercise one, but lower hand circles.

4.	As exercise three, but with arm circle bend trunk sideways, with hand circle step sideways and rock right and left.

5.	As exercise one, but upper hand circle.

6.	As exercise five, but with arm circle turn trunk, with hand circle bend knees.

7.	As exercise one, but hand circle behind bod}’ or swing over.

8.	As exercise seven, but with arm circle bend trunk sideways, with hand circle cross foot backward and bend knees.

Remark.—The idle arm is placed on small of back or hand on hip. At J. execute the arm circle; at 2, 3, 4, three hand circles. At the eighth count execute an arm circle and change club from the left hand to right and rice versa.

POSE.

Part II.

OUTER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Small arm and hand circle behind shoulders at 1, 2, and small arm and lower hand circle at 3, 4, repeat 5—8. With the last count change club into right hand.

b. Repeat a, but right.

2.	As exercise one, but lunge sideways left (right) and remain, 1, 2 counts, at the third count change position of knees and return with the fourth count.

3.	As exercise one, but at 3 and 4 large arm and upper hand circle.

4.	As exercise three, but lunge sidewavs and remain 1—2 counts, at 3 change position of knees.

5.	As exercise one,	but at 3 and 4 arm circle and swing over.

6.	As exercise	five,	but lunge sideways and remain 1—2 counts;	at

3	change position	of knees, at 4 return to position.

7.	As exercise	one,	but at 3 and 4 arm circle and hand circle	be-

hind body.

8.	As exercise seven, but lunge sideways and remain 1, 2; at 3 change position of knees, at 4 return to position.

RemariT.—Lungings in the even numbered exercises are done left at the first, fifth, ninth and thirteenth counts, but the teacher may change it as follows: Lunge at the first count and remain at the second; change positions of knees at the third; remain at the fourth and continue. Replace left foot with the eighth count and lunge right with the ninth. Continue to the sixeecnth count.

POSE.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-252-

Group III.

Part I.

INNER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Four small arm circles inward left (one count for each circle), 1—4 counts.

b Two arm with hand circles inward left (hand circles behind shoulders), 5—8 counts. (Two counts for one arm and one hand circle).

c. Repeat a and b, 9—16 counts.

2.	a. One arm circle inward left and lunge sideways left, club sideways obliquely upward, right hand on shoulder and remain 1—4 counts.

b.	Tip club, change position of knees, bend trunk sideways right, place right hand on hip and remain 5—8 counts.

c.	Repeat a and b, 9—16 counts. With the last count swing club downward and change into right hand.

3.	As exercise one, but right.

4.	As exercise two, but right.

5.	As exercise one, but large arm circle and at b lower hand circle.

6.	As exercise two, but lunge forward and at b bend trunk forward.

7.	As exercise five, but right.

8.	As exercise six, but right.

POSE.

Part II.

1.	As exercise one, Part I, but large arm circle and at b upper hand circle.

2.	As exercise two, Part I, but club obliquely downward, at b tip and raise club sideways obliquely upward and turn and bend trunk backward, eyes toward club.

3.	As exercise one, but right.

4.	As exercise two, but right.

5. As exercise one, Part I, but at b swing club over.

6. As exercise two, but lunge backward, arm forward obliquely downward, at b tip club, raise obliquely upward and bend trunk backward.

7.	As exercise five, but right.

8.	As exercise six, but right.

POSE.

Group IV.

Part I.

OTTER CIRCLES.

1.	a. Four small arm circles outward left (one count for each movement), 1—4 counts.

b.	One arm and three hand circles outward left (one count for each movement), 5—8 counts.

c.	Repeat a and b.

2.	a. Lunge sideways left, bend trunk sideways, left arm and club obliquely downward, right hand on shoulder and remain 1—4 counts,

b. Cross left leg backward and bend right knee, raise trunk, arm extended sideways, right hand on hip and execute three horizontal hand circles forward, 5—8 counts.

Digitized by

Google
-253-

c. Repeat a and b. With the last count change club into right hand and replace left foot.

3.	As exercise one, but right.

4.	As exercise two,, but right.

0.	As exercise one, but large arm circle and lower hand circle.

6.	As exercise two, but lunge forward, bend trunk forward and at b place left leg backward, arm forward extended.

7.	As exercise five, but right.

8.	As exercise six, but right.

Remark.—The exercises may be practiced outward and inward instead of left and right, then the class must be divided into two divisions; or they may be practiced as dissimilar exercises, then the class must be divided into first and second files or outer and center files. The first or outer files will execute exercise 1, the second or center files exercise 2.

POSE.

Part II.

1.	As exercise one, Part I, but hand circle behind body or swing over.

2.	As exercise two, Part I, but kneel and execute horizontal hand circle backward.

3.	As exercise one, but right.

4.	As exercise two, but right.

5.	As exercise one, but large arm circle and upper hand circle.

6.	As exercise six, Part I, but kneel and execute horizontal hand circle backward.

7.	As exercise five, but right.

8.	As exercise six, but right.

Remark.—Kneeling must be done at the 5, 8 and 13, 16 counts. With the horizontal hand circle the arm may be moved to the left and right, and vice versa.

EXERCISES WITH TWO CLUBS.

Group I.

Part I.

1.	a. Two small arm circles left 1—4 counts, the same right, 5—8 counts (two counts for each circle).

b. Move arms sideways left, clubs tipped, bend trunk forward and place left foot backward, remain 9—11 counts, at the twelfth count return to position and 13—16 counts the same right.

2.	a. Half arm circle left to right and back again, not higher than shoulders, continuously executed 1—8 counts.

b. As exeicise one b, but bend trunk backward and place foot forward.

3.	a. As exercise two a, but at the second count tip clubs, 1—8counts.

b. As exercise one b. but bent trunk sideways right and left and

place foot sidepays left and right.

4.	a. Hand circle forward with turning of trunk left and right, 1—8 counts (half arm circles after each hand circle).

b. As exercise one b, but turn trunk left and right and cross foot backward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-254-

5.	a. Three hand circles forward with turning of trunk left and half arm circles to the right and repeat, 1—8 counts.

b. Repeat a, rise on toes and lower heels.

6.	a. Swing left club over and half arm circle with the right from left to right at one, both arras to the left at two, repeat 1—4 counts, then vice versa, 5—8 counts.

b. Repeat a, but bend and stretch knees.

7.	a. Hand circle left outward and large arm circle right inward, 1—4 counts, with the last count swing left over and vice versa.

b. Exercise a, but left and right alternately and rise on toes (with the second count swing both arms to the right).

8.	a. Hand circles left with turning of trunk at one, hand circle left and arm sircle right inward at two, repeat first count at three, swing both arms to the right at four and vice versa.

b. Repeat a, but bend knees.

Remark.—Practice all exercises 1—16 counts.

POSE.

Divide the Class into Two Divisions.

1.	Lunge forward obliquely outward, outer arm obliquely up, inner arm obliquely downward and remain 1—8 counts.

2.	Change position of knees and arms, clubs tipped and remain 1—8 counts.

3.	Lunge forward obliquely inward, inner arm obliquely up, outer arm obliquely downward and remain 1—8 counts.

4.	Return to position (clubs downward) and remain 1—4 counts; with the fifth count raiseclubs to starting position and remain 5—8 counts.

Remark.—Change from one position into the other at the first count.

INNER ARM AND HAND .CIRCLES.

Part II.

1.	a. Small arm circle inward 1—8 counts (two counts for each movement).

b. Lunge forward left, arms crossed (clubs point sideways) remain 1—4 counts, change position of knees, bend trunk forward and arms sideways, clubs tipped 5—8 counts; .9—16 counts.

2.	a. Small arm circle inward and tip clubs 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise one b, but bend trunk backward and lunge right.

3.	a. Small arm circle inward and hand circle inward behind shoulder.

b. As exercise one b, but lunge sideways and bend trunk sideways.

4.	a. Small arm circle inward and three hand circles behind shoul-ders, 1 — 4 counts, repeat 5—8 Counts.

b. As exercise three, but turn trunk and lunge right.

5.	a. Four hand circles inward left behind shoulder, and four arm circles inward right, 1—4 counts, and vice versa.

b. Lunge forward left and cross arms on small of back (clubs point sideways), remain 1—4 counts, kneel right and raise arms forward, clubs tipped and remain 5—8 counts. With the eighth count return to position.
-255-

6.	a. Hand circle left and arm circle right and hand circle right and arm circle left alternately, 1—S counts.

b. As exercise five b, but lunge backward right, kneel right and raise arms sideways.

7.	a. Four hand circles left inward and hand circle right inward, 1—4 counts and vice versa, 5—8 counts.

b. As exercise five b, but lunge sideward left and kneel right and raise arms upward.

8.	a. Two hand circles left inward and arm and hand circle right inward alternately, 1—8 counts.

b. As exercise five b, but lunge sideways right and raise arms sideways right.

POSE.

Arrange poses similar to those in the first part.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by ^ooQle
—Tokio has 800 public baths which are used by 300,000 persons daily. And still we refer to them as “heathen.9f

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.>.

—Public Schools Athlftics. The present issue of Spalding’s Athletic Library is devoted to the Public Schools Athletic League, and it is the Official Handbook for the year. This book contains a front page portrait of the Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, who is the Honorary Vice-President of the Public Schools Athletic League, and portraits of other officers. It is replete with pictures of this year’s champions of the high and elementary schools, and contains as well a complete athletic record of the past jear, the rules governing schoolboy competitions, and a separate chapter regarding the Girl’s Branch of the Public Schools Athletic League.

The book is not only interesting and valuable to all who are interested in the Public Schools Athletic League, but it will give to others who desire to organize Public Schools Athletic Leagues throughout the country a sound policy for operation.

The Official Handbook of the Public Schools Athletic League will be sent to any address in the United States or Canada upon receipt of 10 cents by the American Sports Publishing Co., 11 Warren Street, New York.

—Graft In English Sport. “If there is any man on this earth, white or black, who insists that his expenses in competitive sport must be no drain on himself—that man is a Britisher. And he is quite right; an amateur should be neither in nor out a dollar. It is entirely proper that his club, his college, his association or such collection of bodies as he represents should pay his legitimate expenses when he is sent to compete for that college, or club, or association, or union. England goes much farther and gives much more latitude in the matter of expenses than we do ; in cricket, for example, ‘amateur’ players in England whose services are desired for the county championship series are literally ‘found’ during the entire season. No graft of this kind could exist in America without raising such a storm as would blow the whole thing to Kingdom Come. Nor would we tolerate the conditions that obtain in English track athletics and ‘amateur’ football, both of which are steeped in professionalism. And as for junketing—why, that comes near to being the Englishman’s alter ego—it is a part of the English game. You might as well deprive him of his dearest

gossession—his prejudice for instance—as deprive him of his junket. Let the tewards figure up how many good American dollars have gene to satisfy this national predilection through the medium of cricketers, golfers and other English athletes that have visited us.’’—Casper Whitney in The Outing Magazine for October.

ATHLETICS.

—The University of Missouri at Columbia is to be congratulated upon securing the services of Dr. W. J. Monilaw as director of athletics. Dr. Monilaw is a graduate of the High School of Cedar Rapids, playing on both the baseball and football teams ; a graduate of Drake University, having taken the Scientific Course and graduating from the Medical School in 1903. He has had a fifteen years’ experience in athletics and gymnastics and was for six years on the Y. M. C. A athletic team at Cedar Rapids. For nine years he had been physical director at Drake University, having charge of the work both indoors and out, coaching football and baseball and track athletics. He is thirty-two years old and stands 5 feet 9 inches and weighs 160 pounds. He has not only served Drake University well in athletics but has been very popular with the student body.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for vour friends.