MIND AND BODY

Yol. 15.	JUNE,	1908.	No	1J0

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos'on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa , All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wu

THE NEW EDUCATION FOR THE CITY BOY,

By JOHN STUART WHITE, LL. D., Headmaster of Phillips Brooks School, Philadelphia.

Education is a progressive science. Its methods have been improved 100 ppr centum in the last two decades. To-day we count upon teaching a child how to read and write his native tongue as well in ten months as we formerly did in two years. Although this is an age of wonderful material development, we are still in the infancy of our knowledge of medicine, of physical science and even of the phenomena of electricity and magnetism, and I dare say that, before many years, we shall come to look upon our present methods of education as crude and inadequate.

In one branch of advanced work—that of the academy, the preparatory school and the public high schools of * the country—we are sadly behind the times; indeed, the whole scheme of recitation, study and recreation demands revision.

All formulated systems of education have failed, hitherto, to take cognizance of the fact that in a child's mental and physical growth there are three widely different periods. These systems lay down laws and rules for teaching which may be correct at one period and destructive at another. In the first period, from 3 years of age until 11, a child learns almost wholly by imitation; at 11 he begins to reason, and from that year until 15 he should be carefully trained in those subjects in which he is deficient, or which are difficult for him. After 15 years of age the work should be differentiated, so that he may devote his time and attention mainly to those subjects at- which he is best.

If • the peculiarities of these three periods in a child’s life are carefully observed, many things become clear which otherwise seem problematical. You rarely find two children in the same family, with less than two years of difference in their ages, who are not practically in the same class in school. I have in my own experience had under my instruction about 240 pairs of brothers, and in every instance but eight or nine the younger brother was farther advanced for his age and has, usually been a brighter and quicker pupil.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—122—

The main reason for this condition is that the younger brother always has by his side the little teacher whom he imitates in every particular, and not until they reach the ages of 11 and 13 years respectively, when the reasoning powers begin to assert themselves, does the older brother begin to forge ahead of the other.

The average preparatory school of the present day offers an arrangement of school hours, covering a daily period of from nine until one o’clock (or, in some instances, until 1.30 or 2 o’clock), during which hours the pupil has nothing but a succession of “recitation,” in which the teacher undertakes merely to discover what each pupil has learned of his lessons overnight. *

The recitation degenerates to the level of the pupils who offer the weakest preparation. The teacher discontinues examining those who appear to, have learned the lesson, and devotes the remainder of his time quizzing, tutoring and upbraiding the delinquent. The bell rings, class is dismissed with notice of the stint for the evening work, the pupils disperse for play and idleness, and return the following morning, only to go through the same program, some offering the lessons well-prepared, others with careless, or no preparation.

The result is that three-quarters of the pupils look back at the end of the term upon a succession of partially prepared lessons. The study, evening after, evening, in preparation for the next day’s tasks, has been pursued under great difficulties. Assistance upon knotty points has been impossible or difficult to get at home, for the average parent is not a good teacher.

Modern methods differ widely from those under which the parent was taught in his childhood. Many a father, too, sharpened by practice in actual business to quick and accurate reckoning in complex problems of percentage, interest and mensuration, reaches his solution hy short cuts and business methods incapable of comprehension by the boy.

No, the evening study or, in fact, all out-of-school study is illogical, confusing, wasteful of time and energy, a bore to the parent and a bugbear to the pupil.

Again the play of the pupil is, in the average school, left without supervision or direction, ’and is, therefore, unsystematic, overdone, or not done at all, in the majority of instances. Not one teacher in a hundred, I venture to say, has ever discovered that one-fourth of all boys never really play.

What is the remedy for this? It is so simple, so logical and so easy that the marvel is that the remedy has not been universally applied long ago—perhaps not in the public high schools, where it would increase the financial burden of a city government to a large extent, but at least in the endowed and private schools, which perpare for college and university. It is that:

The school should receive the boy at 9 in the morning and return him to his home at 5 or 6 o’clock, according to age, providing, during the day for all his recitations, all his recreation and all his study, giv-

Digitized by v^ooQLe
—123—

ing in the middle of the day a hot meal or nutritious food of the best quality, hygienic in selection and properly cooked.

He should be permitted to take no books home with him at, night, but be entirely free to participate in the home life, with no straining of the eyes with artificial light, no pestering of the parent for assistance, when both are tired and out of sympathy with the conditions, without overweariness from excessive afternoon play, but with a good circulation and a good appetite due to proper exercises.

Cecil Rhodes in his will—one of the greatest boons of modem education—demanded that the scholarships provided should be assigned upon a basis made up of ten points; six for scholarship or intellectual ability; two for athletic or physical development and two for refinement or good manners.

The day of mollycoddles is past. We have come to an era of muscular scholarship akin to that of the ancient Greeks and Persians.

Of course this method of preparatory school training demands the ablest of teachers—men who are just and bright, vigorous and stimulating, at 4 in the afternoon as at 9 in the morning—and such men jre not cheap or numerous. It presupposes generous facilities for phys-.cal training both indoors and out-of-doors, and the German dictum that ‘an hour of exercise in the open air is worth two indoors” must be care-"ully observed, and it demands, moreover, the personal presence of these same teachers upon the playground and in the gymnasium.

All this renders the new training costly and difficult to bring to perfection; but it effects so radical a saving of time in the school curriculum, it adds so important an increment of health and strength to every pupil, and secures- such consistency of training and development of moral character, that the element of expense should not be considered by any intelligent parent.

Note how this method works in practice. Let us agree that the morning hours, from 9 o’clock until 1 o’clock, with a short recess in the open air at 11 o’clock, should be divided into periods of forty or fifty minutes each for what, in other schools, are called “recitations.” At 1 o’clock comes a hot luncheon—an important element of the plan, for the average boy rarely eats a hearty breakfast, but is ravenously hungry in the middle o^ the day.

The meal should be eaten slowly, occupying at least twenty-five minutes; then should come a period of half an hour of quiet recreation, after which the boys should assemble for the afternoon study and the preparation of their lessons under their teachers, who do not merely supervise or see that the boys are busy, but who study with them, circulating quietly among the desks, answering the inquiry of this boy anil that, helping one to find his missing rules, starting another in the right direction upon his algebraic problem, noting that all give the proper di- ' vision of time to the various subjects—in short, seeing to it that all the lessons are learned properly before the boy closes his desk.

Just here comes in an equally important part of the boy’s education, not merely the actual, athletic exercise or play, but the guidance

Digitized by CjOOQle
—124—

and development in the third of the Rhodes’ qualifications. There are always teachers in the .gymnasium and teachers on the playground in> constant touch with the boys, not only instructing them, but compelling every individual to take his part, and exerting, by their presence,; a restraining influence of incalculable value in matters of language and i their personal conduct toward each other.

Not the least of the advantages of this system is the fact that the, boy is taught how to study. The habit of application is, under the old, methods, extremely difficult to inculcate, but I have rarely known a boy to require more than three weeks of training under the new system before he had learned thoroughly how to apply himself. x	;

The new education diminishes by one-fourth the length of time necessary for a boy’s preparation for college and the work of life. The teacher no longer devotes the whole of each period in the morning session to the so-called “recitation,” for he personally knows that every hoy had learned his lesson thoroughly on the previous day. He, therefore, gives only fifteen or twenty minutes to the “quiz,” running rapidly through the salient points of the lesson to bring them fresh before the, pupil’s mind, and then takes up the new lesson, which is to be learned in the afternoon, calling attention to the difficulties which it presents and giving directions for its intelligent study.

The result is that as much ground can be covered in three yeaTS as is ordinarily done in four, and we can reach the consideratum of completing a boy’s preparation for the university at seventeen and a half or eightee years of age, instead of nineteen or twenty. To sum up the advantages of this new education, they are:

First. The saving of' time in the school curriculum.

Second. Uniform instruction. .

Third. Thoroughness and consistent work.

Fourth, Intelligent and compulsory play.

Fifth. The absence of interruption, for the boy is given over entirely to his school for the first five days of the week.

Sixth. The absence of profanity, vulgarity and slang.

Seventh. Constant supervision of the teachers and the correction of errors in English.

Eight. The relief to parents from the vexatious oversight of, evening study hours.

Ninth. The avoidance of wasted time in the afternoon.

Tenth. The cultivation of self-reliance in the boy.

Eleventh. The learning of application and proper methods of study.

Twelfth. The immense value to the boy’s moral character and self-respect by eliminating the bugbear of daily tasks neglected. ♦	,

If, in addition to these advantages, the school can afford to teach its pupils in classes of twenty in the subjects of reading, spelling, writ-, ing, English composition, history, geography, dictation—that greatest motor of modern education—and limit its divisions to ten in the lan^ guages, mathematics and sciences, the new education of the city boy will be brought wellnigh to perfection.
-125-

DIET AND ENDURANCE AT BRUSSELS.

By PROF. IRVING FISHER.

Mile. Dr. J. Iotevko, head of the laboratory at the University of Brussels, and Mile. Varla Ivipiani, student in science, have published a monograph of seventy-seven pages: “Enquete Scientifique sur les Vegetarians de Bruxelles.”* * ]n this monograph the question of vegetarianism is studied by several methods. The authors have become convinced that the vegetarian regime is for the most part a more rational one than the highly nitrogenous diet ordinarily prevailing in Western Europe and America.

In the brief introduction, general considerations in regard to diet are mentioned and special emphasis given to the subject of toxins. The authors quote in behalf of their conclusions, the eminent French ■dietitian, Armand Gautier, “who, without himself being a vegetarian,

: praises the good effects of the vegetarian regime.” The authors quote Gautier as follows:

The vegetarian regime, modified by the addition of milk, of fat, of butter, of eggs, has great advantages. It adds to the alkalinity of the blood, accelerates oxidation, diminishes organic wastes and toxins; it exposes one much less than the ordinary regime to skin maladies, to arthritis, to congestions of internal organs. This regime tends to make us pacific beings and not aggressive and violent. It is practical and rational.	„

The authors, while apparently classifying themselves as advocates of vegetarianism, admit that in certain cases it is necessary to prescribe meat as a “medicament”—“just as one prescribes sometimes alcohol and other poisons.” The authors also observe that the transition to a vegetarian diet should be gradual.

The personal history is traced of forty-three vegetarians of Brussels. Among other interesting observations is the following:

, For the most part the vegetarians appear younger that their age; notably the ladies are distinguished by their clear and fresh complexion.

The experiments conducted by Miles. Ioteyko and Kipiani are restricted to vegetarians who have been such for several years. The ex-.periments were for the most part, comparisons of strength and endurance. So far as strength is concerned, very little difference was discovered between vegetarians and “carnivores.” In endurance, on the ■other hand, a very remarkable difference was found, the vegetarians surpassing the carnivores from 50 to 200 per cent., according the method of measurement.

This result agrees with the experiment on nine Yale students de-'ecibed in “Science.” These subjects, by dint of thorough mastication, gradually lost their taste for flesh foods. At the end of five months, while not becoming vegetarians, they had reduced their consumption of

:	i

* Brussels, Henry Lamertin.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-126

flesh foods to one sixth of the amount to which they had originally been accustomed. Their strength remained practically stationary, but their endurance, according to the gymnasium tests, was increased on on average by over 90 per cent.

The method of measuring endurance used by the Belgian investigators was by means of the Mosso ergograph. One of the fingers is used to raise a weight as far as possible. As the experiment proceeds and fatigue sets in, the height to which the weight can be raised is gradually reduced until no further contractions are possible. If a curve be constructed representing the height of the successive contractions, it is called a “curve of fatigue,” and it is found that this curve is “different for different individuals, but is constant for the same individual from one day to another and even after an interval of several years, if the conditions of the experiment remain the same.” *

The authors compared the endurance of seventeen vegetarians, six men and eleven women, with that of twenty-five carnivores, students of the* University of Brussels. Comparisons for the right hand differed somewhat from those for the left, the superiority of the vegetarians being greater for the latter than for the former. Comparing the two sets of subjects on the basis of mechanical work, it is found that the vegetarians surpassed the carnivores on the average by 53 per cent. Comparing the two groups on the basis of the number of contractions— or, what amounts to the same thing, the length of time during which the ergograph could be continually operated—it was found that the vegetarians could work on the ergograph two or three times as long as the carnivores before reaching the exhaustion point.

This last result corresponds to conclusions* of the present writer in an experiment which forty-nine subjects, about half of whom were , flesh-eaters and half flesh-abstainers, were compared. It was found that the flesh-abstainers had more endurance, as measured by gymnasium tests, than the flesh-eaters, to the extent of from two to three fold.

The Brussels investigators found also that the vegetarians recuperated from fatigue far more quickly than the meat-eaters, a result also found in the Yale experiment.

The authors conclude by advocating a vegetarian regime as a proper system for working men, and believe that its use would reduce the accidents on railways and in industry which come from over-fatigue, increase the production of labor, as well as have other economic benefits.

The monograph of Miles, loteyko and Ivipiani is especially interesting as confirming the trend of many modern studies. It agrees in substance with the conclusions in a popular book published a year ago in England by T. Bussell on “Diet and Strength.” The philosophy, however, by which these harmonious results are explained by various investigators is not the same. Bussell and Miles. loteyko and Kipiani regard the inferior endurance of meat-eaters as due to specific toxins in flesh foods, and therefore are a wowed vegetarians. Under Professor Chittenden’s theory,

* ‘ The influence of Flesh-eating on Endurance,” Mind and Body.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-127-

on the other hand, the facts brought forward by Miles. Ioteyko and Kipiani, as well as by Mr. Eussell and the writer, would be interpreted as primarily due to the superiority of “low proteid” rather than of a non-flesh diet. For this and others reasons, Professor Chittenden and most other modem physiologists avoid the term “vegetarian” as inappropiate and misleading. A vegetarian may, through a wrong selection of his food materials, suffer from the evils of high proteid, and a flesh-eater may, if he consumes flesh sparingly”, have the advantages of a low-pro-teid diet.

It is possible that flesh-eating, as ordinarily practised, is injurious both because of excessive proteid and because meat, as such, contains poisonous elements. It is well known that Liebig came to repudiate the idea that the extractives of meat were nutritious, and that investigation has shown them to be poisonous. Recently, Dr. F. B. Turck has found* that dogs, mice and rats fed on meat extractives exhibit symptoms of poisoning and often die. The poisonous effect is aggravated by intestinal bacteria which find in these extractives an excellent culture medium. Dr. Turck concludes:

(1)	It is clearly evident from these experiments, which correspond to the investigations of others, that the injurious effects of meat are not due so much to the muscle proteid, myosin, as to the extractives.

(2)	That the injurious effects of extractives are increased through the action of intestinal bacteria.

Dr. Turck does not find any evidence that the extractives in small quantities are injurious.

Dr. Turck therefore concludes that the “high liver” who uses much flesh and also an excess of starch and sugar is a “bad risk” for life insurance companies. He recommends, if meat is to be used, that the extractives first be removed by special processes which he explains. He finds that the remaining part of the meat is highly nutritous and an invaluable aid in many cases of weak stomachs. He supplies much clinical evidence of the evils of ordinary meat-eating, as well as of the benefits obtainable from extract-fre*e m§at.

These investigations, with those of Combe of Lausanne, Metchnikoff and Tissier of Paris, as well as Heitor and others in the United States, seem gradually to be demonstrating that the fancied strength from meat, is, like the fancied strength from alcohol, an illusion. The “beef and ale of England” are largely sources of weakness, not strength. Whether in moderation they are harmful may still be a matter of conjecture. While the trend of recent experiments is distinctly against the excessive use of flesh foods, there are still needed many more experiments—medical, athletic and industrial—before the economies of diet can be established on a secure basis. The experiment with a vegetarian or semi-vegitarian diet at the University of Chicago, which Director Stagg is to make with

the athletic teams, will be watched with interest.

______!___________

* “Effect on Longevity of High Living.” by Fenton B. Turck, M. D., The Medical Examiner and Practitioner, Vol. XVII, No. 8, August, 1007.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-128-

Mlles. Ioteyko and Ivipiani seem to place a larger reliance on the ergographic tests than most physiologists. A thoroughly reliable method of measuring endurance seems still to be a desideratum.—“Sienee,” October 25, 1907.

OUR NATIONAL WASTEFULNESS OF HUMAN LIFE

By JOHN PEASE NORTON, PH.D.

. (The following is an extract from a paper by Professor J. Pease Norton 'The entire paper can be obtained by anyone interested by writing to Executive Secretary, Committee of One Hundred, Drawer 30, New Haven, Conn.—Ed.)

For a nation to permit great wastes to go unchecked is more than a suicidal policy; for an evil more destructive than race suicide is race homicide. There are four great wastes to-day, the more lamentable because they are unnecessary. They are preventable death, preventable sickness, preventable conditions of low physical and mental efficiency and preventable ignorance. The magnitude of these wastes is testified do by experts competent to judge. They fall like the shades of night over the whole human race, blotting out its fairest years of happiness.

The facts are cold and bare—1,500,000 must die in the United States during the next twelve months; equivalent to 4,200,000 persons will be constantly sick; over 5,000,000 homes, consisting of 25,000,000 ^persons, will be made more or less wretched by mortality and morbidity.

We look with horror on the black plague of the Middle Ages. The black waste was but a passing cloud compared with the white waste visitation. Of the people living to-day over eight millions will die of tuberculosis, and the Federal Government does not raise a haijd to help them.

, The Department of Agriculture spends seven-million dollars on .plant health and animal health every year, but, with the exception of •the splendid work done by Doctors Wiley, Atwater and Benedict, Congress does noi directly appropriate one cent for promoting the physical well-being of babies. Thousands have been‘expended in stamping out •cholera among swine, but not one dollar was ever voted for eradicating pneumonia among human beings. Hundreds of thousands are consumed in saving the lives of elm trees from the attacks of beetles; iu warning farmers against blights affecting potato plants; in importing Sicilian bugs to fertilize fig blossoms in California; in ostacizing various .species of weeds from the ranks of useful plants, and in exterminating ‘parasitic growths that prey on fruit trees. In fact, the Department of Agriculture has expended during the last ten years over forty-six millions of dollars. But not a wheel of the official machinery at Washington was ^ver set in motion for the alleviation or cure of diseases of the heart or kidneys, which will carry off over six millions of our entire population. Eight millions will perish of pneumonia, and the entire event is accepted by the American people with a resignation equal to that of the Hindoo, who, in the midst of indescribable filth, calmly awaits the day of the * cholera.

Digitized by

Google
—129—

During the next census period more than six million infants under two years will end their little spans of life while mothers sit by and watch in utter helplessness. And yet this number could be probably decreased by as much as one-half. But nothing is done.

The states* rights doctrine can be applied against the Department of Agriculture as effectively as against a National Department for Health. It is not,, then, a question of constitutionality, but, rather, of whether or not such a department is needed by the nation.

The logic that justifies an annual appropriation of $2,000,000 for a life-saving service against the accidents of the sea should justify protection against accidents of disease and death.

Agitation for the factory acts, the eight-hour day, regulations con-•ceraing female and child labor and immigration are justified primarily as health regulations.

In addition to the economic gain, the establishment of a National Organization of Health would gradually but surely diminish much of the misery and suffering that cannot be measured by statistics. Sickness is a radiating center of anxiety; and often death in the prime of life closes the gates of happiness on more than one life. Let us not forget that the “bitter cry of the children** still goes up to heaven and that civilization must hear, until at last it heeds, the imprecations of forever wasted years of millions of lifes.

If progress is to be real and lasting, it must proyide whatever bulwarks it can against death, sickness, misery and ignorance; and in an organization such as a National Organization of Health, adequately equipped—a vast preventive machine, working ceaselessly—an attempt at least would be made to staunch those prodigal wastes of an old, yet wastrel, world.—“American Health.**

FROM JAHN’S "TURNKUNST.”

The preceptor of a gymnastic institution assumes a grave responsibility. Well may he, therefore, weigh his qualifications for the high function he would exercise. He will represent the guardianship of youth. He must nurture, nourish and cherish the simplicity of the youthful spirit, and shield it against untimely maturation. To him are revealed hearts unblemished. Youth's thoughts, desires, tendencies, and emotional natures, its passions—as the dawn-dreams of its morn, are disclosed to him, as to no other. He must be advisor, counsellor and safe-guardian, at once the hope and the anchorage of their future lives. By virtue of his high office, he must come into closest contact with his charges. The man of the-morrow to him is entrusted, the future strength of communities, the minister of a new gospel, the pillar of the state. He may not linger with the spirit of a day, nor be guided by the affairs of a world, ofttimes at fault. He, who cannot guide the child-life, and who is not thoroughly imbued with the love of youth, and mankind as well, should ponder well and ask himself: is he fitted for this sacred calling— sacred by virtue of the trust involved?

Digitized by CaOOQle
-130-

THE CHILD’S RIGHT TO PLAY.

By Rev. DR. NEWELL D. HILLIS, Chicago.

It is the natural right of the child to play in order to grow during its nonproductive years. Man maintains his health during maturity by his work, for his profession is in reality his play. The child has an artificial occupation named play through games. Having the food as raw material for the body that food can be built into the physique only through the free play of the legs and arms, through exercise and fresh air.

In the parks we behold the maple bough pushing out a soft growth of one or two feet, and then the sap coursing through the young growth furnishes food; then come the spring and summer winds to give the sap and the bough its exercise, playing with the leaves in the air, bending it, twisting it, hardening the young growth, until it can stand up against the storms of winter.

And not otherwise does the growing child need its exercise.

One thing, therefore, is vital—the playground. Given a dozen blocks of houses and stores, there should be one block, not for a park, but for play. A schoolhouse for the mind, with no playground for the body, is a form of follv. Mental development is an after glow of muscular and nerve tissue that have already unfolded. Athens had a law that reserved certain blocks for playgrounds, running tracts, and swimming pools.

Athens and Rome had their intellectual supremacy because they built a perfect body for boys and girls, knowing that a healthy mind would inevitably follow. As a matter of fact, the Greek pursued genius by making the central building the gymnasium, while we make the central building the schoolhouse for the intellect. Both views represent a perilous extreme.

The long cherished idea of suppression of all that is muscular is false and dead. No brain can work properly without the nourishment of strong blood. No virile thoughts can emanate from a brain fed by organs neglected through life. A well fed body, a body with muscles and organs well trained, will furnish a mind with strength, purity and nobility. It is a child’s right to have ambition to be a leader, and we do not accord him his privilege if we withhold the opportunity to build a body that will make his brain powerful and creative.

We must not forget that Wellington said he won his Waterloo on the playground at Eton college, where he built his body; that Germany by her military drill and her physical exercise in advance won the Franco-Prussian war; that England’s last Blue Book on the degeneracy of the factory people in England tells us that nineteen out of twenty of the boys reared in crowded Manchester and Birmingham, without excerise and air and light and food, were unfit for the Boer war.

We must remember that when England won her victory over the Dutch in Africa she won it through Scotch soldiers and the colonials. That perhaps also explains why little Scotland governs England. Mr. Gladstone was a Scotchman, the next prime minister, Balfour, was a Scotchman; the present premier, Campbell-Bannerman, is a Scotchman;

Digitized by CjOOQle
-m-

Lloyd George is a Welshman; other cabinet members are Scotcli-Irish, and. in short, England is governed bv people who are not Englishmen, all of which simply brings us back to the degeneracy of the physique of the factor}" folk of England, through lack of exercise and air, of sunshine and nourishing food.

BROOKLINE, MASS., MUNICIPAL GYMNASIUM.

The building was begun at the end of June, 1906, and finished m January, 1908. The area covered by the building is twelve Ihousand nine hundred and sixty-three square feet, and the cubic contents seven hundred and seven thousand eight hundred and seventy cubic feet. The dimensions of the building are as follows: Front part one hundred feet wide and forty-nine feet deep; height to the top of the cornice fort}'-six feet, and to the ridge-pole sixty-three feet. The “L,” which above the basement is wholly occupied by the large gymnasium, is one hundred and four feet long and seventy-two feet wide; thirty-three feet in height to the top of the cornice, and fifty-six feet to the top of the ridge. The cost was $120,000.00.

The large gymnasium is one hundred feet eight inches in length and seventy-one Jeet four inches wide. The height is twenty-five feet four inches to the wall plate and forty-five feet to the center of the ridge. The area is seven thousand one hundred square feet. The window glass

WOMEN’S MORNING CLASS ON DEMONSTRATION DAY.

\

Digitized by
-132-

and skylight surface is two thousand seven hundred and five square feet.

The small gymnasium is eventy-four feet long and thirty-four feet eight inches wide. The area is two thousand five hundred and sixty-five square feet. The extreme height is twenty-two feet.

When the great size of the building is considered, as well as the character of the materials used, and the elaborate plumbing, ventilating and equipment, it can truthfully be said that the Gymnasium has not been extravagantly built. It is handsome and imposing externaly, and a credit to the wise liberality of the town. Internally the arrangements will be found admirably adapted to their purpose. First of all may be mentioned the large gymnasium, open to the roof. The windows are large and numerous and on the darkest days there is abundant light. The running track, 20 laps to the mile, is of the latest and most approved pattern.

The small gymnasium is thoroughly equipped and unusually attractive and convenient.

• Two gymnasiums will make it possible to have classes for both sexes in operation at he same time, thus much enhancing the usefulness of the building.

Besides the two gymnasiums proper, there is on the fourth floor a large room, or exercising hall, for ladies and children, in which can be installed special and .corrective apparatus, and which may be used also as a game room. In the basement there is a large exercising hall in which will be installed rowing machines, and special and corrective apparatus for men and boys. A part of this hall will be used for a ball cage and for hand ball. There is also a good-sized room for basket ball in the basement.

The men’s lockers, of which there are four hundred and eighty, and the dressing-rooms are in one large room in the basement, adjoining the shower baths and drying rooms.

The large gymnasium can easily be reached from the locker-room by staircases in the towers at the rear of .the building, which are of strictly fire-proof construction, and are intended to be used also as fire-escapes.

The women’s locker rooms are arranged in five groups on the second, third and fourth stories.* Threp hundred and forty lockers are devoted to their use as well as an ample number of dressing- rooms.

While both sexes will at times use the large gymnasium, it has been found desirable to limit men and boys to the use of the first floor and basement, excepting of course the running track, which is on the second story, and leave the small gymnasium and rest and dressing-rooms on the second floor, the dressing-rooms on the third floor, and the exercise hall and dressing-rooms on the fourth floor entirely for women and girls. This arrangement makes it possible to separate the men and boys from the women and girls, and will enhance the independence and comfort of both.

All persons intending to use the Gymnasium will enter by the large gymnasium doors. Directly opposite, at the farther end of the central

Digitized by CjOOQle
-183-

hall, are the double doors opening into the gymnasium. On the left of the broad central hall is located the General Office, which will be the central point for all the business of both buildings. On the right is the Eeception Boom, which will be largely used by those waiting their turns in the gymnasium classes, or the baths.

Niches have been left at each corner of the central hall for appropriate statues, and two have already been presented to the town by the Gymnasium Building Committee.

Running at right angles to the central hall is a long corridor. (TfE this open the small doors to the large gymnasium, the Physical Directors office, examining-room, other offices, lavatories; and stairs lead up to the next story, both right and left. The corridor on the first floor on the left is continued through a connecting building to the Municipal Bath House.

The spectators* entrance to the gallery is at the head of the first flight of stairs.

The building is ventilated by means of a largs central shaft opening

THE LARGE GYMNASIUM.

Digitized by

Google
-134-

directly on the anterior wall of the large gymnasium. This shaft is five by fifteen feet in diameter. The lockers are connected with the air shaft.

The heating is by indirect radiation, though there are direct radiators, if such are necessary in extremely cold weather.

The lighting is furnished by about 500 electric lights.

All the regular classes in the Gymnasium will be free to residents of Brookline. Non-residents will be admitted on the payment of a suitable fee, provided there is room in the classes. Should the Physical Director or Instructors have unemployed time, they may be able to carry on one or two special classes, for which the town will receive due renumeration. It is the purpose of the Committee, however, to give everyone who is a resident of Brookline an opportunity to belong to a regular class, free of expense. Classes for both sexes will be in operation afternoon and evening. Each person using the Gymnasium is expected to wear a gymnasium suit. These may be obtained at a very low cost at the office.

There is a fine small out-door athletic field behind and between the Bath House and Gymnasium. This can be used in the late spring and early autumn, when it is too warm to work regularly in the Gymnasium, and it will also be valuable for special athletic training. In the evenings it can be lighted by arc lamps.

On Monday, June 20th, 1908, regular class exercises were begun. All classes have been well attended and marked enthusiasm has been shown.

Twenty-five classes are conducted each week, the classes meeting twice a week.

The average weekly attendance from January 20th to May 1st is as follows:	Men, 335; Women, 532; Boys, 320; Girls, 286. Total, 1473

average weekly attendance.

The total attendance from January 20th to May 1st was 22,553 and it is gratifying to note that the attendance steadily increased from the start.	.

In the demonstration of class exercises 926 members took active part and over 2000 spectators witnessed the exercises.

TheJPhysical Director i$ Mr. J. Leonard Mason. The instructors are Mr. Charles P. Cameron and Miss Mary V. McGrath.

The Gymnasium and Bath House will be carried on as one institution, each supplementing and strengthening the work of the other.

With hey Health Department, her Contagious Hospital, her careful system of physical training in the schools, her thorough school inspection and medical examination of school children, Brookline has not been behind in attention to public sanitation and hygiene. The establishment of the new gymnasium wuth the Baths combined, should be the most important step of all, for it creates a health centre for the town and indicates that in the future one responsibility, if not the chief one, of a community, will be—the health of its citizens.

Digitized by CaOOQle
FANCY-STEP DRILL.

(Barn Dance with Marching and Calisthenics.)

By HENRY G. V0RSHE1M, Austin High School, Chicago, 111.

Music.—March and Schottische time changes several times. For the steps and calisthenics the Schottische is used.

PART I.

Music: March.

40 Girls, in twos, march around the gymnasium once (taking distance during the march of 5—6 feet between couples), inner hands joined height of shoulders, outer hands on hips. (Fig. 1).

I	I

I	I

\

i i i i

\ i i i

i

i

The music now changes to Schottische (“Honey-time,” or “Nice to have a Sweetheart,” etc.)

DANCING STEPS.

Step No. I.

Beginning with the outer foot, three small running steps forward; on the third step hop with raising (swinging) inner foot forward, 1 measure (or 4 short counts).

Same with inner foot, 1 measure (or 4 short counts).

Then step forw. and hop on outer with raising heel of inner foot backward.

Measures.

Same with the other foot, 1.	,	)

Repeat last movement with outer, then with inner foot, 1.

Together for the whole step ................................... 4

Repeat Step No. I three times................................. 12

In all ................................................................ 16

Step No. II.

First two measures same as in Step No. 1................................ 2

Then during the following 4 steps and hops (as in Step No. I) partners make one 4/4 turn outward, on place (individually); the

Digitized by C.ooQle
-136-

girls release inner hands and place them on the hips. The 4/4 turn brings the girls to the first (forward) position again in....	2

Repeat Step Xo. II three times.....................................   12

In all .............................................................. 16

Step Xo in.

Same as Step Xo. II, bnt the 4/4 turn of each is inward (toward partner) and the inner hands are still joined and raised high. The

, turning is under the arms......................................... 4

Repeat Step Xo. Ill three times.....................................  13

In all .....................................................   16

CALISTHENICS.

Each movement is held for 4 short counts or 1 measure (Conn panion Exercises.)

Exercise Xo. I.

a) Place (point) outer foot sideward and outer arms stretched side-

ward ............................................................ 1

b)	Bend outer knee, outer arm raised to y2 circle over head, inner

arms horizontally in extended position, hands still joined ....	1

c)	Same as	position a............................................... 1

d)	Starting	position ..............................................   1

Repeat three times .................................................. 12

In all ...........'.................................................. 16

Exercise Xo. II.

a)	Turn toward (face) your partner and join both hands, arms ex-

tended sideward horizontally...................................... 1

b)	Place foot toward head of line (former outside foot) sideward,

bend the same knee and oend trunk sideward toward the head of line; arms obliquely down- and upward..................... 1

c)	Same as position a . . . ......................................... 1

d)	Starting position ..............................................   1

Same, but place the other foot, etc................................... 4

Repeat toward head of line......................................... .	4

Repeat toward the foot of line ....................................... 4

In all ................................................................  16

Exercise Xo. III.

a) Turn toward partner as in Exercise Xo. II............................. 1

b) Cross former outer foot over other foot and y2 turn of each girl (individually) toward the foot of the class). The partners now are back to back with arms as high as shoulders and hands still joined.

(In the turning the arms toward the head of the line move

downward, the other arms move upward to a horizontal position 1

c)	Reverse b .......................................................... 1

d)	Starting position ..............................................    1

Digitized by C^ooQle
-137-

Same, but turning the other way....................................... 4

Repeat two times...................................................... 8

In all .............................................................. 16

DANCING STEPS.

Step No. IV.

First two measures same as in Step No. I....'..........,.

Then those standing on the outer side encircle those on the inner side with 4 steps and hops. The girls on the inner side step and hop 4 times on place without turning. (Inner hands still

joined and raised high)........................................... 2

Same, but the inner ones circle........................................ 4

Repeat outer and inner................................................. 8

In all ............................................................. 16

Step No. V.

The first two measures the same as in Step No.I...................... 2

Then the outer ones only i/> turn left and join partners right hands.

Both wheel right with 4 steps and hops.......................... 2

Repeat three times ................................................. 12

In all ........................................................................ 16

Step No. VI, or finished step.

Arms crossed backward, outer ones have left arm over right arm of the inner ones. With this position take the first two measures,

same as in Step No. I.........................................

Then change to dancing position. Partners turn to each other; outer arms extended and hands joined. Left hand of outer girl on right shoulder of inner girl, right arm of inner girl around waist of outer girl. Both with 4 steps and hops make

one 4/4 turn right to forward position.......................... 2

Repeat three times ...............................................	12

Iri all ....................................................  16

PART II.

The music now changes to a March. The couples march, then form fours and advance to the center of the joom (see Fig. 2).

I

%

Digitized by CjOOQle
—138—

From here the lines march in different directions to “Side-line positions” and face inward (see Fig. 3).

.1



tir Uirtc



L,Ui£

s

3

r~

I

Music then changes to Schottische.

DANCING STEPS.

All four lines move forward with first two measures of Step No. I

(hands are joined height of shoulders in lines)..........

Then all turn one 4/4 turn right with 4 steps and hops........

Repeat same and V2 turn right (the lines are now on opposite side)..

Repeat and 4/4 turn right......................................

Repeat and Vi turn right.......................................

In all........................................................................

(See illustrations 4 and 5. The movements of only the first line are indicated; the others, of course, go in their respective directions.)

The lines now are in their original first “Side-line position,” only in flank order to the right.

All lines now, using complete Step No. I, perform one circle on

their quarter-field; two times four measures . ..................'....

Then move to next field................................................

and perform one circle here...........................................

and return to their own ”Side-line position” again....................

Digitized by CiOOQle

oooooooo
-139-

line are indicated, from field A. to B.

The second line would go from field D. to A., the third line, would go from field C. to D., the fourth line would go from field B. to C.)

Music changes again to March. The four lines march obliquely right backward to the center of the gymnasium, then countermarch and % turn right. The girls take proper distances and march on place. (See Fig. 8.)

Music changes to Schottische.

PART III.

In the Star-position, all facing the center, each line is counted off in ones and twos hands on hips). (Sec Fig. 9.)

/ '

/ \

/ \

/ ^

\ /

V	/

\

V

$

/



Digitized by CjOOQle
-140-

CALISTHENICS.

Exercise IY.

a)	All bend knees and raise arms sideward ..................

b)	Eise on toes and arms to a circle over head..............

c)	Like a ..................................................

d)	Starting position .......................................

Eepeat three times ............................................

Then the ones the same four times, while the twos begin first with

rising on the toes, then bending the knees, etc., four times (while the ones bend the knees the twos rise on toes, etc. etc.)..

1

I

1

1

12

16

In all ........................................:.........................................  32

Exercise V.

a)	All place (point) the left foot sideward left and raise the arms

sideward ...................................................... 1

b)	Lunge sideward left and bend the trunk sideward left, the arms

nearly vertical, left down- and right upward................... 1

c)	Like a ......................................................... 1

d)	Starting position .............................................. 1

The same, beginning right........................................... 4

Eepeat the same, beginning left .................................... 4

Eepeat the same, beginning right.................................... ?

Then the ones begin to the left, while the twos begin to the right

(see Fig. 10), (the movement is outward in each line).......... 4

/ \

/	/	N	V

//NX /	/	N

/ /

X	/	■/

N N /	/

Eeverse, the ones to the right, twos to the left.......................... 4

Eepeat alternately two times.............................................  8

In all.........................-........................................ 32

Exercise YI.

a)	All step-position sideward left and arms raised sideward............ 1

b)	14 turn right (on the toes of the left foot) and move the right leg

extended backward with bending of the left knee and bending of the trunk forward with extending the arms downward (fingertips touch the floor) . ............................................ 1

Digitized by

Google
-141-

c)	Like a .......................................................... 1

d)	Starting position ............................................... 1

The same, beginning right...........................................  4

Eepeat the same, beginning left...................................... 4

Repeat the same, beginning	right.................................... 4

Then the ones begin to the left, while the twos begin to the right...	4

(The movement again outward in each line.)

Reverse, the ones to the right, twos to the left..................... 4

Repeat alternately two times......................................... 8

In all . .........................................................   32

Then assume a suitable pose with one change.

This drill, with other gymnastic work, was well done by the “Optional Class” in the Austin High School Gymnasium. The work preceded a lecture by Dr. Bertha X. Hamilton of Englewood upon the subject of Physical Education in the High Sshools.

CLEVELAND PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

HIGH SCHOOL MONTHLY ATHLETIC TESTS.

Report for March, 1908. Running High Jump—i feet.

Panic-	New

School.	Enrolled.	ipants.	Pereent.	Part.	Qualified. Percent.	Rank.

Central................... <54+	581	5)1.1	(4)	409	63 5	1

East...................... 530	289	54 5	(13)	141	26 6	6

Glenville................. 210	196	93.3	(9)	131 62.38 2

Lincoln................... 266	173	68 8	(3)	103	38.72	3

South..................... 193	114	59.1	(25)	53	27.5	5

West...................... 318	264	83 1	(12)	107	33.	4

Total............ 2161	1617	74.6	(66)	944	43 7

February......... 2169	1563	72.	(141)	644	29.7

January.......... 2198	1459	66.	(1459	)	756	34.1

Jan. vs. March... -37	+158	+8.6	(1666)	+188	+9.6

We had hoped to print the results of the April Test—Potato Race, but were unable to get them in time for this month’s issue.

COMING EVENTS AND OPPORTUNITIES.

tPlease send notes for this column to DR. D. BESSER, 606 Erie Ave., Philadelphia.)

The New York University Summer School send us its bulletin. This contains an announcement of courses in Folk Dancing, given by Miss Elizabeth Burchenal, Inspector of Athletics, Girls5 Branch, of the Public Schools Athletic League, New York City, and courses in Gilbert Dancing, given by Miss Susan H. Girman, Associate Principal of the Gilbert Normal School, Boston, Mass.

These courses will be given during the first three weeks of the Summer Session, July 1st to July 21st, and may be taken separately or in connection with other work.

Digitized by
Mujp ftND BODY.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO-

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

ItCilwaukM, ‘Wlaconain.

*T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

— THE CONTROVERSY between the advocates of a restricted low proteid diet and thorough mastication on the one side, represented by Professors Chittenden and Fisher, and Mr. Fletcher, and those advocates of liberal meals, represented by Drs. Meltzer and Wiley, leaves the rest of us poor seekers for wisdom and guidance in a rather unsettled state. No sooner have we been convinced that it is best for our health and finances that we eat less, than along comes a champion of the other side, telling us that to the great eaters belongs the future. Just read the following:

“Those scientists who maintain that the future holds the possibility of food administered in a condensed form in capsules, are, if they attempt the practice of their theory, rushing wildly either to the insane asylum or the sepulchre, says Harvey W. Wiley of the United States Department of agriculture, in the New York Times.

A great many people claim that we eat too much and that we would be as well off on half the quantity. In this connection I would cite the fact that Americans, Germans, Canadians and Englishmen are the greatest eaters in the world. They are likewise the greatest in stature, and as a race their size and robustness are increasing. The Spaniards, the Italians and the Greeks have been underfed for generations, and while healthy and apparently strong, they have grown smaller and are now races of small, short men.

There are examples of individuals who injure themselves by overeating, but these are isolated cases. The race that eats the most, other conditions being equal, is going to develop the most, and do the most work. The man with the fullest stomach is not only capable of doing the most work, but he has that within him which gives him the heart and inclination to do it. A man whose stomach gnaws cannot have an undivided purpose in the pursuit of anything else, and with half a mind on his aching will not accomplish great things.

Blessed is the man who does not know how he eats. A mouthful of food should pass on its way automatically and without the knowledge of the man who chews it. He who mixes mathematics with his food by counting 28 times on each bite is on the road to emaciated, sad-faced dyspepsia. .

Life has nothing that is worth while for him. I fail to see the use of wasting too much time on one bite while there is another just behind it inviting attention.	/

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
-143-

Someone quoted me as advising meat eaters to bolt and not chew their meat. I did not give such advice, but I pointed out two undeniable facts:	The	herb-eating animals devote much time to chewing while the

flesh eaters do very little of it. A conclusion may be .drawn from these facts, although I have not drawn it.

The Sunday following Christmas is the one day in the year when most people show a tendency to think of their stomachs. The dark brown taste may demand rather wide attention because of the things that have been eaten, but ordinarily there is little trouble from the quantities that are absorbed around the family board.

Over-eating causes less trouble to the system than does under-eating, and were the score even between the two it would be the part of philosophy to lean to the- side of the partaker of much food, for a goodly part of life’s happiness is found at the table with a normal appetite. I am against the capsule men. The time will never come when they will have a place in the world as caterers to palate under ordinary conditions.

It is entirely possible to condense the nourishment of a whole meal into a few pellets, and these have their place, as, for instance, when it becomes necessary to make enforced marches with the lightest possible burden. But the system would not thrive for long on such a diet, for there must be the necessary bulk to supply the tissues and flush the systems.

—THE FOLLOWING COMMUNICATION from Chicago explains itself:

Chicago, May 10th, 1908.

To Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:	The	International	Gymnastic	Union	of Chicago has been

formed by the Gymnastic Societies of Chicago. Its object is to promote gymnastics upon purely educational principles and to elevate, not only the physical, but also the mental and moral strength of its members; to cultivate social intercourse between gymnastic societies of different nationalities by means of public exhibitions and contests; to improve the training in the active classes of the I. G. U. and to maintain supervision over these classes in order that the ambition of individual members to excel shall not cause this training to deteriorate into mere sport; to regulate all gymnastic and athletic meets, and to see that the members of the I. G. IT. do not participate in any contest where the ideal of manly and honest effort is lacking, and where victory is sought by dishonest means and methods.

Any gymnastic society of any nationality which is organized for the purpose of promoting rational physical training in all its branches is eligible to membership in the I. G. TJ.

This Union shall regulate all Leagues and their games; such as fencing, outdoor baseball, indoor baseball, basket ball, wrestling or any other public or private demonstration of physical training under the jurisdiction of the I. G. U.

Digitized by Tooele
-144-

All physical instructors not teaching in gymnastic schools may become honorary members of this organization.

Clias. Kaun, South Side Turngemeinde, Sec,y-Treas.

Carl A. Cobelli, Chicago Turngemeinde, President.

—WE RECEIVED A PAMPHLET announcing a summer session of the Monteagle Assembly School of Physical Education at Monteagle, Tenn. For a prospectus apply to Miss Clara G. Baer, Director, New-comhe College, New Orleans, La.

—THE NEXT BIENNIAL CONVENTION of the North American Gymnastic Union will he held in Chicago, 111., June 28tli to J uly 1st, in the hall of the Chicago Tumgemeinde.

—IS THIS AN ADVERTISING SCHEME? At a meeting of the students of Swarthmore College an announcement was made that the faculty, by unanimous vote, had decided to recommend to the board of managers the abolition of football and basket ball for an indefinite period, not less than a year. In this decision the Alumni Athletic Advisory Board concurred, giving as its reason that this course is the only one which will insure harmony among the many friends of Swarthmore.

This is in pursuance of President Swain's suggestion made when the board of managers was considering the acceptance of the Jeanes bequest, with its accompanying circumscription of Swarthmore’s athletic policy, that the college try a temporary abolition of intercollegiate sports without any conditions.

—THE ROYAL NORMAL TRAINING SCHOOL (Turnlehrer-bildungsanstalt) at Berlin, Germany, will be augmented by preparatory courses. It is intended to remove the institution to the city of Spandau where more commodious quarters will be erected. As an inducement Spandau offered the Royal Institute, 24. acres of land, and guaranteed to construct a swimming pool for its sole use, costing approximately $100,000.00.

NOTICE! Following the custom of other educational journals “MIND AND BODY” will, in the future, not be published during July and August. The number of pages per issue will be increased from thirty-two to forty, thus more than offsetting the number lost by the two issues. Hereafter a year’s subscription will be for ten issues.

Digitized by

Goog.!
—145-

NATIONAL GERMAN AMERICAN TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.

June 30th to July 3rd the National German American Teachers’ Association will hold its convention at Milwaukee, Wis. Of the papers to be read at the meetings the following are of special interest:

Dr. A. Hoelper, High School, New York—Reform Movements.

Prof. Ernst Voss, Ph. D., State University, Madison, Wis.—The Public School of a Modem Republic, a Training School for Practical Idealists.

Emil Kramer, Public Schools, Cincinnati, 0.—The Training of the Teacher and His Further Self-Culture.

A. Werner Spanhoofd, Supt. of Modern Language Instruction, High Schools, Washington, D. C.—Psychological Foundations of the Methods of Modern Language Instruction.

Prof. James Taft Hatfield, Ph. D., Northwestern University, Evanston, 111.—German and Anglo-Saxon Relations in America.

Ernst L. Wolf, High School, St. Louis, Mo.—Means of Instruction in Modern Language Teaching.

A special feature of the convention will be an exhibition of means of instruction, text books and other publications relating to the teaching of modern languages. Publishers of this country, Germany and France have been invited to participate and have responded most readily. More than 2000 articles have so far been received. This exhibition will be of a great benefit to the cause of modern language c teaching and will help to modernize the phase of our school curriculum, especially, as it is to remain intact in Milwaukee at the National German American Teachers’ Seminary and will be made accessible to those interested also in the future. A catalog will be published stating publisher and price of each article exhibited.

Amongst the entertainments offered at the convention the most notable is a performance of Goethe’s “Iphigenie and Tauris,” to be given by members of the regular Stock Co. of the Pabst Theater of Milwaukee. This company stands foremost among the German Theater companies of the country, and an artistie treht may fairly be anticipated.

The President of the association is Max Griebsch, Director of the National German American Teachers’ Seminary. The Chairman of the Local Executive Committee is Leo Stern, Ass’t. Supt. of the Public Schools of Milwaukee. All Communications regarding rates and accomodations should be addressed to the latter.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

Gentlemen:	Hearty	congratulations	on	the	recent growth and im-

provement of “Mind and Body.” I would not miss my monthly copy for a great deal. I have recommended it to many of my pupils and use it frequently in the class room. I consider it a valuable as well as an interesting addition to my little library.

Yours cordiallv MARY W. BUTLER, N. H. N.*S. G., Class 1899.

Physical Director, State Normal School, Cortland, N\ Y.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—146 —

DAILY GYMNASTIC EXERCISES IN THE SCHOOLS OF

GERMANY.

By DR. D. V. BESSER, Philadelphia.

It is a well known fact that for some time gymnastic exercises have occupied a more or less prominent part in the schools of several nations. Germany especially made physical training an integral part of its school curriculum. The classes receive instructions twice or three times a week^ each lesson being of an hour’s duration. Not contented, however, with past achievments, a still more progressive policy has been proposed, which contemplates daily exercises of ten minutes duration. Experiments have demonstrated the beneficial influence of such a course. To arrive at a definite conclusion, tests of daily and weekly exercises have taken place in various parts of Germany. The results obtained'prove it a practical, efficient, and commendable measure. Taking its marked degree of popularity into consideration, it will only be a matter of time, when the daily periods will be universally adopted and used to supplement the present system.

Strange, but true, the present augmented course is used only in grammar grades. The new order, however, contemplates including all grades in the daily exercises. Another point in its favor is the fact that these supplementary exercises are to be practiced exclusively outdoors.

The present system of two or three hours gymnasium work has long been looked upon as a mere concession, and insufficiently applicable to modem conditions. Hence the demand for a more progressive policy.

A proposition of recent date outlines the introduction of daily half hour lessons for primary and grammar grades alike. Such a measure is eminently proper, praiseworthy, practical and logically correct. Its Adaptation would ultimately achieve high and satisfactory results.

Whatever the final decision may be, the present agitation has been productive of much good. It brought the question of modem intensive teaching prominently to the front.

GUTSMUTH’S TEN COMMANDMENTS.

FIFTH COMMANDMENT.

Humbly shalt thou keep thy feeling of courage and strength under the discipline of thy mind, and not boast of it, nor speak of it foolishly.

Interpretation:	In thy physical exercises thou shalt have for a pur-

pose the perfection of thy body and its skill, and not another, namely, the display of thy acquired skill, in order that thou mayest not be approached by the stranger, who would offer thee a juggler’s recompense, and—in order that gymnastic training may not be brought into disrepute. Whatever thou wouldst do, do it for the purpose of teaching, and to encourage thy neighbor. To use thy strength wantonly in attack on some one else is to boast of the brute’s strength.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-147-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

(Continued.'i

A Lesson for Girls (Misses) from 15—18 years or upwards.

A Class Drill, consisting of a series of dancing steps, followed by a dumbbell drill, class exercises on the apparatus and closing with the game “Dodge Ball,” or any other game that is well known.

The class to be arranged in couples facing in line of usual direction, the inner hands joined on a level with the shoulders, the outer hands in front support.

Daneing Steps.

% Time, (Polka.)

1.	Point 1. foot forw. in 4th pos. (toetouch forw.)—1! Point 1. foot

backw. in 4th pos. (toetouch backw.)—2! Repeat—3, 41 Four glides forw. 1.—5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9, 16!	8	measures.

2.	Hop on r. leg and raise 1. leg forw.—1! Hop on r. leg and move 1. leg backw.—2! Repeat—3, 4! Repeat second part of exercise 1— 5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9, 16!

3. Hop forw. obi. on 1. leg and raise r. foot behind (Jete)—1! Hop again on 1. leg, but on place, r. foot remains behind (Saute)—2! Repeat r.—3, 4! Repeat second part of exercise 1 forw. obi. to the 1.— 5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9, 16!

% Time. (Schottische.)

4. Two follow steps forw. 1.—1, 4! Four Chasses forw. 1.—5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9, 16!

5.	Glide and hop on 1. leg (r. leg raised backw., knee bent slightly)—1! Hop again on 1. leg, but on place—2! Step backw. on r.—3! Hop on r. leg, raise 1. leg forw., quickly bend 1. knee and extend—4! Four Chasses forw. obi. to the 1.—5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9, 16!

2A Time. (Polka.)

6.	Glide forw. 1.—1! Cut forw. with r. foot (i. e. the r. foot is placed where the , foot was and the 1. leg is raised forw.)—2! Leap on L leg and raise r. foot behind 1. lower leg (Jete)—3! Hop again on 1. leg (Saute)—4! Repeat all to r.—5, 8! Repeat several times alternately.

NOTE.—Every step ought to be repeated four, six or eight times before the succeeding step is taken.

An appropriate piece of music for the first three steps is “Glittering Snowflakes,” by Ed. Holst, published by Joseph Flanner, Grand Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.

For the fourth and fifth steps “Dance of 27,” by W. C. Powell, published by the W. C. Powell Co., Chicago, 111. A still better piece for the fourth and fifth steps is “Crimson Blushes” (Caprice), by Ida Lester, published by the Century Music Publishing Co., New York.

For the sixth step the same piece as the first may be used, but a change of music is always agreeable, therefore another piece suggested is “La Sorella,” by Ch. Borel-Clerc, published by Jerome H. Rennick &

f

Digitized by U.ooQle
-148-

Co., 45 W. 28th St., Few York, or 10 Witherall St., Detroit, Mich. Reform the class to flank formation and take dumbbells.

When the leader arrives at the center of the farther end of the gymnasium form ranks of lours by turning 1. face in successive order after four steps and march down the center to location for the drill.

Open ranks sidew. from the center. The outer rows to take three steps; but the inner rows one step on five and all closing on six.,

Dumbbell Drill.

Arms forw., knuckles turned inward (pronate)—raise!

1.	a) Move arms outw. (sidew.) and twist arms backw. (supinate)—It

Pos.—2! Arms—down!

Arms outw.—raise!

b) Bend forearms upon the arms (dumbbells under shoulders, elbows point outw.)—1! Pos.—2! Arms—down!

2.	Stride forw. 1. and raise arms outw. (dumbbells in vertical pos)—1! Bend trunk forw., move arms downw. and meet dumbbells behind 1. lower leg (knuckle turned forw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Or—5, 8!

Dumbbells over shoulders, elbows point outw., knuckles turned backw.—raise!

3.	Raise heels and stretch arms upw.—1! Pos.— ! Bend knees and stretch arms outw. (knuckles turned backw.)—3! Pos.—4t Arms —down!

4.	Stride backw. 1. and raise arms forw., knuckles turned inw.—1! Bend trunk backw., move arms outw., etc., as ex. 1 a—2! As—1, 3! Pos.— 4! Same r.—5, 8!

5.	Toetouch sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Bend r. knee, cross extended 1. leg behind, heel up, bend 1. arm on the back and bend r. arms overh. or the opposite pos. of the arms—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alt.—1, 8!

6.	Lunge forw. 1., bend trunk forw. and rest dumbbells on the floor, the

1.	foot in space between the hands—1! Move 1. foot backw. to join the r. to front leaning rest—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1, 8!

7.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh.—1,4! Exhale slowly and lower arms outw. to starting pos.—1, 4!

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same. Fours Vi wheel r. or 1. R. or 1. face, march forw. and deposit dumbbells.

March to place for exercises on the “Giant Stride.”

Giant Stride. (Six or eight simultaneously.)

Rest r. arm at elbow joint over the second round from above and grasp the third round on the farther side with the 1. hand.

1.	Run forw. in circle r. once or twice around for a good start, then swing with the lower legs raised three or four times aronud.

Grasp the second round from above with the r. hand and the third round on the farther side with the 1. hand:
-149-

2.	Run as under exercise 1, and swing with both knees raised forw..

Step over the lowest round with the r. leg, grasp the upper (or second) round with the r. hand, the 1. arm to hang free.

3.	Short running steps forw. in circle r. for a start, then push off only with the ball of the 1. foot, the r. leg now in knee hang, circling three or four times around.

NOTE.—Execute each exercise to the opposite side before the succeeding one is taken up.

If time permits then eight grasp two ropes close above the upper round sidew., so that a circle is formed.

4.	Run sidew. 1. (or r.) once around for a start, then swing with both legs raised backw.

NOTE.—If one or more members cannot hold the usual length of time, then she must call out to the others before she lets go, in order to avoid an accident.

The instructor ought to stand ready to offer assistance.

Change place and reform the class for exercises on the side horse.

Side Horse.

NOTE.—Two may exercise on each horse simultaneously on the ends, grasding tile one pommel with the inner hand, the other to be placed on the end.

After dismounting take one step sidew toward the outer side, turn 1. or r. about face and retreat to the rear of the respective file, at the same time the next members in order run forw.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1. * Jump up to knee stand 1. (or inner knee)—1! Dismount backw. to

bent-knee pos.—-2! Repeat, or opposite—3, 4!

2.	As ex. 1, on the inner knee—1! Place outer lower leg on the end— 2! As 1—3! Dismount backw.—4! Repeat once—5, 8!

3. As ex. 2,—1! Raise outer leg backw. to horizontal pos.—21 As 1—3! Dismount backw.—4! Repeat once—5, 8!

4.	Jump up to double knee stand—1! Stand erect—2! Down forw. to deep knee-bent pos. and swing arms forw.—-,3! Stand erect—4!

5. Jump to deep knee-bent pos. on end—1!	Stand	erect—2!	Dis-

mount forw., raise arms forw. overh. and y2 turn 1. to deep knee-bent pos. on the farther side—3! Stand erect—41

6.	Squat vault forw.

NOTE.—Execute exercises i, 2 and 3 to the opposite side by the two files changing places.

Remove all the apparatus and prepare for the game “Dodge Ball.” See rules.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.)

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE CONTINUATION SCHOOL.

“Paedogogische Reform” (No. 48):	If the Continuation Schools are

to fulfill their mission in the truest sense, then they must not consider the physical education, begun in the public schools, complete at the age of fourteen. The bodily development of youths who have left school is of such vital importance and interest to the state that it cannot afford to let this part of education pass out of its hands or observation. While physical activity is offered by many private institutions, it is not within financial reach of all, nor are the opportunities always without objection. The State supervision is essential now as before.
-loo-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

—The summaries of the Fencing and Swimming contests of the New York Normal School of Physical Education, held here at the Gymnasium on April 4th and 16th, are as as follows:

In the fencing competition Miss Euth Tattershall was- awarded first prize and Miss Marjorie Watson second in the women’s contest. Mr. James J. Kennedy first and Mr. Barnet Schapiro second in the men's contest.

In the class swimming contests Miss Isabel Watson won in the Junior nlass and Miss Kathryn O'Brien in the Senior class. The final results were Isabel Watson winning the all-round championship in swimming and Miss Kathryn O'Brien receiving second honors. Miss Maria Dowd champion in diving.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, PHELADELPHIA.

Dr. Mary Allen Bang is giving a course of five lectures to the women Normal Students on the physiology and anatomy of the pelvic organs.

The Girls Normal Basket Ball Team has ,not been defeated this winter, although they have met some of the strongest teams in this vicinity.

The present indications are that the entering Junior class in the fall will be the largest in the history of the Normal School.

The 14th Annual Gymnastic Exhibition wras held April 29th, and was a great success.

Senior Class Day Exercises will be held in the College Forum June 10th at 8 o'clock.

The Commencement Exercises will be held June 15th, Monday evening at 8 o'clock. Senior Class Banquet June 12th, 1908, at the^JMa-jestic Hotel.

Annual Meeting of the Alumni Association at 8 o'clock in the College Forum.

SARGENT NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Dr. Sargent, of Harvard University, has been invited to give an address on “Possible Advance in Physical Education in American Colleges" at the celebration of the seventy fifth anniversary of the founding of Oberlin College on June 24th, 1908. He will also deliver a lecture in Cleveland during the N. E. A. Convention.

The. graduating' class of the Sargent Normal School numbers 32. Commencement exercises will be held May 30th.

A conference^ of Kindergarten teachers of Boston was recently held in the assembly hall. Dr. Sargent read a paper on “Rhythm," and Miss Connor one on “The New Education." A very interesting discussion followed, participated in by Professors James and Ross of Har-

Digitized by C.ooQle
151-

vard, and others. This was followed by a demonstration by the Senior class of various forms of rhythm as they are applied in gymnastics. About 200 attended this conference.

During a week's trip Dr. Sargent recently delivered a lecture in Temple College, Philadelphia, and another in the National Park Seminary, Washington, D. C.

The following flattering invitation was sent to Dr. Sargent by the Deutsche Turnerschaft:

“Dr. Dudley A. Sargent:—The “Deutsche Turnerschaft" celebrates its eleventh gymnastic festival during the days of July 18th to 22nd of this year in the old “Kaiserstadt" Frankfurt on the Main. The festival is to give proof of the national and social significance of German gymnastics, and of the joyful and earnest labor of our youth in the service of promoting German national power. It is to be expected that the Deutsche Turnerschaft with its 8,000 societies and a membership of 800,000, together with the unbounded enthusiasm of the citizens and local authorities of Frankfurt, who have taken the management of this festival in hand, will give a good account of themselves and offer many and rich inspirations to the participants. We consider it an honor to extend to you a most hearty invitation to this festival and beg you to send an early and favorable reply to ihe undersigned Secretary'of the Deutsche Turnerschaft, Dr. Ruehl of Stettin."

Dr. Sargent has accepted the invitation and sails July 4th on board of the steamer Republic. He will spend several days at the Olympic. Gaines in London before going to Germany. We may look forward with pleasure to his account of this great experience.

NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS.

The art pictures loaned by the Herman Lieber Art Company for the Fall reception in honor of the faculty and the students pf the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. have been donated to the college by the Lieber family, in memory of Mr. Herm. Lieber, late Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the college, deceased. The pictures—eight in number— represent an Allegory of Science, Letters and Art (from the Sorbonne University, Paris, France); the Acropolis; Metope from the Parthenon; Hobbema Landscape; a Reading from Homer; Portrait of Washington, Mt. Vernon; and the Capitol at Washington. The gift was gratefully . acknowledged.

The catalogue for 1908-9, including a circular from President Kroh, has been mailed to the members of the Alumni Association of graduates of the Normal School and College of the N. A. G. U. The circular contains the announcement of the first meeting of the Association to take place June 20 to 21 in the German House, Indianapolis, and other matters of interest to the membership.

The catalogue has also been mailed to the 24 circuit addresses and

Digitized by CjOOQle
/

-152-

236 organizations of the X. A. G. IT., with a special circular bearing cn the newly provided one-year course for instructors in the gymnasia of ' the Union. The provisions for the new course are contained in this circular.

])r. Burkhardt of the College faculty, lectured before the membership of the Sociale Turnverein April 22nd. Dr. Burkhardffs interesting lecture and demonstrations on the college (Auzoux) models was given in response to a request from the active membership of the Turnverein. Dr. Burkhardt was assisted by Dr. Garrett, of the Indiana Medical College.

Dr. Robert Fisher and Dr. Burkhardt, as Mr. C. B. Sputh of the College Faculty will shortly sail for Europe. Mr. Sputh will participate in the Frankfort Gymnastic Festival, having been appointed to conduct the rehearsals of the song accompaniments selected in connection with the mass exercises to be produced, by the American delegation under the direction of Prof. Brosius of Milwaukee. This delegation will comprise about ten teams of gymnasts, all members of the X. A. G. TJ. Prof. Brosius, twenty-eight years ago, led the first team of American Turners to participate in a National German Gymnastic Festival. The extraordinary victories of his team at the time gave a great stimulus to German gymnastics.

The following members of the Alumni Association of the X. A. G. U. will sail for Europe next month, to participate in the German Gymnastic Festival at Frankfort-on-the-Main, beginning July 18th:

A. E. Kindervater, Chr. Eberhardt, Rich. Pertuch, Karl Heck-rich, W. Schmidt, 0. Strass, B. Seiffert, Julius Doert'er, Carl Sputh, X. C. Seuss, Oscar Sputh, Oscar Ruther, Dr. Robert Fischer, Chris Xeubauer, Ernst Thoma, Oscar Fager, Otto Meier, Otto Greubel, W. J. Utz, R. Meller, F. Krimmel.	'

The course in swimming was begun May 5th in the elegant quarters of the Marion Club, Indianapolis. The Marion Club possesses the best swimming pool in the city.

The second gymnastic exhibition of the Turnverein classes, ten in number, comprising the practice school of the college, was held toward the close of the past month in the large auditorium of the German House, before a vast audience, despite the inclement weather. The program, which was a long and interesting one, was conducted with a promptness, seldom witnessed on similar occasions. The apparatus work showed great progress. The most interesting numbers comprised ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade/ executed by some forty of the smallest boys of the school, who galloped into the arena, and filing between the apparatus, sat astride the balancing planks to reproduce all the antics of a horseman on a steeple chase. It was a very amusing number. The Reed Drill, interspersed with dancing figures, executed by some fifty Misses, and the ‘Aesthetic Dancing* number by a large class of ladies were artistic productions. The last number represented the novel idea of unfolding bouquets of rare loveliness—young ladies grouped on scaffolding in a manner to represent drooping flowers.
-153-

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG.

—PRESIDENT ELIOT of Harvard, in his annual report to the overseers of the University again gives expression to his well known views on College Athletics as follows:

“The exaggeration of athletic sports in schools and colleges remains a crying evil, and there are no clear signs that any effectual remedy is taking effect. The strong tendency of the highly competitive, violent games is to reduce the proportion of boys and young men who play them, and to impede the universal developement of wholesome sports accessible to all.

“To be sure, playing on teams is now confined to school years and three years in college, and is not allowed to students in professional schools; but these limitations have no tendency to make the playing of football, baseball, hockey and basket ball more general among school boys and students, for the fierce competition makes these games so intense that they are unsuitable for any but a small proportion of the schoolboys and the students.

“The college sport most popular with spectators and newspapers^ namely, football, is the least useful of all the games; because a smaller proportional number of students are fit for that sport than for any other. Another objection to all the violent sports is that they cannot be played after the college period.

“A sport which will be useful to any healthy man until he is 60 is a much more valuable college sport than one that he cannot play after he is 23. Every intelligent youth ought to cultivate sports that he knows will serve him until he is old, rather than those he cannot keep up after he leaves college. The moderate, generally available, and long available sports are also much more wholesome than the violent sports which only a few can endure, and these few only while they are young.

“The means of representing the prevailing exaggeration of athletic sports are obvious, as was stated in the last report. The number of in tercollegiate contests should be reduced to two in each sport during any one'season, the rest of the competition in each sport being exclusively home competition.

“The i&QSt, successfubsport at Harvard, as regards brirfgittg otitmfarty Competitors for honorsin the 'Sport, is rowing; and it has been abundantly proved that the interest in rowing can be fully maintained on two intercollegiate competitions in the year. In order to give this policy a chance to succeed, it would be necessary for two or more colleges to agree that they would permit only two intercollegiate contests in a season in each sport; for it would, of course, be useless for a college team that was permitted only two intercollegiate contests in a season to compete with a college team that was permitted 10 or 20.

“To turn out on the right day the most perfect team possible in any one of the intense sports, is a piece of administrative business to which much money, the best expert advice, the skill of professional teachers, and the whole life of the players for months must be devoted.

“One feature of this business is watching the performances of school

Digitized by c^ooQle
-154-

teams all over the country, and securing the best boy players by offering them favorable opportunities, pecuniary or other. Colleges which go heartily into this business will almost certainly succeed in athletic contests more frequently than colleges which do not. Whether they will so promote the real objects for which colleges exist, is a different matter. Many commercial interests strong^ promote the exaggeration of athletic sports in schools and colleges—as, for example, the hired managers and trainers, the dealers in supplies, the hotels, transportation companies and newspapers. * * *

‘ The American “modifications of Rugby football have now been played long enough to make possible a judgment as to the success of eminent football players in after life; and the verdict is what might have been expected. It clearly appears that neither the bodily nor the mental qualities which characterize football players are particularly serviceable to young men who have their wav to make in the intellectual callings. Football toughness is not the kind of toughness which is most profitable in after life.

“The weight and insensttiveness needed in the football line are not the bodily qualities which best serve the man who must make his living by quick, accurate and inventive thinking. To get accustomed to make one’s greatest exertions in the presence of shouting thousands and of the newspaper extra is bad preparation for the struggles of professional men, who must generally do their best work quite alone or in the presence of a few critical observers. Even for modern warfare the violent, competitive sports afford no appropriate preparation, inasmuch as in reaf warfare the combatants seldom see each other.”

*	*	*

ATHLETE BEATS PONY.

At a riding academy in New York City, recently, James P. Sullivan, the National A. A. U. one mile champion runner, defeated Heather-v bloom, a thoroughbred pony, in a half mile race.

Sullivan had a handicap of 40 yards and covered the distance in 2 minutes 5 seconds, winning by about l*/> yards.

*	*	*

70,000 SEE GAME ON BRITISH GRIDIRON.

The final game in the contest for the English Association Cup, the blue ribbon of the British football world and the goal for which all the ' best football teams in the country have been struggling throughout the last winter, was played at Crystal Palace, London, recently.

Wolverhampton Wanderers defeated the New Castle United by the score of 3 to 1.

The attendance, owing to the wintery weather, was between 60,000 to 70,000. This is rather small for these finals, which usually attract in the neighborhood of 100,000 persons.

* * *

NEW WORLD'S RECORD FOR POLE VAULT.

At the recent athletic meet held at the University of Pennsylvania,

Digitized by
-155-

W. E. Dray of Yale broke the world’s record for the pole vault, clearing

the bar at 12 feet 6y2 inches.

* * *

AMERICA’S CHANCE OF WINNING THE MAEATHON EACE IN ENGLAND THIS SUMMER That American Marathon runners are fast outstripping the world is ably proven by the official timekeeper, giving the order of the fininsh in the Boston Marathon held last month.

Twenty three runners beat the time Will Sherring made at Athens and 39 finished the long grind inside of the three-hour mark. In many cases the places were decided by a very few seconds or even feet. In no Marathon in history have the runners poured over the finish line such a steady stream. The time for the first ten men to finish is as follows:

1.	T. P. Morrissey				minutes 4314 seconds.
2.	John J. Haves			2 “	26	“ 4 »»
3.	Robert A. Fowler			2 “	26	“ 8 “
4.	Michael J. Ryan			 2 “	27	“ 8 “
5.	N. Wood			 2 “	27	“ 48
6.	James J. Lee			28	“ 34
7.	F. Lortz			 2	32	“ 20
8.	Samtnv Meller			 2 “	41	u i y
9.	A. Rov Welton			 2 “	43	“ 25
10.	John j. Goff..			 2 “	43	“ 54
The	39th runner finished the race in		3 hours 43 seconds.	

* * *

TEY-OUTS FOE OLYMPIC GAMES.

The try-outs for the Eastern Section of the country will be held June 6th, at Franklin Field, Philadelphia. A large entry is expected.

*	*	*

—Jay Gould of New York, world’s amateur court tennis champion, successfully defended his title of British Champion by defeating Eustace H. Miles., the British player and ex-champion, at the Queen’s Club, London, on Saturday, May 16th, the score being 6—2, 6—4), 1—6, 6—1.

*	*	*

SOME WORLD’S RECORDS IN HIGH ]UMPING.

Standing High Jump....... Ray C. Ewrv......... 5	ft.	5V4	in.

Running High Jump........ M. F. Sweeney......	6	ft.	5%	in.

High Jump tor a Horse.'.. “Conspirateur”.....	7	It.	11 Vfe	in.

Pole Vault............... W. R. Dray......... 12	ft.	5y2	in.

* * *

—Support is lacking for the Olympic Games. Thus far the A. A. IT. has received about $11,000 in contributions1 for the American Team; which is to be sent to England in July to defend the title of champion. It is estimated that at least $50,000 would be needed to send a representative team to England and unless this amount is forthcoming the A! A. U. will be forced to send fewer representatives, and thereby forego all hopes of again winning the championship.

\

Digitized by C^ooQle
—156—

NOTES FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

DISTANCE RUNNING.

Extensive experiments were made upon a number of men in Switzerland who ran 13 km. over a road with a rise of 120 m. There were 18 .starters between the ages of 17 to 21. All were examined before the race with special attention toward heart and lung function. Pulse and weight were taken shortly before the start. The two first runners .finished in 56, others in 59, CO, 63, 64, 66 up to 77 seconds. A loss of -weight was present in every case, mostly from y2 to li/2 kg., the greatest loss being 2i/> kg. The pulse rate had been raised to 138—200 beats per minute. In addition to these differences the heart showed enlargement and displacement of from 1 to 2 cm.

CHINAMAN AS WORLD’S RECORD HOLDER.

En Sue is said to have established a world’s record in the 50 yard dash at a recent meet in Honolulu, breaking the tape at the 5.2 second mark. The American record is 5.4 seconds, held by Rice.—D. Tztg.

GERMAN FOOTBALL UNION.

The annual report of the organization, dated Jan. 1st, 1908. show’s a total membership of 44,598, divided among 738 clubs. A year ago the figures were 32,779 members in 555 clubs. The number of accidents in the year 1906 was 109 out of 22,539 active players.

STADIUM IN THE GRTJNEWALD (BERLIN)

The plans for this, new home for athletics have now been accepted. It will contain a bicycle track of 666 2/3 m. and on the inside space a cinder track of 400 m. Besides there will be space reserved for football, cricket, hockey and gymnastic games. The auditorium, in a semi-circle form, will seat 28,000 people. The dressing rooms are located about the •swimming pool which measures 100 m. by 30 m. The Stadium is to be opened in 1909.

—A German Tumverein has recently been organized in Shanghai, bearing the name “Jahn.”—D. Tztg.

"GAMES” IN RELATION TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

%

The value of rational Recreative Exersise can scarcely be overestimated, but it must be rational and it must be supplimented by the lion-recreative.

It must be rational not only in the sense of being duly proportioned in amount and character to the physical condition of those taking part in it, but also in the sense of bringing a proper ratio to the mental work done and the periods available for repose. With the young, and probably with all, what is done as an amusement will be better done, and produce better results, than what is done as a task; and hence the exercise afforded by "Games” is possibly the most beneficial of all.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-157-

But it must be remembered that the excessive energy always present during the developmental stage of life has to be reckoned with, and that the natural tendency of the young is towards extremes. Hence a duly cualified games master (or mistress) is as necessary to the staff of a school as a gymnastic instructor; and the best of all results will be probably obtained where one individual discharges the duties of both offices.— Ph. Ed.

•	MARCHING	RECORDS	OF	THE	INFANTRY.

The Prussian Minister of War offered the following report of the last manoeuver:	Effective warlike exertions are the purpose of

manoeuvers. Marches, covering distances from 40 to 50 km., are noth^ ing extraordinary. The manoeuvering troups were 55,837 in number. At the close of the first day, Sept. 9th, there w^ere 133 cases of sore feet and on the last day. Sept. 11th, 333 men, a remarkable condition indeed.—D. Tztg.

DEUTSCHE TURNERSHAFT AT THE OLYMPIAN GAMES.

The Deutsche Turnersehaft will be represented by 32 picked* men, 24 of which represent Germany in the international team competition, v/hile the other eight men will enter for the individual contests.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS IN SWEDEN.

According to the “Gymnastique Scolaire” gymnastics are given four times a week y2 hour each. In some schools there are daily 30-r-40 minute lessons. The Middle Schools for higher education, where the ages of the boys vary from 7 to 19, devote four forty-five minute periods a week to this education, which, in the last two years of school, is supplemented by fencing 2 hours a week.

BOOK REVIEW.

—MESSAGES TO MOTHERS, by Herman Partsch, M. D. Published by Paul Elder & Co., San Francisco and New York.

The book aims to present a simple, practical and natural scheme for-v right diet, for the care and treatment of mother and child, and is a plea for the consenation of power.

In a volume of some 172 pages Dr. Herman Partsch has collected the utilitarian results of a series of vital human nature studies undertaken by him as a regular physician during twenty-three years of successful practice. It is primarily addressed to mothers because it concerns them chiefly and because, as he says, they will be the most impartial judges. Its contents are: Power in Physiological Functions and in all Organization, growth and Work; Sickness and Pregnancy, Its Cause Revealed and, its Prevention Explained; Natural Infant Feeding, The Reason Why It Fails and the Way It Will succeed; The Maternity Nurse, Spontaneous' Intuition Compared with Artificial Training; Ills of the Weaning Period, Their Causes, Results, Prevention and Cure; Sweet Fruits Versus Con-

Digitized by C^ooQLe
—158—

fections, The Merits of the Natural and the Evils of the Artificial; Some Failures at School, Why they Occur and How They May be Avoided.

Mailing price $1.60. To be had from aMind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—PLAYGROUND BALL. “Playground Ball” is the latest book published in Spalding’s Athletic Library. This book treats in an exhaustive way of the latest innovation in the line of outdoor sports and has been edited by B. L. Welch, who is Secretary of the National Playground Ball Association of the United States.

Playground Ball is our traditional game of American base ball so modified that it may be played in large cities and restricted areas in spite of the adverse conditions found in these places.

But why it is necessary to publish a separate book for the rules of this game, and organize a National Playground Ball Association of the United States, we cannot understand. It seems to us this is another one of these misguided instances of good will, where, instead of being satisfied with having produced a good modification of a good game some one must immediately do his best to cast it into professional form. Those of our readers who do not understand the variations of the German Baseball game (one form of it now being introduced amongst us under the name of of Longball) should buy the book. The choice of running to either first or third base offers many surprises. The book is to be had at any sporting goods store. Price 10 cents.

-VOLKS- UND JUGENDSPIELE. Leipzig. B. G. Teubner, 1908 Jahrbuch. The yearbook 190S, published by the German Federation in the interest of play, has just made its appearance. It is divided into seven parts with a total of 317 pages and 32 illustrations. Part 1 contains articles and reports of a general character, one being by the well-known physiologist Dr. F. A. Schmidt on the value of games for pupils in special schools, i. e. schools for the mentally defective or deficient. Part 2 presents a concise description of 53 new books on play and related subjects that were published in Germany during the year 1907. Part 3 has reports concerning the obligatory play-afternoon, that adjunct to the* two or three hours of regular gymnastic work that now is being pushed so rapidly in Germany. Part 4 is a report on rowing and tramping. Part 5 contains reports on the play movements, national festivals, children’s festivals, field-days, etc., in many localities. Part 6 reports on 44 play-courses for the instruction of teachers to be held in different parts of Germany during 1908, giving also in concise form the aim and procedure of these courses. In 1907 the attendance at these courses was 2127 teachers, 809 of whom were women, and 1318 were men. Part 7 is a business report of the central committee. It is interesting to find, among the regular receipts sums like the following: the Councellor of the German Empire 6,000 M. and the Ministry of Churches and Schools 5,000 M.

The book is commended to all who are interested in this great move-

Digitized by LaOOQle
-159-

inent in onr own country, showing as it does how another large country is solving this problem. Mailing price $1.30. “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

Gentlemen:	I	am glad to note the new features in your interesting

magazine and wish “Mind and Body” an ever increasing circulation.

yours etc

OSCAR W. FREIDENRICH, 26 West’ 97th St., Few Y-rk.

The Playaround season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to use the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such teachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

By U&avie dBray.

The large variety of games described in this book will be certain to offer valuable games just suited to your particular conditions.

Mailing price 75 cents.	MIND	AND	BODY,

Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

PERTUCH’S

Famous Wand-Exercises

FOR THE

28th Festival of the N. A. G. U.

at Philadelphia, 1900.

lO <H4*.

A Gymnastic Nomenclature

BY

E.	H. ARNOLD, M. D.

Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

PART I.

FREE GYMNASTICS.

PRICE, 35 CTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPANY

Boom 52, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by LaOOQle
Catalog of Commendable Booh on Physical Training

Anatomical Models. A Pictorial Representation ot the Human Frame and Its Organs. Whittakers... .75

Anthropometric Chart.—By Dr. Fr Pfister.....	02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination.—By

Dr. J. W. Seavers......................... 1.50

Art of Attack and Defense. A Manual 01 Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and

Boxing.—By Major W. J. Elliott ..............25

Art of Boxing, Dick’s.—A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-Defence. Illustrated. 127

pages ...........y..~....................... 25

Art of Swimming (illustrated). By Rich. F.

Nelligan.................................    60

Art of Wrestling, Dick’s.—A Hand-Book of

Thorough Instruction in Wrestling............25

Athletic Groupings, Taken from Life.—By Dr.

Robert Nohr................................  25

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By Homer Curtis..... 1.00

Boy Problem, The. A Study in Social Pedagogy.—

By M. B. Forbush.......................... x	.00

Children’s Old and New Singing Games. By

Mari R. Hofer.................................50

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz_ .60

Drills, Fancy, Illustraded by Diagrams for Children.—By Kellogg............................25

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton.......................30

Drills and Marches.—By Rook....................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude

Williams-Lundgren............................50

Efficient Life.—By Luther Halsey Gulick..... 1.20

Elementary Apparatus Work of the German System of Gymnastics.—By E. H. Arnold, M.

D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton............25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of, in Form of a

Catechism.—By Geo. Heintz, Sr................25

Games—Education by Plays and.—Johnson....... 1.00

Games, Gymnastic.—Classified by E. H. Arnold.

Compiled by Annie R. Hughes. Bound........ x.oo

Paper......................................  70

Games, Physical, for the Youth.—By A. Leibold... .20 Games for Schools and Gymnasia.—By W. C.

Schaefer. Boards...........................  50

Games, 150.—By Carrie A. Harper............. 1.10

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By

Maria Grey............*....................  70

Graded Appratus Work.—By S. P. Middleton.... 1.00

Gymnastic Exercises for Elementary Schools, Supplemented by Fancy Steps and Games. By

Harriet E. Trask... .......j.................67

Gymnastic Tactics. Part I: Tactics of the Individual.—By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics......	.20

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums —By W. A.

Stecher.............................      2.50

Gymnastic Nomenclature of the Y. M. C. A. of

North America.,..............................5°

Good Health.—By Luther Halsey Gulick..........50

Health, Strength and Power.—Dr. D. Sargent. 1.75

do., bound elegant.......................  3.00

Horizontal Bar, The—By	H.	Butterworth..... 1.00

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids

and Games.—By H. Butterworth...............

Indian Club Swinging, x, 2 and 3 Club Juggling.

—By Fr. E. Miller........	   :

Infantry Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army..

Manual of Exercises in Free Gymnastics and

Tactics.—Arranged by E. H. Arnold..........

Manual of Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton Leibold..............................

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.. Manual of Physical Training.—B> Dr. T. Toepel.. May-Pole Possibilities, Illustrated, by Jennette E.

C. Lincoln.................................

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic, Part I.—By E.

H. Arnold, M. D...................*........

Physical Exercises. A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics and Their Beneficial

Influence. By Dr. F. A Schmidt.............

Physical Education by Muscular Exercise.—

By Dr. L. H. Gulick.......................

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Suder.

First and Second Grades....................

Third and Fourth Grades....................

Fifth Grade...............................

Sixth Grade................................

Physical Training in the School Room,—By Hans

Ballin.....................................

Physical Training.—By Dr. T. Toepel. 8 Grades,

each.......................................

Physiology of Bodily Exercise.—By Ferdinand

Lagrange, M. D ............................

Popular Folk Games and Dances, arranged by

Man R. Hofer...............................

Practical Training for Athletics, Health and

Pleasure. By Rud. Faries, A. M , M. D....;..

Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Six

Parts, each................................

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part	1:	60 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar..

“	II:	50	“	“ two	“ Bars....

**	III:	50	**	Table and	chairs.....

"	IV:	70	“	“ “	“ .......

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Fart: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses..

Second Part: 40 Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses....

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders .........

Pyramids and Postures.—Arranged by Albert B.

Wegener............ .......................

Physical Nature of the Child.—By Rowe.....

Personal Hygiene.—By Pyle....................

School Hygiene.—By Edw. R. Shaw..............

Song-Roundels and Games.—By Henry Suder......

Statistical Methods.—By Geo. W. Moo rehouse, M. L. From the Physiological Laboratory, Lawrence Scientific School. Harvard University Swedish System.—By Baron Nils Posse.

The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition*......

—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System. Cloth, 50 cts. Interleaved Cloth...

Town and City.—By Luther Halsey Gulick.......

Wand Drill.—By R. Pertuch....................

1.00

1.00 •75

.20

.65

•-5°,

•50

1.35

•35

•75

•*5

•25

•30

.3°

x.oo

I 75 •75

x.oo

*4S

.70

.55

•55

.70

.70 .50 1.00

• 15

•90

1.50

x.oo

•75

2.75

•75 '

.60

.xo

COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $1.00; bound $1.75* (Postage paid.)

Issues No. 1, 2, 72 and 149 are out of pfint.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bdg., Mii.wauk.ee, Wis

Digitized by Google
THE

NEW YORK |\|ORMALSCHOOLof

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Prepares men and women to become Teachers	of Physical Education.

I@“ All systems taught. — Specialist in every department. “©I ©dialogue ft* i*. mailed on application*

TEACHERS SUPPLIED. SWIMMING a feature.

DR. WATSON L. SAVAGE, President,

308 and 310 West 59th Street, New York City.

'STATE COLLEGE WANTS MAN

We have been asked to find a physical director and track coach for a State College. Permanent position.

A prominent university—a school having an enrollment of over twelve hundred students—wants an athletic director for next year.

Woman’s College desires lady to take full charge of new gymnasium in September. Salary, $1200.00.

Other good openings to suit you. Write for full information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics

307 York Street

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

SUMMER SESSION: July 6th to Aug. 7, 1908

for ©ivcuJar.

WE OFFER

$1.00 CASH

For No. 1, 2, 9, and 24 of “Mind and Body.”

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wl%

MEDARTS

NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

should be in the hands of everyone interested in gymnasium work. It covers everything that is used in the gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

3535 DeKalb St., ST. LOUIS, MO

Complete Volumes

-OF-

<<

MIND s’*® BODY”

$1.00. Bd. $1.75.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wla.
NARRAGANSETT MACHINE

Write for Catalogs.

PROVIDENCE, R.I., U.S.A.

*r.

NORMAL COLLEGE § NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 18G1; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics (G.. G,). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.); The College also offers an elementary one-vear course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address KARL J. KROH, President of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St.. Indianapolis, Ind._

JUST OUT!

Successful Drills and Marches

..BY...

GERTRUDE WILLI AMS-LUND GREN,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.