MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	APRIL,	1917	No.	258

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

1				
				

BIRTH CONTROL*

Its Medical, Social, Economic and Moral Aspects

BY S. ADOLPHUS Kl*OPF, M. D.

Professor of Medicine, Department of Phthisiotherapv, at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital; Visiting Physician to the Riverside Hospital-Sanatorium for the Consumptive Poor of the Health Department of the City of New York.

When at this very moment across the sea in Europe the best blood of the nations which were heretofore considered the most enlightened, cultured and civilized, is daily being shed and hundreds of thousands of young men in the prime of life sacrificed to the Moloch of war, it must seem a hazardous undertaking to talk of birth control, which means artificial birth limitation and by some superficial observers is designated as race suicide.

* Address delivered by invitation at the forty-fourth annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, Cincinnati, Oct. 27, 1916. Reprint by permission of the New York Medical Journal.

Digitized by
52

But my appeal is not a plea for reducing the population but for increasing its vigor by reducing the number physically, mentally and morally unfit and adding to the number of physically strong, mentally sound, and higher morally developed men and women.

I	deal first with the medical and sanitary aspects of the subject. No one will deny that we occasionally come across a well-to-do and intelligent family where by reason of unusual vigor, and particularly by reason of the physical strength of the mother, the parents have been able to rear a large number of children. In some instances all have survived and have grown up to be healthy and vigorous. But these instances are rare and are becoming more and more so every day. On the other hand, large families, that is to say, numerous children as the issue of one couple, are an every-day spectacle among the ignorant, the poor, the underfed and badly housed, the tuberculous, the degenerate, the alcoholics, the vicious and even the mentally defective.

It is well known to every general practitioner whose field of activity lies among the poor and the above-mentioned classes, that infant mortality among these is very great. The same holds true of the mortality of school children coming from large families in these classes of population.

Concerning tuberculosis, which, by reason of many years’ experience, I am perhaps more familiar with than with other medical and social diseases, let me relate the interesting fact that a carefully taken history of many, many cases has revealed to me: that with surprising regularity the tuberculous individual, when he or she comes from a large family, is one of the latter-bom children—the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, etc. The explanation for this phenomenon is obvious. When parents are older, and particularly when the mother is worn out by frequent pregnancies and often weakened because obliged to work in mill, factory or workshop up to the very day of confinement, the child will come into the world with lessened vitality, its main inheritance being a physiological poverty. This systemic poverty will leave it less resistent, not only to tuberculosis but to all other diseases of infancy and childhood as well.

The morbidity and mortality among these children is greatest when the children are most numerous in one family. In a publication of the Infant Mortality Series, Emma Duke gives the result of a field study in Johnstown, Pa., based on the births of one calendar year, 1911. The inspection was made of the 1911 babies in 1913 so that even the last bom baby had reached its first birthday—or rather has had a chance to reach its first birthday; many of them were dead long before that day. The following is Miss Duke’s table showing the infant mortality rate for all children born of married mothers in Johnstown during that year:

Deaths per 1,000 births in

Families of 1 and 2 children ............... ....	108.5

Families of 3	and 4 children.....................126.0

Families of 5	and 6 children....................152.8

Families of 7	and 8 children.... ...............176.4

Families of 9	and more children..................191.9

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
53

Dr. Alice Hamilton, of the Memorial Institute for Infectious Diseases, Chicago, made a study of 1,600 famil es in the neighborhood of Hull House. The following is the table of the child mortality rate of the 1,600 families as published by Dr. Hamilton:

Deaths per 1,000 births in

Families of 4 children and less.....................118 .

Families of 6 children..............................267

Families of 7 children..............................280

Families of 8 children..............................291

Families of 9 children and more.....................303

Many families were found of thirteen, fourteen and even sixteen members. The largest of all was that of an Italian woman who had borne twenty-two children—and raised two. The small families of every nationality had a lower mortality rate than the large families of the same nationality. The Jewish families of four and less had the astonishingly low mortality rate of 81 per 1,000, while in families of eight and more the rate rose to 260 per 1,000.

The larger the family the more congested will be the quarters they live in and the more unsanitary will be the environment. Last, but not least, with the increase of the family there is by no means a corresponding increase of the earning capacity of the father or mother, and as a result mal-nutrition and insufficient clothing enter as factors to predispose to tuberculosis or cause an already existing latent tuberculosis to become active.

What is the result of this condition in relation to tuberculosis— one single disease? Out of the 200,000 individuals who die annually of tuberculosis in the United States, 50,000 are children. According to the same authors 65 per cent of women afflicted with tuberculosis even when afflicted only in the relatively early and curable states, die as a result of pregnancy which could have been avoided and their lives been saved had they but known the means of prevention. Some times we succeed in saving such a mother by a timely and careful emptying of the uterus. But an abortion even scientifically carried out and resorted to only with the view of saving the life of the mother is never desirable, either for the consultant to advise, or for the gynecologist or obstetrician to perform; and who will dare to say even under the best conditions that this operation is devoid of danger?

What is the explanation and what are the consequences from the point of view of sanitation of the death of 50,000 tuberculous children? They have mostly become infected from tubercu ous parents or tuberculous boarders who had to be taken into the family to help pay the rent. In the crowded homes of the poor there was neither sunlight nor air nor food enough to cure the sufferers and before they died they became disseminators of the disease. Nearly all of the infectious and communicable diseases are more prevalent in the congested, overcrowded homes of the poor, and particularly of those with large families. The propagation of syphilis and gonorrhoea by contact infection, other than sexual, can sometimes be avoided in the homes of the well-to-do by enlightenment and the conscientiousness of the afflicted. It is almost invariably communicated to the innocent in the homes of the ignorant and poor. Go-

Digitized by

Google
54

norrhoeal infection from parent to child or from one infected member of the family to the other is responsible more than anything else for the 57,272 blind persons in the United States.

The great syphilographer Fournier left us the following irrefutable satistical evidences of the seriousness of syphilitic transmission: As a result of paternal transmission there is a morbidity of 37 per cent and a mortality of 28 per cent; maternal transmission resulted in 84 per cent morbidity and 60 per cent mortality; and the combined transmissions are no less than 90 per cent of morbidity and 68.5 per cent mortality.

I	venture to say right here that would or could a syphilitic or gonorrhoeic parent be taught how to prevent conception during the acute and infectious stages of his or her disease there would certainly be less inherited syphilis, less blindness from gonorrhoeal infection, in other words, fewer unfortunate children in this world handicapped for life and a burden to the community.

That insanity, idiocy, epilepsy and alcoholic predisposition are often transmitted from parent to child is now universally admitted and corroborated by every-day experience and by an a-bundance of statistics. Countless are the millions of dollars expended for the maintenance of these mentally unfit. The state of New York alone spends $2,000,000 annually for the care of its insane. Whether sterilization of these individuals would be the best remedy is a question still open for discussion. The constitutionality of the procedure is doubted by some of our legal authorities. Segregation is resorted to in the meantime with more or less rigor according to state laws. Every year, however, many of the individuals who had been committed to institutions for the treatment of mental disorders are discharged as cured. They are allowed to procreate their kind. Would it not^be an economic saving if at least the individuals whose intelligence has been restored were instructed in the prevention of bringing into the world children who are most likely to be mentally tainted and to become a burden to the community?

The economic loss to our commonwealth from bringing into this world thousands of children mentally and physically crippled for life is beyond calculation, for who will dare to calculate in dollars and cents the loss which has accrued to the community because so many mothers died of tuberculosis when an avoidable pregnancy was added to a slight tuberculous ailment in a curable stage? , Who will dare to estimate the cost of the loss of an equally large or perhaps larger number of mothers afflicted with serious cardiac or renal diseases, or frail or ill from other causes, whose lives couid, have been prolonged had an additional pregnancy not aggravated their condition?

Of the many mothers, married and unmarried, who have become chronic invalids and even lost their lives as a result of having resorted to abortive measures in order to rid themselves of an unwelcome child, no statistics are available. If there were, they would be an appalling evidence of the great danger of such criminal procedures and would certainly show the advantage of a more

Digitized by ^ooQle
$5

enlightened attitude regarding the means of contraception, at least for the married women who are enfeebled or diseased.

The many diseases I have mentioned whereby children in large families and mothers because of too frequent pregnancies are carried off to an early grave are not limited to the poor. In regard to economies, the middle class suffers also. Thus, if even a relatively well-to-do family begins to increase all out of proportion to the earnings of the father, the family will soon be in want and approaching poverty. Less and less good food, less sanitary housing, less care of the children and more sickness will almost inevitably result. Every sickness or death of child or adult has increased the expenses of the family. There is the doctor’s bill, the druggist’s bill and, last but not least, that of the undertaker. A grave has to be purchased. If there have been savings, they are gradually swallowed up and debts are often contracted for the sake of a decent funeral.

Next to the medical and sanitary comes the physiological aspect of birth control, which can be summarized in a very few sentences. The average mother with two, three or four children, not in too rapid succession, but with two or three years’ interval, is physiologically, that is to say, physically and mentally, stronger and better equipped to cope with life’s problems than the mothers worn out and weakened by frequent and numerous pregnancies.

What is the physiological effect of voluntary artificial restriction of the birth-rate on the offspring? In Holland, where the medical and legal professions have openly approved and helped to extend artificial restriction of the birth-rate, the health of the people at large, as shown by its general death-rate, has improved faster than in any other country in the world. At the recent Eugenics Congress it was stated that the stature of the Dutch people was increasing more rapidly than that of any other country— the increase being no less than four inches within the last fifty years. According to the Official Statistical Year Book of the Netherlands, the proportion of young men drawn for the army over 5 feet 7 inches in height has increased from 24 1-2 to 47 1-2 per cent since 1865; while the proportion below 5 feet 2 1-2 inches in height has fallen from 25 per cent to under 8 per cent. *

In that enlightened country, the teaching by the medical profession of the most hygienic methods of birth limitation has enabled the poor to have small families which they could raise to be physically and morally better equipped than formerly, and what is most interesting to observe is that, whether as a result of this or for some other reason, the families among the well-to-do aremot neaily as small as in other countries.

In Australia and New Zealand, the means of artificial restriction are in free circulation and the restriction of families is almost universal. Yet these two English colonies have furnished to their mother country in these hours of struggle the most efficient, and

* The Small Family System; Is It Injurious or Immoral? By Dr. C. V. Drysdale. Published by B. W. Huebsch, New York.

Digitized by kjOOQle
66

physically and mentally best equipped regiments. The soldiers of Australia and New Zealand have shown themselves brave and fearless fighters and certainly equal, if not superior, as far as physical endurance is concerned, to their English brethren. In the latter country it is well known birth control is frowned upon by the legal and nearly all the ecclesiastical authorities.

And what of France? Before the present war Drysdale, in his book, The Small Family System, very aptly said:

“It has become the fashion to speak of the depravity of France, of her alcoholism, of her disregard for law and order, and her terrible crimes passionels, and to ascribe them to the falling birthrate. If this were the case, it is obvious that these evils would be most intense where the process had gone furthest, i. e., in the cantons of the lowest birth-rate (the French islands of Re and Oleron).”

The passions of the inhabitants of these islands are very innocent.

“They are reading and dancing. The dancing, always decent, is the preparation for marriage; illegitimate births are very rare. One could not imagine manners more pleasant or more honorable. Nevertheless the birth-rate in these islands is among the lowest. It is because everyone there is more or less of a proprietor. Each person has some property to protect; each is ambitious for his children.”

But we have the authority of Dr. Bertillon, the French statistician, that it is just in the cantons of these islands in which the greatest moral improvement has taken place, and that where the French have obeyed the command to increase and multiply there alcoholism and crime abound.

Let me quote briefly from an editorial on contraception which appeared in the Medical Times of April, 1916:

“France today is presenting her splendid spectacle of utter efficiency to the world because only the fittest of her people have survived, and the chief factor there has admittedly been contraception. Surely we have heard the last of the croakers about decadent France. Holland would give an equally good account of herself if the need should arise and for the same reason.”

Because of a high birth-rate concomitant with a high infant and child mortality rate, we have already touched in part on the economic cost growing into the millions which accrues annually to the nation. Well may we ask the question whether disease and the deaths of thousands of women and children can not be prevented by an enlightened attitude toward the question of birth control. Why is it not done? If the millions of dollars expended uselessly reverted to the nation’s wealth, would they not add immeasurably to the health and economic happiness of the.nation at large?

The social or sociological aspects of our topic are closely interwoven with the economic. That the social and moral life of a smaller family, where the father earns enough to support wife and children and where the mother can devote her time to the care
57

of them, and where neither she nor the children must go out and help in the support of the family, is superior to that of a family with a large number of children where the mother and often the older children must slave, does not permit discussion. The larger the family of the poor, the more child labor, the more there is dis-ruption and irregularity, and the more frequently one finds a lower standard of life and morals in general.

The records of charities and benevolent societies amply prove that as a rule the larger families are that apply for relief the greater is their distress.

That judicious birth control does not mean race suicide, but, on the contrary, race preservation, may best be shown from the reports from Holland. The average birth-rate in the three principal cities of Holland was 33.7 per 1,000 in 1881, when birth-control clinics were started. In 1912, it had fallen to 25.3 per 1,000. The general death-rate, however, had dropped in the same period from 24.2 to 11.1 per 1,000, or less than half, while the two-thirds reduction in the mortality of children under one year of age—from 209 to 70 per 1,000 living births—is even more significant. ( Control News, published by Birth Control League of Ohio Cleveland.)

As a final evidence of the social and economic value of imparting information concerning family limitation, permit me to quote from a personal letter from the great pioneer of this humanitarian movement. Dr. J. Rutgers, honorable secretary of the Neo-Malthusian League of The Hague. The league has been in existence since 1888 and received its legal sanction by a royal decree January 30, 1895. It has 6,000 contributing members; all information is given gratuitously. As a result of this league in Holland one does not see any more children dressed in rags as in former years prior to the starting of the movement. To use the venerable secretary’s own words:

“All children you now see are suitably dressed, they look now as neat as formerly only the children of the village clergyman did. In the families of the laborers there is now a better personal and general hygiene, a finer moral and intellectual development. All this has become possible by limitation in the number of children in these families. It may be that now and then this preventive teaching has caused illicit intercourse, but on the whole morality is now on a much higher level, and mercenary prostitution with its demoralizing consequences and propagation of contagious diseases is on the decline.

“The best test (the only possible mathematical test) of our moral, physiological and financial progress is the constant increase in longevity of our population. In 1890 to 1899 it was 46.20; in 1900 to 1909 it was 51 years. Such rise cannot be equalled in any other country except in Scandinavia where birth limitation was preached long before it was in Holland. None of the dreadful consequences anticipated by the advocates of clericalism> militarism and conservatism have occurred. In spite of our low birth-rate the population in our country is rising faster than ever before, simply

Digitized by
58

because it is concomitant with a greater economic improvement and better child hygiene.” s The good doctor closes his letter by saying: “One must have been a family physician for twenty-five years like myself in a large city (Rotterdam) to appreciate the blessings of conscious motherhood resulting in the better care of children, the higher moral standard. And all these blessings are taken away from you by your government’s peculiar laws, made to please the Puritans.”

To these latter well-meaning people and those similarly minded who fear race suicide, particularly a decline of the American stock, I strongly recommend the reading of that splendid address of Dr. Charles A. L. Reed, former president of the American Medical Association, entitled The American Family. In the chapter on The Outlook of the American Family, he very pertinently says: “We see in a declining birth-rate only a natural and evolutional adjustment of race to environment—an adjustment that insures rather than menaces the perpetuation of our kind under favoring condition.” And concerning under-population in general, this distinguished writer says in the same address: “It seems, indeed, to the careful student that the danger to the American family today and still more in the future lies ift the direction of overpopulation rather than under-population.”

I may say in passing that in the state of New York we have observed the alarming phenomenon that the proportional increase among the insane is double that among the sane population.

And now I approach the last and most important phase of my subject, namely, the moral, which to me means no less than the religious phase of this great problem. Let me say that 1 approach it with awe and reverence, for I believe I fully understand the import of it. A quarter of a century of practice among the tuberculous, the rich and the poor, in palatial hemes, humble cottages, dark and dreary tenements, and in overcrowded hospitals, has shown me enough to bring to my mind the utter immorality of thoughtless procreation, and my experience has been limited to this one disease of the masses. The tears and sufferings I have witnessed when I have had to decline help because it was too late to prevent, the despair of the poor, frail mother at the prospect of another inevitable confinement and later the sight of a puny babe destined to disease, poverty and misery has made me take the stand I am taking today. I am doing it after profound reflection and fully aware of the opposition I api bound to meet. But in my early career as an anti-tuberculosis crusader I became accustomed to the fate of those who venture on new and heretofore untrodden paths of progress.

What would be the moral outcome of birth control, or, let us rather say, rational family limitation, should it be judiciously taught to those seeking and needing the advice? Millions of unborn children would be saved by contraception from the curse of a handicapped existence as members of a family struggling with poverty or disease.

There are hundreds of young men and women, physically

Digitized by ^ooQle
59

and morally strong, who gladly would enter wedlock if they knew that they could restrict their families to such an extent as to raise a few children well. But their fear of a large family retards, if it does not prevent, their happiness and, facto, the procreation of a better and stronger man and womanhood. The woman withers away in sorrowful maidenhood and the man, whose sexual instincts are often so strong that he cannot refrain, seeks relief in association with unfortunate and often diseased prostitutes. The result is a propagation of venereal diseases with all its dire consequences.

Physicians, sanitarians and social workers know what these consequences are. They involve sterility, physical and mental suffering in the man, or sterility in both man and woman, and according to the severity of the infection—abortion, premature labor, a dead child, or one lastingly tainted with disease.

At times disease does not enter as a factor in the tragedy, but the result is a girl-mother, a blasted life—for our double standard of morality recognizes the “sin” only in our sisters, not in ourselves. Of her, compassionate tongues only, say she loved not wisely but too well; of him nothing is said at all. He is spotless and virtuous in the eyes of the world and can go through life as if he had never sinned and been responsible for a wrecked life or two.

Even our moralists must acknowledge that by an early marriage with a man of her choice, enabled by understanding to limit the number of children, many a girl would be saved from so-called dishonor and in many instances from prostitution.

One of the strongest arguments of our moralists and purists is that the knowledge of contraception would lead the young to enter forbidden sexual relations and degrade them morally. Granted that this may happen in a number of instances, the benefit derived from a diminution of venereal diseases, from a greater number of happy and successful marriages among the younger people, fewer but better and healthier offspring instead of an unrestricted procreation of the underfed, the tuberculous, the alcoholics, the degenerate, the feebleminded and insane would more than outweigh the isolated instances of sexual intercouse prior to marriage.

In view of all the facts, I feel impelled to plead with all earnestness for the abolishment of the state and federal laws which make the imparting of knowledge for contraception a criminal offense. I plead for the establishment of gratuitous clinics, directed by regular physicians of high repute, remunerated by city or state, who are competent to give information as to birth limitation in such cases where they deem the giving of such instructions advisable.

As to the urgency and the wisdom of efforts to change these laws,* I am sure that you will be willing to listen to the words

* United States Criminal Code, Section 211 (Act of March 4, 1909, Chapter 321, Section 211, U. S. Statutes at Large, Vol. 35, art 1, page 1088 et seq.). New York Statute Book (Section 1142 of the Penal Law). The federal law presciibed a fine of $5,000 or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both, for any one using the mails to give advice for producing abortion or preventing conception. The New York state law, above mentioned, makes the giving of a recipe.

Digitized by ^ooQle
60

of two of our greatest American physicians; first, to those of the venerable nestor of the medical profession, Dr. Abraham Jacobi, of New York, ex-president of the American Medical Association; secondly, to Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, of the New York State Board of Health, distinguished sanitarian and pioneer in the modern warfare against tuberculosis.

In his preface to Dr. William J. Robinson's book, The Limitation of Offspring, Dr. Jacobi says: "Our federal and state laws on the subject of prevention of conception are grievously wrong and unjust. It is important that these laws be repealed at the earliest possible moment; it is important that useful teaching be not crippled, that personal freedom be not interfered with, that the independence of married couples be protected, that families be safeguarded in regard to health and comfort, and that the future children of the nation be prepared for competent and comfortable citizenship.”

Dr Biggs, prior to the recent dismissing of the case by Judge Dayton, of the federal court against Margaret Sanger for sending information about birth control through the mails, gave to the press the following statement:	"I am strongly of the opinion

that the present laws in regard to the giving out of information in relation to the governing of infant control are unwise and should be revised. There can be no question in the mind of any one familiar with the facts that the unrestricted propagation of the mentally and physically unfit as legally encouraged at the present time is coming to be a serious menace to civilization and constitutes a great drain on our economic resources. This is my personal view."

To the foregoing expressions of opinions let me add what Judge William H. Wadhams, of the Court of General Sessions, wrote me concerning these laws:	"In order to save the state from

the burden of large families, where there is no possibility of their being supported and where the neglect which follows often results in their becoming state charges not only because they are mentally but often physically unfit to bear the burden of life, I am of the

drug or medicine for the prevention of conception or for causing unlawful abortion a misdemeanor, punishable with no less than ten days' nor more han one year imprisonment, or a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both fine and imprisonment, for each offense.

It will be noticed that both laws make the giving of advice for the prevention of conception as great an offense as producing abortion. According to the New York state law, a “lawful” abortion is permitted and not punishable, but to prevent such abortion, always more or less dangerous to life, is not permitted and punishabl by law.

In all medical colleges careful instruction is given how to perform the “lawful” abortion. All good textbooks on gynecology describe the operation as carefully as an amputation of the cervix or hysterectomy; but concerning the advice to give, for example, to the poor tuberculous mother who has had her uterus emptied once so that she may not be obliged to subm t to such a “lawful” operation again, our teachers of gynecology and our text books dare not say a word.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
61

opinion that there should be some proper birth regulation after a certain number of children have been born, and that, therefore, there should also be some modification of the laws with respect to the giving of information upon this subject. I think the sanitary, medical, social, economic and moral status of the population would be improved by proper and more general information upon this subject.”

Besides the letter from this eminent judicial authority and the strong expressions of opinion of Drs. Jacobi and Biggs, I have been the recipient of communications from many leading physicians, divines, political economists and sociologists, all agreeing with me that judicious birth control,' under the highest ethical medical guidance, is a national necessity and that our present laws on the subject need urgent revision. For want of space I will only mention the following: Dr. John N. Hurt}, secretary Indiana State Board of Health; Dr. Godfrey R. Pisek, professor of diseases and children at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital; Dr. J. W. Trask, Public Health Bureau, Washington, D. C.; Dr. Lydia Allen De Vilbis, Kansas State Board of Health; Dr. Ira S. Wile, editor Medical Review of Reviews, New York; Dr. John A. Wyeth, professor of surgery and president of the New York Polyclinic Medical School and Hospital, ex-president of the American Medical Association and the New York Academy of Medicine; the Rev. Frank Crane, formerly pastor of the Union Congregational Church of Worcester, Mass., editorial writer; the Rev. Percy S. Grant, rector Church of the Ascension of New York; the Rev. Frank Oliver Hall, minister of the Church of the Divine Paternity, New York; the Rev. John Haynes Holmes, Unitarian Church of the Messiah, New York; the Rev. Stephen S. Wise, of the Free Synagogue, New York; Melvil Dewey, LL.D., educator, president of National Society for Efficiency: Prof. James A. Field, of the University of Chicago; Irving Fisher, professor of political economy of Yale University and chairman of the hygiene reference board of the Life Extension Institute; Franklin H. Giddings, professor of political science, Columbia University; William H. Allen, director of the Institute for Public Science of New York; Homer Folks, former commissioner of Public Charities of New York, now secretary of the State Charities Aid Association of New York Lillian D. Wald, founder of the Henry Street Settlement and originator of the work of the school nurse in New York.

I must not fail to say a word about our Catholic friends and those of other faiths who are so strongly opposed to any teaching or making public the means of contraception and limiting family increase. Let us have no word of bitterness or reproach because millions of devout Catholics hold these views. Let us not antagonize either priest or Catholic laymen who have a right to their conviction as much as we have to ours. If an enlightened government will at last permit contraception to be taught where it is likely to be productive of the most good, when in years to come we can show our Catholic brethren that because of birth control, resulting in a rational family limitation, we have decreased poverty, disease
62

and crime and have produced a better generation of men and women, better equipped physically, mentally and morally for life’s mission, in short, men worthy to be called true citizens of a great republic, then I am sure our Catholic friends will see that we after all have been not so wrong.

Without claiming the gift of prophecy, I venture, nevertheless, to foretell that as a result of wise, broad-minded and practical legislation concerning birth control the American nation will become the leader toward a finer, better manhood and womanhood, an example to be followed by the peoples of this and other continents. My esteemed friend, the Rev. John Haynes Holmes, of the Unitarian Church of the Messiah, New York, wrote me recently:

“Birth control is one more step forward in that full ordering and directing of his conscious life which is one of the most noble distinctions of the human as contrasted with the animal.”

Dr. William L. Holt, writing on birth control as a social necessity and duty, says:

“Conscious and limited procreation is dictated by love and intelligence; it improves the race. Unconscious, irresponsible procreation produces domestic misery and half-starved children. Conscious procreation of human lives elevates man to the gods. Unconscious procreation degrades man to the level of brutes.”

To qualify the words of both, those of the divine as well as those of the physician, may I be permitted to close with what I am free to confess is my innermost conviction?

I believe in birth control, that is to say, birth limitation, based on medical, sanitary, ethical, moral and economic reasons. I believe in it because with the aid of it man and woman can decide when to have a child, work and prepare for its arrival, welcome it as the fulfilment of their heart’s desire, watch over it, tenderly care for and educate it, and raise it to be what every child should be destined to be—a being happy, healthy, strong in mind, body and soul.

If we but use our God-given sense to regulate the affairs of government and family wisely and economically, this great world of ours will be one of plenty and beauty where the good will predominate over the evil and the children born in it will become men and women only a little lower than the angels—images of their Creator.

Digitized by UjOOQle
63

TO WHAT EXTENT SHOULD THE BOARD OF EDUCATION FURNISH FACILITIES FOR THE TEACHING AND PRACTICE OF SWIMMING.*

What Is The Value of Swimming?

1	SAVING OF LIFE

a)	One’s own life. There are more fatalities from water sports than from any other. Most of them are due to nonswimmers “getting in” beyond their depth. A city with much water front ought to give special attention to swimming.

b)	hives of others. Swimmers were the means of saving many lives in such disasters as these of the Eastland, Slocum, and others on the water.

2	EXERCISE.

a)	Nearly all experts in Physical Training agree that swimming is the very best form of exercise because of the fact that there is little liability to strain and that the entire body is involved.

b)	It is one of the very best forms of exercise for the development of organic power (heart and lung power) the lack of which we are now seeing so plainly in the shortening of life after 40 years.

c)	It is a form of exercise which may be indulged in throughout life.

3	EDUCATIONAL.

a)	The self control, courage, presence of mind and assurance established by learning to swim are considered of great educational value.

b)	When life saving is added as is usually the case there is very large educational return.

4	HYGIENIC.

a)	Swimming is one of the most powerful stimulants to cleanliness and in Cleveland, pools in certain quarters have been given credit for very largely “cleaning up” the district. (Goodrich House - Alata House - Woodland and 93rd Center, etc.)

b)	Swimming has a definite tonic effect on skin and nerves, which is recommended by all physicians.

5	RECREATIONAL.

a)	Swimming has a fundamental appeal and is a form of sport which if once learned functions throughout life.

b)	It takes people out of doors in summer.

c)	It has been determined that recovery from fatigue seems to be more rapid from this form of exercise, in proportion, to the amount of energy expended, than from any other sport.

• Submitted to the Board of Education of Cleveland, O., by Dr. E. Peterson

Digitized by CjOOQle
64

d)	A city with a water front has a definite responsibility with reference to the widest use of this great recreational facility. These values of swimming make it a most desirable thing, and one of the demands of three national movements namely,

a)	Movement to promote “SAFETY FIRST”.

b)	Movement to promote physical activity on the part of growing children.

c)	Movement to furnish healthful recreation.

What Social Organization Should Furnish the Needed Facilities for Teaching Switr ming?

There are several organizations which have been furnishing swimming pools in the past namely, Cities, Boards of Education, Public Bath Associations, Playground Associations, Social Settlements, Y. M. C. . 's, Y. W. C. A’s, Churches and private clubs, (Athletic Clubs, etc.) The furnishing of public baths by cities dates back to about 100 B. C. when the Hellenic bath houses and gymnasia were built.

Pompeii, a city of 30,000 possessed two of these complete public bath houses, in which it is claimed 1,000 people could bathe at once. Ever since, cities have to a more or less degree furnished facilities for bathing.

For many different reasons suggested by the values of swimming given above, other organizations have built swimming pools, but at the present time there is a very definite swung towards the Public School as the proper place for these pools.

This “swing” is the result of the following convictions.

a)	Between the ages of 9 and 12 years (4th, 5th and 6th grades) is the time par excellence for the teaching of swimming. The child at this time is “in time” mentally and physically with swimming. Fear of the water is most easily overcome at this time. This fear is increasingly harder to overcome as children become older.

b)	Because of the values of swimming (named above) it has great and definite educational merit, and should be conducted in connection with educational institutions.

c)	The public schools are free to all and well distributed.

d)	It is much more economical to place pools in buildings which can be used for other purposes as well, than to build special buildings for them.

e)	The demand for a “neighborhood hearth” and the consequent larger use of the public school as a community center points to it as the best place in which to establish facilities for the teaching and practice of swimming during the winter months at least.

Evidences of the Tendency to Equip Public Schools With

Swimming Pools.

While it has been difficult in the short time permitted to get

Digitized by Tooele
65

accurate information, the following cities are a few of those which provide swimming pools in school buildings.

Chicago Detroit Kansas City Toledo

Grand Rapids

Pittsburgh

Buffalo

Milwaukee

Dayton

Brooklyn

Cincinnati (9 pools and 3 buildings) Minneapolis (To build 20 pools in 5 years)

Allegheny St. Louis Rochester Gary

Swimming is taught by the school authorities in several other cities where the facilities provided by other organizations are used. The names of some of these cities are:

New York	Philadelphia

Boston	Brooklyn

Denver	Richmond, Ind.

Des Moines, la.	Omaha, Neb.

Baltimore Columbus Decatur, 111.

Conditions in Cleveland Now With Reference to Swimming.

AVAILABLE FACILITIES.

a)	The Lake (during summer)

b)	Swimming Pools.

Private 8

Public 4 (4 others “roughed in”)

Number of Cleveland Children Who Can Swim.

In 1916 Mr. George Johnson determined by answers to a questionnaire that

88 per cent of girls over 8 in Elementary Schools could not swim.

77 per cent of girls in High Schools could not swim.

45	per cent of boys over 8 in Elementary Schools could not swim.

34 per cent of boys in High Schools could not swim.

A POLICY.

It would be possible for the Board of Education of Cleveland without great expenditure and without interrupting school work to carry out a policy which would teach every child in the 5th and 6th grades to swim and to resuscitate a drowned person, and bring swimming as an exercise to a large number of adolescent boys and girls in Junior High Schools.

There are approximately 9,500 boys and 9,000 girls in the 5th and 6th grades of the Cleveland Public Schools.

Considering then that a boy or girl can be taught to swim in 6 lessons and that there could be given two after school lessons per day on school days and three on Saturdays and that 25 persons could be taught at one time, it would be necessary (in order to carry out the policy suggested above) to furnish 12 or 14 pools, so placed
66

that they would be easy of access to children of different sections of the city.

The Board of Education now operates

3	Finished pools (Murray Hill, Kennard, Brownell)

4	Roughed in pools (Empire, Rawlings, Central, Almira)

Tf these last mentioned were finished and five or six pools added in the new buildings contemplated, most of which will be in districts now without swimming facilities, there would be provided a system so arranged that swimming facilities would be accessible to all 5th and 6th grade children. A policy to build swirfiming pools only in Junior High Schools which seem to have come to stay would do all that has been suggested above.

It is evident that such a plan would provide adequate facilities for swimming as exercise or recreation to only a part of the entire school population. While it would do much in this direction its greatest value lies in the fact that in a few years every child who was graduated from the Cleveland Public Schools would be able to

a)	Care for himself in the water in case of emergency.

b)	Be of help to others in similar danger.

c)	Be acquainted with a form of exercise which will function throughout his life.

THE SARGENT CAMP’S SHARE IN THE PROMOTION OF ATHLETICS FOR ALL.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

Much of the criticism ever present in our professional papers and meetings, as well as in the press and general literature, which deals with the tendency toward specialization, is unquestionably justifiable and we are a long way from having the changes which have been set forth many times, put into operation. There is, in my estimation only one real obstacle which hinders the progress along this line, and this is not the one usually put forth, namely that our youth will not lend itself to any other form of competition save that of individual events, but it is rather that facilities are lacking for the promotion of this wider range which includes many or even all. One need not hesitate today to include girls in any discussion on athletics or play or physical education in general, for the interest on the part of both sexes is equally keen and the demands which the present life makes upon both are growing more and more alike. It may be considered unfair to use for illustration a group of women which represents a Normal School of Physical Education, and which, according to certain standards applied to men, makes them appear as professionals. But after all, are these young women in these Normal Schools so vastly different from the high school and college students? When they enter these schools they certainly are not, and that they aie different after several years of instruction is a fact which speaks volumes for the work which they have chosen and which they are to carry broadcast over the country. The Sargent Camp, with its wonderful equipment both natural

Digitized by LjOOQle
67

and otherwise, which the students have to attend four months during their three year course offers a splendid opportunity for making observations. The Juniors and Seniors have two Junes and two Septembers in Camp. In June the major activities are. playground games, Lacrosse, Cricket, Tennis, Track and field athletics, rowing, swimming, and diving. In September Hockey and Soccer are the main games with the other above mentioned events continued. Archery, horseback riding, and the various handicrafts are elective. During last June the weather was particularly unfavorable so that a number of days were lost because of rain. In order to make good this loss the Saturdays which usually are free days and used for mountain trips or other self-chosen pastimes, were claimed as regular school days. On one of these Saturday afternoons a group contest was scheduled instead of the regular program work. The classes, because of their size, are always divided into three sections each, so that a permanent division exists. The group contest was in each class between these three sections, each of which numbered thirty. The events for the Juniors were, a basket ball thiow, running broad jump and 75 yard dash; for the Seniors: javelin throw, high jump and 75 yard dash. Each event was standardized by three measures, the first being valued as one, the second as three and the third as five. No credit was given the ones who failed to reach the first standard, nor was any additional credit given to those who went beyond the third measure. Both classes carried on their competition simultaneously. The Seniors who were excused from practice work acted as officials. The description of events and standards given, is merely to state the one of many possible forms of group competition. It was most gratifying to observe the zeal and enthusiasm with which all worked. Those who were able to score only one point were as much thrilled by the feeling of competition as were those who scored the full quota. Every moment of the contest was full of interest and excitement. Every one felt that she had a share in the final result. And the result, what was it to determine? Practically nothing as far as record or distinction was concerned. There were no awards, it wasn't a victory for the alma mater, it wasn't a class championship, it was merely an impromptu competition which carried with it no other glory than the glory of having experienced the thrill of competition, which ordinarily belongs only to a few. At the conclusion of the contest there was much jubilation and cheering. What or for whom were they cheering? They were simply manifesting their satisfaction and joy which resulted from their everyday activities performed in the garb of competition.

This contest in which nearly two hundred took part, each of whom had three trials in each event except the running, was concluded in less than two hours, a fact which shows conclusively that large numbers do not render competition impossible. Toward the end of the month a similar group contest was arranged for the water sports in which swimming, diving and paddling were the events.

In September, which is the big month with us, competition games are played in Hockey and. Soccer. Each class furnishes

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
68

five teams with the necessary substitutes. Those making the first teams were given the class numerals. Interclass rowing also takes place in this month and here again the first crews receive the numerals. The big event is the track meet which is run according to the usual rules, that is, the contestants select their events. The meet is managed entirely by the Seniors who are held responsible for all details, and they carried their responsibility well indeed. There were 124 entries, may of whom knew with certainty that they had no chance of getting a “place in the sun.” A splendid sportsmanship was in evidence throughout and the performers were very creditable. While this meet is a student affair it serves the School purpose of giving each girl definite experience in officiating in the various events.

The performances in athletics as well as the efficiency reached in the playing of highly organized games by girls today can leave no doubt in anyone’s mind as to the feasibility and advisability of promoting these activities for our young women. Prudery is no longer in place today; the girl is coming into her own. Her pleading may fall on deaf ears in some quarters, her naturalness may be checked by false “don’t” fora while, but she is coming into her own, and she is going to be a worthy sister to her brother. “To love action is the patriotism of health.”

HOW WEAK IS WOMAN *

By GORDON REEVES.

How weak is woman? Why is she weak? Why does she remain weak? Does she want to be weak? Does man want her to be weak?

These are some of the questions that the modern world is trying to answer. Our grandmothers indulged in no such blasphemy against the established order. They accepted the fact of their weakness as part of divine dispensation, and scrubbed floors seventeen hours a day as a proof that the meek were blessed.

It is one thing to establish the fact of woman’s lack of strength, and quite another thing to explain why she is weak and to discover whether or not she need remain so. The question of which is the weaker sex seems to vary in the lower types of life, with the odds in favor of the female. It is only when that state of sexual evolution is reached in which the males fight amongst themselves for the possession of the females that they begin to show a general tendency to outstrip the females in matters of strength and quarrelsomeness.

Among song birds there is but little difference in the size and strength of the sexes, as gaudy plumage and beautiful voice are of more advantage in courtship than pugnacious ability. A half hour in the poultry yard should convince anyone that superior masculine strength is based upon masculine combat. The rooster is bigger than the hen because he is a fighting brute, but the more

* Reprint from “Physical Culture” January 1917, by kind permission cf the publishers.

Digitized by Tooele
69

i

peaceful drake can only be told from the duck by his lack of a quack and two curly feathers in his tail.

Amongst higher mammals, which we feel are closer kin to us, there is a general tendency of the male to outstrip the female in size and strength. In the species where the males fight the most the difference is greatest, as with the stag and doe; whereas with the peaceful species, as the horse, the difference is slight. While the stallion is generally heavier-necked and coarser boned than the female, yet the highest speed honors of the equine world go to the little lady Lou Dillon, who for nine years held the world’s trotting record.

Among apes the male shows a heavier development of neck and arms, which is obviously caused by his fighting propensities; but there is little difference in the general physique, strength and agility of the sexes.

Turning now to the human species, we are at first forced to admit that whatever we may think of male muscular superiority, we must credit it to our ancient habit of settling our quarrels about the lady by breaking our rival’s head with a war club. There is no good reason for and no evidence in the facts of animal and savage life that shows there is any advantage for the woman to be a frail and dependent thing, unable to get her own food or escape from enemies. The idea of a man’s physical strength being vouchsafed by Nature to enable him to protect his wife and children from the common enemies of the species is a later development and a mere effort to make modem and romantic a fact the original cause of which we now wish to forget. In the animal world the female not only protects herself from all comers, but the dam, and not the sire, is the protector of the young.

This consideration of the origin of the existing difference in the strength of the sexes may seem of little consequence in modem life. But to understand it will enable us to form some intelligent opinion as to how much of woman’s present weakness is remedial and how much is a permanent racial inheritance that cannot be changed except by the slow process of selective evolution.

Among existing savage tribes there is a difference in the size and strength of the sexes, but this is far less than the difference with which we are familiar in civilized life. To attempt to prove from this fact that there is an evolutionary tendency for women to become smaller and weaker finds no basis in the accurate measurements of woman’s stature relative to men. The tabulation of an extensive series of measurements of skeletons from those of the Stone Age on down to modem times shows no more than two per cent, variation in the ratio of the height of male and female. Difference in muscularity is chiefly a matter of the individual life— difference in skeleton is chiefly a matter of inheritance. Woman may have become weaker with the progress of civilization, for civilization engenders habits that produce weakness. But civilization has not made woman smaller, and if the greater weakness of the civilized woman compared to her savage sister is due to environment and not to heredity, then it can be changed in the life of an individual.
70

GRAPHIC COMPARISON OF WOMEN S ATHLETIC RECORD WITH MEN S

Men’s Athletic Record,

All Events	1

One MUe Swim	———89.3

Quarter Mile Swim

100 Yard Swim	^—80.6

100 Yard Dash___________________________________  fin	n

Standing Broad Jump —A Standing High Jump	73 n

One Hour Walk	—«*73.0

220 Yard Dash	______ _______79 7

»	Continuous	„0 a

Aeroplane Flight	_______72.6

Running High Jump -------- •	7g,ft

440 Yard Dash	-	-	—-- -	67.9

Running Broad Jump -	65.9

Hop-Step-Jump	________________	65.8

Sargent Strength Test-------------------------- A

One-mile Walk	a\ q

Barbell, Both Hands

Throwing Baseball	_54.o

Pole Vault	   a.i	k

Throwing Discus	\n	n

Javelin Throw	^.5

.“Chinning,” One Arm	4-^7

Men’s Athletic Record	  400

COMPARISON OF MEN’S AND WOMEN’S ATHLETIC RECORDS

EVENT	MEN’S	WOMEN’S Women’s Percentage

RECORD	RECORD	of Men’s	Record

One Mile Swim.......23 m. 16 4-5 s.	26 m. 8 s.	89.3

Quarter Mile Swim...5 m. 19 s.	6 m. 17 s.	84.7

100 Yard Swim.......53 1-5 s.	1 m. 6 s.	80.6

100 Yard Dash.......9 3-5 s.	12 s.	80.0

Standing Broad Jump.11 f. 4 7-8 i.	8 f. lO.i.	77.4

Standing High Jump..5 f. 5 3-4 i.	4 f.	73.0

One Hour Walk.......8 mi. 438 y.	6 m.	73.0

220 Yard Dash.......21 1-4 s.	30 3-5 s.	72.7

Aeroplane Flight....812 1-2 mi.	590 mi.	72.6

Running High Jump...6 f. 7 5-16 i.	4. f 9 i.	72.0

440 Yard Dash.......47 4-5 s.	1 m. 16 s.	67.9

Running Broad Jump..24 f. 11	3-4 i.	16 f 6 i.	65.9

Hop-Step-Jump.......50 f. 11	i.	33 f. 6 i.	65.8

One Mile Walk ......6 m. 25	4-5 s.	10 m. 30 s.	61.0

Barbell, Both Hands.366 1-4	lbs.	222 1-4 lbs.	60.7

Throwing Baseball...381 f. 2	1-2 i.	205 f. 7 i.	54.0

Pole Vault..........13 f. 2 1-4 i.	6 f. 3 i.	47.5

Throwing Discus . ..145 f. 9 1-2 i.	68 f. 6 i.	47.0

Javelin Throw.......198 f.	84 f.	42.5	\

“Chinning” One Arm..12 times	5 times	41.7

Abbreviations: f., feet; i., inches; mi., miles; m., minutes; s., seconds; y. yards.

The lines marked 100 represent men’s athletic records for all events. The shorter lines represent women’s athletic record in each event as listed, in proportion to the men’s record.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
71

An average of many figures indicates that woman is about eight per cent, shorter than man. The average weight of the woman of average height is given by modern insurance companies as one hundred and twenty-six pounds. The average weight of the man of average height is one hundred and fifty-three pounds. This difference in weight of twenty-seven pounds seems quite striking, but as a matter of fact it is not as great a difference as would be the case if the weights were apportioned according to the linear measurements. The arithmetically minded reader can figure this out by cubing the height of man and that of woman; he will find that if woman were built in the same proportions as man she would not be twenty-seven but thirty-five pounds lighter, which would make her weight only seventy-seven per cent, of man’s weight. It may be argued that the height alone, is not a fair measurement and that woman should be relatively shorter and thicker than man. This is true if we admit that woman should carry more fatty tissue than man.

From the standpoint of our ideals of beauty, we are ready to grant this argument, but as concerns the problem of woman’s muscular strength the greater weight due to more adipose tissue should be ignored. The extra breadth of woman’s pelvis is fully offset by the lightness of chest and general lightness of bone. Hence, if she carry no more fat than man, it is fair to assume that woman is and should be as much lighter than man as her height would indicate, and therefore should weigh but three-fourths as much, if muscle be in actual proportion to stature and strength in proportion to muscular bulk.

As a matter of fact, the weight of woman’s actual muscles about agrees with these theoretical figures. If, in the light of these facts, we reconsider the strength records and athletic achievements of woman, we will see that they are not so inferior as we had assumed. Most women in actual life are carrying surplus fat, and hence are too heavy for either their height or their muscular development. A women of average height who carries no surplus fatty tissue and who weighs three-fourths as much as the man of average height is as well muscled, and such a woman, if she has trained her muscles, is fully as strong, size considered, as a man. Some readers may attempt to apply this reasoning to the very tall woman and expect the six-foot woman to be as strong as a six-foot man. A six-foot woman corresponds to a man nearly six-foot-seven, and such men, far from being strong in proportion to their height, are often weaker than average sized men. Excessive height in either sex may look stately and dignified, especially when draped with expensive clothes, but it is an abnormal, ill-balanced condition and contributes neither to strength nor beauty.

The above facts clearly show that the two extreme viewpoints on this question of woman’s weakness are both erroneous. Those who hold that woman is and should be weak to the extent of being a ' pampered, soft and kept creature, unable to provide her own wants and take care of herself, can find no defense for this artificial view in the facts of Nature. On the contrary, those enthusiastic feminists who would have it that woman may, if she wishes, be as strong

Digitized by

Google
72

as man, are really asking that she should be twenty-five per cent, stronger than man—provided the fact of woman’s smaller stature is accepted. And if we select tall women or find some miraculous way to make woman tall, we will fail to secure strength for exactly the same reason that the world’s strong men are not six-footers.

As measured with strength testing apparatus, college men and college women compare as follows. Note that the average ages here are in both cases less than twenty:

V	Men	Women
Age						(Amherst)	(Oberlin)
		19.7 years	19.3 years
Height 			67.8 in.	62.6 in.
Weight			139 lbs.	112 lbs.
Capacity of Lungs 				253 cu. in.	141 cu. in.
Strength of Back 			338 lbs.	119 lbs.
Strength of Legs			410 lbs.	168.8 lbs.
Strength of Forearm						92 lbs.	47.2 lbs.

The above figures give a very poor showing for women, but indicated by the average weights there must be a large proportion of undeveloped girls among them, which would bring down the average of strength. Also, such figures are usually taken at the time of the entrance of the students into college and before they have had any physical training. This naturally would give the boys a much better showing than the girls, for whom conventional home life permits of little exercise. Other tables of this sort give figures where the women range from one-half to three-fourths the strength of men.

Dr. Kellogg of Battle Creek, Michigan, has compiled various tables of this sort and by more elaborate testing devices has recorded separately the flexing and extending movements of the various parts of the body. He found that the strength of the woman’s thigh muscles had the closest approach to that of men. As the measurement of the female thigh is the only measurement of woman that surpasses the corresponding measurement of man, it seems that this characteristic is not merely due to adipose tissue but to actual relatively heavier muscling. Woman is the weakest in the arms, and next weakest in the back. The power of her lower limbs is relatively greater throughout.

All these facts bear out the general theory that woman’s weakness, size considered, is not inherent, but is due to lack of vigorous exercise. The mere act of standing and walking is sufficient to develop a fair strength in the lower limbs, whereas the movements of the upper limbs in the case of a woman’s work are those that, no matter how tiresome they may be, are not such as to develop strength. The female stenographer may typewrite a hundred words a minute with an arm that would make a pitiful showing in hurling a baseball.

The world’s athletic records of women are far from representing the ultimate athletic abilities of women. They are, in fact, about as far from what world's records ought to be as the records gathered from a track athletic meet held at the annual picinc of the Anti-horsethief Society.

Digitized by L^ooQle
73

The best known world’s records for women are held by American college girls, with the exception of the swims, the weight lifting and the mile walk. The woman’s javelin throwing record is supplied by Dr. Sargent and the chinning record by Bernarr Mcfadden.

A number of factors contribute to make women’s records fall far short of women’s > inherent possibilities. Not only are the records incompletely kept, but properly timed and competitive performances are much rarer than with men. Back of this stands the lack of systematic training for these performances, and back yet of that stands the entire program of the discouragement of women’s physical activity.

World records in men’s athletics are a matter of the choice of a few special individuals out of millions, and the long system of training built up by past years of experience. At the World’s Fair at St. Louis the representatvies of savage tribes competed in athletic events. Kaffirs from Africa, Zulu Islanders, and Igorotes from the Philippines were lined up along with Mel Sheppard, Ray Ewry, John Flanagan and Ralph Rose. The result was that the savages made showings about equal to those of a high-school boy. But in the Marathon race the four Kaffir runners from Africa, while not winning first places, all finished in fair time, whereas half the white men dropped out. In the Marathon the bare-footed black boys had a fair chance for they were doing something they knew how to do. The lesson is that when we take a small group of individuals and put them up for competition in a skilled event in which they have had little or no training—as happens in the occasional woman’s athletic meet—the resultant records will be quite uncomparable to those which the world has established by the long competition and highly trained pick and choice of many millions of men.

The accompanying diagram and tables give the world’s records for men, and compared with them the best records we have found for women athletes in the same events. Beyond all question, the women compare more favorably with men in the art of swimming than in any other performance. The reasons for this may be found somewhat in the fact that the lighter specific gravity of her body (less bone and more adipose tissue) is a natural aid to women in swimming. But the mere difference in buoyancy of the body would not count much in a hundred yard swim; and a more likely explanation of woman’s excellent showing as a swimmer is to be found in the fact that swimming is considered a polite and respectable sport, in which many women have had opportunity to become proficient.

There are many very notable swimming records that cannot be placed under direct comparison because they, are influenced by the tide or embrace an odd number of miles. The best record that I have found for women is forty-eight miles, by Mme. de Isacesen, who is reported to have swum the distance in eight hours and three minutes—but the water must have been kind enough to have been traveling in her direction.

" The relation of man’s strength to woman’s is sometimes stated by saying that the average man is about as strong as the strongest

Digitized by
74

woman. This statement might be true with the strongest woman in a small neighborhood compared with the average man of the same neighborhood. However, it is not true taking world's records, for there are very few men who could equal the records made by women. There is probably not one man in a thousand who could swim a mile in twenty-six minutes. In a hundred yard dash, running being a more universal accomplishment, it is probable that one college boy out of three could equal the woman's record. Take men in business life who do not keep up their athletics and very few of them could overtake the college girl sprinter. In the jumps the women's records are surpassed by those of high school boys. When it comes to weight lifting, the woman's record of putting up a two-hundred-and-twenty-two-pound barbell above the head with both hands is something that not one man in ten thousand can equal. As for chinning with one arm, while a woman makes a relatively poor showing compared with the man, yet the writer remembers that in his home county there was one man who could chin himself with one arm three times, and he was heralded far and wide as the strongest man in the county.

This sort of comparison does not prove that woman is as strong as man, but it does prove that a woman may become far stronger than the average man, and it further indicates that the greatest cause of woman's weakness is her lack of training and development rather than any basic weakness of her sex.

In tests where muscular activity is involved but strength is not required men usually excel women, but the superiority is far less constant and less marked than in cases of heavy work. The world's speed record on the typewriter has been held three years by men and eight years by women. At present it is held by Miss Margaret Owen, at a rate of one hundred and thirty-seven words per minute, but there is a male competitor only one word behind.

The point is often made that though women are cooks, men are the best cooks; that though women are dressmakers and milliners, men are the best dressmakers and milliners and so it goes through all the crafts and trades. But the reasons for this may be social and economic usages and customs rather than lack of either manual skill or mental ability.

Women as skillful manipulators in the laboratory are generally ranked as inferior to men, though in the opinions called for by Havelock Ellis, one professor reported his girl laboratory assistants to be the more skillful. Women cigarmakers are considered practically as skillful as men; women weavers are paid practically the same wages as men. A test in psychological laboratories shows that women excel men in learning to handle their muscles in new ways more rapidly.

Certainly the difference between the sexes in ability at light physical labor is not a consequential one, and not one in which women may be justly discriminated against. In heavy muscular labor woman is inferior to man, as should be expected from her lesser bulk of muscular tissue, and is generally paid lower wages. Unscientific writers generally love to cite the fact that the Suez Canal was dug by Egyptian women who carried the sand out on
75

their heads, and that the steamboats at Nagasaki are coaled by women laborers; but such isolated facts, while refutations of the silly notion that women cannot indulge in physical labor, do not prove that woman is stronger than man.

The question of how much woman's present inactivity and weakness are due to environment and how much to inheritance, may receive light from the consideration of the relative strength of the two sexes at various periods of development. Among white children the male is always stronger than the female. At the age of eight or ten the strength of the girl (with the grip test) is about seventy-five per cent, of that of the boy. This figure falls gradually until the strength of the woman at maturity is less than sixty per cent, of that of the maji. Among negro children there is less difference in the strength of the two sexes. Among Filipino children still less difference was found, and at the age when the girls surpassed the boys in height and weight, the girls surpassed the boys in strength. The difference in the strength of the two sexes among the Filipinos did not develop until the age of sixteen, when the cessation of the female growth and the continued growth of the males caused them to surpass the females in actual size, and show corresponding increase of strength. These facts would seem to bear out the general conclusion of this article, that there are two reasons why woman is weak. One is the fact that she is naturally a smaller creature than man, and the other is the tendency of our civilization to check the development of what strength she may possess.

It is a well established fact that throughout the civilized world the deathrate of women is decidedly less than that of men. The significance of this fact does not attract so much attention in America because our large immigration gives us a preponderance of males; but the excess of females in European countries, despite an excess of males at birth, is not due alone either to war or to emigration, but to the fact that the death-rate of women beifig less—the fewer that are born live longer.

Thinking that a different attitude towards the physical • life of women might show some effect in the death-rate, I prepared tables showing the ratio of the death-rates of women to the death-rates of men, in age periods, for a number of countries. There are a number of factors that might affect this death-rate. Thus, in the countries where the general state of science and sanitation is at a low ebb, the death-rate of women during the ages of childbearing is greater than it is in more enlightened countries.

The effect of heavy labor upon the female death-rate would be expected to show in the form of a relatively heavy death-rate between the ages of forty-five and sixty. If in countries showing wide contrasts in the treatment of its women a very great difference is found in the death-rate of woman at this period of life as compared to that of men, we might fairly assume that the effect of the method of life would show in the premature wearing out of one group of women as compared with the other.

Taking the death-rate of the two sexes between the ages of forty-five and sixty and expressing the death-rate of women in percentages of the death-rate of men, we have the following figures:

Google
76

England, 77; France, 73; United States, 72; Hungary, 56. Hungary was selected as representing the most exclusively agricultural country in that region in Europe where women habitually work in the fields. The very low death-rate of the Hungarian women would seem to be a favorable augury for the more active physical life of women. But this indication should not be used as an argument that the farther we go from our type of civilization the better it will be for women, for whereas in all Western countries the death-rate of men exceeds that of women at all ages, in India, during the periods of child-bearing, the death-rate of women greatly exceeds that of men, and even through later life women’s death-rate is very much higher both actually and relatively than in any Western country.

In connection with this point of the relative death-rate of the two sexes, a study of English urban against English rural death-rates shows that men die prematurely in the city more than do the women. This is a fact that we should expect, for countrymen are all at outdoor labor, whereas a large portion of city men are working inside. But on the other hand, among our Anglo-Saxon races where women do not work in the field, woman’s round of labor in city and country is very much the same. Of course, this would not be true if we take high society, but the total death-rate of the nation is little influenced by millionaire funerals.

The statement is frequently made, and is usually accepted among scientific circles, that the “smallness and feebleness of woman are a sexual distinction.” As to the element of smallness, physical culturists are quite ready to grant the truth of this statement. But that mere superiority in size proves man the stronger in the sense of vitality is disproven by the fact that woman is decidedly a longer-lived animal than man.

There is no desire on the part of physical culturists to deny the fundamental facts of woman’s size or sex; and they would no more consider it a fair proposition to cause men and women to compete on an equal basis in athletics or heavy labor than they would to ask a fifteen-year-old boy to compete with a thirty-year-old man. What is resented is that these true differences in size and sex are used as an excuse to uphold the degenerate system that has enslaved woman and made her a house servant and a plaything of men, and shut her out of the larger and freer work and play of life. Smaller size may be fairly considered as weakness only in direct personal combat with the larger creature. The woman should not expect to be able to overcome the man in a fist fight, but she should be able to make a very creditable and very nearly equal showing in all those activities where muscles are to be used not in struggling with a heavier creature but for her own bodily activity. There is little difference between the speed of the hound and the hare, or the antelope and the horse. Female birds keep awing with the males in their ten-thousand-mile migrations despite the fact that the female bird is a “very drab little creature.” A difference in size alone need not mean “weakness” in the general activities of life—and that of being the smaller creature is the only inherent reason why women need be weak.

Digitized by UjOOQle
77

RESULTS OF THE ROUND TABLE CONFERENCE OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF MILWAUKEE.

GEORGE WITTICH, Chairman, EDWIN 0. HOPPE, Secretary.

An Answer to Mr. Geo. Ehler’s Article in Mind and Body of Feb. 1917

The conception of physical training has broadened in the course of its development, new aspects have been picked up on the way, new problems have looked to physical education as a solution or a partial solution. At present there is a considerable field to consider, when trying to include all aspects of physical education. From the relation of nerves to muscular contraction,, and from the fact that the central nervous system is involved, psychology must be considered. And so with various other sciences, until, at present, the physiologist, the anatomist, the psychologist, the sociologist, the biologist and the pedagogue have all added to the breadth of view. Even the physician has handed over to the director of physical training some of his functions. All these various aspects are the result of actual problems to be faced, and of the belief that physical education offer s a simple answer to them.

If this vast field is to be covered in the program of physical education work, it would seem, even at first glance, that one method and one line of material could not be equal to the demand; that any one phase of physical education can not be a panacea. The large variety of work calls for a variety of material adapted to the nature of the work to be done. In order to develop co-ordination, we must have some schooling in co-ordination, and the material must be such that it can be organized to cover the field as completely as possible and to insure progress. The material of corrective gymnastics differs from the rest of physical training, and its method of application varies accordingly. Even the development of moral qualities demands an organization and a logical presentation if those working for these ends are not to discouraged. It can, therefore, readily be seen that in order to insure results, we must select material and method in physical training as in all other branches of education.

Play can no more be that panacea than can any other one line of physical activity. Not that any one ever doubts the tremendous value of play in physical training, in fact we will stand back of Mr. Ehler in this, but that we object to it as the sole physical training material and method, and for the following reasons.

First: It does not touch the corrective requirements at all. In most games, the greatest number of movements are forward.. It we consider some of the most ordinary games played, we can realize this; for instance, baseball, football with its large amount, of forward bending, soccer, tennis, basketball etc., all emphasize the forward movements. The same is true of athletics. Add to this the fact that most of the child’s ordinary movements during the day are forward, such as the posture in the seat at school, writing position, position while reading, etc., and we may be justified in.

Digitized by
78

asking if what is already a need has not been aggravated somewhat. • It is generally conceded that the poor postures assumed during school time need counteraction. Can we do this by further developing the muscles that produce them?

Second: The majority of movements are unilateral, or one sided in some respect, that is, affect one side more than the other. Running emphasizes the legs, shot putting and discus throwing, the arm on one side of the body; jumping usually the left leg. If we are to pay any attention to all around development, we must at least counteract the influences of these movements.

Third: The co-ordinations that play and athletics would demand would be limited and could not be depended upon to occur. It is a fact that children in play acquire certain habits that are called upon under a great many conditions even if they are not the most advantageous under the circumstances. In this way play and games cannot give a complete school of co-ordination. The important position that development of co-ordination holds in physical education demands a studied analysis and synthesis.

We feel that in seeing only the recreational and socialogical value of play many of the physiological and pedagogical considerations have been eclipsed.

“Student self-government should realize development of leaders, promote co-operation among the pupils, and a democratic spirit.” It may be true that student self-government does develop leaders but we object to it in physical training, first of all, on the score that since physical training goes deep into child nature and since it is one of the most important branches of education it should not be left to the experimenting of children to admininstrate it properly. Where have the important subjects of education been left to student self-government even by its most enthusiastic advocates? Secondly; no one child should have a better chance to develop in school than any other child. The boy or girl who is “being developed” will and must get more attention from the teacher. Although we as teachers know that a certain per cent of our pupils have the making of leaders and that some of our class cannot be leaders it is hardly fair for us to assume such insight as to sit in judgment on these children and say that certain ones shall be leaders and the others common followers. Again by what moral right do we give certain boys and girls the opportunity to practice their lessons in leadership on the other children entrusted to our care. If this power is to be developed let it be in some activity that is not of such physiological, psychological and pedagogical importance or by a method that would insure justice to all.

Another question may be asked. Will those who have been given all these chances be the leaders of men in later life?

As a third objection the picture of the general rank and file of children comes to mind. Most of the boys and girls may be willing to submit to the leadership of one or other of their playmates, and generally do in their free play, but the choice of leaders differs widely. Almost all children will be happy under the guidance - of a teacher, but may be very unhappy when forced to submit to

Digitized by v^ooQle
79

the authority of a fellow pupil whom they do not like. Now, children are very prone to strong likes and dislikes and can be made happy or unhappy accordingly. And every group is bound to have one or more of these unhappy ones. Most of the time we do not get to hear anything about this.

On the whole we should not wish to employ student self-government in physical training because the work of physical education is too important to leave any part of it to the pupils, because it does not give equal advantages to all the pupils, because of the possibility and probability of giving these advantages to the wrong pupils, because the teacher has not the right to decide or let the pupils decide as to who shall lead, because of the bad moral influence on those who will be unhappy under this system, because it is individualistic and not democratic.

“The pupils are to be allowed to choose their own activities.” Most likely this is not meant exactly as it is stated, for such a school condition would be well-nigh intolerable. By what standard are the children to choose? Would they choose those activities that they need to complete their development or will they choose those forms which they are interested in through previous training, or such as are in harmony with their temperament. They will most likely choose according to their inclination, with the result that the fighting games will be played only by those who have already a strong strain of pugnacity, and the timid fellow would choose gentle games as “drop the handkerchief” or may even refuse to play at all. The runner will choose running, and the jumper jumping; although running is as good for a boy who jumps well as for one who runs. These few examples will show that allowing the boy or girl to choose will produce a very onesided result.

In finding place and time for carrying on physical training Mr. Ehler suggests from one to two hours of work outside of school time. The natural person to do this outside work will be the teacher. No doubt Mr. Ehler expects a whoop of joy at the announcement of such a program. This time is to be distributed over recess period, noon periods, before and after school. After speaking with teachers on this point, I have come to the conclusion that the teacher requires a recess herself at some time during the day. This recess is practically the only breathing spell that the teachers have. To expect the teachers to put in their noon period and time before and after school all on physical training is ridiculous.

As for the children, they are under surveilance of the teacher all morning and should have some time that is completely at their own disposal.

Place is to be found in neighboring free lots. Now, the fact is that very few of the free lots have been constructed to meet the requirements of a playground. Boys play on the free lots after school and on holidays, but if one of them turns an ankle or something on that order there is no one to blame but himself. The school will very quickly hear of injuries done during obligatory play or work of any kind. Why cannot we demand room to play?
80

And enough people to supervise the work sufficiently as well as time within which to do the work?

“The obsolete pedagogy.” In this term we come to the root of what Mr. Ehler so seriously objects to. He is entirely out of accord with the method employed in running classes in physical training according to the way in which other classes in the school are run. Just exactly why there should be any difference we are not told; it is merely mentioned that it is obsolete. Nor are we apprised of the reason for its obsoleteness. But when one sees the method used on all sides and in many or all phases of education there is some difficulty in convincing one of the fact that it is a by-gone.

The objections he finds to formal discipline are based largely on the following: first, that the work is not natural and instinctive; second, that the commands necessary in its application are military and therefore objectionable; and third, that there is no educational value in the activities.

To what limits Mr. Ehler is willing to carry his objection on the score of natural and instinctive activity, is not stated but judging from the examples of work he advocates, we are led to believe that the natural activities must be carried on in natural surroundings. Pupils must practice climbing, on trees; vaulting over fences. A thousand children in one school yard? Whence would come the trees and fences. Are the girls to practice the same activities in the same manner? What is the matter with the climbing pole and the vaulting apparatus that has been used up to now? In fact the apparatus that is in use on all sides has been adapted from articles in the natural surroundings of man and made useable and safe.

“The command is military and objectionable.” Rather say that the military command and the gymnastic command grew out of the same problem, that of handling large masses of people. The method is not necessarily military. The traits that are demanded from the pupils are the same as those expected in all branches of school work and training, obedience, response, attention, etc. These are educational axioms. We cannot do any kind of work without them. Commands are used in all types of teaching. The command in the gymnasium is given in the manner in which it is, in order to receive as near as possible an individual response and at the same time a response from all. Pupils therefore must act in unison; else they will copy.

If the educational values attributed to gymnastics are not developed under formal discipline, how is it that the teachers all see an improvement in just those traits and powers that Mr. Ehler says cannot be developed in this way? How would it be possible to immediately detect new members in the class through their slowness, awkwardness, lack of response, if there were no improvement? These are matters not only of actual personal observation but also of the evidence of many class teachers.

With the foregoing arguments, we wish to enter our protest against Mr. Ehler’s article as advocating an incomplete and un-pedagogical system.

Digitized by	Qle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

GUSTAV J. BRAUN, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind. HURDLE BOWL.

A Game Developed by Messrs. ARCHIBALD McALLISTER and HARRY SHAPIRO at Furness Playground, Philadelphia, Pa.

Games which have the greatest liking amongst children are those which are simple in idea, yet comprehensive in scope—games which the children are able to grasp quickly, and having as their accomplishment the element of direction of aim.

Were one to enter a Philadelphia Playground during free play period—when the boys and girls are permitted to play without any instruction from the teacher—he or she would need no further evidence to prove such a statement. At one end a number of boys and girls will be found playing dodge, volley and captain ball; at other spots will be found playground baseball games in progress; others will be seen tossing a basketball towards a goal; others will be seen piloting a ball to a goal in a hockey game; still others will be playing with quoits, carrom, hop scotch or darts. In every one of these games, the participant is desirous of one thing—accuracy— and a feeling of personal pride and self satisfaction is the result of an exact aim as well as the acquirement of skill.

This striving for accuracy of direction thus becomes .the keynote of the games played by our twentieth century boys and girls. All are ambitious of being a “sure” mark and thus heroes are born every hour. If we stop to consider, we will see that “baseball,” America’s national game, has this element of direction of aim to a high degree, yet it is as popular with the adult as with the child of ten. It can be readily appreciated, therefore, that games possessing this property are to be fostered.

In the playground we should encourage our boys and girls toward the attainment of the highest degree of accuracy. If they like these games which necessitate the co-ordination of the sense of sight with the muscles in the body, then we should create as much interest in them as possible. We should play as many games of this nature as possible.

In this respect, the woik of the teacher may be greatly aided by close observation ot the boys and girls when at play. One can learn much that is of value in this manner, for many of our boys and girls are very versatile and “chucked” full of clever ideas. Perhaps a tew instances of the originality and ingenuity of the child may be cited in example. A game known as “Can-ball”— a form of basketball goal throwing in which the boys use the large green cans provided for the depositing of waste paper—has sprung up with its many modifications. A combination of tennis and

Digitized by L^ooQle
82

i

volleyball in which the tennis rackets and balls are used with the volleyball rules is also played. Left-handed baseball, hopping to first base on one foot, is also liked, as are arm movements on the sliding boards.

Participation in the games that the children are playing helps to bring forth this originality on the part of the child. It likewise creates a keener interest in the game, rids the child of a certain sheepishness, forms a spirit of fellowship between child and teacher and places discipline in the background.

At the Furness Playground in Philadelphia this method of playing with the children in the games of direction of aim had the good result of producing still another game. It had been noticed that the children liked the game of throwing a bean bag or ball through circular openings in a back board. These openings or holes were of different diameters. If the missile, thrown from a distance, went through the large hole, it counted five (5), through the medium hole, ten (10), and through the smallest hole, twenty-five (25). It was also noticed that the children played at ten pins with much interest. A thought of combining these two games presented itself, for both had as their idea direction of aim.

HURDLE BOWL TOURNAMENT IN PROGRESS.

A crude backboard was constructed which consisted of the bean board with a pyramid of three hoops set on the top. This was elevated two and one-half feet from the ground. About three feet in front of this improvised board was placed an incline one yard in length and elevated one and one-half feet. Numbering the holes 5, 10, 15, 25, 50, 100 according to the size of the diameter of the circles a player went eighteen fest in front of the incline,
83

and bowled a ball. When the ball reached the incline, it rolled up. then shot into the air, making an arch toward the backboard. If the direction of aim was good it went through the hole.

The children, girls as well as boys, played this game with a great deal of enthusiasm, and satisfaction. When rainy days came in the playground the game could be taken indoors and served as a pastime for such gloomy occasions. The game, which has been called Hurdle-Bowl, is now manufactured by Howard George, Playground Outfitters. Frankford, Philadelphia, and is being used in many recreation and Y. M. C. A. centers in the city with good results. It is a wonderful training for the child, co-ordinating mind and body, and is a game which the children like to play. In the fact that it is not a strenuous game but a game of skill in direction of aim, it appeals to all ages.

In the following we give the rules of the game Name; Hurdle Bowl.

Character of Game.

Hurdle Bowl is an individual as well as a Team Game of skill and of moderate physical activity, developing accuracy of aim.

Its Use.

It is adapted to a moderate number of boys and girls from the ages of 8 to 17: and is equally enjoyed by adults. It can be played in-doors and out-doors.

Object of Game.

To so pitch a ball that, after hurdling, it will go through one of the openings in the Mckboard.

Necessary Equipment.

A rectangular field, 6x28 feet; a backboard 4 1-2 ft. by 3 1-2 ft; with circles of different diameters, 8-10-12-13-14-16 inches; a back board situated 26 inches from the ground; an incline 43 by 48 inches with an altitude of 22 inches; a regulation playground baseball, 14 inches in circumference.

Organization.

The backboard is situated 2 feet from one end of the rectangular field. The back of the incline is placed 3 feet in front of the back-board; the serving line is 18 feet in front of the incline (see diagram).

DIAGRAM SHOWING PLAY SPACE AND POSITION OF APPARATUS.
84

When the game is played individually each player receives 3 turns at bowling, the amount scored on each ball is totalled and marked on the score sheet beside his name.

Ten innings constitute a game and the sum total of the scores of all the innings give the individual his final score.

The individual having attained the highest score, is the winner. The person next highest is second, etc.

In team games, the players are divided into equal numbers. The game is played like individual Hurdle Bowl; the player of one team first takes his three turns and records his score; then the player of the opposite team takes his three turns at bowling and likewise records his score. The players of each team alternate until each member in the game has had his turn. The sum total of each team’s scoring constitutes the amount made for that inning.

In informal games the number of innings to be played by the teams must be arranged before the game is played.

Rules

1.	SERVICE

The ball is put in play by a bowler (the server) standing behind the serving line, bowling the ball with one hand.

(a)	Three bowls constitute a chance or turn.

(b)	The bowler must not step over the serving line.

(c)	A bowled ball not reaching the incline receives no credit.

(d)	A served ball that returns down the incline after having touched the backboard, entitles the bowler to bowl over again.

(e)	When the game is played by teams, no player is allowed to bowl or serve for another person.

2.	THE BALL

A regulation 14 inch playground base ball.

3.	TEAMS

Any number of players may constitute a team.

4.	LENGTH OF GAME

Ten innings completes a game.

5.	FOULS

(a)	A bowler stepping over the serving line receives no score for that particular bowl.

(b)	A bowled ball going out of bounds is a turn which receives no credit.

(c)	A ball that does not reach the incline is not bowled over

again.

6.	SCORING

(a)	The sum of the scores made on each bowl gives the bowler his score for that particular inning. The total of these sums for the ten innings constitutes his final score for the game.

(b)	In team games, the sum of the scores of all the players of the respective teams, constitutes the final score for the respective teams.

7.	HELPS IN PLAYING THE GAME.

(a)	Hold the ball tightly in the hand with fingers spread apart.

(b)	Keep eye riveted on the hole at which you are aiming.

(c)	Stoop low before bowling the ball.
DUMBBELL DRILL FOR YOUNG MEN.

By PAUL KRIMMEL, Normal College, N. A. G. U.

Music:	The	Four	Jacks	March.

Introduction of 8 counts before the 1st and between each group and 2 counts to each movement.

GROUP I.

1.	Place left foot forward, bend right knee and swing arms

fore-upward....................................     1

Lunge left forward and swing arms sideward (palm up) Return................................,...........3—4

2.	Place left foot sideward, bend right knee and bend arms

to strike from shoulders........................... 1

Lunge left sideward and strike arms obliquely side-up-

ward ............................................. 2.

Return............................................3—4

3.	Place left foot backward, bend right knee and bend

arms to thrust...................................   1

Lunge left forward and thrust arms upward.......... 2

Return........................................,—.3—4

4.	Place left foot back-inward and bend arms to strike

from head........................................   1

Lunge left sideward and strike arms obliquely side-

downward........................................   2.

Return.........,................................  3—4

Each exercise is repeated 3 times, left and right in alternation.

GROUP II.

1.	-Strike left forward and swing arms fore-upward..... 1

Rise on toes and lower arms sideward (palms up)..	2

Return............................................3—4

2.	Stride left sideward and swing arms side-upward.......	1

Lower trunk forward and arms sideward.............. 2

Return............................................3—4

3.	Lunge left forward and swing arms fore-upward.........	1

Turn trunk left and lower arms sideward............ 2

Return............................................3—4

4.	With a 3-8 turn left, lunge.left forward and swing the

left arm obliquely fore-upward; right arm opposite...	1

One half turn right and change knee bending and arm

positions.......................................... 2

Return..................................... 3—4

Each exercise is repeated 3 times. Left and right in alternation. GROUP III.

Same as Group 1, but the two outer files begin with the 1st exercise with the outer foot, while the two inner files begin with the 2nd exercise with the outer foot, each performing the four exercises of that Group.

Digitized by LjOOQle
88

‘GROUP IV.

Same as Group II, but the two outer files begin with the 1st exercise with the outer foot, while the two inner files begin with the 2nd exercise with the outer foot, each performing the four exercises of that group.

BUTTON-TESTS.

A Report by S. B. RYAN, Cincinnati. O.

Dr. Carl Ziegler, Director Physical Education,

Dear Sir:

Enclosed please find the standards of attainments by 1307 contestants for buttons for the years 1915 and 1916.

I	have finished this year’s entries and have averaged them with last year’s. The scores given are very nearly the actual results, as I smoothed out but a very few averages, these being at the extremes of the weights where but a few boys with exceptional scores brought the scores up too high.

The scores seem high, but are actual averages, and are fairly continuous. They might be used as standards for succeeding contests. Even with these high standards, I find this year’s contest calls for 756 buttons, more than 100 more than last year. They are as follows:

Junior Boys 190	Senior	Boys	167

Junior Girls 159	Senior	Girls	240

349	407

I	was surprised at the number of girls qualifying, the records of several schools being remarkably high.

You will understand that the above scores are not minimum requirements but are averages.

JUNIOR BOYS (294 Entries)

	Basket Ball	Three Straight	60 yd. Dash
	Throw	Jumps	
60 lbs.	27 ft.	18’ 9”	' 8 4-5 sec.
65 lbs.	30’ 2”	20’	8 4-5 sec.
70 lbs.	30’ 5”	19’ 2”	8 4-5 sec.
75 lbs.	31’ 4”	20’ 8”	8 4-5 sec.
80 lbs.	32’ 2”	20’ 11”	8 3-5 sec.
85 lbs.	33’	20’ 1”	8 3-5 sec.
90 lbs.	33’ 9”	20’ 2”	8 3-5 sec.
95 lbs.	34’ 8”	20’ 3”	8 3-5 sec.
100 lbs.	.34’ 9”	20’ 4”	8 3-4 sec.
105 lbs.	35’ 10”	20’ 6”	8 3-5 sec.
110 lbs.	36’	20’ 8”	8 3-5 sec.
115 lbs.	40’	21’	8 3-5 sec.
120 lbs.	42’	21’ 5”	8 3-5 sec.
125 lbs.	45’	22’	8 2-5 sec.
130 lbs.	45’	22’ 6”	8 2-5 sec.

Digitized by Google
87

SENIOR BOYS (416 Entries)

	Basket Ball	Three Straight 75 yd. Dash-	
70 lbs.	Throw	Jumps 19' 4”	
	30’ 2”		10 4-5 sec.
75 lbs.	34’ 4”	20’	10 3-5 sec.
80 lbs.	36’	20’ 1”	10 1-5 sec.
85 lbs.	37’	20’ 2”	10 1-5 sec.
90 lbs.	40’ 7”	21’	10 sec.
95 lbs.	41’ 6”	21’ 5”	10 sec.
100 lbs.	43’ 4”	21’ 6”	9 4-5 sec.
105 lbs.	45’ 7”	22’ 1”	9 3-5 sec.
110 lbs.	46’ 7”	22’ 2”	9 2-5 sec.
115 lbs.	47’ 10”	22’ 4”	9 2-5 sec.
120 lbs.	49’ 6”	22’ 4”	9 2-5 sec.
125 lbs.	50’ 8”	22’ 4”	9 2-5 sec. .
130 lbs.	49' 6”	22’ 7”	9 2-5 sec.
135 lbs.	49’ 4”	23’	9 2-5 sec.
140 lbs.	49’	23’ 1”	9 3-5 sec.
145 lbs.	48’	23’ 4”	9 3-5 sec.
150 lbs.	46’	23’6”	9 3-5 sec.
	JUNIOR GIRLS (11 to 13, 269 Entries)		
	Basket Ball Throw		Potato Race 60 yds.
Small		25’ 6”	18-9-10 sec.
Average	'	31’ 4”	16-1-10 sec.
Large		31’ 1”	16-3-5 sec.
	SENIOR GIRLS (13 to 16, 328 Entries)		
	Basket Ball Throw		Potato Race 60 yds.
Small		28’ 6”	16-3-5 sec.
Average		32’ 4”	16-2-5 sec.
Large		32’ 3”	16-3-10 sec.

Will the subscriber who sent us 25 cents (coin) for copy of Heintz’ “Fencing with the Foil” send name. The letter was mailed from Madison, Wise, but was unsigned. The number of orders received for the book do not yet warrant its being reprinted but they are still coming in and it may be possible to have the work done. If ordering, do not send money until notified positively of the reprint being made. We expect to know definitely before the next issue of Mind & Body.

The Publishers.

Digitized by Google
88

■O

'O ■'	'	'I	I	in.	■

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYQIBNB

•O' "	..n ■ 11n in in   in	mi	,,	-i	.Q

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J. EFFECT OF IMPROPER SHOES.

(From New York Medical Journal.)

DEXTER D. ASHLEY, M. D., New York.

The learned biologist classifies man as a plantigrade—a sole walker. Fashion and the shoemaker have made him (especially the female) a digitigrade—a toe walker. This is a transmutation, avoiding transition—an evolution by leaps and bounds, considered possible by Huxley, though he gave no examples.

Most transitions in nature are accomplished at a sacrifice in efficiency and for a time in proneness to deformity and disease of the part in question. We have an animal that should carry an upright body in standing and walking, as a plantigrade with a broad sole with three points of pressure, a tripod—the heel, outer side of the foot, and ball of the foot—when all too suddenly this tripod is superseded by placing the weight upon the anterior leg of the tripod—the anterior foot—and the assumption of the progression of the digitigrade. Can you wonder that nature takes her toll in discomfort, subjecting the individual to a list of infirmities'never experienced by primitive man? The mere mention of some of these infirmities should deter the transgressor and warn him to lead the simple life if he would avoid pain, deformity, and impaired locomotion.

Digitigrade progression persisted in means weight bearing on the distal extremities of the metatarsal bones, with the phalanges projected upward at a sharp angle instead of extending forward. By continued stretching of the capsular ligaments the sensitive synovial, ends of the bones are uncovered and exposed to pressure. In many cases the joint becomes permanently, partially, or totally luxated or dislocated, resulting in hammer toes or flexed toes of mild or severe degree, with corns on the toes and callosities in the anterior metatarsal arch (metatarsalgia, Morton’s disease, or Morton’s neuralgia), due to the crushing and thinning of the tissues and the giving way of the anterior arch, resulting in a broadening and thickening of the anterior part of the foot, with mild or severe hallux valgus, bunions, overriding toes, clubbed toes, hallux rigidus or still great toe. The X ray shows a thinned bone cortex, increased cancellous tissue, a dumb-bell atrophy of the proximal phalanx, distorted joint surfaces, and bent bones. The great mass of muscles on the plantar surface— five layers of plantar flexors built into the arch—are almost functionless. Withered by disuse, crushed by braces and high, unyielding arches built in the shoes, we have seemingly lost track of these muscles in our mad scramble to brace, prop, arid support the foot while walking on our toes. There is always a loss of the muscular ■ control which is necessary to an elastic progression, ability to main-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
89

tain an upright position and a good carriage, and strength to succeed in this strenuous life.

The entire anatomy of the part is affected. Weak ankles, loss of balance, fallen longitudinal arch, weak foot, strained foot, sprained foot, sensitive, painful foot, flat foot, rigid foot, elongated foot, pronated foot, abducted foot, and valgus foot are some of the terms designating the ills we bear and the price we pay for unphysiological walking and standing. These conditions are accompanied by swollen, puffy ankles, with referred pains in calf, knee, thigh, and back. Frequently there are severe intermittent cramps, preceded by numbness of the toes and a burning sensation referred to the anterior foot. ' There may be severe pain, so persistent as to break the spirit and constitution, make life a burden, and render the sufferer nervous and irritable to a degree.

The digitigrade progression is conducive to sprained ankles and broken bones. The tendo Achillis becomes permanently shortened, preventing the normal range of ankle motion and necessitating a pronated position of the foot, valgus great toe, and bunion, due to the unphysiological body thrust imparted to the foot. When standing in low heels or bare feet, these people often complain of a sensation of falling backward.

While bearing the discomfort of these diseases, what wonder that this digitigrade of the genus homo is sometimes cross or has nervous prostration. This individual is suffering with weakened, inefficient feet, deformed from long wearing of viciously planned shoes. If this toe walker stands little and walks less and is given a very high heel and pointed toe, wedging the toes forward* and the arch ends nearer together, the strain upon the arch muscles and ligaments is relieved and the pain alleviated at the expense of the anterior foot. The result can only mean more deformity, more weakness, dependence upon the energy and endeavor of others. If a turn of the wheel of fortune should at any time call upon such a dependent to be a helper, a worker, to sustain herself or others, she would be found to be a miserable cripple because of her abused feet.

That walking with an elastic step is the most invigorating exercise that can be indulged in by old and young is almost an adage —a recreation that is impossible of indulgence after wearing improper shoes, as practiced by a large proportion of our civilized population. The old European custom of making long tramps afield, along paths through woods and over hills, with friends and family, is hardly known in this country, the dusty or muddy roads offering to the pedestrian the only and uninviting avenue to the country. When we are there we find no paths leading to the woods. We are a riding nation. Walking for exercise can not find favor with our stilted digitigrade or be performed with the joy of living by one whose toes have lost all power.

i

Digitized by VjOOQ
90

MEDICAL INSPECTION IN SCHOOLS AN EDUCATIONAL

PROBLEM.

WILLIAM A. HOWE, M. D., Medical Inspector of Schools, State Education

Department, Albany.

There is no education which is today attracting greater attention, or in which our people are more deeply interested, or which presents greater possibilities, than that pertaining to the conservation of the health and physical condition of the school child. It should be equally as applicable to the teacher as to the pupil and to the home as well as to the school.

It should resolve itself into one comprehensive system of health education. It should teach parents the real meaning of medical inspection, and enlist their cheerful co-operation in its intelligent and efficient administration. It should afford means of preventing many of the unfortunate defects acquired in childhood and teach children not only how to escape much illness but to cultivate strong bodies.

It should do more than any other agency to enable teachers and parents to recognize promptly many of the communicable diseases of childhood and to aid in their suppression.

It should recognize physical, mental, or other defects of children, teachers or janitors, and utilize available agencies to secure the correction of such defects.

It should be so administered as not only to popularize good health but to put a premium on it. We should be permitted to credit our children and teachers with good health, and strong bodies just as we do good attendance and efficient school work.

Special instruction in medical inspection and physical training should be given to the teachers of the State now in active service, and to those in preparation for such profession.

Physicians and dentists should be still further impressed with the importance of the work, and their careful cooperation enlisted in the efficient enforcement of the law.

Dental inspection should be made a regular part of medical inspection, and the dentist compensated for his services.

Medical and dental colleges should receive lectures on this phase of education. Hospitals and nurses should receive special attention, as the well equipped nurse is rapidly becoming an indispensable factor in the successful administration of medical inspection.

Our hospitals should devote particular attention to the preparation of the school nurse as an educator.

Health and educational agencies should unite their efforts on every occasion to spread the gospel of cleanliness, and rightful living, in doing which communicable diseases will eventually be suppressed, and strong bodies be the rule rather than the exception.—From “Health News,” State of New York.

Digitized by LjOOQle
91

WATER AS A GASTRIC STIMULANT.

(Editorial in Journal of the American Medical Association.)

It is considered by many that water should be taken sparingly, if at all, during mealtime. The recommendation to avoid the ingestion of an abundance of water along with the food is not without an underlying belief in its therapeutic propriety and helpfulness. A custom so well established must express some supposed efficiency of action. The basis for the widely circulated rule that water should never be drunk until long after a meal is eaten probably includes one or more of the following assumptions:	(1)	Drinking

water while eating unduly dilutes or moistens the food, thereby obviating a desirable degree of mastication and insalivation. (2) The water dilutes the gastric and other juices to an abnormal and undesirable extent. (3) The food materials are caused, by the large volume of water, to leave the stomach at an unduly early period in the gastric cycle, before the digestive changes that ought to be brought about in this organ have been satisfactorily inaugurated.

If in truth these phenomena were in whole or in part undoubtedly provoked by the ingestion of water with meals, alimentary disturbances might well be expected to follow. As a matter of fact, a large number of experimental data collected on both man and animals by Hawk and his collaborators have failed to disclose any impairment in the utilization of the foodstuffs under the influence of even exceptionally abundant intake of water at meals. This has been verified further by newer experiments of Orr in Aberdeen. Indeed, Hawk goes so far as to suggest that the drinking of water with meals exerts even a desirable influence on a number of the most important of the activities and functions of the gastrointestinal tract.

Without considering in detail the various alleged beneficial effects, such as the decrease in the development of intestinal bacteria, and the consequent diminution in the activity of the putrefactive microorganisms, which are held to follow the liberal use of water with meals, we may appropriately consider one important phase of the question on which the features just cited are made to depend. Hawk has freely stated that the entrance of water into the stomach stimulates the flow of gastric juice. Not only this, but the juice as secreted has a higher concentration of acid than that produced previous to the entrance of the water. After stimulating the gastric secretion, the main bulk of the water very quickly enters the intestine, but it does not carry with it any appreciable part of the solids present in the stomach.

The assertion that water can function as a stimulant of gastric secretion is by no means a new one. The favorable action has repeatedly been demonstrated on animals, and only very recently by the Chicago physiologists Carlson, Orr, and Brinkmann. In addition to such evidence, and to the indirect indication that water acts as a gastric stimulant in the human organism, there is now offered direct proof obtained on man. Bergeim, Rehfuss, and Hawk note that water (ordinary or distilled), either cold (10.5 degrees C.,

Digitized by v^iOOQLe
92

50.9 degree F.) or warm (50 degrees C., 122 degrees F.), is a very strong gastric stimulant and in certain instances yields an acidity of over 100 (cubic centimeters tenth-normal sodium hydroxide to neutralize 100 cubic centimeters of juice), in less than 20 minutes. As small a volume of water as 50 cubic centimeters has been demonstrated to have a pronounced and immediate stimulatory power in the human stomach. In the average normal individual, water produces fully as great a stimulation (as measured by acidity and enzyme values) as does an Ewald test meal, and the acidity values follow a similar type of curve. A simple water meal might therefore be substituted in many instances for the Ewald meal, and has the additional advantage 6f demonstrating any food residues. It was impossible to demonstrate any pronounced glandular fatigue in the human stomach. Identical volumes of water introduced into the stomach of the same man at different times during the same afternoon yielded very similar acidity values. Under all conditions the increased acidity following water stimulation is accompanied by increased peptic activity, although the two types of values do not necessarily run parallel.

In one human subject the Philadelphia investigators obtained definite evidence that 500 cubic centimeters of water left the stomach in from 10 to 20 minutes after its introduction. The occasional efficiency of the stimulus is shown by the fact that at least 225 cubic centimeters of gastric juice of relatively high acidity were secreted after an initial stimulus afforded by 50 cubic centimeters of distilled water.

The stimulatory power of the water was not influenced in any uniform way by the volume of fluid introduced into the stomach. In some instances a small volume of water gave a pronounced stimulation, whereas in other tests the response was relatively less pronounced when a larger volume of water was employed. How radical the suggestions following from these newer gastric studies are is indicated by the proposal that since water stimulates the gastric glands to activity when no food is present in the stomach as well as when there is a digestive task to complete, it would seem a waste of “glandular energy” to drink water between meals. It would seem that water could best further the digestive plan when taken with meals.

We can make use of all copies offered us of back numbers and each person who has notified us will receive instructions for forwarding soon, together with credit allowed. No more copies are desired at this time but any who have May 1916 or October 1916 numbers should preserve them as there are frequent calls for them.

TO SUBSCRIBERS
93

Effect of Employment on Children.—It is so well recognized that certain occupations may involve serious dangers to young growing persons that most States now have their child labor laws. Massachusetts, which has been a leader in legislation of this character is now engaged in a systematic effort to collect information that may be of value in determining the need of changes in its present laws and regulations governing the employment of minors. At the-request of the Massachusetts Board of Labor and Industries, Assistant Surgeon M. Victor Safford of the U. S. Public Health Service, was detailed by the Federal Government to co-operate with the State authorities in a study of the effect of employment in various occupations on the health and physical development of children now permitted by law to work therein. A report of this study with respect to the cotton manufacturing industry of Massachusetts has just been published by the Federal Government as Public Health Bulletin No. 78, entitled “Influence of Occupation on Health During Adolescence.”

The physical condition of over 600 boys between the ages of 14 and 18 enployed in this industry in different parts of the State received careful study. It was brought out that in Massachusetts boys between these ages for the most part do not remain long in the cotton mills. This fact and the strict regulations of the State governing the employment of minors may not make some of the conclusions reached in this local investigation equally true elsewhere, but among the facts disclosed the following may be mentioned.

A considerable proportion of the younger boys and also of those over sixteen were undersized and physically undeveloped for their ages, while those between fifteen and sixteen averaged larger than other classes of boys of their age with which comparisons were made. This fact is explained by the accumulation in the mills of strong boys waiting to reach the age of sixteen to go into permanent “full time” occupations. The presence of a noteworthy proportion of undersized boys is not ascribed to the effects of the occupation, but to the fact that the cotton mill offers one of the few chances of employment for undersized boys. Evidence of injurious effects of their work or working conditions, even of the temperature and humidity of the mills, on normal boys was seldom found, although further investigation of possible effects of atmospheric conditions is recommended. Probably as a result of the State regulations relative to the issuance of employment certificates comparatively few cases of dangerous diseases were discovered. There was, however, a wide variety of' defective conditions disclosed by the investigation, many of them of such a character as to impair seriously the future health and economic usefulness of the individuals concerned if not remedied.—Medical Times, Dec. 1916.

Digitized by v^ooQle
O

'O'



ATHLKTIO NOTH

.... ■ —....	'	■	o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

Will the gentleman from Detroit, Mich., who sent me the following note kindly send his name and address to me. I shall be pleased to answer him. The following note was received from this gentleman under date of Feb. 23:

P. 427 Paragraph 1.—Compulsory System! In a republic. Paragraph 4, page 427, “Island of Peace in a sea of war”. Comments on paragraph as a whole—what more cause has Switzerland had to get into war than have the Esquimos of the North Pole region. What is logic of No. 6”

This communication was received in hand-printed form without signature and if correspondent wishes to take a fall out of me I ghall be glad to give him a chance.

Emanuel Haug.

THE VASSAR GIRL MUST SWIM FOR HER DEGREE.

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,—Vassar College faculty has voted that ability to swim shall be required for a degree after 1920, except in cases where students are excused because of physical weakness.

“In a class by himself.”

It is often said—but not often true. However, there are a few athletes who are worthy of the phrase.

Willie Hoppe, the wizard of billiards, is most often mentioned as being alone in his class—and he is. Hoppe has been without a rival for years. He is so much a class by himself, that only the other day he offered to play against any two cue artists in the game, &t the same time.

Johnny Kilbane holds the same position in boxing. He is too good for his class. There is not a featherweight in the world who stands any chance at all with him. Johnny Dundee, when a featherweight four years ago, fought him a twenty-round draw—the only occasion in which his title has at all been threatened.

Honus Wagner needs no comment. The famous old Dutchman is yet a star at the age of forty-three. He has played more games, made more runs, made more hits, and stolen more bases than any ball player who ever lived.

Molla Bjurstedt, the young Norwegian girl who took this country by a smashing attack, has been without a peeress ever since. In 1915, May Sutton Bundy scored over her in two games out of three in a tournament in California, but no other has threatened her title as champion.

In athletics we have Bob Simpson, the hurdler. He has won

Digitized by Google
95

practically every jumping race that he has taken part in during -the last couple of years. A few of the Californians give him a rub now and then, but none of them beat him. Little Joie Ray of Chicago seems to be the class as a middle distance runner, and has been breaking records all winter. The walkers have a champion that seems to rank alone in the person of George Goulding, the Canadian. George is so far better than his fellow footmen that he is always called upon to give liberal handicaps in most meets.

Frank Kramer rides alone in cycling. The famous veteran has held the national cycling title for the last sixteen years. An excellent example of exemplary living.

There are a few others who may be classed alone—but not many. Dario Resta, the speed king, almost invariably wins his races despite the huge elements of luck and mechanism that enter every race. He has been the acknowledged champion for the last three years. Alex Aberg, the giant wrestler, is without a peer in his own style of wrestling—Graeco-Roman, in which he has been the world’s champion for the last thirteen years. He claims that he has not lost a fall during that time. Jimmy Wilde, the English flyweight, seems to be alone, too. Miss Olga Dorfner is a few strokes ahead in swimming. “Chick” Harley is the class on the football field.

GIRL HURDLER BREAKS RECORD.

A record for women in the 50-yard low hurdles was established at the co-ed track meet of Northwestern University at Chicago January 25th when Mis 5 Mabel McConnell made a mark of 8 1-5 seconds.

THOMPSON WILL FLY TO FRISCO.

De Lloyd Thompson, the night air raider, whose sensational flight over New York, Washington, and Chicago last spring demonstrated the need of airplane preparedness for the United States, will attempt a cross country flight from San Francisco to New York this spring in a Robinhood airplane.

Thompson purchased the machine on exhibition at the New York Show, and will have it shipped to the coast immediately. His equipment for the flight will be elaborate. Extra motors will be stationed at five-hundred-mile intervals across the continent to enable repairs and changes to be made in case of accidents.

Thompson holds the American record for altitude with a passenger, making the same at Hempstead last April. He also holds the world’s mile speed record, 136 miles an hour. He is classed as the premier trick-flier of the world and commands $1,000 a day for his services at the big state fairs throughout the country. In the last three years he has not done much distance flying, but with his new effort he expects to popularize flying in the territory that he touches.

Digitized by kjOOQle
................... ii	O

NOTES AND OOHHNTS

■	'	'	    o

Resolved, That the National Education Association gives expression again to the consciousness that the school is an institution •developed by society to conserve the well-being of humanity, and that on this solid foundation all subordinate aims and uses of the school should be made to rest. Assembled as it is in a time of world-wide disturbance, doubt, and uncertainty, and of, consequent national concern, the Association affirms its unswerving adherence to the unchanging principles of justice between persons and between nations; it affirms its belief that the instruction in the school should tend to furnish the mind with the knowledge of the arts and sciences on which the prosperity of the nation rests and to incline the will of men and nations toward acts of peace; it declares its devotion to America and American ideals and recognizes the priority of the claims of our beloved country on our property, our minds, our hearts, and our lives. It records its conviction that the true policy to be followed, both by the school and by the nation which it serves, is to keep the American public school free from sectarian interference, partisan politics, and disputed public policies, that it may remain unimpaired in its power to serve the whole people. While it recognizes that the community, or the state, may introduce such elements of military training into the schools as may seem wise and prudent, yet it believes that such training should be strictly educational in its aim and organization, and that military ends should not be permitted to pervert the educational purposes and practices of the school.

PHYSICAL REWARDS OF SELF-CONTROL.

To those who contend that self-control belongs to the moral rather than to the physical side of human nature, it can only be said that no one yet knows how far these two overlap, and that much treatment of physical conditions has to be based on moral conditions, and vice versa. It is safe to say that the delicate poise of physical health is maintained only by self-control.

Health is based on good habits, and good habits are the fruits of self-control. For each of us no day passes without many opportunities to test our strength of will. You have decided that you will not nibble between meals. Time and again you have found out that the penalty for that indulgence is indigestion, headache, or a bad complexion. Then comes that glossy box of the very purest candy, or a slice of such unusual layercake, or just one ice-cream soda, and you fall again.

You have learned that late hours are followed by wretchedness the next day, and you have promised yourself that ten o’clock shall always see you ready for bed. A little self-control would close that absorbing novel unfinished, or cut short the exciting and nerve-exhausting discussion.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
97

But it is, perhaps, in the matter of our mood that we may see most clearly how disastrous is the lack of self-control. There is always something to worry about in the happiest life, but worry and health do not go together, and abandonment to a fit of the “blues” can upset the finest digestion in the world.

Many young people constantly use the word “nervous.” It sounds better than “cross” but to their friends the words seem to mean much the same thing. Bad temper or low spirits usually have a physical basis, which would control the outward manifestations of the mood out of consideration for those about us, and the inward manifestations for the sake of our own well-being. You cannot have perfect health if you weakly yield to anger and worry and low spirits.—Exchange.

HEALTH INSURANCE.

From “Evening News” Newark, Febr. 17, 1917.

Dr. Rubinow’s address on health insurance at the Board of Trade rooms, Thursday night, was carefully reasoned. It emphasized the powerful historical argument in favor of compulsory health insurance, indicated by the fact that the leading industrial countries of Europe have adopted it, in many instances after experimenting with voluntary forms and finding them inadequate. It showed how the legitimate interests of all groups have been studiously consulted in the provisions of the standard bill that is now pending in half a dozen state Legislatures. It brought home with much force the fact that approximately one-half of all cases of destitution are caused by sickness, the economic burden of which the patient is unable to carry.

Two state commissions, one in California, one in Massachusetts, have just reported in full indorsement of compulsory health insurance as an urgently needed next step in social legislation. It behooves New Jersey, therefore, to watch this movement closely and study it diligently. This state had the first state workmen’s compensation law to become and to remain effective. Sickness causes between six and seven times as much dependency as does industrial accident, and protection of the public against the social evil of unindemnified sickness loss is proportionately more important than its protection against uniridemnified accident damage.

But perhaps the chief value of health insurance is its effect in preventing and reducing sickness. As a result of the workmen’s compensation act, eight New York industries in two years have reduced accidents by from thirty to sixty-two per cent, and one establishment has reduced accidents by seventy-five per cent. A certain percentage of sickness will remain—just as forty per cent, of accidents will probably remain, according to some experts—but an important task in biinging the nation to the highest point of efficiency will inevitably be to control preventable sickness and to alleviate the economic strain of sickness by businesslike methods. And that is the purpose of health insurance.

Digitized by AjOOQle
9S

Tom, Dick and Harry were three pigs—brothers—of the same age and same possibility so far as modem veterinary science could ascertain. They were distinguished guests and exhibits at this year’s Texas State Fair. Each had been scientifically fed.

Tom was fed on scientifically balanced rations—a dietary course which he was further permitted to balance according to his appetite. In six months he gained 94 lbs. and was worth less than it had cost to feed him.

Dick had the same balanced diet as Tom but in addition was given every day some alfalfa to nose and eat between meals. He gained 200 lbs. in the same six months and earned a good profit beyond his feeding.

Harry had the same balanced diet as Tom, plus the same alfalfa as Dick plus an open gate thru which he was allowed to roam and root the near-by fields. He gained 310 lb's, in six months! (Prof. John R. Commons of the University of Wisconsin has an inspiring lecture on The Dig-It-Up vs. The Hand Me Down Method * of Instruction).

In these days of educational experiments such as the Gary system, prevocational school, junior high schoool, no home study, one subject at a time, etc., is there need for more open gates for human Toms, Dicks and Harrys?—“Public Service.”

NORMAL COLLEGE

,	OF	THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training* Incorporated under the laws of Indiana, and recognized as an accredited training school (Classes A, B and C) by the State Board of Education. Offers high school graduates the following courses:

Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics.

Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics* Graduate course, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics* One-year elementary course, open under certain restrictions to members of the N. A. Gymnastic Union.

Physical Training Teachers* Bureau in connection.

SUMMER SESSION, JULY 2nd TO 28th.

Write for illustrated catalogue and summer session bulletin.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.,

415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind*

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS* BUREAU

OP THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415—419 <$• &tid?*0an $nfeirmap0li*» &«&.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OT CHARGE.

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Normal College, of Ike North American Gymnastic Union.

Digitized by kjOOQle