MIND AND BODY

Vol. 18.	OCTOBER,	1911	No.	20S

. Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DRi ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M/.D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

GRAFT IN EDUCATION.

By C. F. Weege, M. D., Carl Schurz High School, Chicago, III.

Of course by graft I have not in mind financial affairs, not even the teacher’s salary, for we are still a long way from receiving so large a check as to even suggest graft. What I mean is the desire to receive something for nothing in education. The notion is prevalent that pupils can acquire correct mental habits, can gain knowledge, can develop the higher faculties by lifting the burden of labor and effort from the shoulders of the student and placing it upon the teachers. Now some teachers will' cry out in alarm that I am going to make Jimmie feel the tug and strain of actual work* that I am determined to further burden the overloaded child and accomplish his ruin through study and close attention to tasks, while they have such a splendid scheme for securing results by transferring the burden to their own. shoulders, and administering only love and sweetness to Jimmie. What matter if Jimmie’s mental machinery becomes clogged and rusted through lack of use, what matter if irresponsibility, shirking, indolence, make believe break down character and pave the way for worse traits, Jimmie must be saved from work and effort at any cost. Courage is lacking to compel Jimmie to apply himself to study and work. When Jimmie’s mother came to school and complained that her dear little boy, the best boy for three blocks around, was not to be blamed for his failure, declaring he simply could not learn such difficult lessons and besides, that the teacher did not “teach him right;” then the opportuniey was not made use of to explain that it was Jimmie’s hard work that was needed and that unless the hard work was forthcoming he may not get as much out of his school as his fond parents expected. Jimmie who always thought that he was about as good as you find them, of course worked still less when “mamma” triumphantly explained to “pa” that the teacher was to blame, and that there need be no apprehension regarding Jimmie’s future success. But one day he had to learn something, and then came the numerous stunts on the part of the teacher for making work play to Jimmie.

But how are we going to develop will power and character without calling upon it for action and demonstration? No organ, no faculty will grow and develop if it is not put into action, made to work. We must admit that anything that is so interesting to a child that he will do it for the

Digitized by U.ooQle
-242-

sake of the doing, is not work. It is play to him and the child looks upon it as play. Repeat the same kind of “tricks” until the novelty has worn off, and a new feature must be introduced to make the work interesting again. This however does not add to the child’s power of self-control. It does not learn to do nor to refrain from doing things regardless of the pleasure or displeasure. The child merely follows where its desires lead it.

It may be that the theory of divided attention is correct in an appeal to the sheer force of the will. But unless _we are shown better means of making the imagery run into channels best for the self; unless we are assured that, as in the case of interest, the motive for effort is there even if the mind were not able to realize the object to be mastered as the necessary end, I think we are doing better for the child if we let it gain the ability to force the self in action along lines that may not coincide with the play of interest. Sheer will'-power, if such there be/being called upon for manifestation will thereby certainly gain in strength.

And as to forming good habits. We really do train that habit to do as little as possible and that only under the most pleasant circumstances. We develop the habit of looking at things from the viewpoint of the amount of pleasure it may bring us. (Graft pure and simple). Not that kind of pleasure and satisfaction one enjoys after having accomplished a good day’s work or overcome great difficulties by a hard steady grind. Not the satisfaction of having done his duty, but this feeling of satiation which comes after satisfying the craving for luxuries. As soon as it is enjoyed it becomes stale and new ones are sought. The habit of working hard and doing everything thoroughly is not acquired, because the nature of the demand does not necessitate it. The habit of doing one’s duty is not formed, because there are no duties to perform, it is all fun. In the upper grades the pupils often have so many study hours that the work demanded of the pupil serves as a means to pass the time. We need not be afraid of work, few people injure themselves by too much work. The break-downs in upper grades are in rare cases due to overwork. Worry, faulty hygiene, lack of air and exercise are the main causes. The fear of getting the child too tired is so great that we are afraid to demand any work at all. Rather than use the natural cures for weariness, such as rest, exercise and recreation, we •encourage idleness. If the sessions are too long, shorten them, or vary the work so that a “too much” is not reached, but by all' means make the pupil work and make him feel that is it work. Short sessions of hard conscientious work are better than a long drawn-out strain of holding the child’s attentions against mind wandering, and mental lassitude.

At least in our large cities we have ample proof that the young men and women lack firmness of character, lack the will-power to fight temptations. They drift from nickel-shows to pool-rooms and bowling alleys and cards and when the circuit is completed they begin over, onlv increasing the stake. These are the more obvious results. Less common are good manners at all times, politeness and good behavior, manliness, frankness, standards of honor. Some are trying to place the blame on the general laxity characteristic of a great city. But does not the popular taste create the demand in the social as well as the economic world?

We of course can’t put all the blame on the unpreparedness for effort. But more strength of character could be developed if more stress were laid on compelling a child to do things irrespective of whether they are interest-

Digitized by
-243-

ing and pleasant or not. Also, school training alone is not to be blamed. Home training is a greater factor. But if “pa” and “ma” are not well) equipped themselves how can we expect of them to train their children. We must begin by preparing the future hometrainers. One of our first maxims must be to demand strict obedience. That kind of obedience that needs no argument, no persuasion. When we say do, it must be do and nothing else. The explanation may come later if necessary. It will then do much more good. The pupil will see that teacher was right and he will see that the teacher knows better. He will respect the teacher far more and there will be less invitation for argument. How well1 this habit of obeying may be implanted we may observe in a child who is made to obey at home. It never asks why, or tries to wriggle out of it by pleading or argument, but unhesitatingly does as directed. We are overlooking or at least not laying enough emphasis on this powerful aid in education. We don’t have to carry this blind obedience to excess. I understand the importance of bringing out the individuality. But do we develop the individual by always catering to his liking of things, by making every task interesting? We bring out and strengthen what later may become a degenerating tendency, but we do not build up and develop character by indulgence. It is natural that the stronger tendencies will manifest themselves first. If they, however, are not desirable, if they do not make for right character, ought we not suppress them and cultivate better ones?

In very intimate relation to obedience we must consider punishment. At first the fear of punishment is the moving impulse that induces a child to put itself to a hard, even unpleasant task, not love for the good. Much later, after a child is so far advanced that it is able to reason out for itself the consequences of a lack of application to good hard school work, comes the understanding to work for its own good, to work and try hard for the sake of pleasing teacher and parents. This later stage is not reached until the child comes to the 7th or 8th grade or even to the high school, and if a firm hand was not governing at the start, it may never be reached. There is of course no sharp line where one ends and the other begins. The first is often supplanted bv the second and very frequently are the cases even in the above named grades where an application of a raw-hide would do much more good than any amount of moral suasion. The time will come when the teacher or mamma are not at his side to administer the dose of sweet persuasion to keep Jimmie from indulging where it would be better for him to use restraint. And thus when he ought to demonstrate his own strength and put his own will-power against a temptation, he is found sadly wanting in strength. His habit of younger days is continued ii\ later years. In Inany of our philanthropic undertakings we are wasting a lot of time, money, love and energy, where there is but a slight return. Remove the aid of philanthropic sources and ask the beneficiary to keep agoing by^his own initiative, and watch the results. As long as the graft practiced showed good returns, as long as someone else made things interesting, so long have we good attendance and sometimes even appreciation. But as soon as the monev appropriated gives out, or the benefactor gets tired of the job you see this whole artificial creation collapse. After giving an individual a good start, after showing him the advantage of a nice clean place to go with his family, where he can listen to good music, good speaking, or giving him the privilege of a free gymnasium or library, one would think he would try to

Digitized by
—244—

keep it up, but he does not. He has not been educated, he has not developed his will-power an iota to strive for these things on his own part. Those things were all right as long as someone else paid for it, as long as someone else made it so interesting that he merely had to go and enjoy it, but withdrew the graft and everything goes back into the old ruts. ( Where would all charitable institutions, Y. M. C. A.’s, etc., be if rich people did noe give their hard earned money to them?) If only they would compel their offspring to continue in the way shown there would be some small gain. But it is the same old vicious cycle—no obedience in childhood, no building or character, no strengthening of will-power. Not having learned and acquired it themselves they can’t develop and foster it in their children. In those institutions we are trying to make up for our neglect or ill success in school-life, but fail here again, because the foundation upon which to build is lacking. It is only patchwork at best. We would have better success, in fact we might forego many of the enterprises for elevating the standard of living in larger cities if a stronger, firmer hand were governing in school-life.

Physical education shows the same tendencies. Everybody would like to get healthy and strong if it only were not so much like work. The beginning is easy, it’s all glory. After a few visits to the gymnasium the novelty has worn off and the learner begins to realize that he has to wor£ if he wants to develop quickness, co-ordination of movements, etc. He finds that round shoulders are not cured in two weeks and that he has to repeat some movements quite often to be perfect in them. Not only that, the teacher is so strict. He makes him stand and walk perfectly straight, which is ever so much harder than just loafing along. And, the calisthenics are so hard and not nearly so excitfng as basket-ball. Well, if it is not an exceptional case he will either drop out or go to some place where they are not so strict and where they don’t make a fellow work so hard, but put in most of the time playing basket-ball, etc. He does not realize that the best “gyms” are those where strictest discipline is enforced and the time is employed in hard conscientious work, based on scientific principles. Later when he discovers that to become a star at anything, even basket-ball, he has to work for it, he goes back to his old standard of buying a ticket for the games and take part in the howling and shrieking in the galleries and on the side-lines.

What is done to hold cases like the above? The first thing that we observe is the playing to the pupil’s appetite for excitement. If it is found that sound physical training is too much like work for him he is encouraged to try the more exciting or as it is termed, the more lively sports. As soon as this stage is reached the education in physical training is entirely lost sight of. Then physical training is not a means toward an end i. e. development of good citizenship but it is the end itself, degraded to a means of satisfying the craving for excitement. Graft again. It is impossible to do justice to all the different phases of the subject in one paper, nor is it necessary to go into details to prove the above. All the controversies in later years have shed light on the subject. A great many of our most eminent educators have called attention to the facts and have condemned the methods. But, as stated at the beginning, the backbone was lacking. Those educators were afraid to force a thing through that they knew was an advance in educational matters. I would like to put stress on it that these

Digitized by UooQle
-245-

heads of colleges knew they were.right, they were merely theorizing, or surmising things.

With a great many modifications athletics may be made an educational factor, (I do not think sports could ever be made such,) but we are far from it today. As it now stands it is a huge affair of graft. Not considering the physiological1 aspect, (some games and sports have been and must be condemned as not at all fit to even promote physical development), but looking at it from the viewpoint of raising the standard of citizenship, we find that the present system is wrong. The evil spirit of winning by all means and all its consequences, cheating etc. (amateurism) has been so many times strikingly proven that we may pass over it. Even if there were no cheating, etc., is this fighting for championships, this hunger for fetichism, this effort to shine in the eyes of an admiring public really an educational factor? Does it serve as a means of elevating the standard of citizenship? I dare say it does not. The history of Rome, and very strikingly that of Greece, shows us that the advent of hero worship marked one of the first steps in the decline of citizenship in general. Not only does it create in the individual an abnormal desire for excitement, but there are groups created that stand apart from the general makeup of the school. Instead of creating a spirit of equality, as Plato demanded in a community, where all have the same end in view, where all strive for the elevation of all its members and unite in combatting degenerating influences, factions and enmity are encouraged. School-spirit it is often called when the teams and their followers gather for the “ra-ra” affairs. I consider a spirit where each and every pupil sees it his aim to do his duty in hard earnest work, to elevate school above any other by good scholarship far superior to one that has many opportunities of idolizing its heroes. On the one hand we have the dazzling, outward glittering, on the other earnest, essential soundness. Can we still speak of physical training as an educational means when it is used as a bait? Can we say that it elevates the standard of citizenship when the best material goes to the highest bidder? Does it serve to foster the true democratic spirit of equal rights to all, when only a few are reaping the benefit? Is it not of far greater importance to give every pupil in a school an equal chance at everything offered, than to concentrate the attention on a few? Is it not better to increase the ability of all than to endeavor to turn out championship teams? Are not the pupils who are not able to make the teams the ones who need special attention most? In every study the slow ones are helped along as much as possible to catch up, but in athletics the star holds the center of the stage. Everybody else is convinced of his own insignificance when the band plays: “Hail1; the conquering hero comes.” Graft in its worst form! Show me a school that turns out most championship teams and I’ll show you an institution in which at least the work of the physical training department may be very much improved.

. To make athletics an educational means we must so modify it that the average ability of a whole school shall be the standard. As it now stands our meets and contests do not demonstrate the merit of the work done in a school. It is possible that one man may win a meet for his school and stamp an institution that may do nothing to further physical education, as an ideal school' in the eyes of an ignorant public. We must demand a more general participation for the good of athletic work. I would even suggest to de-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-246-

man d the participation of a certain percentage of all pupils of a school. Besides that—but we must not ask too much at first.

It may be that some are surprised that I call this graft. We advertise to the public through our institutions that our pupils are being built of certain materials. But the material is much cheaper than advertised to be or the specifications call for. We turn pupils out of high schools and colleges and put the stamp of the diploma on them, while we educators know, as well as some architects do, that the product is false. Yet we continue to bear our responsibility instead of indicting each other on the charge of graft.	'	__________

DANGER SIGNALS.

By Woods Hutchinson, M. D., New York.

Abridged by D. M. F. Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia.

Dr. Hutchinson, the eminent scholar and Professor of Clinical Medicine in the New York Polyclinic Hospital, gives us another of his far-sighted, epoch-making articles in the July issue of The Cosmopolitan. He writes on the “Danger Signals in the Kindergarten age” as a natural sequence to his article on “Nursing Danger-Signals” mentioned in our March issue of “Mind and Body.” He says:	“The keynote of the nursery stage of man

is food, sunshine and rest. The keynote of the kindergarten stage is food, air and exercise.” “Accuracy, precision, precise proportion, he is absolutely incapable of now and should not even be allowed to attempt. Nothing could be much worse for an active, sturdy, growing child, who wants to run and tumble, wave his arms about, and kick his legs in the air and shout, than to be planted in a footsy little chair at a dolls’-house table, pricking tiny holes in a sweet little piece of perforated card board. It were better for him to be out in the street learning to fight and crawl through sewer pipes.”

“Your baby needs play more than school.	Moral:—Don’t worry

about the school you are going to send your baby to. Keep him out of any sort as long as your conscience will let you—and then a year longer. This is perfectly good and safe advice. A child’s proper business is to grow and to exercise his powers as fast as he gets them. This gives him an enormous appetite, which causes more growth and again calls for more exercise of new-found powers. In so far as school is carried out within four walls, it does nothing to help this progress and much to hinder it. It may be tolerated, but on sufferance only, and the rule at this stage should be to reduce it to a minimum. Nine-tenths of the growth that the modern child under ten makes, whether physical or mental, he makes in spite of school, not on account of it.” “The hygienic conditions of the schoolroom may be better than the homes of its children, but they are always worse than those of their play-places, which they would live in if released; and five hours daily confinement at hard labor is hygienicalTy an exceedingly poor substitute for a day in nature’s great school—all outdoors!

Still abideth the trinity of growth—food, air, exercise; these three, and the greatest of these is food. Our little human locomotive must have fuel first, fuel1 last, fuel all the time.” “Three square meals a day for a healthy boy are just the mere foundation for his day’s eating. Upon what physio-

Digitized by Google
-247-

logic or rational basis the great, sacred dietetic principle of Three Square Meals a Day and No Eating Between Meals was founded is difficult of discovery, even for adults, and impossible for children. It certainly has no basis in the broad field of animal habits and experiments. Most animals in a state of nature eat whenever they can get food and until they can hold no more. Cows and horses, for instance, at pasture, graze steadily from half to two-thirds of the day or, in summer time, night. These scarcely come within the direct line of our ancestry, even on Darwinian principles, but I cannot help thinking that traces of their characters, occasionally appear in our children. So that, ancestrally, the healthy, human stomach ought to be able to take care of any article of food in reason, in any amount within the cubic capacity of its walls, at any hour of the day or night.” “Give the child five meals a day. The notion that the stomach requires a certain definite interval of rest between tasks in order to get up its supply of gastric iuice has been completely exploded, inasmuch as it has been found that the resting and empty stomach contains no gastric juice whatever; and it secretes none until food is actually put into it or smelled.” “Let the day, then, of the kindergartner be frankly planned uponThe basis of five feedings a day, with intervals between for play and sleep and menial recreation. Growth with eating and exercise as the means thereof, is his business, and everything else should be made to bend and conform to its demands.” “The best and the biggest and the most moral thing that we ever do, as children of five or fifty-five, is to grow.” “Youth is the period of growth, and if children are to enlarge their bodies they must be supplied with an abundance of those materials out of which their bodies are built.”

“The nursery is and always has been right in demanding plenty of butter on its bread.” “Children should be allowed, yes, encouraged, to eat butter and bread, rather than bread and butter.”

“Sleeping to grow and get an appetite, eating to gratify that appetite, playing to get another one—this is the whole duty of a child.

But what, challenges some one, wTill become of the child’s mind all this time? Did you ever happen to know of a healthy, happy, laughing child that was not considered ‘bright’ and promising? A child’s mind during this period grows just as its organ, the brain does, through the use of his senses and the exercise of his muscles. Like the bear’s cubs, in the old legend, which were born as shapeless lumps and ‘licked into shape’ by the mother bear, children are born little lumps of possibilities and played into shape, both body and mind.” “Children, if not watched and gently checked will often rush away from the table before they have fully satisfied their appetites in order to resume their play. They will forget that most important epoch of the day, the dinner-hour, in the excitement of a game.”

The normal state of the healthy child is wriggling, or other more active motion, constantly, save when he is asleep or feeding. This the schoolroom deliberately sets out to put a stop to, and by so doing denies him his divine right to grow, utterly oblivious of the fact that a child will learn quick on his feet, yes, on the run !. It does not make much difference what kind of seats and desks your kindergarten or schoolroom has, provided the child is not expected to sit in them for more than fifteen minutes at a time, at this stage of his career.

What a child most vitally needs in the way of mental development is

Digitized by
-248-

acquaintance with and knowledge of his surroundings—training to see accurately and to draw conclusions from what he sees; training to touch and handle and mold and work with things; training to hear and remember what he hears, and to work out the meanings of sounds, whether articulate or inarticulate, their relations to one another, their harmony or dissonance, their connections and associations with sights and smells and touch-perceptions ; training to smell—to tell the difference between flowers and filth, between crearp and cod-liver oil, between foul air and fresh, to reason out why he loves one and hates the other. There is very little need, at this stage, to teach a child what he should like and what he should dislike, only why he likes good and why. he dislikes bad.

Lessons can be learned in play. Let the chiLd learn to speak by speaking, under correction and intelligent supervision; to read by hunting for the names and stories of his favorite pictures; to write by sending messages to others about what he has found out for himself, or wishes to communicate to them; to cipher by actually counting his jack-stones and marbles and pocket knives, by adding his gains and subtracting his losses, by multiplying his own profits and dividing the other fellow’s, and he will master the Three R’s without so much as the sight of a bench or the taste of a stick.

Let every family have its own garden, with sand-heap, swings, and tool-house, with carpenter’s bench and plenty of tools to dig and hack with and ground that can be dug and hacked to heart’s content without blame or criticism. Where this is impossible let six or a dozen of families club together and provide a play-garden, with proper equipment, for the joint use of all their children. Let them pick out some sweet-tempered, sensible, healthy girl, with a good accent and attractive manners, who loves children and has been trained to direct and assist in their games and sports, and turn over the whole brood to her for from two to five hours each day.

Let the regular meeting-place of the ‘club’ be at one of these play-gardens and let this also be equipped with a clean, well-lighted, airy barn or shed, in which plays or games can be carried on in wet or stormy weather. Then once or twice a week let a good-natured local carpenter, or some manual-training teacher, give lessons in the use of tools and the building of boxes, toys, and other contraptions, to both boys and girls. Let them be given gardens and pet stock, which they shall take care of, and be responsible for, under the guidance of some one competent to teach them.

Primary literature and history can both be taught in the form of the story, regular visits can be made, as the weather permits, first and mo^t important of all, to woods and brooks and fields and gardens in the neighborhood ; then if the club be in a small town, or the country, to poultry-yards, dairy-farms, sheep-shearings, and harvest fields. If in a city, to zoological1 gardens, botanical gardens, museums, markets, docks, etc.

Then if the children be encouraged to compare notes with, and describe to, one another what thev have seen, in clear, simple, correct Euglish, to write down their impressions, to make pictures of them, sing the songs or chant the poems, or dance the dances appropriate to the place and things, the season and time of life, they will make a healthful, natural, happy pro* gress and growth to even the highest standards of intellectual and moral accomplishment, with far greater certainty and comfort and just as rapidly as under our present, unnatural indoor, forcing system.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-249-

Watch for signs of friction. The first and most significant sign is the appetite. Any child that does not eat, and eat, at least once a day, like a saw mill, with eagerness, avidity, and an audible noise, unless restrained, is not healthy. He ought not to eat like a pig, of course, but he should want to. If your child has no appetite, do not fuss at him or pile things on his plate, or try to tempt his appetite with dainties; send him to get one—to the woods, or the gardbn, or, if necessary, to the gutter—anywhere where he will meet other young animals, human and otherwise, and roll' and tumble and fight with them. Pay no attention to his school hours meanwhile—he will catch up all the ground he has lost and make much faster progress when he gets to eating properly and growing once more.”

“No child ever yet slept too much, and it is little short of a crime to make any child get out of bed in the morning until he is widely and vividly awake—indeed, until vou cannot keep him under the bed-clothes any longer.” “The natural, healthy child is a sunny, even-tempered, easily pleased, happy-go-lucky little mortal; and when he begins to be difficult to get along with, it is a sign neither of original sin nor of pure perversity, but of something fundamentally wrong. Nine times out of ten, bad temper, waywardness, fretting, and uncertainty of disposition in children are the symptoms of some disease or disturbance of nutrition. Look well to their appetite, their food, their sleep, their eyes, their ears, their teeth, and you will usually find the cause of their ‘fractiousness’ in some one of these.”

EUGENICS IN AMERICA.

Bv Amey B. Eaton, Field Worker Eugenics Record Office.

The recent establishment of the Eugenics Record Office at Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, should be of vital import to all interested in social welfare and bring a clear appreciation of the close relationship existing between social workers and biologists. For seven years experimental work in heredity, variation, and evolution has been carried on at Cold Spring Harbor in connection with the Carnegie Institution of Washington and the bio^ logical laboratory of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, but only last fall was the work extended to include the study of human heredity anU the practical application of this knowledge to the improvement of the human race.

It is to the late Sir Francis Galton that we owe the origin of the study of eugenics, which he defines as “the science which deals with those social agencies that influence mentally or physically the racial traits of future generations.” While the principles of eugenics have been appreciated and applied to some extent throughout history, it was Galton who gave the first impulse to the modern study and application of these principles. In the introduction to his Hereditary Genius, published in 1869, we find the keynote of his idea:

As it is easy to obtain by careful selection a permanent breed of dogs and horses gifted with certain peculiar powers, so it woul'd be quite practicable to produce a highly gifted race of men by judicious marriage during several generations. .	.	.	Each generation has enormous power over

the natural gifts of those that follow and I maintain that it is a duty we , owe to humanity to investigate the range of that power and to exercise it in

Digitized by Google
-250-

a way that, without being unwise towards ourselves, shall be most advantageous to future inhabitants of the earth.

Important as the work of Galton was in originating the movement, we owe equal thanks today to Abbott Gregor Mendel of Brunn for his contribution to the knowledge of heredity. At almost the same time as Galton he was quietly working away in Austria, and through his observations on the methods of inheritance of simple characteristics in peas, he was formulating a law of inheritance which bids fair to be one of the great biological discoveries of the nineteenth century, and which is today the foundation of much of the work being done on inheritance. It is an interesting fact that although he published his papers in 1866 and 1867, practically no notice was taken of them until their re-discovery by de Vries and two other independent investigators in 1900.

The present movement in eugenics is being carried on in England, Germany, and America. In England, the Eugenics Education Society, which has been established for propaganda, publishes quarterly the Eugenic? Review. Studies are being made in statistical fashion by Prof. Carl Pearson and his students, and from a biological standpoint by Nettleship, Gower, Bateson, and others. Under Pearson’s direction, Sir Francis Galton established a fellowship for research in eugenics at University College, London, and this has already been productive of a number of memoirs. In Germany an International Society for Race Hygiene was recently organized under the leadership of Dr. Alfred Ploetz, Munchen, Germany.

In America, independent but valuable studies in heredity were made in the past by R. L. Dugdale in his study of the Jukes, and by others, but definite and continued work in this direction is being taken up for the first time by the Eugenics Record Office, established by the eugenics section of the American Breeders’ Association. The officers of this section are David Starr Jordan, chairman; Charles B. Davenport, secretary; and associated with them, among others, are Alexander Graham Bell, Washington, D. C.; Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa, Cal.; W. E. Castle, Harvard University; Charles R. Henderson, University of Chicago; Adolf Meyer, Johns Hopkins University; J. Arthur Thomson, University of Aberdeen; H. J. Webber, Cornell University; and Frederick A. Woods, Harvard University. In addition to the Record Office, the section has specialized committees which serve as centers for special inquiries.

The Eugenics Record Office aims to get full and reliable data concerning physical and mental characteristics of human families, and the inheritance of such characteristics through several generations, with a view to studying such data and deducing from them the underlying laws which control human inheritance. In addition to correspondence, it accumulates such data by means of family record blanks, which may be secured from the office at Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, upon request. It also has an increasing staff of field workers who, either independently or in conjunction with institutions, are making investigations in regard to the inheritance of feeble mindedness, epilepsy, insanity, criminality, and other diseases and defects. It is the work of the future to analyze and interpret such data and to utilize the knowledge thus gained in educating the public, and bringing about legislation which will lead to the control of reproduction of the defective classes and the improvement of the human race by a better selection of marriage

mates.

Digitized by
-251-

While it is thus seen that the study of eugenics is still in a tentative stage, already sufficient data have been collected in this country and in Europe to show that the inheritance of certain diseases and abnormalities follows the same underlying law which holds good among plants and other forms of life, and that therefore the evil results of given unfit marriages may be certainly predicted and prevented, if knowledge is gained and rightfully used. The subject is certainly of vast complexity and difficulty, but with the co-operation of medical men, genealogists, social workers, and legislators, it is believed that results can be obtained which will prevent the present wasteful and criminal propagation of hereditary disease and defect, and insure to all', at the very least, a birthright of health and normality.—The Survey.

- —t ft» --------------

Summary 6f an Article entitled : “Recent Researches into the Influence of School Teaching on the Organism of the Child.”

By Dr. Helwig, Ostseebad Zinnowitz, Germany.

The strain caused by the school curriculum in the case of a great number of children is well-known. This strain does not always produce a definite aspect of disease in children whose entire physical development may have been retarded thereby. Nor is it possible to accurately define “school-fatigue,” for the widely varying disturbances of the nervous system ranging: from lassitude to excitability all come under this heading.

In the course of haematological investigations made with another object in view, I was able to detect marked shrinking, disintegration and regeneration processes going on in the red blood corpuscles during school period’s,, and also noted that recovery was co-incident with school holidays.

It seemed desirable to institute further experimental researches, and a series of systematic blood-tests made before school-work, at the conclusion of the same, and now and then in the evening, showed the above degeneration and regeneration phenomena very markedly, though naturally varying in degree in different individuals, and according to prevailing conditions and to the difficulty of the subjects taught. A series of tables distinctly show the physiological relation of the child towards mental strain. The$e examples go to prove that apart from the individual mentality and receptivity of the child, the difficulty of the subject taught is a factor of great importance.

They also show that air-conditions play a very important part in determining the magnitude of the de- and regeneration processes described above, as was proved in one case when, after a night spent in an ill-ventilated room, the tests were made very early and yet showed high disintegration-values; and the same applies to tests made on subjects receiving instruction in a room with all apertures closed—there being probably a direct relation between the disintegration-values and the quality of the air breathed, together with the susceptibility of the child. High disintegration-values were similarly accompanied by impaired mental receptivity.

The vital importance of physical movement in fresh air was demonstrated by cases in which it was shown that a short “airing” quickly enabled the blood to get rid of waste products and broken-down corpuscles, at the same time showing a decrease in the total sum ©f blood-elements. The significance of resting-days was as distinctly shown in the small disintegration.-

Digitized by L.ooQle
-252-

quotient in the evening and in the increase of the total sum of blood-elements late in the afternoon. The cases under observation gradually displayed “habit” after the maximum point of destructive influences has been arrived at—a matter occupying a- few days. (Unfortunately, experiments with quite unresponsive subjects were not proceeded with.)

Whereas, up to that point the disintegration increased with the hour, accompanied by reduction of the total sum of blood-elements, after that, the disintegration subsided in favor of reconstruction invariably accompanied by gradual increase in the total sum. From a number of tests it would appear that under normal circumstances; i. e., when no particularly harmful factors are at work (ill-ventilated rooms, etc.) the maximum of disintegration c-curs late in the afternoon; in other words, at the time of day usually employed in preparing lessons for the next day or in extra lessons, often undertaken in a badly ventilated room or without a previous run in the fresh air.

The beneficial influence of teaching with the windows open, of a night’s rest in good atmosphere, aid also of a morning gymnastic drill, in the open air, was markedly evidenced by the almost negligeable disintegration-values together with increase in the total sum of blood-elements.

It was also interesting to note how even long and tiring marches only produced a very small’ disintegration-quotient, accompanied in the evening (i. e., in the usfially unfavorable late afternoon period) by a decided increase in the total sum of blood-corpuscles as against the morning figure—a fact which is quite in accordance with the findings of other observers who have stated that long marches result in the multiplication of the blood-corpuscles.

The tests distinctly demonstrate that school-work not only imposes a strain on the nervous system but that it produces a destructive effect on the blood-corpuscles, which is, however, converted into a stimulating effect after a time. Apart from individual idiosyncrasies, a variety of external factors exert their influence on these effects, including the difficulty of the school-work and the length of work-period, whether for a single subject, a school day, or a school term; and, on the other hand, the length and frequency of the re creation intervals, the amount of rest and physical movement, and the access of fresh air.

Whether the stimulating re-action is induced, and when and how fat it proceeds, depend on the balance struck between the factors enumerated above.

But it was not only from highly sensitive children that reactions could be obtained, for the author observed the same phenomena in his own person after long continued mental strain. While a considerable degree* of disin-tegration could be noted in the morning after several weeks of concentrated sedentary work indoors, accompanied by physical depression, lassitude and heaviness, this phenomenon disappeared, together with the subjective symp-time, after a walk of two hours.

On another occasion, the disintegration-quotient and degeneration phenomena increased considerably after four hours incessant microscopy prior to taking food and following up#n a prolonged period pf close application to research work, but decreased rapidly after two hours devotion to a totally different occupation and lunch taken in the open air. This decrease was accompanied by a fall in the total sum of blood-elements owing to the elimination of waste products.

Careful observation of the children will readily show that external

Digitized by UooQle
—253—

manifestations of fatigue invariably accompany the microscopic phenomena associated with fatigue.

According to these, it appears that arduous mental work produces degenerative changes in the blood and that recuperation causes the elimination of waste products and finally more or less active regeneration of corpuscles.

While the microscopical picture produced by mental work showed mainly disintegration-processes without eliminations, physical work in the fresh air, on the other hand, showed mainly regenerative processes accompanied by unlimited cell-multiplication (due to conditions favorable to metabolism.)

While, therefore, the former must be regarded as a pathological stimulus (as long as it acts as such), the later, pursued in moderation, comes within the zone of physiological stimuli.

It should be a matter for thoughtful consideration to so reconstitute the far from satisfactory system of class-teaching that these different sets of stimuli are applied in the right manner in conjunction with an appropriate measure of work, and as far as possible in the presence of positively beneficial factors.

THE GAMES MISTRESS.*

Are we so sure that Physical Education is not on the decline after all —that is, in certain educational quarters? For the matter of that, can we watch the decline of sane and worthy education altogether, and expect the physical department to prove an exception?

The staff of every resident school for girls (in England), and sometimes for boys, includes a teacher representing Physical' Education, and lately the title bestowed on her is that of the “Games Mistress.” Not long ago Physical Training was held to mean the harmonious development of the body by means of scientific drill and, wherever possible, suitable apparatus work, and, as a supplementary branch, the choice of purely recreational pastimes and the encouragement of open-air pursuits. 'JThe untended product of this ideal has resulted in the demand for the “Games Mistress,” with preferably an insatiable passion for Hockey and some knowledge of Drill.

A few miles out of a sleepy old town, in the midst of a stretching pine country, stands a boarding school for girls. They are said to be of excellent social standing, and, so far as their purses are concerned, it is possible. This establishment secured to itself a fully-qualified mistress for “Physical Culture,” who was to conduct gymnastic classes in the morning, play games in the afternoon, and take a bi-weekly evening supervision. During the ample leisure (?) otherwise afforded the remedial cases were to receive attention, consisting of a few minutes’ exercise or occasional massage.

The mistress had learnt, much both during and since her student days, but never had she learnt so much of the wide-reaching and Extraordinary branches of Physical Instruction and the systematising thereof as the pupils 4

* The following article by “Workaday” published in the English journal “Physical Education”, throws a strange light on some conditions in English private schools. We wouder if American schools have similar conditions? Signs at times seem to indicate that some of our “professors” either have little to say, or haven’t backbone enough to insist that their authority be recognized.

Digitized by

Google
—254—

'and Principal alike were ambitious to teach her. It seemed that the one qualification she was expected to bring to her work was boundless humility, and that to attempt to interfere with any of the existing customs on he grounds of hygiene would be to brazenly exceed her province. The policy she attempted to pursue was one of protest, not of organization, for the school' was organized nearly off its foundation. From seven o’clock in the morning till nine o’clock at night the girls had not one minute free from supervision, nor from its representation on the time-table. So much was this the case that twenty minutes was the average time allowed for each meal, including carving and serving, and so expert did the girls become in rapid feeding that in ten minutes they were free to watch the Games Mistress, whose anxious eyes were fixed on the table-gong, finally succumb to indigestion!

The lesson immediately following meals tonsisted of exercises. The flurry of bedmaking intervening, drill followed breakfast, and throughout the lesson advice was forthcoming from the 'pupils upon every order.

“But I said ‘Form to the left’!’* protested the astonished lady, surveying a right-angle formation^ “We have always formed to the right,” was the cool reply.

f /And yet again, <cDc* not swing $0 high on short rings; it is ^igefous ” -the Games Mistress ventured, whe\i a warning pluno- ;	•	:	*

fall “We always have done*” was the	“ft’s	the oroDer

way; it’s all right.” Open mutiny ^	^	L J f

“You do not‘ nfleas*	-	9;°	Pr0i“—^ was ^Cquent.

going to be pppul-t my Sirls> said the PnnciPal- If. y°u *ot tuition and the- " r, you need not remain. They have received excellent it dangjgw* *	/	complain	that	you	curtail	their	pleasure.” “I considered

was th'	-s,”	urged	the	lady. “Their parents accept the responsibility,”

.e dignified reply, “and I cannot have any dissatisfaction.”

“Will you authorize me to tell the girls to discard their corsets for gymnastics?”

“I expect that to be done; you should have done so before.” Indignation was expressed in the drill-room. . “We always have” was succeeded by “We shall catch cold if we leave them off all day; you know we never have time to change.” The gymnastic teacher was silent ; it was true.

Undermining her position was the fact that the Games Mistress, having “no proper lessons to take,” was errand-girl in general, and was considered the junior of the staff.. Was there an excursion to the town, she was sent in charge at any hour; did the six wealthiest girls fancy the theatre, she should sit up alone to let them and their escort in. All the staff took precedence of her, and were willing to advise her. “You should not complain of the girls,” said A. severely. “You should not stand it,” said B. contemptuously. “I tell you what it is, you pu,t on side,” said C. confidentially.

Among her duties, it has been said, was that of supervision and remedial work. It was at first suggested that the Games Mistress should, at sound of the rising-bell, spring from her bed, tear round the dormitories and detect the late risers. Unwillingly the plan was tried, but she was soon in disgrace, for the girls complained that she came in theif rooms. With relief the gymnast abandoned the somewhat airy excursion but when several laggards put in an inopportune appearance one morning in the mid-

Digitized by Google
-255-

<Ue of prayers it was still her fault, “for if,” said the authorities, “you do not do your duty, how then can they do theirs?”

The physical training teacher, however, elected rather to face the music, for the snow was on the ground and the passages draughty. Several times a day she visited the bedrooms to test their orderliness; she had two alternatives—to tidy them herself or to leave them for the girls to do. In the first case the principle was wrong, in the second case it was literally true that the girls had not time to keep order; therefore they were aggrieved, and the rooms impossible.

The remedial cases were not to be neglected, nor the day’s time-table interfered with; cures were to be made swiftly, however. All the curvature cases, mostly under twelve, played hockey. Moreover, the effrontery of the mistress, in waiting for orders from headquarters, was checked, and she was sent to the pupils themselves to glean information. “Special exercises? Oh, yes, I always have them. I can’t quite remember what the doctor said, nor what was the matter, but I always lie on my face and do movements, and then somehow on my back, but I’ve entirely filled in my time-table.”	'

Immediately after dinner dresses were changed for hockey. The Games Mistress would look'silently on* while the authorities ’phoned to the local sports-shop for their opinion of the condition of the field after three days’ rain. The shop, of course, supplied the evidently desired verdict, and the school waded off in triumph to the field, some half mile distant, where the pupils played their own game, paying no heed to the suggestions of their teacher, who would bring them back in a blinding shower, drenched and hoarse.

After tea the children sat for three hours at lessons. Once Mary, aged nine, fell asleep. As she was a survature case, and had a decided temperature, she was conveyed to bed. “She is too small to play,” urged the rash exponent of hygiene, and the parents were eventually referred to, resulting in a win for Mary and a place among the forwards. Immediately after supper dancing ensued until bedtime.

The biggest struggle of the term was about breathing exercises. “And you mean to say that you are not giving those poor girls daily breathing?” exclaimed the Principal, in a tone not “sweet and low.”

“No,” was the reply, “because I am not allowed to open the windows an account of the heating apparatus.” The teacher would not hear of “breathing” with closed windows, though she was assured it would be beneficial; in fact, she said she only considered it healthy in the open air. With consternation she received orders to take the children in the garden for breathing, permission being refused for them to put on extra wraps on the ground of teaching children to be hardy. A miserable file of girls, in thin gymnastic dresses, were brought into an east wind, and kept stationary every morning for five minutes, with shaking limbs and floating skirts, while they “breathed.” Half an hour later the next class did likewise.

As might have been expected, they carried dirt back on their rubber shoes. Then they were sent to the other side of the house, where there was brick tiling, but a chicken-run on one side and a dust-box on the other. Poor Miss Gambols conscientiously demurred once more, but was sternly repressed. The chicken-run was perfectly pure—cleared out each week,

Digitized by Google
-256-

and the dust-box the same. Miss Gambols had a consuming discontent arising from a nasty temper.

Nevertheless, the Principal was surprised and persuasive to her when she tendered her resignation; regretted her deeply, admonished her gently, gave her a volume of poems and some lines of recommendation.

Each story has a moral1, the present one not excepted. Recreation, unsuitable or suitable, is not physical training, and physical education is useless without discipline. Such physical skill as the child may acquire will run amuck if it fails to entail self-control and the mastery of the mind. Moreover, if the instructor be not helmsman of his own course, his mission is a fiasco. He in his capacity is the representative of health of mind and body, aesthetic ideal, temperance, and self-respect. Bripg him in the midst of pampered youth, set him at naught, vaunt the theory of sane living and flout the practices, sacrifice the real to the artificial, principle to preference, and you turn your back on progress and your face to ignorance.

It is not a question of the professor being sacrificed to the child, but the production of a paradox of retrograde education which bids fair to undermine the moral welfare of the community.

FREE HEALTH.

By Frederic Almy, Secretary Buffalo Chari tyJ3rgani*ation Society.

Free education was once considered radical, but it was followed by compulsory education, and with compulsory education illiteracy became extinct among the native-born. This free, compulsory education was neither charity nor justice, though free schools began as charity. It was protection, for revenue only, for society saw that ignorance was costly and dangerous.

Free health is now as radical, but it will come, and compulsory health will follow. No child is now allowed to be ignorant, whether its parents are willing or unwilling; but disease is both more contagious and more dangerous than ignorance. Conversely, health is more precious than knowledge, both to the individual and to the community. The tenement father who sees his boy go through the grammar school, and then die of tuberculosis, would rather have a live son than a wise one. The wages of unskilled labor in the tenements do not allow health, but education is given free. Which would any father choose for bis child? Which should humanity, or policy, first give?

Public health is quite as important to the community as public education, and we shall some time have free doctors as well as free teachers, leaviug the private doctors, like the private schools, for the few who can afford them and prefer them.

There are signs of this in the increasing number of doctors already in official service in our health departments and elsewhere. Twenty years ago we had city hospitals and city poor physicians: Now the public roster shows tuberculosis inspectors, tenement inspectors, food, milk and drug inspectors, school medical inspectors, school nurses, bacteriologists, and even school dentists; and we might add as health officials the smoke inspectors, the public bathhouse keepers, and the public playground directors. Many cities pay for public lectures on

Digitized by v^ooQle
—257-

sanitation, hygiene, feeding, flies. The social value of public health is incalculable, and the public is realizing this.

Suppose that as much money were spent on public health as on public education, and that there were as many public doctors as school teachers, and with as much power. Poverty would lessen visibly, and wealth would increase in the same proportion. There would be fewer widows and fewer orphans, or rather, there would be widows and orphans for fewer years. Conservative professors in conservative universities tell us that “a third of all deaths which now occur could be prevented—that is to say, deferred” ; and that “at least eight years could be added to human life merely by securing reasonably pure air, water, and milk.” We are told that every death from typhoid is either suicide or murder.

We tolerate at present such a waste of good human material as no wise manufacturer would permit with his by-products, and no farmer among his live stock. The money spent for public health would not be an extravagance, but an investment with large and sure returns. Money would be saved, and so would tears, and pangs, and sorrow. The warped lives of many unparented children would be straighter.

The Philistine sage of East Aurora says that the new religion will make golf on Sunday compulsory. All compulsion is dangerous, and compulsory health has its limits, like compulsory education and compulsory religion. We have known compulsory church attendance, and it stopped both because it was compulsory and because it was ineffective. With social evils, however, some compulsion is inevitable. We should make elementary health conditions compulsory for everybody, and for advanced health, so t6 speak, we should at least give free opportunity as we do with education.

Compulsory health would mean more organization and machinery, but we have outgrown the simple, unorganized world we used to know, and we must now combat disease with organized effort, as we do poverty with organized charity, ignorance with organized education, and sin with organized religion. Organized religion, by the way, with its creeds, and pews and public prayer, is older than organized charity, and has some of the same faults.

Through the organization of society its enemies of ignorance, disease, sin, and poverty are being routed. To repeat words used once before, with the electric press on the one hand, and bacteriology on the other, the contagion of ideas is becoming more rapid than the contagion of disease. It is about time for the dtvil to become discouraged. Disease is dying, crime is being arrested, and poverty is being slowly starved ont for lack of the matter on which it feeds.—The Survey.

Mansfield, O., Aug. 7, 1911.

The Freidenker Pub. Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sirs:—Have been intending for some time to write and tell you -how much Mind and Body has meant to me in my work. It is so wide awake and full of suggestions along all lines of body development. The practical numbers are very especially appreciated.

I want to speak of the game of “Rabbits” which, I believe, was published last year. I have public school gymnastics, and we always have a

Digitized by v^ooQle
-258-

round of lessons out doors in spring. This year we played “Rabbits" from the First clear through to the Eighth grade, with the utmost enthusiasm on the part of every class of children. I consider it the best game I have ever used for public school purposes. It keeps such a large number of players so fully occupied, affords splendid training in alertness and quickness. The children say it is so easv to learn. I carry my own stakes and strings for marking off the grounds, but I found the boys later getting up neighborhood teams, and the girls play by themselves at school, using an imaginary line between two trees instead of the string for the hunters to stand on.

We will be glad for any more suggestions in games and wish you success in your magazine.	Respectfully,

Rose W. Suter.

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS.

By CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

A FRENCHMAN’S VERDICT OF F. L. JAHN.

Dr. P. Lortel prefaced his translation of Jahn’s “Deutsches Volksthum” with the following significant words; significant because they were written by a political enemy and seem therefore doubly	beautiful.	He writes:—

“He (Jahn)	lived only for the liberation of his	oppressed	fatherland.	In

words as well as deeds did he.strive to awaken in his people the appreciation of the dignity of man. Friends of true humanity therefore owe a great deal to him. This man, whom many thought too gruff and strict, a bear and wolf, never was either, deep in his heart. No one is a better or -most just judge than youth. Youth seems to have a natural instinct which later in life	is lost anl never regained by any device or	art. Jahn	was

loved by all	his pupils without exception, for he	was just,	strict, j>ure	and

temperate. No one led a more pure and German life than he—he hungered and thirsted for the good. Is he without faith and love, who like Jahn, merely by his courage and patience maintained and fought for himself and his gymnastic institution without the slightest help? He who through dire need was compelled to work for his sustainance day and night, and in spite of all devoted whole days every week upon this his life’s work; which he thought to be a great cause, and which indeed was a great cause! His bitterest enemies praise him for having created about him a pure and wholesome youth.”

THREE HONORARY DOCTORS OF GYMNASTICS.

Kiel, the old and northern University of Germany, recently committed a most important national (why not international?) deed, by creating Dr. Ferdinand Goetz, the chairman of the “Deutsche Turnerschaft,” and national representative Emil von Schenckendorff, the chairman of the German Playground Association, honorary doctors. We call this great Kiel event a deed! A deed because herewith the greatest honor a German University can bestow has been given, not because of scientific or artistic accomplishment, but for service which these two honorary doctors have rendered their fatherland in the promotion of physical education. It was the same University which in 1817 honored Friederich Ludwig Jahn with a like degree for like service. We may well call that first acknowledgement a still great-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-259-

er deed. “Fatherland and people above all else” wasr the prime motive of these three great men in the pursuit of their service.

STANDING HEIGHT OF GERMAN SOLDIERS.

Recent statistical investigation gave the following figures:	The	number of men examined for this purpose was 300,000.	11	per	cent	were	over

175 cm., 24.60 per cent were over 170 cm., 35.2 per cent were over 165 cm. The remainder was under 165 cm. Nineteen per cent were 160 cm.

WHAT A MODERN APOLLO NEEDS.

The secret of manly toilet and the means by which the modern dandy becomes an example of beauty, and renders himself irresistable, has become public property now through the publication of a catalog by a French firm. A pair of calves which give the fascinating sounding to the leg cost 8 M.; an Apollo chest costs 49 M.; Hercules shoulders with spring attachment cost 64 M. When man has thus far completed his development he may further create himself an Adorabl'e Adorris by applying “Allwining pomade” at 36 M. per pound,; “Magic fragrance” 12 M. per bottle; and finally a beautifying remedy called “Elixir” for 80 M.

THE world’s BIRTH AND DEATH RATE.

Statistics recently completed give the following interesting figures:— Birth rates annually—Cairo 445 (in 10,000 inhabitants), Alexandria 432, Cologne 358. These are the highest rate cities. The lowest is probably Calcutta with 158. Vienna with 263 is about the average. Buenos Ayres 346, Madras 342, Rotterdam 340, Liverpool 328, Belfast 310, Breslau 308, Moscow 307, Madrid and Sheffield each 300, Birmingham and Dublin each 295, Glasgow and Manchester each 292, Munich 291, Leipsic and Frankfurt a. m. each 290, New York 269, London 265, Sidney 263.

Death rates annually per 10,000—Sidney 107, Stockholm 134, Amsterdam^, Chicago 142, Rotterdam 144, Bristol 145, Brussels 146, Frankfurt a. m. 149, London 152, Rio de Janeiro 153, Hamburg 154, Dresden 155, Copenhagen 156, Berlin and Leipsic each 158, Edinburgh 159, Sheffield 164, Vienna and Parie each 175. Of cities with greater death rate the following are given:—Petersburg 255, Moscow 258, Madrid 295, and Alexandria 334. England and Germany seem to show the healthiest condition.

MODERN SCHOOL BUILDING.

Pankow, a suburb of Berlin, boasts of the largest school building in Europe; it contains 109 class rooms, 14 laboratories, 3 gymnasiums, and two auditoriums. It houses high school for girls, grammar school, teachers' seminary and practice school.

THE MILLION MEMBERSHIP MARK CROSSED.

Thanks to the ever untiring efforts of Dr. Goetz, in popularizing gymnastics, the “Deutsche Turnerschaft” numbers to-day 1,003,609. This means male members only and is an increase of 757,494 in the last 14 years, which covers the time of service of Dr. Goetz as chairman of that organization.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Mind and body. ^

Subscription Price, 61.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Mil-wan Tree, Wlacoa oln..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Effects of Various Forms of Exercise as reported in the journals of the American Medical Association. The conclusions to be drawn from Lowsley’s experiments are as follows:	All	types of prolonged exercise

which cause an increase in pulse rate cause also a rise in systolic and diastolic pressures. The systolic pressure shows the greater rise; hence there is an increase in pulse pressure, which may be interpreted to mean that the heart beats are augmented as well as accelerated. After all types of exercise studied, the systolic, diastolic and pulse pressures invariably fall below normal and remain in this subnormal condition for a considerable time. The more exhaustive the nature of the exercise, the longer will be the subnormal period which follows. Systolic pressure invariably falls more rapidly than diastolic, and hence the pulse pressure becomes weaker. Pulse rate, which always increases during exercise, decreases rapidly after its completion. Rapid exercises (vigorous, fatiguing and exhausting) are followed by a fall of pressure below normal which lasts longer than after moderate exercise, even if the former is continued only fpr a very short period and the latter for quite a long period of time. If Lusk’s interpretation of the subnormal phase is correct, it would follow that the so-called field events, consisting of jumping, shot putting, discus and hammer throwing and baseball, gymnasium apparatus work, and exercises of a similar nature, are preferable to rapid exercises such as basketball, football and running races. This is particularly true in the case of the rapidly growing youth, whose heart is under the additional demand of keeping pace with an increase in the tissue mass of the bodv. There is less strain put on the circulatory system by walking a number of miles at a moderate rate than by sprinting 100 yards at top speed. Longdistance races and similar forms of exhaustive exercise give rise to a serious strain on the heart, as is indicated by the long period of subnormal blood-pressure.

—Many high schools and some grammar schools have turned over the goveriynent of the schools wholly or in part to the students. This is mainly if not altogether a mistake. The most important function of the school is to train up law-abiding citizens—to make young men and women responsive to legitimate control and obedient to properly constituted authority. At the age of twenty-one the state permite the young man to have a voice in governmental affairs, and experience has not indicated that the age limit is too high.

The custom of student control1, at least to a large extent, is almost universal among the colleges. The faculty, with all the simulation of the politician, announces to crude boys of seventeen to twenty that “the discipline

Digitized by L^ooQie
-261-

of this institution is very liberal; the students are expected to control themselves, very largely, subject, of course, to the oversight of the faculty” (which last means littl'e, if anything). Any protest against such college government is met by the stereotyped answer from the officials, that “when a boy goes to college he is no longer a boy, but a young man, who knows what he wants and is capable of governing himself.” The fact that their every-day experience with college boys belies this claim', justifies the'suspicion that student control signifies inability in the faculty to control.

The bounden duty of the grammar school1, the high school and the college, as well as the primary school, is to teach the boys and girls how to govern by teaching them first how to obey; to fit them for future governing by showing them first the necessity for obedience. Solon said: “He who has learned to obey will know how to command.”—Exchange.

—Two little children run over within two weeks in Gault Court! These tragedies led some of Chicago’s social workers to renew their efforts .to secure in this densely populated district better conditions for the hundreds of children who swarm there with no play space except the narrow, crowded street.

After some swift agitation, a committee representing the Juvenile Protective Association, the Playground Association, the Woman’s City Club, and the Lincoln Park Playground System called upon the mayor. The result was an order that through August one block in Gault Court be closed to traffic and converted into a playground between eight in the morning and eight in the evening. The police will be instructed to allow no vehicles to pass except wagons having deliveries to make in the block. Although the present order holds only through August, it may be extended through September, when, if the experiment has justified itself, the council will be asked to close the block permanently.

Every effort will1 be made to prove the value of such a play zone in this district, both for its own sake and for the sake of showing what can be done in other similar places. The same organizations which advocated the closing of the street are trving to secure a leader for the improvised playground. The whole movement is a step toward a goal that has long been before many of the earnest workers for the welfare of the city. With all her magnificent system of parks, Chicago has still many thousands of children totally out of reach of wholesome, safe recreation. Well equipped play centers must come slowly. If this experiment can be successfully worked out it will demonstrate what sort of “emergency measure” may well be adopted while better plans are matured and executed.—Survey.

—Infants' Resistance to Muscular Fatigue.—Lesage and Collin state in the Archives de Medicine des Enfants that they found it possible to have children under years hold their arms extended above their heads for a long time without any signs of fatigue. If the arms are raised and held in this position the child continues to hold them thus alone while its attention is diverted. Some of the children held their arms up thus spontaneously for five, twelve and even for thirty minutes without any sign of weariness or discomfort. They seem to forget all about their arms. Adults, idiots and imbeciles lack this resistance to fatigue and Lesage and Collin theorize to explain it in infants as due to the phase of the evolution of the nervous system at this age.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
-262-

DESCRIPTION OF THE GYMNASTIC LADDER.

A VALUABLE IMPROVEMENT ON AN OLD APPARATUS.

For a number of years it has been the object of Mr. Emil Rath, director of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, to devise an apparatus which would offer opportunities for the development of the large trunk muscles anteriorly, laterally, and posteriorly, thereby supplying a much needed apparatus. None of our present apparatus offers opportunities for this work adaptably to various ages and sexes. The Swedish benches and stall bars do, to some extent, offer opportunities for exercises of this kind, but their inadjustability prevents certain pleasing forms of progression and in time makes the work uninteresting. The apparatus which appeared to be the easiest to augment without destroying its original use, was the ladder. The constructive changes made upon the old ladder produced an apparatus which offered not only opportunities for the desired activities, but also for a surprising number of unthought of exercises, which will make this new apparatus (Gymnastic Ladder) one of the principal apparatus in the gymnasium.

The dimensions of the Gymnastic Ladder are practically the same as those of the ordinary ladder. The prominent changes in it are a nino-inch board in the center extending the whole length of the ladder, and a closer spacing of the rounds. When the Gymnastic Ladder is in an oblique or horizontal position all1 exercises formerly only possible upon benches and stall bars (or floor, which possessed many objectionable features) in the sitting and lying positions can be taken with ease. The adjustability of the Gymnastic Ladder enables the teacher to apply these exercises in a progressive manner. In this respect this apparatus has a great advantage over the former ladders, for exercises in lying and sitting could not be performed upon them conveniently. The rounds on either side of the board are about nine inches apart and long enough to give sufficient space for the placing of the hands or feet on the rounds or for hanging on the rounds by the knees. This closer spacing of the rounds permits the performance of all exercises heretofore executed on the stall bars and adds to their interest by the adjustability of the ladder, giving entirely new groups of exercises.

The Gymnastic Ladder may be placed in the vertical, oblique and horizontal positions and adjusted to any height. The board will not interfere with any of the former exercises executed on the ladder. Furthermore, in addition to the work which has heretofore been possible on the ladder and the new exercises suggested above, the Gymnastic Ladder lends itself admirably for corrective work. In this respect it will supplant other apparatus used for this purpose. It may further be used for storm board exercises, thus adding a joyful activity, which may also be varied and increased by changing the obliquity of the ladder.

The possibilities of exercises in the various support lying positions and in the lying knee and foot hangs on the board in the ordinary and inyerted positions should, furthermore, be mentioned as they can not be given in this manner on any other apparatus. The possibilities of exercises under the ladder placed at various angles which have not been touched upon, are manifold and valuable. Thus a study of the work possible on the Gymnastic Ladder will soon convince teachers of physical training that the apparatus
-263

offers opportunities for exercises which will develop all the muscles of the body, and by virtue of its adjustability also develop important mental qualifications.

The great need in school gymnastics has been for exercises which will1 develop the trunk muscles so important in good posture and in the prevention of deformities. This apparatus was directly devised for such purposes, but its development has suggested exercises which cover a very wide field so that it is bound to become one of the most important apparatus in the elementary and high school gymnasium. Four to six Gymnastic Ladders installed in an ordinary vacant school room may well take the place of a temporary gymnasium as the pupils can receive an all-round training upon this apparatus alone.

Other advantages are:	It	gives	more	floor	space in the gymnasium in

that it may supplant the benches and stall bars; it is adjustable and gives a greater possibility of movements than we have had heretofore, with an unceasing variety; furthermore, the cost of equipment, since the stall bars may be omitted, will be decidedly decreased.

For these reasons the Gymnastic Ladder will be a valuable addition to our gymnastic equipment. A demonstration was given on it during the Summer Session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, and its advantages were generally conceded.

Fred E. Foertsch.

ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY.

Saturday, May 27, 1911.

RHYTHMIC MOVEMENTS TO POPULAR MUSIC. I.

By A. E. Kindervater, Director Physical Training, St. Louis.

For Girls of Gradies 5 to 8. Gymnasium Classes.

Music : “Marching through Georgia.”

PART ONE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a)	March forward three steps and close heels.......................   1-4

b)	Raise right arm sideward, bend and salute, straighten and lower.	5—8

c)	Place backs of hands on hips with balance step left and right, (cross-

ing in rear) ...............  ,...............  *............. ^-12

d)	Mark time and face left about ...............................    13-16

Repeat a-d .............................................      17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

Back of Hands on Hips.

a)	Sidestep left, cross step right in rear, sidestep left, swing right leg for-

ward and hop on left foot .......................    .......... 1-4

b) Cut step right and left forward  .....................    :........ 5-8

c)	and d) as a and b to the right................................... 9-16

e)	Sidestep left, hop left and raise arms sideward...............   17-18

While hopping left turn left about, step and hop right sideward,

swing left leg in front of right while hopping and curve arms overhead................:................................          19-20

f)	Repeat e — return movements of arms .....................        21-24

g)	March forward three steps closing at four while saluting with right hand 25-28 ' n) March backward three steps closing at four while saluting with left hand .29-32
-264-PART TWO.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a)	Step and hop forward left and right, bending the raised leg in front of

the other and curving right and left arm side upward and return... 1-4

b)	Mark time and face left about..................................   5-8

c)	Arms sideward 9-10, bend trunk forward and curve arms downward,

fingers touching in front of knees .......................... 11-12

d)	Return movements............................................... 13-16

Repeat a-d.............................................  ;... 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

Repeat Second Exercise of Part One.

2x16 = 32 Beats.

PART THREE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a)	March forward three steps closing at four........................ 1-4

b)	Bend head forward and curve arms in front of face, back of hands ‘ touching, 5 ; straighten arms sideward obliquely upward and look

forward upward, 6 ; return movements .........................  7-8

c)	Step hop sideward left and right raising the bent leg in rear of the other

with back of hands on hiop.................................    9-12

d)	Mark time and face left about................................   13-16

Repeat a-b..............................................      17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

Repeat Second Exercise of Part One

2x16 = 32 Beats.

RHYTHMIC MOVEMENTS TO POPULAR MUSIC. II. For Girls of the Gymnasium Classes.

Music: “My Old Kentucky Home.’*

PART ONE.

The girls are standing in open order numbered 1 and 2.

12 12 FIRST EXERCISE.

a) Number one face left, raise arms sideward and walk over to Number two, raising the bent leg forward at every step, and grasping the right hand of partner. Number two at the same time faces right irr

four steps and extends right hand, (arm bent upward) to partner—

* back of other hand on hip ..........................................  1-4

b)	Both walk two follow steps left sideward and return thereby separat-

ing and closing and raising and lowering grasped hands...........5-12

c)	Number one walk backward to place while both bow and courtesy to

each other, arms sideward obliquely down, both facing front at

last count and placing back of hands on hips.................   13—16

Repeat a. b and c, number Two taking the lead, both grasping left hands

and walking two follow steps right sideward and return......... 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

a)	Partners mark time and face toward each other in four steps, back of

hands on hips..................................................   1-4

b)	Balance step left and right sideward, crossing in rear, and curving left

and right arm over head alternately four times................. '5-12

c)	Mark time and face to the front................................   13-16

Repeat a, b and c, facing away from partner and return............... 17-32
-265-THIRD EXERCISE.

CHORUS.

a)	Partners face toward each other, place back of hands on hips and step-

hop left and right forward bending the raised leg in front of the other........................................................     1-4

b)	Grasp each others hands and raise arms sideward 5, turn trunk to the

front, raise the front grasped hands over head and bend the other arms, hands shoulder high,—6 ; return movements.................. 7-8

c)	Three gallop hops sideward to the front with grasped hands raised side-

ward, 9-11, toestep sideward with the other feet, bend trunk sideward to rear and raise front arms side obliquely upward, the other arms obliquely downward........................................... 12

d)	As c in opposite direction, back to place........................ 13-18

e)	As b in opposite direction....................................... 3 7-20

f)	As c, starting to the rear—bending trunk to the front, etc,.:...  21-24

g)	As c, back to place.............................................. 25-28

h)	Walk backward to place with bow and courtesy to partner and face

front in last count............................................ 29-32

PART TWO.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a)	Number one face left, back of hands on hips, step-hop forward left and

right, raising to bent leg in front of the other; Number two mark time face right and place back of hands on hips.................  1-4

b)	Partners grasp hands, raise arms sideward and walk four follow steps

left sideward, describing a complete circle to the right.......  5-12

c)	Walk backward to place with bow and courtesy facing to the front in

the last count................................................. 13-16

Repeat a, b and c, number two leading, both walk circle to the left — and

return to places............................................... 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

a)	Partners mark time and face toward each other in four steps, back of

hands on hips.................................................... 1-4

b)	Step sideward left, arms sideward—5, cross step right in rear, curve

arms to a circle upward, bend both knees slightly and turn trunk to the right % circle—6, return movements with closing heels...	7-8

c) As b, to the right and return............_.......................... 9-12

d) Partners mark time and face to the front....7...................... 13-16

Repeat a, b, c, and d, facing away from partner and return............ 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

CHORUS.

Repeat Third Exercise of Part One... .................................  1-32

PART THREE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

a)	Number one face left, raise arms sideward and walk over to partner ;

Number two, mark time face right, back of hands on hips.......... 1-4

b)	Number one glide three steps in two counts, left and right forward,

circling about partner to right with back of hands on hips...... 5-12

Number two at the same time stride right backward and raise arms sideward 5—6, kneel right, curve arms overhead and bow forward,

7—8, return movements........................................... 9-12

c)	Number one walks backward to place while both bow and courtesy to

each other, both face front at the last count and place back of

hands on hips................................................   13—16

Repeat a, b, c, number two leading, circling about number one to the left,

number one kneeling left, etc.................................. 17-32

SECOND EXERCISE.

a)	Partners mark time face toward each other and raise arms slowly side-

ward ........................................................     1-4

b)	Bend trunk forward and curve arms fore-downward..................   5-8

Digitized by tjOOQle
-266-

-c) Bend trunk backward, looking up raise the curved arms upward and

straighten them outward to side position....,....................... 9-12

d) Mark time, face front and back of hands on hips........................ 13-16

Repeat a, b, c, and d, facing away from partner and return................ 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

CHORUS.

Repeat Third Exercise of Part One ......................................    1-32

CAPTAIN DODGEBALL.*

The object of the game is for the players on team A to hit the members of the opposing team B with a large hollow ball (basketball) except as noted below.

Divide the players into two teams. Team A is placed on the outer side of the circle which should be from 40 to 50 feet in dia-

/



\

B

\



B

\



/

/

meter. See diagram. The members of team B are scattered around the inside of the circle, their captain being in the, small circle in the center. This circle is 5 feet in diameter, v To start tht game the referee blows the 'whistle at the same time tossing the ball to lone of the players on team A. The players I on team B defend their captain by trying to j intercept the thrown ball. This may only be ' done by raising one’s foot so that the ball rebounds from the sole. (Warding off the ball _	with the forearm may also be used.) If the

A	ball touches any other part of the body of a

player on team B he is out and leaves the circle. If the captain is struck (who may not leave his circle) he remains iu the game but the captain of team A has the right to pick two players of team B and put them out. Members of the attacking team' must always stand behind the line when throwing. Should a ball roll into the field of play, a player of team A may run in and toss the ball to one of his team-mates. At the end of three minutes (or any other specified time) count the number of players remaining on team B and credit them with so many points.

The sides are then changed and the second half of the game played,

A SERIES OF ATHLETIC EFFICIENCY CONTESTS.

By Carl O. Hierholzer, Military Institute, Bordentown, N. J.

What to do with the boys on Saturday mornings between the Christmas and Easter vacations was for years a problem with the authorities of this school, and when I took charge of the physical training work here in February, 1910, I was asked to solve the problem. Suggestions in regard to organized classes in gymnastics or games were offered, but did not meet with approval as something was wanted which must be entirely voluntary so far

* A very successful variation of Dodgeball as played in the school playgrounds -of Philadelphia during this season’s work.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-267-

as the boys’ taking part was concerned, and yet be attractive enough to interest the entire student body into taking part.

A series of efficiency contests in indoor athletics was suggested, one event to be held each Saturday morning. A system of scoring similiar to that used by the North American Gymnastic Union was adopted and each boy who averaged 7points or over in each contest was awarded a bronze efficiency medial. The student body of 125 boys was divided into Juniors, Middlers and Seniors, the classification being based on the height, the gen--eral' strength as shown on the physical examination card and by observation tof the boys between the beginning of the school year and the Christmas vacation. This classification has proved satisfactory both to the boys and to myself, judging by the number taking part. The best all-round athlete in each class was awarded a solid silver medal. This was an incentive to induce every boy to do his best and not merely to make a passing score. If these contests are held next year I shall add a further classification for midgets which will interest mahy of the very small boys wlio were even too .small to qualify in the junior ^class.

I ' The standards in all the contests were, in nearly all cases, set after each contest was held and a mark which was considered a fair average was established to represent ten points. The scoring was done from this standard.	'

I have in mind a few minor changes in the scoring and standards of some of the events. From the standpoint of participation these contests were quite successful and I anticipate even greater success next year, due to the fact that they have now been established and a number of medals awarded. The presence of these medals among the boys will be an incentive to others to strive harder for success.

Out of a school of 125 boys, 22 were awarded efficiency medals; 27 took no part whatever in the contests, but of these, 7 were prominently identified with other branches of sport. This leaves only 20 who were inactive in this series of contests.	.	i	j	>.	•.

i The standards are as follows:—

''	STANDING fefcOAD JUMP.

Seniors:	9	feet=iO	points,	each 3 in. more or less is one point more or less.

Middlers:	8 ft. 6 in.=io points, each 3 in. more or less is one point more

or less.

Juniors:	8	feet=io	points,	each 3 in. more or less is one point more or less.

CHINNING THE BAR.

In this the chin must be above the bar on the pull-up and the arms must be fully straightened in letting down.

1 point allowed for each pull-up for Juniors, Middl'ers and Seniors.

GOAL SHOOTING.

The same as in shooting fouls in basket-ball with a regulation ball. 2G trials allowed, each goal to count one point.

STANDING HIGH JUMP.

Seniors:	32	in.=l	point,	each inch over is one point more.

Middlers:	26 in.=i point, each inch over is one point more.

Juniors:	20	in.=i	point,	each inch over is one point more.

Digitized by Google
-268-

ROPE CLIMB.

A football stop watch was used for timing. The dial on such a watc divided into hundredths. 18 feet was the height from a standing si Seniors were obliged to climb with hands only. Middlers and Jur were allowed to use both hands and legs. %

Seniors:	30160=1 point, each 1-100 less was one point more.

Middlers:	25-100=1 point, each 1-100 less was one point more.

Juniors:	30100=1 point, each 1-100 less was one point more.

PUSH UPS.

On the parallel bars. Each push-up for Seniors, Middlers and Junioi 1 point.

STANDING HOP STEP AND JUMP.

Seniors:	22 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less was 1 point more

less.

Middlers:	21 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less was one point mor<,

less.

Juniors:	20 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less was one point more 1

less.

BOWLING.

Ten pins were set up in the usual way. 1 large ball was rolled at the ten and the number knocked over was scored; 3 such trials were a lowed and the score of the 3 were added together. The highest sco possible was 30 points. Scoring the same for all classes.

SHOT PUT.

12	lb. indoor shot.

Seniors:	30 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less is one point mo

or less.

Middlers:	27 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less is one point me

or less.

Juniors:	24 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or, less is one point mo

or less.

RUNNING HIGH JUMP.

Seniors:	5 feet=io points, each inch more or less is one point more or le

Middlers:	4 ft. 6 in.=io points, each inch more or less is one point me

or less.

Juniors:	4 feet=io points, each inch more or less is one point more or le

POTATO RACE.

10 potatoes each 2 yards apart.

Seniors:	105-100 minutes=i point, each 1-100 less is I point more.

Middlers:	iio-ioo minutes=i point, each 1-100 less is 1 point more.

Juniors:	115-100 minutes=i point, each 1-100 less is one point more.

BASKET BALL FAR THROW.

Regulation basket ball used. Contestant must stand facing in the directii of the throw and must use both hands in throwing, the feet may not moved, though the heels may be raised.

Seniors:	50 feet=io points, each foot more or less is one point more

less.

Middlers:	45 feet=io points, each foot more or less is one point more

less.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-269-

rs: 40 feet—10 points, each foot more or less is one point more or

ess.

3 STANDING JUMPS.

rs: 25 feet=lO points, each 6 in. more or less is one point more or ess.	*

Hers:	24 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less is one point more or

less.

rs: 23 feet=io points, each 6 in. more or less is one point more or less.

At the end. of the series a time was appointed when boys who had d any of the events through sickness, absence on leave or other accept-excuses might make up their points in such events.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

—The last summer was a very successful one for all the normal Is conducting summer work. Following are a few reports sent to us 1 will be of interest to our readers:—

HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL.

The school opened unusually early this year, on June 29th, and closed 1st 3rd. This was the 24th year of its existance and like all the previ-ears it showed an increase in its number of attendants. One hundred eighty-six were registered; of these 114 were women and 72 men. were divided over the courses as follows:	Theory	and	practice 116,

ice only 65, theory only 5. Fourteen finishes the required work and yed the regular diploma. This was the largest number of diplomas issued in one summer. Work continued during the extremely hot her and not a single case of heat prostration occurred, which undoubt-is due to the cool gymnasium. Next year being the silver anniversary e school, a committee will soon be appointed to work out a celebration am. This event will bring back a great many former students and no : will attract attention in general so that the two hundred mark will ached.

LAKE GENEVA SUMMER SCHOOL.

The Lake Geneva Summer Schools of The Institute and Training il of Chicago are conducted in the interests of Employed Officers of oung Men’s Christian Association or men desiring to fit themselves for positions. Seven different schools are maintained, the work in each organized on the basis of three summer seasons of progressive work. Summer courses are correlated with the more extended three-year pro-nal courses offered by the School in its regular work at Chicago. The ler courses may be roughly divided and grouped as follows:—

[. The English Bible—fifteen courses.

[I. General Interest and Personal Development—four courses.

II. Association History, Principles and Methods—twenty-two courses. [V Hygiene and Physical Education.

V.	Hygiene and Physical Education. 1—Theory, nine courses; 2— ice, sixteen courses.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-2TO-

' V, Play and Playgrounds—two courses.

VI. Special Institutes,	i.—Work among men in Industrial1 pursuits;

2.—Association Accounting; 3.—The Wage-Earning Boy; 4.—The Association Dormitory and Kindred Topics; 5.—Boy Scout Work.	^

ENROLLMENT BY SCHOOLS.	'•»

School of City Association Administration..................I19

School of Hygiene and Physical Education...................125

School of	Religious Work.................................. 5°

School of Railroad Work (First Half) ...................... 34

School of Railroad Work (Second Half)...................... 25

School of	Educational Work..............................   23

School of	County Work..................................... 27	;

School of	Boys’ Work...................................... 92

The Faculty................................................ 80

575

Duplicates ........................................     62

Total1 (duplicates omitted).................................  513

SUMMER SESSION OF NORMAL SCHOOL OF N. A. G. U.

At Indianapolis, Ind., July^5»Aug. 3.	,

By Joan Carpenter, Physical Instructor, Calumet High School, Chicago, III.

The summer session of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis opened July 5 with 45 students, twenty-five women and twenty men, and from that date until Aug. 2 these students entered upon one of the best courses ever offered to physical directors. The course was divided into two parts, each lasting two weeks. The courses offered were various and gave a general survey of the value of the training offered by this school. The courses given were as follows:—

Tactics and Gymnastic Dancing (Practical)

Mr. Fred. Foertsch.

Apparatus (Elementary) '

Mr. Foertsch.

Educational Gymnastics Theory of Free Exercises, Tactics and Gymnastic Dancing Mr. Emil Rath, Dean of the Normal School of the N. A.

G.	U.

Hand Apparatus (wands, clubs, etc.) Practical)

Mr. Rath (2nd term).

Applied Anatomy

Dr. John E. Morris, Indiana University.

Fencing (beginners)

Mr. Foertsch.

Fencing (advanced)

Mr. Rath.	tr

Esthetic Dancing (advanced and beginners)

Mr. Rath.

Folk Dancing	¥

Mr. Rath.

Digitized by
- 271-

Corrective Gymnastics

Dr. Turner (2nd term).

Playground Theory and Administration

Mr. W. A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education, Public Schools^ Philadelphia, Pa. (1st term).

Plays and Games

Mr. Stecher (1st term).

School Hygiene

Dr. Morris (1st term).

Track and Field Work (Theory and Practice)

Mr. Walter Wittich, Athletic Director at Sheboygan High School.

Of the courses given at this session of the Normal School, too much cannot be said in praise of the course on Educational Gymnastics, the course on Esthetic and Folk Dancing, and the course on Playgrounds. Dean Emil Rath, himself the personification of grace in dancing, and a past master in the technicalities of gymnastics and dancing, seemed to cause his pupils to imbibe a part of his knowledge of these branches, k> an extent that would surprise a person who had not had the pleasure of studying under him. In the short space of four weeks the students in the courses taught by Mr. Rath acquired a knowledge of the subjects taught that is an education in itself. The knowledge acquired was not only theoretical but practical.

The course in Educational Gymnastics took up the Theory and Practice of Free Exercises, Tactics and Gymnastic Dancing. This consisted of a lecture course in which the special1 branches of each subject were taken up separately, this being followed immediately by a practical application of the subject of the lecture on the floor of the gymnasium. The advantages of this system were manifested by the aptitude with which the students grasped the practical work, following, as it did, immediately after the lecture. In the courses on Esthetic and Folk Dancing each step and movement was, taken separately and analyzed before it was joined with the steps and movements before it, thus making each dance a natural progression.

Next in importance to the course just mentioned was the course on Playgrounds given by Mr. W. A. Stecher, Director Physical' Education,. Philadelphia, Pa. This was a lecture course and dealt with the playgrounds, their advantages, the elements of play, the physical, mental, social and moral effect of play, the equipment of playgrounds and the method of conducting play in playgrounds. Mr. Stecher, in this course, laid great stress on the elements of pl'ay. The social conditions, as affected by playgrounds were dealt with as can be readily seen from Mr. Stecher’s definition of Playgrounds : “Playgrounds are modern organizations for civic education.” This course also touched on the social side of playground activities.

Dr. Morris, a prominent Indianapolis physician gave a course on applied anatomy which gave the students an insight into the workings of the human body. As a part of this course the class visited the Indianapolis Medical College. Dr. Morris, during the first term, also gave a course on School Hygiene.

The course on Corrective Gymnastics, by Dr. Turner, dealt with the remedies for physical deformities, and the proper methods of applying “first aid to the injured.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
-272-

Mr. Wittich gave a course on Field and Track Work, and in this course gave the students the proper rules as to training and for acquiring form in the different track and field events. To the teacher who acts as coach of a track team, this course was most valuable.

During the session of the school the students also took up fencing and apparatus work.

Even with the educational side of this school in view, the social side was not neglected. The class took various trips to the amusement parks of Indianapolis and to the beach at Broad Ripple. A trip through the city in automobiles was made, and on several occasions trips were made to Turner Park where games were played and a general good time was had by all. The social affairs of the session ended with a farewell at the restaurant in the German House, the home of the N. A. G. U. In addition to this the students were given the privileges of guests at the German House.

Taken as a whole, all students spent four weeks in the most stimulating and profitable manner.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

Frank A. Gotch of Humboldt, Iowa, champion of the world, defeated George Hackenschmidt (known as the Russian Lion) of Dorpat, Russia, European Champion in the World's Wrestling Championship Match on Sept. 4 at Chicago.

The first fall was gained by Gotch in 14.18 1-5 with a reverse body hold. The second fall was timed at 5.32 1-5 for Gotch with a toe lock. The total wrestling time was 19 min. 50 2-5 sec.

A new American out-door swimming record for the mile was recently made by R. M. Ritter of the City Athletic Club, New York, in the championship contest held at Travers, Island. Ritter’s time was 5.52 3-5, clipping 1 3-5 seconds from C. M. Daniels’ (the world’s champion) record.

Three new world’s records were established at Celtic Park, New York, last month. The main event was the mile relay race, which was won by the quartet representing the Irish-American A. C. of N. Y. The four well-known runners who made up this team were Lehaff, Sheppard, Gissing and Rosenberger. Their time for the mile was 3 min. 18 1-5 sec., supplanting the former record of 3 min. 20 3-5 sec.

The second record to go was in the 5000 meter handicap run which was won by Louis Scott of the South Paterson A. C. (N. J.) who covered the distance in 15 min. 23 1-5 sec.

The third record was made by M. McGrath who hurled the 56 lb. weight 39 ft. 9^ in., beating the previous record of 38 ft. 8 in.

William A. Larned for the fifth time in his long career on the American lawn tennis courts again successfully conquered his challenger last month for the highest honors by defeating Maurice E. McLoughlin of California in the championship match of the thirty-first All-Comers’ Tournament by

Digitized by CjOOQle
-273-

the score 6—74, 6—4, 6—2. By his victory Larned wears the crown of the sport for the seventh time. In this respect he duplicates the record of the first of the American title holders, Richard D. Sears, who maintained his supremacy from 1881 to 1887, inclusive.

Long distance swimming seems to be in the hands of the girls around New York City. In August Rose Pitonof, 17 years old, from Dorchester, Mass., swam from East 26 St., New York City, to Steeplechase Pier, Coney Island, a distance of 17 miles in 8 hours and 7 min. It is, however, esti-mater that the distance covered by Miss Pitonof was 21 miles, as she had to vary her course at times in order that she might have the benefit of the current and tides.

The women’s long distance swimming championship, however, was won by Miss Adeline Trapp, a 20-year-old Brooklyn N. Y. school teacher who established a new record by swimming from North Beach to Robbins’ Reef (Long Island) an estimated distance of 22% miles in the remarkable time of 5 hours 6 minutes and 30 seconds.

Fred C. Thompson, divinity student at Princeton University, won the twenty-seventh all around track and field championship of the A. A. U. last month at Chicago with a score of 6709 points, thereby retaining his title won last yeaj with 7009 points. There were 9 competitors. J. W. Donohue of the Los Angeles A. A. was second with 6209 and Eugene Schobinger of the Chicago A. A. was third with 6i66j4 points.

Dr. D. M. F. Krogh, of the Department of Physical Training in the Philadelphia Public Schools, gave a series of talks and demonstrations in Physical Training and Recess Games at the Dunmore (Pa.) Teachers’ Institute last month.	/

—:—V------

Athletic Games and Folk Dancing no longer are the sole attractions at the Playgrounds. At the Brookline (Mass.) Playground a new feature was introduced^ namely a decorated baby carriage and a boys’ cart contest. Over 200 children participated in the two parades. Prizes were also given for the three best girls’ costumes and the three best boys’ costumes. The celebration was under the supervision of J. Leonard Mason and Miss Mary V. McGrath.

Professor Edward C. Elliott of the University, of Wisconsin recently delivered an address at the Teachers’ Institute held at the Cincinnati University. The following extracts are well worth being heeded especially by teachers in the public schools:—

“We, as teachers, are guilty of a sinful waste of time and energy when we have children go through a treadmill under the guise of its being educational.”

“All the arithmetic that a child needs to know should be taught in three years; all the reading in three or four years.”

“Children write as well in the fourth grade as in the eighth. Then why have them waste time on something which they have acquired? We

Digitized by CjOOQle
-274-

must break the rule that it takes a child eight years to learn a few simple things, reading, writing and arithmetic, which can be done in three or four.” “The average child of ten years should have acquired in school all the arithmetic it is ever going to need.”

“Our present-day education concerns itself with the child’s liver, lungs, eyes and throat as much as with anything else. The time is past when education was concentrated on that part of the pupil’s body above the neck.”

The baseball magnates have at last come to the conclusion that it is to their interest to assist the Playground Movement. During the summer months several National League cities set a certain day on which a percentage of the receipts of the game should be contributed to the Playground Association of America. With this assistance more playgrounds can be opened and future material for our national game will be assured. Athletic Clubs, Golf Clubs, and Lawn Tennis Clubs would be of material assistance by following the example of the baseball magnates.

George of Stanley of Yale won the Intercollegiate Golf Championship Sept. 9 by defeating Harry Heyburn of the U. of P. by 5 up and 4 to play. The summary was asfollows:—

Semi-Final Round—G. Stanley, Yale, beat R. Gardner, Yale, 1 up;

H.	Heyburn, U. of P., beat A. Seckel, Princeton, 1 up.

Final Round—G. Stanley beat H. Heyburn 5 up and 4 to play.

BOOK REVIEW.

—In commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the opening of the first open air gymnasium in Berlin, Germany, under the direction of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn the executive committee of the Turnerbund has published a history of the beginnings of gymnastics in American *nd of North American Gymnastic Union. Mr. Henry Metzner, the veteran historian of the Turnerbund, wrote the original in German; Mr. Theodore Stempfel, Jr., translated the essential parts. The booklet is of great interest to all teachers interested in physical training and should be, on every one’s book shelf. Price 50 cents. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—THE HEALTH INDEX OF CHILDREN, by Dr. Ernest Bryant Hoag. 188 pages, 5% by JJ/2 inches, illustrated, price postpaid 80 cents. Published by Whitaker and Ray-Wiggin Co., Mission St., SanFrancisco. The book is an outgrowth of a series of lectures given to teachers, and is divided into two parts. Part I has eight chapters dealing with the Nose, Throat and Ear; Defects of Vision; Defective Teeth; Contagious Diseases; Nervous Disorders; General Disorders; Defects of the Feet and Posture. Part II treats of the child and his environment.

The book is recommended as one that clearly states the most significant facts about children’s health and vitality. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-275-

—ONE THOUSAND HOMELESS MEN, by Alice Willard Sol-enberger. 374 pages 5% by 8 inches, published by the Charities Publication Committee, New York. Price postpaid $1.25.

This book is everything that a social study, making just claim to statistical accuracy, too often is not. It is based upon such intimate personal knowledge of many of the ragged regiment under review, and upon such whole-hearted endeavor to befriend them, that it abounds in human insights, and is thoroughly readable and practical from cover to cover. No one who has ever tried to help a homeless wanderer should fail to read it.

Mrs. Solenberger died just after she had finished her manuscript. This volume is her monument, unique not only on its treatment of the class about which she writes, but unique as a study of any class needing special consideration. Here, for the first time, we have the group usually treated as “tramps and vagrants” so carefully differentiated as to reveal its miscellaneous contents of ablebodied and sick, young and old, sinning and sinned against. Here, too, we find a new use made of modern charity’s case records, a thousand of which yield up their secrets to an interpreter with experience and vision. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—A BIBLIOGRAPHY ON EDUCATIONAL HYGIENE AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION, by Thomas Denison Wood, A. M., M. D., and Mary Reesor, M. A. 41 pages 6 by 9 inches. Published by Teachers* College, Columbia University, New York. Price 20 cents.

We do not know why the compilors call this collection a Bibliography on Educational Hygiene and Physical Education. Perhaps they wanted to say that this is their own bibliography, or a selected list, or a list of the books in some particular school. A careful scanning of the files of Mind and Body, the Physical Education Review, Physical Education and the journals of the Posse, Sargent and New Haven schools onlv for one year would have given them a much more representative list than the one published. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

PLAYGROUNDS IN LONDON.

Of all the large cities London proudly lays claim to possessing the greatest number of playgrounds. In the city proper there are 13, while in the suburbs there are 154. Londoq spends annually over 2,000,000 pounds sterling on these play centers.

The Playground season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to nse the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such teachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

By VHavis Qffrag.

Mailing price 75 cents.	MIND	AND BODY,

Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by v^rOOQle
-276-

Books on Physical Training and related Snhjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10% for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. 1, 2, 9, 24, 72, 149, 170, 181 and 191 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D............ 1.50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson.................... 1.00

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools, and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D.............................  1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen......................................................... 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D...___________ 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey......................50

Physical' Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D.......................................................       75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D.. ...........................   .25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ..........................................................20

Training -for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—Bv Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D.>........................................   1.00

Tactics.

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson..........................30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden ........... .50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton............................................ 30

Drills and Marches, by Rook..........................................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren. .	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman................................ 30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in

Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen ...................................................... 1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse..................50

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander................50

Digitized by
-277-

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse......................3 -0°

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D.............. *...................................  35

Tactics, School.—By Wm. A. Stecher...............................  .60

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren .................................... .5°

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann___	-75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz................................  1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00 Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Chib Exercises...........................25

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2-5° Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen....../.............................................. 1.00

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch.....................................  .10

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton.......35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton.................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz...................60

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rings and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey..........................................   .50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.5° Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth....................... 1.00

Games.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner......... 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer...........5°

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford.................. 1.5°

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal.................................................... I-5°

Games; Captainball, Dodgeball, Soccer,	Football................ -10

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton.........................................  1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold.................. *25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnasitic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen......	*75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor	Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey...........1°

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer........75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft............................................... 1-5°

Gymnastics. A Textbook jf the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Digitized by
-278-

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson...... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell...............................   1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch........................ 15

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton.........................  .30

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin.................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder............................ 75

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey.........50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford..................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal....'.................................................  1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison...........................  1.10

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nils W. Bergquist....................... 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer...........75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin.................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.............................75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D............. 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood....................................................25

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott..............25

At Home in’the Water, by Geo. II. Corsan............................75

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages.................................25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.......................25

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn...........................25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D.. .	.25

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth............................................    1.00

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner...................................25

Muldoon’s Wrestling............................................    .25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each.............45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part 1.	80	Pyramids	on	one	Parallel	Bar.......................70

Part	II.	50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars......................55

Part	III.	50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs......................55

Part	IV.	70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.. . *.................70

Part	V.	100 Free Pyramids...............................      85

Digitized by Google
-279-

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Patft: 60 Pyramids on I and 2 Horses......................70

Second Part:	46	Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses................. .50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders........................... 1.00

Pyramids for Strong Men and Gymnasts, by F. J. Harvey...............50

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan.................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated...... 2.50

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling ...................................................   25

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E. H. Arnold, M. D..............................................35

Gymnastic Exercises for Elimentary Schools, by Harriet E. Trask...	.67

Physical Education, Progressive Lessons. By Clara G. Baer.......	-50

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold. ..	.65

Physical Training, Manual of.—By T. Toepel, M. D....................$0

Physical Culture. Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson....................35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin............. 1.00

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each...............20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades.................................35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades................................35

Part III. Fifth Grade ..........................................50

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

75c, III 75c, IV................................................60

Subjects related to Physical Education.

A Brief History of the North American Gymnastic Union, by H.

Metzner. Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr. .50

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D......................$ .02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.50 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. 1.00

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.............50

Camping for Boys, by H. W. Gibson............................... 1.00

Civics and Health, by William H. Allen........................... 1.40

Control of Body, and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett......................50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.50

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D........................ 1.20

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D..............................50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing. Eating; by W.

A. Spinney .................................................. 1.20

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock......................... 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D................55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual,—By W. S. Hall, M. D.............1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw................................ 1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D............ 1.00

Digitized by Google
-280-

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. 1 By Ella B.

Haiiock.....................................................

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett......................

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.................

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Esther H. Gulick, M. D..

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L..........

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D...................

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift..........................

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustrated.........................

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. pj. Arnold

M. D.......................................................

Open-Air Schools, by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D...................

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams..........................

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..

• Playgrounds, American.—By E. B. Mero...........•....,...........

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer.......

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart.........................

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Lorna Higbee

Leland ......................................................

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D.....................

Physical1 Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe...................

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D.. ^ .

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D....

Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch .............................................

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D......................

Sex and Society. Studies in the Social Psychology of Sex. By William T. Thomas..................................................

The Body at Work, by F. Gulick Jewett...........................

Training in Theory and Practice, by A. Maclaren................

•45

i-75

.60

•75 .25 1.20 1.50 1.00

•35

i-35

1-95

•75

2.00 . 10

1.65

2.50

1.50

1.00 • 55

i-75

1.00 1.25

1.50 .50 .50

THEORY

FENCING WITH THE FOIL

IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

BY

GEO. HEINTZ, SR.

Assistant Master of the Sword at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. ■	• ^ Price, 25 Cents* ■%—» —

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPANY,

ECEROLD BUILDING, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Digitized by

Google