Vol. 16.

MIND AND BODY

APRIL, 1909.

No. 178

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FER-D. KROGH, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, xao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Alt business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

AN APPEAL FOR SOUND EDUCATIONAL PHYSICAL TRAINING.

C. F. Weege, M. D., Austin High Schools, Chicago.

Everybody agrees that a gymnasium is a very good thing, but how it is to be used is a matter of great difference of opinion. Some want the gymnasium used as a playground of the school; some think of it as the place where Sandows are developed and where Duffys and Ralph Roses are brought to light, but very few educators consider the gymnasium from a pedagogical standpoint. The educational importance of it is seldom recognized and rated as it ought to be.

Athletics as practiced today in the colleges and universities is far more in the line of a glittering ornament than a useful adjunct of an educational system. It is exclusive,and confined to a select few. Shall we permit physical training in our high schools to run in the same channels? Shall we concede that the gladiator is the ideal of manhood? Shall we determine the physical education of our pupils according to the views of a champion runner ore shot-putter or a basket- or a football coach? The all governing ideal in all rational education must be harmonious development of the whole body, and of all the pupils, not only of a selected few. It must not be the specializing in one particular line, nor the very often almost criminal evertaxing of a few willing victims in order to secure a champion basket -or foot-ball team.v Specializing is the only way to success in business and to some extent we also specialize in high school studies, but we should never be guilty of it in the physical education of high school pupils. We must always bear in mind that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. He who can depend on his lower extermities as well as on his arms; on his heart as well as his lungs has certainly a great advantage in the battle of life over him whose only achievement lies in the ability to lift heavy dumbbells or some other specialty. Even in England, the home of sports, educators are clamoring for reform, are demanding radical reorganization of the prevailing system, and are endeavoring to introduce a system of physical training similar to that of Germany and Switzerland. Sport has ceased to be a recreation but has sunk to a passion of rivalry. In eompetetive athletics only he has a chance of winning who has special-

Digitized by L^OOQle
-12-

ized in one particular line. In gymnastic competition, however, only he who has trained himself along a great number of lines may hope for a place. In athletics the main object is to train the individual to record performance in one special event and the question of even average ability in other lines is not raised. In gymnastics it is primarily the general training of the masses which is the motive. A record performance of the individual comes as just reward for great diligence, endurance and unusual endowment. We must strive for ideals that aim towards health and beauty, and not for a system that sees in records and championships its only goal.

Basket-ball is worthy of special investigation. As to football, so strong has been the criticism of it by men of high educational standing that for the sake of time we may pass by it. Basket-ball is, by far, more dangerous than foot-ball. Of course, in foot-ball we have the elevating (?) sight of seeing the injured and sometimes the dead carried from the field. We can see the broken bones and the physician is able to locate the injury and try to patch up the cripple. But in Basketball, although many are the bruises and smaller injuries, we seldom see any direct fatal results. Here the injuries are more of a creeping character. Physiologists have examined the results of extreme muscular exertion and found that the vital organs suffer greatly. The heart beat increased to about 118, and sometimes 125 beats per minute; even a pulse rate of 180 and 187 has been recorded. With it came a very weak and mostly irregular pulse. Blood-pressure sank about twenty-six mm. mercury. The urine of the athlet which before the contest was found normal, after the contest showed albumen in various amounts. The microscope showed similar constituents as found in acute Bright’s disease, epithelial casts, cylindrical casts, red and white blood corpuscles. The above observations were made on men in the prime of life, how much more extensive must the injuries be in a young man or woman at the age of fifteen to eighteen? We need not examine too scientifically, as even a casual observation will reveal some of . the dangers to us. The player enters the game brightly and eagerly, with cheeks flushed. After eight or ten minutes of play instead of a healthy color we observe the characteristic features of incipient cyanosis. The lips become bluish; around the mouth appears a whitish ring. The eyes are staring. But on goes the game, there are ten more minutes for the first half, and the other side is putting up a stiff battle. The player goes on with seemingly usafalteving strength, he catches what we commonly term his second wind. Now what is this? The respiratory center has been benumbed by carbon dioxide intoxication. It is the beginning of systemic poisoning. There is an enormous amount of overproduction of C02, but the vital centers have been benumbed. Wise nature has built us so that we shall not immediately pay the penalty of our crime. The respiratory center now is not as sensitive any more as with a healthy blood supply. As in all intoxications it will functionate for a while without immediate fatal results. But the longer and oftener this intoxication occurs the more detrimental must be its results. The medical profession always lays on the dangers of intoxication. Whether the intoxication be due to Morphine, Alcohol, Nicotine or any other

Digitized by LjOOQle
-±:i-

drug, or to carbondioxide. Unfortunately science is not able to tell us exactly how much we injure our nervous system by an overdose of C02. But we must agree that such maltreatment of our vital centers is not conducive to health and to sound and eane physical and mental development.

It is a well known fact that athletes die soon, due to overdevelopment of muscles and viscera. , The muscles of respiration have become so rigid and powerful that they prevent the lungs from expanding except under powerful stimulation. This means shallow breathing and inactivity of the greater part of the lungs, and this, again, predisposes to tuberculosis. [During the international tuberculosis conference in Philadelphia and Washington the very interesting fact was brought forth, that excessive muscular exercise or overdevelopment of the muscles is undoubtedly a predisposing cause of tuberculosis, and when tuberculosis exists in a benign form excessive exercise will develop it into a malignant form. While moderate exercise is of great value both as a palliative and curative agent in tuberculosis, excessive exercise is always prejudicial.] The heart always labors under increased pressure during violent exercise. Increased pressure predisposes to arterial degeneration, arterio sclerosis. A man is as old as his arteries are. The elasticity of the arteries is a very good standard of a man’s vitality. Bheumatism, gout, aneurism, anemia have as the foremost predisposing cause arterio sclerosis. We must bear in mind, that no exercise means no stimulation and no development, but too much motion means overstimulation, overaction and overdevelopment. This overwork has its detrimental effects not only on the skeletal muskles and on the arterial system, but all the viscera suffer to an even greater extent. The immense demand for a supply of sufficient nourishment has put productive ability to its limit. Now we may burn out a new stove in a few weeks by constantly pouring in fuel and keeping it red hot, but this same stove may last a great number of* years if used moderately. The restorative power of the human system also has its limit. If all available reserve force is called out during the few years that a nvm is in his prime, there will be nothing left for later years. Many athletes pay for the reckless abuse of their yjtal organs, especially of the heart, with their life during a siege of pneumonia. Having used up all reserve force, there is nothing left to carry them over the crisis.

“Foot-ball and Basket-ball resembling mimic warfare, are very much enjoyed by our young men, , and we must .permit the above for the sake of school discipline.” [Somebody please inform the members of the Peace Tribunal of the Hague of the views of some of our educators.] This argument was used in a discussion on athletics. The first part of it is very correct; seventeen dead and three hundred four seri-^ ously injured is last season’s foot-ball record. [How much physical training would we have left in our schools if our record were only of the above?] The second part, viz: the claim that mimic warefare is necessary for upholding discipline in our high schools not onl cannot be proven but the opposite is true and can be observed any day. Football and basket-ball are some of the causes of loose discipline. The foot-ball and basket-ball heroes are very often the onses that cause the

Digitized by <^.ooQle
teachers most trouble. Have the authors of the above statement never had occasion to observe the results of this mimic war spirit? True, not only the foot-ball players of high schools and colleges act like representatives of brutal soldiery, but the so called praisie teams are no better. Living near a quite prominent ball park, I often have the opportunity of observing the educational and moral qualifications of the teams. We Americans boast of the chivalry of our men towards the weaker sex, but what one sees and hears when obliged to travel in the same street-car or railway-coach with a gang of ball-players is about as offensive to good breeding and good manners as the language of a teamster in a right-of-way dispute. Whether in the smoker or in the presence*, of ladies the conduct of these coming citizens is the same. There is an absolute disregard of the presence of children and women. A man with a sense of decency feels like seeking police protection from the profanity and disregard of good behavior. It is claimed that these games develop courage and agressiveness. If by these terms we understand the utter disregard of our fellow citizens and a brute fighting spirit, the above may be true. The moral courage to go through life as a straight and upright citizen, ever ready to stand for right and justice, is not developed on the foot-ball nor basket-ball field. That the courage to win by hook or erode is often very strongly developed, we have ample proof of. Such brutal, unmanly, unprincipled acts to injure opposing players, ,such tactics to bluff the officials as are seen at our athletic meets, I dare say, will never be witnessed in gymnastic competitions. Our system of rational gymnastics stands far superior to that of athletics in developing men and women of high moral character. We recognize the demoralizing effects of the spirit “to win by all means,” and we do not permit our pupils to go astray in selecting their field of activity. But we can not expect to train will power, or to gain control over innate tendencies and mold character to fit the environments without conscious hard labor. Our pupils understand that the gyi£i*apum is the tplace to work, not a place where they are let loose merely to get rid of superfluous energy. In directing the energy of the pupil into the right channels, here curbing a proclivity, there fostering habits and awakening powers lies the advantage of educational gymnastics. Games and play are a very important part of our training, and we can not afford to ignore them, but they must always be adjuncts to our system, not the system itself.

Of course, it is the teachers* duty, as Gutsmuths puts it, to make gymnastics work in the garb of youthful recreation. If gymnastics is made a drudgery to the pupil we can hardly blame him for turning to other fields of action.	But it	is so easy to make	the gymnasium the

place where everybody	longs to	spend a good many	hours.	Our system

is so broad and flexible, our means of varying the work are so numerous that there is no reason why a pupil should dread the gymnasium work. It is my experience that the pupils don’t care to put in the gymnasium period even in play and dancing; they want good hard work. They often come during the free	minutes and ask permission	to take	out certain

apparatus, or ask assistance in	and demonstration of more	difficult ex-

ercises. A class of boys besought me for two weeks to give them the

Digitized by ^ooQie
—45-

experience on the flying rings that the other classes had. For some reason this class had missed a gymnasium period when rings were on the program. I must admit that when one has the misfortune of having the foot-ball or basket-ball heroes in the class, it is a much harder “row to hoe.” They are mostly (this is also a personal experience) not “in it” when it comes to good hard work. Another drawback appears when the spirit and taste of the pupils are so perverted from sane gymnastic work, that their only aim is to practice their special line. I lined a class up for Captain-basket-ball, a game which from an educational standpoint, as well as that of physical development, is far superior to foot-ball or basket-ball, and one of the basket-ball “fiends” remarked that we may as well play “Tiddle de Winks” as that. With such a spirit in the class, it takes patience, and a good deal of it, coupled with a high enthusiasm, to maintain a firm stand for educational gymnastics, and to instil in the youthful mind right ideas of gymnastic training and its proper place in the development of our physical, mental and moral well-being.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN SCHOOL VENTILATION.

\ paper read before the Civic Club of Philadelphia bv W. W. Whitten.

Much attention has been paid to the ventilation of the Modern School Bldg.

There is no gainsaying that it is much better ventilated than in the days of our youth and much less ventilated than when our fathers went to school.

In those days the red hot stove, always hungry for the cordwood pile, was the medium in the attempt to heat the cold blasts that blew in, unrestrainedly, at the doors and windows.

The children who sat nearest the windows were most of the time so cold they couldn’t study and a most frequent interruption to the day’s routine was, “May I go to the stove?” On the other hand those who sat nearest the stove complained, “I’m too hot.”

A few fortunate ones, situated between these extrems, were, at times, partially comfortable. The majority, however, were never able to devote undivided attention to their lessons because of their bodily discomfort.

In order to absorb knowledge, a child must be perfectly comfortable in body.

We are far removed, at the present day, from the stove and fireplace, and much study has been given to school heating and ventilating by the best engineers.

The aim, however, has too often been in the direction of economy in cost of installation of the apparatus without regard to the most important object — the comfort and health of the occupants — and frequently without regard to the economy of maintenance.

The first important move in this direction was made, some years ago, in Mass, and is popularly known as the “Mass. School Law.”

This Law prevails now in about 20 States, being adopted in Penna. Apr. 22, 1905, after much effort on the part of its advocates.

Digitized by AjOOQle
-40-

In Penna. it provides for a certain amount of window space, in comparison with the floor space, and that, at least, 30 cu. ft. of air per minute per room-occupant, be supplied at a temperature sufficient to maintain a uniform temperature of 70° in the room.

At what particular portion of the room this temperature is to be maintained is not stated.

In the prevalent type of heating apparatus installed to conform to this law, a large so-called hest of steam pipes is placed in the basement, inclosed in a galvanized iron box.

This box has connection with the outer air and is generally placed so that the street dust, animated by natural wind currents and eddies, coflfected about it, making the method objectionable. But it has been dvgrcome by putting screens of cheese-cloth in the outer opening, ami in the latest and best practice, adding films of spray to wash the air before it comes in contact with the steam pipes.

The box, or heat chamber, is connected with the rooms by flues of varying capacity.

A rotary fan is*placed in the main flue to force the air to its proper destination.

We will now assume that the air has been properly prepared, as best suited for human breathing, and is being distributed to the differ-»ent rooms.

The opening from the supply duct into a room (commonly called a register) is usually situated about 8 ft. from the floor.

The outlet from the room (called the vent, or foul air flue) is placed near the floor and so situated in relation to the inlet that a supposed circulation of the warm and purified air must take place thro’ the entire room before it reaches the vent.

It is obvious that this warmed and purified air, in order to pet-. form its office, must be of a uniform temperature at the breathing level of the occupants, and this level is usually quite near the floor in most . school rooms.

This artificial system of circulation is easily disturbed and, frequently, completely upset, if for any reason, the outflow from the vent is much less velocity than the rate of inflow from the supply duct.

The air in the lower portion of the room will become foul from exhalations from the lungs and skin of the occupants, causing headaches and other bodily discomforts.

If, on the other hand, the rate of outflow from the vent is consider-. ably greater than the inflow from the supply duct, cold air currents will be formed about the floors and occupants complain of cold feet, chills up the spine, etc.

This condition frequently occurs when a thermometer on the wall registers a required uniform temperature.

The normal heat of the body is considerably above the average temperature of a school room; 7t)°.

This heat is given off, rises, and attracts the cold air from the floor, caufiftng the above mentioned chill. So we are, as far as the comfort of the child is concerned, still in, or partly in, the fix our fathers were.

Careful experiments and tests have recently shown that the chief

Digitized by v^ooQle
-47-

eause of the failure of this modern system of air circulation is the action of the wind on the crevices about the windows.

The results of this action are peculiar. The windows on the windward side of the building are subjected to pressure and a large amount of cold air is forced in through them.

It should be remembered that in most school buildings the entire window is, practically, above the breathing line. The incoming cold air currents encounter tiie warmed air current from the inlet in the upper portion of the room. The cold air mixed to some degree with the warm air, but being of greater density, a large portion falls to the floor, circulating about it, finally reaching the outlet and passes out.

In a test of a school in Mass., some years ago, a State Inspector found that in the rooms on the windward side of the building, from 50 to 60% more air was passing through the outlet than was being supplied from the inlet.

In his report he said, “This condition occurred on windy days, and during this kind of weather, the children had to be moved away from the windows.” It would seem quite likely.

Recent investigations, however, have shown that the condition of the rooms on the sheltered sides of the building are more serious as far as the proper ventilation is concerned than those on the windward side.

Warmed air' is greatly expanded and does not, voluntarily, move downward. As is simply shown bv the familiar 4th of July hot-air balloon.

There being no pressure from the outside wind, the warmed air, which is introduced 8 feet above the floor, seeks egress through the avenue of least resistance. The window crevices are the natural vents for these rooms and are situated above the breathing line.

The action of the wind flowing by the sides and over the roof of the building, causes an area of low pressure on the sheltered sides, which might be called a partial vacuum.

This partial vacuum acts as a siphon, or air-pump, on the window crevices, greatly influencing the outward flow of the warmed and purified air.

All air that escapes in this manner, not having reached the breathing line, is an absolute loss to both heating and ventilation.

The outflow through the vent near the floor is thus greatly lessened, the air changes it, and below, the breathing line are less frequent, and a condition often spoken of as “muddy bottom,” is established.

Frequent headaches occur and the capacity of the children to learn is lessened.

/The remedy for the prevalent and undesirable condition is to properly insulate the window crevices so as to eliminate both outwajd and inward drafts. Thus establishing a stable interior condition, under which the intent of the State Law can be accomplished.

All windows should be locked in such fashion that they can only be opened by the Janitor for washing, reglazing, etc'.

It is evident that, with windows as they usually are, incoming drafts will be cold, laden with dust and dirt, and, to a large degree, undo the work of the filtering and washing to which the warmed air has been subjected.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
Also, that with a tight window, or one properly insulated, practically all the warmed, cleaned air having been circulated through the building and passed out through the prescribed vents, will have done its full duty, besides a much greater benefit from the fuel burned will be realized.

You may not know that around each ordinary school window, measuring 4x7 ft., there is an average of about 20 sq. in. of opening.

It has been proven by tests that about 4000 cu. ft. of air passes through this opening, per hour, during a 15 mile wind.

It can be seen at a glance then, that all this beautiful work of furnishing pure and warmed air to the pupils amounts to nothing, or the same as filling a bag at the top with a hole in the bottom, and that the ideal school room is one, with the heating and ventilating system, as explained before, and tight, or immovable windows that will keep the cold and unclean air from becoming mixed with the pure and warmed air.

It also has been proven with the instruments which I have here, and designed for the purpose, that the out eakage on the leeward side,, during the same wind, is considerably greater.

A High School Building in Jackson, Mich., was completed and occupied in Feb’y. of this year. The heating apparatus supplied by the heating contractor, in accordance with State Law requirements, failed to give satisfaction. The final payment was withheld and it was demanded of him that he provide additional apparatus to make good the apparent deficiency.

He refused to do so, his ground being that the deficiency was in the Building, not the amount of warmed air supplied.

Prof. Anderson of the Engineering School of Mich. University was called in, by joint invitation of the parties in the dispute, to make a test, and report on the merits of the various contentions.

With the inlet duct sealed and fan machinery shut down in a room on the windward side of the Building, and the outside wind blowing less than 10 miles per hour (equal to the gait of an ordinary horse) he found the rate of the velocity of air through the outlet of this particular room was as high as it should have been with the inlet open and^ the fan in operation.

All this air came through the window crevices!

It is easy to imagine Avhat might be the interior condition of this room if the wind blew 20 or 30 miles an hour!

The report was that the heating apparatus was adequate, and the only recourse, the proper stopping of the window crevices.

Now, that these tests have been made, the solution of the problem is extremely simple.

Make the window joints as nearly tight as the walls, on which much thought and money are spent to m&ke them weather-proof.

It is absurd to spend this value on the walls and every few feet leave an uncontrolled opening.

Control these openings, and modern systems of heating and ventilating may also be controlled.

These investigations have been made under the auspices of leading

Digitized by L^OOQie
-**7	"

Engineering Societies, and are being recognized in the latest prance. Window insulation being gradually transferred from the Architect to the Engineers.

The form of insulation showing the greatest effeiency is the Chamberlin Metal Weather Strip, the one I have here, mechanically designed for that purpose, and established beyond question as giving the most satisfactory results.

While the value of this device is widely known, and its use general, it is an absolute necessity for the completion of the ideal modern School Building.

Municipal governing bodies are not always actuated by disinterested motives, and the welfare of the school children is not always of paramount interest to them.

I	have reason to believe that the local authorities are, through their Engineer advisers, seriously considering the adoption of the ideas discussed in this paper.

Knowing that this Club is single-minded in its endeavor to better conditions, I have ventured to contribute the findings of my research in this field in order that it may be able to judge, individually, or collectively, their value.

MODERN AND GRECIAN ATHLETICS.

Under this title the last issue of the “Monthly Cyclopaedia and Medical Bulletin” has the following editorial:

It was a distinguishing feature among the ancient Greeks to consider corporal exercise as a no less important factor of education than mental progress itself. No nation ever had a higher ideal of athletics than the ancient Greeks; nowhere* did honorable and beneficial athletics hold a higher place. They indulged in their exercises in open air gymnasiums; which were scattered throughout the country, and which were supported partly by public and partly bv private means. It was here that the people spent a part of the day in athletic exercises. The various exercises, such as running, jumping, throwing the discus or javelin, swimming, etc., were a part of their every-day life. Their primary object was to develop the body together with the mind. The harmonious development of the body, and, indeed, of every single limb, was thought to be of the utmost importance for the attainment of self-conscious determination in the practical demands of life.

At the present time, however, athletics neglect the principle of proportion and harmony that distinguishes all that is best art and development. We do not possess the principle of acting through means of the body on the mind, as was realized in the physical training of the ancient Greeks. Their aim was, “A beautiful soul in a beautiful body.” * With ourselves, in spite of our addition to athletics, the body takes a secondary place, and after a certain age at least, there are very few men who make systematic exercise an important factor of their every-day life. The Greeks aimed at balance in harmony. They believed in beauty in flesh. This is very well illustrated by their beautiful sculptures, both in *U8nly strength and youthful grace, ^Thich gave to the artist and sculptor

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-60-

inspiration and encouragement in the choice of athletic subjects. However, the athletic sports of to-day are not pursued for pleasure or recreation, therefore they are not remedial helps and aids in physical development and improvement. There are some individuals, however, who take exercise for the beneficial effects which can be derived from it. They engage in the various exercises with zeal and enthusiasm, and their common thought is that the more exercise they take, the more favorable it will be to their health. We can thus see that, instead of deriving benefit, they are harmed and with their health jeopardized, due to great strain and exertion under which they place themselves.

The idea of the modem athlete is to concentrate the entire energy of his body upon the development of special powers in order that he may overcome his opponent. It is, therefore, easily seen why the modern athletes lack symmetry of development as was attained by the ancient Grecian athletes. They also train beyond their ability, and finally develop their muscular system to such perfection that it is detrimental to the heart, lungs and digestive organs.

The older sports, in which the old athletes competed, were friendly Mid honorable rivalry* but now it has given way to professional displays. Love of excitement has taken the place of love for sport. Competition has increased to such an extent that modem athletes have discovered that special excellence in certain events could be accomplished by special training. The boxer and wrestler train in order to secure more weight, while the jumper and runner train in order to acquire more activity and fleetness. Therefore, the beauty of development is lost, and results in ill-proportioned and one-sided athletes.

The great evil lies in the fact of overtraining in that particular branch of athletics. We observe that the muscles of the modem athletes are excessively developed at the expense .of his vital organs so as to make him fit for his special branch of athletics. These excessively developed muscles being larger and having more work to perform than other parts of their anatomy which have not reached such a stage of development, will naturally require and consume more nourishment, and consequently they will use up a considerable amount of the nutritive fluids of the body that would serve the ileeds of other and more important organs. In order to retain the size and development of these muscles he must undergo a special training table and constantly keep himself in trim. This, therefore, necessitates considerable attention and time. Since this muscular development does not prove the basis of the life occupation of the college athlete, and since these well-developed muscles are only temporary, we therefore see why his career is ended suddenly after he is settled in life. Most college athletes, instead of continuing their active athletic work after they have graduated ,inevitably drift into more or less confined and sedentary occupations of city life. It is at this time that these well-developed muscles begin to play havoc. It is an established fact that large and well-developed muscles or other organs will not return normally to their primary undeveloped condition. Since this is so, these muscles will undergo atrophy and degeneration, especially fatty degeneration, due to the lack of strenuous exercise required to keep them in their mature condition. The training necessary to preserve such

Digitized by v^ooQie
-Si-

muscular development and to retain it at its health point is practically impossible, even if it were desirable, in the ordinary grinding duties of the life of a physician or other sedentary profession. We also observe that heart affections are not infrequent among athletes. A great majority present symptoms of heart dilatation and valvular defects, as is shown by the characteristic heart murmurs.

The physical training of the bodily organs is not conducted with a view to the promotion of bodily health and vigor, but to professionalism and a spirit of competition, and emulation has taken the place of friendly rivalry. If exercise was taken for the mere promotion of health, there would be less disease and more symmetry of development. The reason that the ancient Greeks were so healthy was due to the fact that they engaged in appropriate exercise, made intelligent use of air, food, sleep and resorted less to drugs.

CIGARETTE SMOKING BY THE YOUNG.

By ALFRED A. WOODHULL, M. D., LL. D.

The thesis about to be maintained is, that cigarette smoking by the young is harmful to them.

A very little elementary physiology must be employed in supporting it. The active principle of tobacco is nicotine, a part of which is transformed by heat into pyridine, having substantially the same qualities. [Next to prussic acid, nicotine is the most active poison yet recognized.

It acts upon the motor nerves, first abolishing their conductivity and then that of the motor paths in the cord, so that, as the nerves fail to induce muscular contraction, the muscles no longer respond normally to the requirements of life, and in fatal cases death is a consequence of paralysis of the respiratory muscles.

But, excepting where foolish smokers consume a vast amount of tobacco on a wager or otherwise, dr nicotine as such is inadvertently taken, such directly fatal results, or anything approaching them, are not to be anticipated. It is notorious, however, that this interference with the motor power disturbs the subjects ability to do delicate mechanical workr even that of drawing right lines and other precise manipulation, as in watch-making, or in the construction and handling of fine and exact instruments; and,naturally, the less mature those controlling nerves may be, the more readily they respond to the poison. It is equally well established that men training for any form of athletics abandon tobacco,, at least for a time. Experience has shown that better work can be done without it.

But besides its influence on the motoT nerves proper, it is believed that tobacco acts on the vaso-motors in such a way as to diminish the calibre of the capillaries. If such is the case, what would be the effect?

The capillaries are those very minute blood-vessels which ramify so completely and intimately throughout the body that the point of a needle will always draw blood by rupturing some of them. They convey fresh, that is renewed, arterial blood for the nourishment of every organ

Digitized by v^ooQLe
—52—

and every muscle, and they carry off the waste or venous blood to be purified.

If, therefore, the calibre of these microscopial vessels is reduced, either permanently or temporarily,it follows as a matter of course that their service must also be proportionately diminished. And if less fresh blood is taken where it is required, and less impure blood is carried away,

, natural growth cannot be maintained and the waste fluids will continue to poison the tissues. Hence the habitual introduction of nicotine into the circulating fluid would logically lead to a restraint of development. Does such introduction occur?

The characteristic feature of cigarette smoking is the inhalation of the smoke. This is not necessary, but it has the strong support of custom, so that, as a rule, the fumes of the tobacco, including a proportion of the volatilized nicotine, are drawn into the lungs before being exhaled. The unprofessional reader must understand that the lungs are virtually an enormous collection of capillaries, so arranged as to be freely bathed by the indrawn air; and the particular function of the pulmonary capillaries is to receive, directly through their walls, the atmospheric oxygen and such aerial contaminations as may accompany it, and likewise , to permit the gases already held in the blood to escape. These phenomena occur under the laws of osmosis. Much of any vapor drawn into the chest in respiration is , thus taken up by the blood when it presents itself in the lungs. The. anaesthesia that follows the inhalation of ether or chloroform is thus induced.

So in the treatment of certain illnesses an extra supply of oxygen is artificially furnished the blood. Again the evil effect of inspiring illuminating gas is not merely the substitution of an irrespirable gas in place of the ordinary atmosphere; that is, it is not simply a condition of suffocation, as would be the case if water replaced air, but it depends upon the action of the contained carbon monoxide which after traversing the capillary walls, disintegrates the very blood corpuscles. These everyday illustrations show that gaseous bodies (and nicotine becomes gaseous, under heat) may and do pass into the blood and, absorbed by it, course through the system at large. So, when inhaled, a certain proportion of this volatilized drug is taken up.

It is therefore distinctly the act of inhalation which evilly differentiates cigarette smoking from those uses of tobacco where inhalation is not practised. It is this which is constantly to be borne in mind; namely, that as practised, the smoking of cigarettes transforms the tobacco into the most adaptable state for absorption, and conveys it directly to the capillary wall physiologically arranged to absorb it. But when we consider the ease and completeness with which the cigarette is consumed, and the facility for frequent indulgences which ordinary life presents, we should not be surprised that there is wide acquiescence in a habit whose attraction is a present one, and whose harmfulness is indirect and unrecognized.

i Example commonly leads to the first use of tobacco, and example is

Digitized by v^ooQie
—53—

very strong with youth, especially youth without, or defiant of, judicious > control. Primarily, tobacco is physiologically offensive; but toleration, a peculiarity of the nervous system, is established sooner or later. Fol- ,r, lowing toleration, its use gives satisfaction to nearly all, and this in most cases increases to desire and, in succession, to a demand which with many, becomes a positive craving, insistent upon gratification. In the young the nervous balance is more easily disturbed and the con- t sequences of such disturbance are more conspicuous than with the , mature. There can be no doubt that, apart from and in addition to other actions presently to be indicated, tobacco has for many, especially for the young, a nervous influence which classes it with the narcotics.

It is a narcotic; not as a sleep-producer, but through a specific influence upon the gray matter of the brain, and by its modification of the cerebral x blood-supply.

Some such hypothesis most easily accounts for its operation; for many among the mature distinctly recognize that this drug “soothes,. promotes revery, favors mental and physical calm, and counteracts nerv- , ousness,” all of which are not inconsistent with the motor disturbance^ and the disorder of the organic nerves,—its common manifestations. These phenomena of nervous regulation in the grown (which indeed, with them are liable to pass into excess and to require treatment), with youth, , in many of whom the nervous equilibrium is very unstable, may ' be quickly transformed into more irregular and less desirable states, marked by the imperative and frequently over-powering craving. Nor is it necessary to assume, as has been done, that some other and more commonly-acknowledged noxious drug has been added to the filling or has .been absorbed by the wrappers of cigarettes. It is conceivable that in the .East the poppy or the hemp may contribute its seductive poison, but there is no good reason to suspect such or other sophistication in the cigarettes sold in the open market in the United States. Tobacco . itself, when properly introduced, is quite competent to account for the resulting mischief.

Further, the conditions being changed from maturity to immaturity, the quality of retarding retrograde metamorphosis, whereby, when food is scanty, the strength of the laborer may. be conserved to a limited degree, is detrimental by limiting the progressive changes upon which the better development of the body depends, That is, in lads and w growing youth, tobacco arrests the natural elimination of waste and, by consequence, hinders the utilization of fresh material. When we remember that tobacco reduces the blood supplied to the body by diminishing the bore of the essential capillaries, and at the same time inhibits the physiological accession of new material by clogging the chan- ^ nels with retained waste, we have.clear physical reasons why the stature of those, still growing may fall short of the normal when hampered by . the habitual absorption of this powerful agent. An apparently authentic report shows that at a large eastern university during a period of r nine years, the average age of the entering students who smoked was ' fifteen* months greater than that of .the non-smokers, but the latter were, j

Digitized by L^ooQle
-54—

the taller. A fair inference would be that both groups began life on I a physical equality, but that the tobacco users had dwarfed their own | mental and bodily growth. At the end of four years, the non-users, although taller on admission, had gained in height 24 per cent, and in chest girth 25.7 per cent, more than the habitual users. Assuming that they all lived under practically the same conditions in other respects, this further indicates the narcotic’s restraining influence. There is a popular impression, which is believed to be entirely justified, that boys at large who thus violate the rules of right living, pay the penalty of a stunted growth, but no trustworthy statistics beyond those just cited, are accessible at this writing,

The most conspicuous effect of nicotine upon the organic nervous system, is its disturbance of the heart’s action. The tobacco heart is an irritable heart; frequently, not always, accompanied by an intermittent pulse and not to be depended upon under calls for severe physical exertion. The tobacco heart of youth will always cause the rejection of applicants for the military or naval academy, and it marks the young j soldier as of doubtful efficiency. The disturbance of the nerve-supply by tobacco not only degrades the tissues in general, but predisposes to J neuralgia, indigestion, and functional disorders of vision, some, not all, j of which may follow in its train with any particular individual It does | not, however, canse atrophy of the optic nerve as sometimes believed. , Further, writers of authority say:	“It is said to induce premature *

puberty”; “by its depressing and disturbing effects on the nerve-centres | it increases 3exual propensities and leads to secret practices, while permanently imperilling virile powers.”

Premature puberty means that the great special ganglia and the reproductive secreting organs have been called into action before nature is prepared for their operation. In this case it would arise from the | incoordination of those centres through the disturbing influence of the I nicotine. Not improbably, mutatis mutandis, tobacco creates a like | influence in both sexes, but girls have no such opportunities for excess as boys. Certainly small boys who have embraced the cigarette habit I are liable to be degenerates of another form as well.

Statistics as to mental attainment are notoriously difficult to inter- I pret, but there is a consensus among educators, who study their pupils, I that the habitual use of tobacco dulls memory and dampens intellectual glow. On this account, the use of tobacco in the public schools of France was forbidden in 1861.

In our own higher places of learning, as a rule the first group, the honor men, in every class abstain from tobacco as completely as competing athletes. In the public schools observing teachers find that when a promising pupil begins to decline in his work, it is almost certain that he has commenced using cigarettes. It certainly should require neither personal experience, nor complex argument, to convince any one that an abnormal condition exists when a drug, whose use is acquired only bv considerable effort, establishes a craving for the gratification of which there arises an exigent demand. Entirely regardless of what may be its

Digitized by Google
-55-

direqt effects, the analogy to the call made by opium, hashish, cocaine, or alcohol itself, is too close to be disregarded.

Our youth should not be allowed to become entangled in the coils of a habit, escape from which is practically a struggle as with disease.

________^________________ AM.	HEALTH.

J6TH NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, PHILADELPHIA, PA., April 7 to 10.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7.

The day will be devoted to observing the gymnastic work of different schools. The following list will enable visitors to select the schools and work that particularly interests them. Guides will be at the Central Young Men’s Christian Association, Arch street near Broad, to direct or conduct visitors.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

State Normal School, West Chester, Pa., C. E. Ehinger, M. D. Train leaves Broad Street Station, 8.20 and 11.04 a. m., and 1.30 p. ip. 9 to 11.45 a. m., boys* preparatory classes; 1.45 p. m., midle years; 2.30, juniors; 3.15, senior girls.

Philadelphia Normal School for Girls, 13th and Spring Garden Streets, Grace E. Spiegle, M. D. 8.45 to 11.40 a. m., grades 8, 7, 6, and 5 of School of Practice gymnastics, and games in gymnasium of Normal School; 12.15 to 1.50 p. m., grades 4, 3, 2, and 1 of School of Practice, gymnastics and games in classroom.

Commercial High School for Girls, Broad and Green Streets, Miss Mary Price. 9 to 10 a. m., gymnastic exercises for girls of first year in school; 10 to 11, third year in school; 1 to 2 p. m., second year in school.

Philadelphia High School for Girls, 17th and Spring Garden Streets, Miss Evaline Young, Miss Rachael P. Barker. 9 to 10 a. m., second year; 10 to 10.50, third year; 11 to 11.45, second year; 12.20 to 1 p. m., fourth year; 1 to 1.50, third year. Floor work, apparatus, marching, games for classes.

Keystone Annex, west side of 19th Street above Chestnut. Miss Olivia Milne. 9 to 11.45 a. m., first year; 12.20 to 1.50 p. m., first year.

Shippen Annex, north side of Cherry Street above Chestnut, Miss Isabel Small. 9 to 11.45 a. m., first year; 12.20 to 1.50 p; m., first year.

Stephens Annex, 17th Street and Fairmont Ave., Miss Margaret Remington. 9 to 11.45 a. m., first year; 12.20 to 1.50 p. m., first year. All first year work in each Annex consists of free floor work, marching and games.

Central High School for Boys, Broad and Green Streets, Matthew C. O’Brien, M. D. 11.10 a. m. to 12.05 p. m., freshmen class work.

Northwest School, Race Street, between 15th and Broad (5 minutes’ walk), Mr. Lewis. 9 to 12 a. m., 1.30 to 3.30 p. m., gymnastics in all grades. Yard games at recess, 10.20 to 10.50 a. m.

Lincoln Grammar School for Girlsr 20th Street and Fairmont Ave. (18 minutes’ ride), Mr. Ballin. 9 to 12 a. m., 1.30 to 3.30 p. m., gymnastics in all grades. Games.

Nichols Schopl,16th and Wharton Streets (15 minutes’ ride), Dr. Krogh. 9 to 12 a. m., 1.30 to 3.30 p. m., gymnastics in all grades. Games.

McMichael Girls’ School, 35th Street and Fairmont Ave. (20 minutes’ ride), Miss Huggins. 9 to 12 a. m. and 1.30 to 3.30 p. m., gymnastics in all grades. Roundels, games.

Dunlap School, 51st and Race Streets (20 minutes’ ride), Miss

Cody. 9 a. m., captain ball, dodgebajl; 10, recess games, play on appara?

tus; 2 p. m., relay races; 3, Soccer football.

%

Digitized by LjOOQle
-56-

Hancock School, 12th Street and Fairmont Ave. (18 minutes* ride). ]0.20 to 10.50 a. m., organized play at recess, games and apparatus.

Special Public Schools fob Backward Children.

Special School No. 2, No. 2813 Fletcher Street (Strawberry Mansion car on 18th Street, 30 minutes). 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., boys and girls. Very , interesting classes.

Special No. 5, Marvfnfe above Jefferson (20 minutes* ride). 9 a. m. to 2 p. m., girls* classes.

Special No. 10, Darien and Buttonwood, between 8th and 9th Streets (15 minutes’ walk). 9 a. m. to 3.30 p. m., boys and girls.

Private Schools.

Friends’ Select School, 140 North 16th Street, Miss Adela Adams.

2.30	to 3.30 p. m., playground work, apparatus, games, sports. Well-equipped playground.

Philadelphia Orphan Asylum, Wallingford, Pa., J. Peterson Ryder.

9 a. m., children, 6 to 16 years.

Westtown Boarding School, Westtown, Pa., Miss Emily Smedley. Trains leave Broad Street Station for Westtown and West Chester at 8.20 and 11.04 a. m. and 1.30 p. m. An invitation to lunch at the school is cordially extended by the principal, William F. Wickersham. 10.20. to 11.05 a. m., 11.20 to 12 a. m. and 3 to 3.40 p. m., Swedish, free, standing and apparatus exercise.

George School, Pa., Miss Alice Ingram. 3.30 p. m., Swedish day’s order for girls of 17 years.

Temple University Normal School of Physical Education, Frank White, M. D., Dean. 9.15 to 11.50 a. m. and 12.20 to 5 p. m., all phases of Normal School work.

Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 435 North 6th Street, Richard Pertuch.. Girls, 5 to 6 p. m.; ladies, 8 to 10 p. m., regular class work, calisthenics,, apparatus, games.

LaSalle College, Broad Street and Girard Ave., Richard Pertuch*

9 to 11 a. m., regular class work.

Department of Applied Physical Therapeutics of thev Samaritan Hospital, Broad and Ontario Streets, Mrs. Caresia Ohman. 2 to 5 p. m.,. medical gymnastics, massage, electrotherapy.

Pennsylvania Orthoptic Institute and School of Mechano-therapy, 1711 Green Street, Max J. Walter, Ph. D., Superintendent, 10 a. m. to-6 p. m., all departments open for inspection and demonstration.

Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf, Mount Airy, Miss Grace G. Green. 11 to 12 a. m., schoolroom gymnastics, primary department; 4.15 to 5« p. m., gymnastics in gymnasium, boys of intermediate department.

Pennsylvania Institution for the Blind, Overbrook, Philadelphia, Mrs. Jessie Royer Greaves. 0 to 12 a. m., physical education in relation to the physical expression of thought and feeling.

Orthopaedic Gymnasium Universtiy of Hospital, 34th and Spruce Streets, Miss Anna Kite.. 12.30 to 2.30 p. m., corrective work for lateral curvature, paralysis and treatment., of rheumatoid arthritis after sprains.

Widener Memorial School, Norh Broad Street and Olney Ave.s (Ogontz car on 13th Street), Miss Anna Kite. 8.30 to 11.30 a. m., corrective work for paralysis.,

Friends’ Central School, 15tti and Race Streets, Miss Katherine Fitzer. 2 p. m.

House of Refuge for Boys. Glen Mills, Pa., S. M. Bennett. 9 to 11 a. m., 1.45 to 5 p. m. Trains leave Broad Street Station at 8.20, 11.04,.

1.30	and 2.48. One hour rjde,. round trip 81 cents.

Trenton. N. .T.. McClellan School, Helen R. Levy. 9 to 12, normal work, 1 to 8 grades.

Digitized by v^ooQle
WEDNESDAY EVENING. S to 10.

At the Museum of Science and Art. University of Pennsylvania, 33. and Spruce.

Reception and Addresses of Welcome.

Charles Custis Harrison, LL. D., Provost of the University of Pennsylvania.

James A. MacAllister, LL. D., President Drexel Institute.

President's Annual Address, George L. Mevlan, M. D., Professor of Physical Education, Columbia University.

THURSDAY, APRIL 8.

General Meeting at the Drexel Institute,'32. and Chestnut.

10	A. M. The Place of Physical Education in the Public School Curriculum, M. G. Brumbaugh, Ph. D., LL. D., Superintendent Philadelphia Public Schools.

11	A. M. Symposium on the Determining Principles which should Decide the Content of the Public School Curriculum in Physical Education. Conducted by Dr. Luther H. Gulick. Discussion by Mr. William

A.	Steeher, Miss Jessie Bancroft, Mr. George W. Ehler

THURSDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 8.

Demonstrations of Physical Training Work at the Gymnasium of the University of Pennsylvania, 33. and Spruce.

2:00—2:20. Children of the Primary Grades. Exercises showing the progressive woTk carried on in grades 1—4 of the Public Schools of Philadelphia.

2:20—2:40. Children of the Grammar Grades, showing the work of grades 5—8.

2:40—3:00. Philadelphia School of Pedagogy (men), illustrating the methods of instructing the regular class teachers in class management.

3:00—3:20. Philadelphia Normal School for Girls, again showing the method of preparing the regular teacher as the teacher of gymnastics for her class.

3:20—3:40. Elwin, Pa., Training School, illustrating methods employed in the instruction of atypical and backward children in the elementary coordinations.

3:40—4:00. Children of the Pa. Institute for the Deaf and Dumb, Classwork for deaf and dumb children, illustrating the receiving of commands by lip reading.

4:00—4:20. Children of the Pa. Institute for the Blind. An illustration of the class work among the blind, showing devices for modifying both the gymnastic and the fieldwork.

4:20—4:40. Boys of Girard College. Not ha\ing a gymnasium much of the exercise must of necessity be taken in the classroom. These wand exereises-are designed to meet this special need.

4:40—5:00. Folkdances. Lower Morion High School. Ardmore, .

Pa.

From 2:30 to 5:00 demonstrations of outdoor games will be given, on different parts of Franklin Field, immediately adjoining the gymnasium.

Digitized by LjOoq le
-58—

1)	Field Hockey, two teams from Girls Commercial High Schools

2)	Soccer Football, two teams of boys from the upper Grammar Grades Public Schools.

3)	Captain ball, eight teams of boys and girls of the upper Grammar Grades.

4)	Hodge ball, eight teams of boys and girls of the lower Grammar Grades.

THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 8.

7:45—8:00.- Captain ball, Girls High School. A modified form employing two teams of sixteen each.

8:00—8:20. Clubswinging, Students, West Chester Normal School.

8:20—8:40. Exercise with 3 lb. Dumbbells. Boys of the Central High School.

8:40—9:00. Long Horse with Storming Board, Students of Haver-ford College.

9:00—9:30. Girls and Women, Phila. Tumgemeinde; Spring Roundel, Batball, Wand exercises, Vaulting over Side Horse.

9:30—9:45. Gymnastics, Young Men’s Christian Associations.

9:45—10:00. Pyramid Building, Students, University of Penna.

10:00—10:20. Apparatus work by men, Phila. Turngemeinde; Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Long Horse.

10:20—10:40. Wrestling Drill, Students, University of Penna.

During the evening:	Swimming	exhibitions	and	contests	in	the

University of Pennsylvania pool by teams of the Philadelphia Swimming Club, Young Men’s Christian Association and University of Pennsylvania.

FRIDAY, APRIL 9.

General meeting at the Drexel Institute, 32. and Chestnut.

10	A. M. Administrative Physical Education Problems in the Public Schools; George W. F.hler, Secretary Public Athletic League, Baltimore, Md.

11	A. M. The Effects of a Low and High Proteid Diet on Physical

Efficiency; Elmer Berry, International Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.	?

Sectional meetings from 2 to 5 P. M. at the Drexel Institute.

THERAPEUTIC SECTION. Lecture room.

Baroness Rose Posse, Chairman.

Subconscious Influence in Gymnastic Training; Dr. James A. Babbitt, Haverford, Pa.

The Treatment of Defects of Posture in College Students by Exercise; I>r. R. Tait McKenzie, Philadelphia.

The Treatment of Ataxia by Re-education; Dr. J. K. Mitchell, Philadelphia.

The Inoiportance of an Exact Knowledge of the Pelvic Circulation in Determining the-Correct Poise of the Body; Dr. Joel E. Goldthwaite, Boston.

The Physical Statu? of Phi Beta Kappa Men; Dr. W. G. Anderson, New Haven.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-59-

PUBLIC SCHOOL SECTION. Room 112.

Miss Josephine Beiderhase, Chairman.

Miss Helen McKinstry, Vice-Chairman.

Physical Training for Girls of High School Age.

Biological Point of View, Prof. John M. Tyler, Amherst.

Medical Point of View, I)r. J. H.Musser, Philadelphia.

Social Point of View, Dr. Luther II. Gulick, New York,

SECONDARY SCHOOL SECTION. Room 113.

Dr. P. S. Page, Chairman. Staleness, Dr. J. H. McCurdy.

COLLEGE DIRECTORS' SOCIETY; Room 114.

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, Chairman.

The Academic, Professional and Technical Equipment Needed on the Staff in the Department of Physical Education; Thomas A. Storey, M. D., Associate Professor and Director, College of the City of New York.

The Use of Oxygen in Muscular Effort; Dr. W. G. Anderson, Director Yale University Gymnasium.

Business Session (closed).

General meeting 8 P. M. at the Drexel Institute.

8	P. M. The Relation of School Hygiene to Physical Education; Thomas A. Storey, M. D., Associate Professor of Physical Education, College of the City of New York.

9	P. M. Symposium. The College Responsibility for the Regulation of its Athletics. Conducted by Dr. Paul C. Phillips, Professor of Physical Education, Amherst College.

Discussions; Clark W. Hetherington, Fred. A. Marvel. SATURDAY, APRIL 10.

General meeting at the Drexel Institute.

9:30 A. M. A Comparison of the Educational Values of Coordinations Occuring in Different Forms of Exercise; E. H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

10:30 A. M. Physical Defects and School Progress; Leonard Ayres.

11:30 A. M. Business Meeting,

a)	Election of three members of the Council by the members at large.

b)	Secretary-Treasurer's Report.

12:30 P. M. Luncheon and Business Meeting of the Council.

WHAT SUCCESS IS.

“Success consists in the individual having a full rounded mental development, a full rounded moral development and a full rounded physical development. Any standard which does not include the.^e three divisions is a narrow and one-sided standard. The physical development is that most neglected in our schools to-day.

I believe that promotions in our schools should be based not alone on mental attainments, but on excellence shown by physical as well as mental examinations. I believe that every high school should have a physical instructor for the boys, and a teacher who can teach real, live physiology, the kind that lives and is not conned out of the pages of a text-book."

Dr. Arthur Holding, in the Diet. & Hyg. Gaz., Febr. '09..

Digitized by U^ooQle
Mind ftND BODY.

SikteriptiOB Price, fl.O^pcr Year.

wm^W Pubhwbed Monthly,

BY

FBEIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

*WUcor> fin.

9* Addraac aU buemess letters to FREIDRN&ER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., MUwaukae, Wi* Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

— THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL ASSOCIATION will be held in Philadelphia from April 7th to 10th. The program printed in this issue shows a wise balance between theory and practice, between discussions and demonstrations. It is to be hoped that visitors will arrive very early on Wednesday, or better still, on Tuesday night so that they may get the full benefit of the visits to schools and institutions planned for that day. The work to be seen on Wednesday is so great that it will be impossible for any one to see even a fourth of it. It is hoped, however, that the early publication of what is at the visitors" command on Wednesday will lead to an arrival on Tuesday night, and also to a selection of what each one wishes to see. Physical training work in many of its regular, as well as in its most interesting phases among atypical children is on the program. Schoolyard work and games as well as work in gymnasiums are arranged for. Normal school and college work may be seen. School-playgrounds and public playgrounds may be visited. A choice may be difficult to make. The local committee will have an information bureau at the Central Young Mens Christian Association, Arch street, between Broad and Fifteenth streets (just two squares from the Pennsylvania or from the Reading R. R.) to direct visitors to the places they wish to visit. In order to get most benefit during the day it is to be hoped that every reader intending to go to Philadelphia (and the local committee has arranged for five hundred visitors) gets out his notebook and puts down the places he wants to visit, not overlooking the fact that Philadelphia is a rather large town and that it takes time to go from one place to another. Requests sent to the “Information Bureau, Physical Education Convention Y. M. C. A., 1412 Arch street, Phila.” will be taken care of.

— ONE OF THE ENCOURAGING SIGNS of the trend of things is the attention that is being given to rational physical training by practising physicians (see the article in this issue on Modern and Grecian athletics). The more we get them interested in our work and the clearer they see what we are striving for, the easier it will be for us to gain their powerful support for all-around training. instead of specialization, at least until such time at which the body has reached its normal development. At a recent lecture held in Philadelphia it \yas pointed out thgt as a rule medical colleges do not give their students any instruction in the aims and uses of gymnastics. Here is a great unworked field. It is

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 61—

with pleasure, therefore, that we hear that Dr. Theodore Toepel, for many years one of the foremost teachers of gymnastics in the South (and still actively engaged), has been appointed lecturer on gymnastics at the Atlanta, Ga., College of Physicians and Surgeons. The Journal-Record of Medicine has recently published one of his papers on “Active Exercise in the Treatment of Locomotor Ataxia,” which should be of interest to those of our readers who use gymnastics for medical ends.

—WE WISH TO CALL particular attention to Dr. Woodhull’s article on “Cigarette Smoking by the Young” in this month's issue. It is the best and most lucid presentation of the dangers of this habit that we have so far read. Debating clubs among Juniors and young men would find the statements made of great value to them.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

Send all communications to W. A. Stschek, 120 Pomona Terrace, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

THE PLAYGROUNDS UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA BOARD OF PUBLIC EDUCATION.

A paper read at the Playgronnd Congress, Municipal Section, New York, by WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia, Pa.

Playgrounds under the direction of the Board of Public Education are nothing new in Philadelphia, the first ones being established in 1895. It may be of interest to add that in 1898 the Board opened its first Vacation schools and in 1904 its first schoolgardens. Owing to the greater cost of keeping children in Vacation schools and to the fact that the Board favored the outdoor activities, the Vacation schools were discontinued in 1907 and a greater number of playgrounds opened. The two summer activities, playgrounds and gardens, are now continued under the head of summer recreation work, and are placed under the direction of the Committee on Special Schools.

When the department of Physical Education was created the two forms of summer recreation, i. e. playgrounds and gardens as well as all form§ of physical training during the regular school year, were placed under the dirction of this department. The general organization scheme, therefore, is a department of Physical Education embracing Physical Training, Playgrounds and Gardens. Gardens and playgrounds each have special supervision, the gardens having one supervisor and the playgrounds one supervisor and three assistants.

The special organization of each garden, of which this year there are eight, is a principal, a teacher and the half time of a gardener.

The special organization of each playground, of which this year there are fifty-six, is a principal, one or more teachers (according to the size of the playground, and the attendance) and one assistant. This assistant, as a rule, is the custodian or janitor of the school.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-62-

These playgrounds, excepting one, are all maintained in the school-yards. In three cases, large lots adjoining the schools are used in connection with the schoolyards. Some of the yards, especially those in the older part's of thte city, are very inadequate as playgrounds, hut as they are the only vacant spaces for long distances they are used. In other parts of the city, large lots are sometimes offered to the Board for playground purposes. While these places may he used for ball playing, on account of the depredations by malicious gangs and the great number of degenerates found in large cities, as well as the willful destruction of apparatus that is not continually watched or kept under lock and key* these lots have not been found to be places upon which to place a fully equipped playground, catering to the needs of young children and those half-grown. And it is to this class of children, that is the same class that attends school during the balance of the year, that the school playgrounds cater to principally. Naturally, this does not mean that the boy or girl beyond the school age, or the adult does not need playgrounds* for they need them as badly as the younger generation does, but it means that the Board of Education has recognized the fact that with the facilities and money at present at its command, it could not undertake to supply the play facilities for everyone. School playgrounds in Philadelphia aim to supply the play facilities for children up to the working age, say to about fifteen years. There is no limit downward: especially in the congested districts, we daily take care of babies. Our whole planning, equipment and teaching force keep this limit in view. We do not try to make a large municipal playground out of a school playground. The steady growth of our grounds both in numbers and efficiency, and the fact that their organization is copied in many cities leads us to believe that we understand our situation and know how to maintain the grounds at a high rate of effectiveness.

Looking upon the playgrounds as a most efficient means of education it has been our aim by means of suitable daily programs, modified and elastic enough to meet the demands of the different peoples assembled in a large city, to keep the children actively employed during the greater part of the day. We believe that a child needs play mornings as well as afternoons. Our playgrounds, therefore, are open from 8:30 in the morning to 5 o’clock in the afternoon, every day, except Sunday. While the teachers are not in continuous attendance, their time of service is so arranged that the grounds are not closed at noon.

The suitable equipment of a playground is quite an expense. We aim, therefore, yearly to install in each yard some additional pieces of more expensive apparatus, like swings, giantstrides, ladders, etc., while enough small play apparatus, like balls, ropes, sand, shovels, etc., is supplied yearly to each ground. All grounds also have occupation work both during the morning and afternoon. For this suitable material is supplied, like reed for basketry, split cane for chaircaning, twine for hammocks, wood for woodwork and the well-known paper materials employed in the kindergarten and lowest primary grades;. While formerly the larger children kept everything they made during the occupa-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
tion hours, efforts have been made during the last years to turn this class of constructive work into channels that would directly benefit the playgrounds. It is a pleasure to report that these efforts have been entirely successful. There is no loss of interest when, as at present, besides making small articles for themselves, the children make play apparatus for their own ground as well as for other grounds. We now manufacture hammock-stands and hammocks so that “little mothers” bringing babies to the playgrounds can put the babies into a safe place under.the charge of one girl or boy while the rest have a chance to play. A miniature of two styles of these stands is shown in the Philadelphia exhibit. We further manufacture stilts, stands for high jumping, tether bats, jumping boards, benches, seats for swings, checker boards, grace hoops and minor play-materials of a like order. All children like this occupation work and it is interesting to report that in one ground in which chair-caning was introduced this, summer, the broken seats in all the cane-chairs within a radius of a half mile were repaired.

The steady growth in the playgrounds (and gardens) naturally was accomplished only by means of better teachers. The shortcomings of one year pointed to the needed improvements during the following season. This added preparation is now given to the garden teachers partly during the biological course in the Hormal Training School and partly by the practical training received in the gardens under the supervisor. The playground teachers receive their training by means of games-courses held once a week during the winter and spring, under the supervisors, supplemented by the practical training received as voluntary assistants without pay in the playgrounds. Only qualified teachers, students of normal schools or of universities may apply for teachers* positions or are admitted to the game-classes. Our greatest troubles are experienced with people who because they “just love children” or because they know how to umpire a ball game, or perhaps once won a mile race, imagine they are qualified playground teachers. In the greatest number of cases these applicants prove to be absolutely worthless. Strange as it may seem, this also often is the case with regular schoolteachers and even with teachers of gymnastics wlio have no particular gift of winning over children. Playground teaching is a specialty which must be acquired by hard conscientious training. Teachers must be more than a higher grade of policemen or coaches.

By means of monthly reports by the teachers and daily reports by the supervisors, an efficient supervision is kept. According to the needs shown by these reports, as many sectional meetings as are necessary are held in the rooms of the Board of Education.

On account of the strenuous work most teachers are appointed only for a halfday’s service, i. e. either mornings or afternoons. The salaries for all day work according to the new scale adopted by the Special Schools Committee are as follows:

Principals of playgrounds, $80.00 to $90.00 per month.

Teachers, $80.00 to $85.00 per month.

Assistants, $45.00 to $50.00 per month.

Digitized by v^ooQle
“64—

The cost of the recreation work, both gardens and playgrounds, this summer was $28,131.47. Of this, the playgrounds cost $21,581.47, divided into $16,056.47 for salaries and $5,525.00 for supplies.

The total attendance in the fifty-six playgrounds during fifty-one days was 845,432 children, making an average daily attendance of 16,577.

The average cost per playground was $423.16 and the average cost per child for the season was $1.30. The average cost per child per day was 2 55/100 cents. This year’s cost per child, on account of longer hours and more teachers, was 8/100 cent9igreater per day than last years.

RULES FOR TETHER BALL

By W. A. Stecher.

1.	—The pole shall be twelve (12) feet above the ground, and shall be set in the center of a five (5) foot circle. The pole shall have a line marked around it five (5) feet from the ground.

2.	—A twelve (12) foot line passing through the center of the circle shall divide the play space into two courts.

3.	—The nine (9) inch ball shall be attached to a strong cord so that it hangs three (3) feet from the ground.

4.	—A team shall consist of three (3) players; each player to take part in a game.

5.	—The game shall be started by a player of the side winning the toss taking hold of the ball and batting it either to the right or left. The opposing player bats in the opposite direction.

6.	—A point is made by winding the whole cord around the post, above the five (5) foot line.

7.	—After a point has been made, a player from the team opposite to the one that began the game starts the play. , The third start is made by the last player of the first team (making three innings).

8.	—The side scoring most points in the three innings wins the game. In a match, three games shall constitute a set.

9.	—Fouls are called as follows: (a) Stepping into the circle; (b) Stepping into the opponent’s court.

10.	—A foul gives the ball into the hands of the opponent. He may for the first strike step into the circle on his side of play.

--------♦ » «-----------

PLAYGROUNDS AND OTHER CHILD PROBLEMS ATTRACT STATE ATTENTION.

By Everett B. Mero.

In order to keep up the campaign for favorable votes on the acceptance of the Public Playground Act in towns of 10,000 people, the Massachusetts Civic League has appointed a State Playground Committee. It has begun active work this week in continuation of the campaign that resulted in 23 of 25 cities accepting the at the December elections, by a total vote of approximately 125,000 in favor to only 27,000 opposed, in all the cities that took action. By this action the State of Massachusetts “has given the playground movement the most emphatic endorsement

Digitized by L-ooQle
-65-

which it has yet received in this country.” The present work is aimed at making the registered endorsement still more emphatic through subsequent action of the towns .

The act to be voted upon states that every town and city accepting it shall provide and maintain at least one pubiic playground and recreation center for each 10,000 population. There are is towns having the necessary population to have local elections the coming spring and most of them need to vote on this particular question.

Of the towns that may not vote, because they already comply with the law or are moving toward that condition so rapidly that it will be complied with by the time limit mentioned in the act, are Revere, Webster, Watertown and Brookline. There may be other towns equally fortunate, but these are known to the new committee which is taking special pains to ascertain the situation in each locality.

The committee is composed of one person or more from each of the cities that voted to accept the act, with the addition of a few other members of the Civic League, and is as follows: Edward T. Hartman,, chairman; Joseph Lee, Boston; Thomas Curley, Waltham; Francis Bard well, Sherbom; Miss Helen Cheever, Boston; Rev. R. Kidner, Boston; Ray S.

_ Hubbard, Boston; Frank L. Boyden, Deerfield; B. Preston Clark, Boston; Miss A. A. Wyss, Hew Bedford; Rev. James E. Gregg, Pittsfield; Edgar Weeks, Marlboro; Frank E. Parlin, Quincy; Dr. Wm. Marvel, Fall River; Edward F. Cregg, Lawrence; Clark Carter, Lawrence; N. P. A. Carter, Chicopee; Miss Mabel Hill, Lowell; H. W. Smith, Lowell; Mrs. C. S. Millett, Brockton; Antoine Silva, Gloucester; Mrs. George A. Brown, Everett; Ralph Davol, Taunton; George D. Chamberlain, Springfield; Edward H. Byington, Beverly; Mrs. Wm. Fox, Woburn; Harlan P. Kelsey, Salem; Dwight L. Rogers, Lynn; Rev. Frederick B. Greul, Haverhill; Rev. Harold L. Marshall, Melrose; David W. Armstrong, Worcester ; Miss Fanny C .Stone, Newburyport; M. P. Conway, Holyoke.

The purpose of the Civic League in this work is to do more than aid the playground movement. The League aims to help the cities that have voted favorably, to materialize under the law; and to enable them, insofar as they may desire to be helped, to secure suitable recreation centers and maintain them for the cultivation of play-habits and physical exercise according to up-to-date ideas and along practical lines.

But the League aiso aims to have formed in each city and town a local group of people to look out for all the interests of children. To speak in slightly technical sociological language it would be a “child group.” A new type of organization is in mind by the promoters but they have not yet found an acceptable and sufficiently expressive name for it. There is a chance for somebody to supply the needed label. Any person wanting to relieve the tension of mind of the chairman of the committee can do it by telling him what to call the movement.

Playgrounds will offer the first tangible work for these local groups, committees or societies, because this seems to be the particular thing that needs first attention and is ready to receive it. Springfield already has an efficient playground association and. it will probably do all that is required in that city. Fall River has a committee of the local anti-

Digitized by Google
—66—

tuberculosis society which did effective work at the December city election and which is now to continue its assistance to aid the city to comply with the law that it has accepted. Other places will meet the problem in different ways, according to local needs and means.

The larger work, aside from the playground phase of it, is expressed in the words of Chairman Hartman of the State Playground Committee, who is also secretary of the Massachusetts Civic League: “The child is the psychological unit and everything affecting the interests of childhood should later come into the field of activity of such organizations. There are juvenile courts, probation, medical inspection in the schools, child labor, truancy, and other problems affecting children which need or are going to need attention in the very near future.”

With this skeleton of a platform to stand on, a campaign or executive committee has been formed of these members of the larger state committee: Mr. Hartman, Thomas Curley of Waltham, Francis Bardwell of Sherborn, and Miss Helen Cheever of Boston.

PLAYGROUNDS AS LABORATORIES OF SOCIAL SERVICE AND CIVIC BETTERMENT.

The January meeting of the Boston Physical Education Society was devoted to the consideration of the playground movement. The speaker was Thomas Curley of the Massachusetts Civic League. The society is composed of directors and students of physical training in Boston and vicinity. The meeting was intended to show them some aspects of the playground movement allied to their own work as well as to the general advance movements of the day. Some paragraphs from Mr. Curley's talk are of general interest and are appended:

“The playground movement is one which will be discussed. Because it comes from the hearts of the people there are .essential differences of opinion. It is not always understood just what is meant by this movement. There are several phases touching varying interests.”

“On the public playgrounds should be taught a spirit of loyalty. Here it is to be taught not abstractly, not theoretically, but practically, by actually living it.”

“Where in our school systems can we find this spirit of loyalty to high ideals taught in a practical way; that is taught so that the pupils may truly know and live it ? Nowhere, that I know of. This is one of the weak points of our public and private education systems.”

“The only serviceable opportunity to teach the young man, the young fellow eight to fourteen years of age, that it really does not pay to cheat and be dishonest is in the public playgrounds. Much of the burden of this rests on the playground instructor, who needs to be a person competent to meet the responsibility and personally able to . show loyalty, honesty, co-operation and self-sacrifice by his own example.”

“No boy, unless he is a ‘cad' or a ‘sissy/ cares a particle what his elders say to him about his conduct, unless he voluntarily asks for information, but he does care very much what his ‘gang’ or ‘club' thinks of him. This principle is equally true of all of us. We care very little what a man in Europe thinks of us, or even what the President may

Digitized by v^ooQle
—67—

think -of ns, but we do care a great deal how our neighbors and friends xegard us. Therefore, I say, the very foundations of the Kepublic are to he worked out on the public playgrounds, where the principles of right living are brought before us hourly and daily.”

‘The playground should take hold of the heart of the great social problem and cultivate it. The playground is the proper laboratory for the working out of social service and civic betterment problems.”

GIVE THEM A PLACE TO PLAY.

By Denis A. McCarthy.

Plenty of room for dives and dens,

(Glitter and glare and sin!)

Plenty of room for prison pens,

(Gather the criminals in!)

Plenty of room for jails and courts,

(Willing enough to pay)

But never a place for the lads to race,

No, never a place to play!

Plenty of room for shops and stores,

(Mammon must have the best!)

Plenty of room for the running sores That rot in the city’s breast!

Plenty of room for the lures that lead The hearts of our youth astray,

But never a cent on a playground spent,

No, never a place to play!

Plenty of room for schools and balls,

Plenty of room for art;

Plenty of room for teas and balls,

Platform, stage, and mart.

Proud is the city—she finds a place For many a fad today,

But she’s more than blind if she fails to find A place for the boys to play!

Give them a chance for innocent sport ,

Give them a chance for fun—

Better a playground plot than a court And a jaiL when the harm is done!

Give them a chance—if you stint them now, Tomorrow you’ll have to pay

A larger bill for a darker ill,

So give them a place to play!

Journal of Education.

Digitized by
-68-

-— As one of the results of the aggressive campaign conducted by the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia, the -Grand Jury recently made the following presentment to the judge:

“Experience teaches that the most economic scheme for handling the problem of crime is that which prevents rather than that which, at fearful expense, is merely the engine to convict and punish after crime has become an established fact. As the actual return in dollars is more or less invisible, it is difficult for some people to see the necessity for public playgrounds. Where the parents, as is usually the case, are the sole source of support they should.not as a general rule be blamed for the delinquency of the child, for the responsibility is the responsibility of the entire community. It is the duty of the municipal government to provide proper opportunities for healthful out-door exercise and play for the children of the city. The founder of the Juvenile Court system in the United States has declared, Tt is no longer a question that playgrounds do more to prevent crime than jails, courts and policemen/

“Judge Staake, of Philadelphia, likewise calls attention to the fact that ‘an adequate system of playgrounds will work a transformation in many of our children, reduce the petitions to and the commitments by the Juvenile Court. The public playground has proved itself to be the greatest deterrent of delinquency and lawlessness among children/

“We recommend that the Councils of the city of Philadelphia institute a careful investigation into what has been done in the matter of playgrounds in other cities, and we further recommend that a general plan for the entire city be formulated which will be adequate to the needs of the children throughout the community ”

Following this, Mayor John E. Reybum, one of the honorary vice-presidents of the Playgrounds Association, sent a special message to city councils asking to be empowered to appoint a commission of five representative citizens who should study Philadelphia glayground needs. In order that this commission may do its work effectively the mayor asked that an appropriation of $5,000.00 be made to defray the expenses caused by its study and travels. At the last meeting of councils this measure was favorably reported upon and unanimously passed. The mayor will appoint this commission in the near future and so one more large American community will go forward toward the realization of a broad comprehensive plan outlined to give a city of over a million and a half the play and recreation facilities it needs for the present as well as for the future. Speaking of the opposition still found among some legislators in Congress, the Ledger says editorially:

Some unenlightened legislators have poked fun at the movement for playgrounds, on the score of the folly and fatuity of teaching children to play. Children, they aver, will learn to play anyhow, and the agitation for recreation centres is merely another superfluous manifestation of the misdirected energies of well-meaning but misguided individuals— cranks and faddists of the “Citizen Fix-it” type. These lawmakers lose sight of the fact that whereas the instinct to play in a child is almost as strong as the craving for food and drink, and much stronger than its want of protection or shelter. If the child has no space or opportunity for healthful and pleasant recreation he will defy the law for ways and

Digitized by v^ooQle
-69-

means to get amusement. If Waterloo was won on the playing-field of Eton, what kind of victories over diseases and crime may not be won upon our civic playgrounds?

— A significant sign at the International Tuberculosis Exhibit in Philadelphia, February 15 to March 15, appearing among the exhibit of the Playgrounds Association, reads as follows:

IN 1696

The Royal Council was petitioned to prevent hogs from running at large in the streets of Philadelphia.

IN 1909

The children of Philadelphia petition the Grown-Ups to give them other playgrounds than those the hogs have made vacant.

Heer is another encouraging sign of the spread of the playground movement.

Editor Mind and Body.

Dear Sir:

The voters of Clinton, Mass., voted on the acceptance of the act providing for public playgrounds last Monday, March 1st, with the following result: Jes, 1859; No, 292.

Yours truly,

Ernst Thoma.

— FREDERICK GREELEY, president of the Chicago Playground Association, has just completed his investigation of the municipal playgrounds of London and Paris. He also visited the playgrounds of Germany. Mr. Greeley’s mission was undertaken at the request of Mayor Busse of Chicago, for the purpose of discovering what Europe has to teach America in the way of play centers.

“No matter yrhere I go,” Mr. Greeley said in London, “I found a lively interest in what we had done and what we hope to do in the future.

“In one respect we are far ahead of our European fellow laborers in the field. The equipment, not only in Chicago, of which I know the most, but of the other leading cities like New York, is the best in the world. But there our superiority ends. Germany is ahead of us in almost every other respect. Their organization and system are wonderful.

“For instance, the daily play time of the children, which is compulsory just the same as attendance at school, is scheduled from start to finish. The children are divided into classes of twenty or thirty, and over each is placed two or three instructors. These instructors are experts and devote their spare time from their regular pursuits to the instruction of the children, receiving, perhaps, fifty cents an hour. Under their experienced supervision there is no overdoing of any particular feature of the various items.

“Frequently the exercises in the play centers are varied by walking tours in the country, sometimes extending over several days. The' children are led by one of their older members, called a pioneer, and he carries a map of the road and plans the entire tour. They carry their own rations with them and prepare them by the wayside whenever

Digitized by LjOoq le
—70-

possible. One far-reaching result of this training of the children is that when the boys leave school they are ready to step right into the army-ranks, proficient in everything but the technic of war.

“One of the most interesting experiences of my whole trip was an excursion up the Elbe from Dresden with about twelve hundred school children. I had an excellent chance of seeing the effect of the German system upon the physical side of the child, and it proved an eye-opener for me. Among those thousand and more children I was able to find only two who wore glasses, and the great majority of them were fine, healthy-looking youngsters, large and strong beyond their years.

“England is progressive in its provisions for children, but it still is behind the United States. For instance, at Battersea and Hampstead I found some fine playgrounds, but in the congested parts of the city, where such open spaces are a matter almost of life and death to the little children, they arer conspicuous by their absence. The result was that I found the London children undersized and sickly and immeasurably inferior to the German.

“One feature of English municipal activity is the public swimming-baths which are to be found everywhere in London. Another is the public laundries, where the poor may take their week’s clothes, and have the use of hot water, tubs, and mangling boards.

“In Paris I discovered that, although they had many fine open spaces and parks, there was practically no organized attempt to provide play centers for the children or to attract the little ones to the parks.

“My trip has taught me that what we need in the United States is a better organiaztion and more system.”

— THE THIRD ANNUAL MEETING of the Playground Association of America will be held at Pittsburg, Pa., on May 10th to 14th. The general meetings will be held in the evening, while the days will be devoted to meetings of the sections and to exhibitions of playground work. The chairmen and sections are:

Normal Course in Play, Prof. Clark W. .Hetherington.

Equipment, E. B. De Groot.

Playgrounds as Social Centers, Mrs. V. Simkhovitch.

State Laws, Joseph Lee.

Athletics fcr Boys, Dr. A. K. Aldinger.

Festivals, Lillian D. Wald.

Folk Dancing, Elizabeth Burchenal.

Storytelling, Maud Summers.

Play in Institutions, Dr. H. Hart.

Playground Statistics, Leonard P. Ayres.

The program committee consists of Dr. Luther H. Gulick, George E. Johnson and Lawrence Veiller. We hope to report this in our next issue.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-71-

EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

By Philip G. Lewis.

EXERCISE NUMBER 37:—Dive for Distance. Same as No. 36, increasing the distance gradually, care must be exercised in keeping the head well under and breaking the fall with the arms.

EXERCISE NUMBER 38:—Dive for Height. Use jumping standards or use mats rolled up. Great care must be exercised in breaking the fall with the hands and arms, landing on the back of the neck and shoulders.

EXERCISE NUMBER 39:—Cart Wheel. Run forward, throw the left hand on the mat and immediately follow with the right (about two feet forward), immediately follow this with throwing the right and then the left leg over the head, coming down on the right and left foot simultaneously (feet being about from eighteen to thirty inches apart). Throughout this exercise the arms and legs are kept apart, forming the four spokes of a wheel, hence the name of the exercise.

EXERCISE NUMBER 40:—Hand Spring Forward. Run forward, throw the hands down on the mat and throw the legs over head, pushing off with the hands as the body is coming down, landing on the feet; pull the feet well under the body when landing. In learning this exercise it will be found helpful to try this over some one on hands and knees crossways on the mat. This will prevent the pupils from falling on their backs, also give more confidence.

EXERCISE NUMBER 41:—Hand Spring Forward. Take off with both feet and land on both feet.

EXERCISE NUMBER 42:—Hand Spring Forward. Take off with one foot and land on one foot; also land on both feet.

EXERCISE NUMBER 43:—Hand Spring Forward. Take off with one or both feet and land on both feet keeping the body perfectly straight. This is called a layout.

EXERCISE NUMBER 44:—Hand and Head Spring. Place the bands and head on the mat, bend the neck slightly, quickly throw the legs over head and at the same time push with the head and hands, pulling the feet well under the body when landing.

EXERCISE NUMBER 45:—Shoulder Spring. Place the hands on the mat, pull the head well undeT, roll over forward and as soon as the shoulders touch the mat, throw the legs over the head and push with the hands, pulling the feet well under when landing.

EXERCISE NUMBER 46:—Snap-up or Up-Start. Lay on your back on the mat. Draw the legs over head as far as possible, shoulders, head and hands (at neck) on the mat, quickly throw the legs up and forward pushing hard with the hands and head, landing on feet, pull the feet well under when landing.

EXERCISE NUMBER 47:—Snap-Up (or Up-Start) without hands. Same as 46 with arms held sideward, or arms folded in front. Also try this with hands on knees.

EXERCISE NUMBER 48:—Head Spring. Place the hands on the knees and then the head on the mat, quickly throw the feet over the

Digitized by booQle
—72-

head and spring with the neck, coming down on the feet. (In the start the head and feet only touch the jnat).

EXERCISE NUMBER 49:—Head Stand.	Place the hands on the

mat and the head about a foot in front of the hands, forming a three legged base; draw the legs up and straighten the body, balapcing on the head and hands.	,

EXERCISE NUMBER 50:—Hand Stand* Place the hands on the mat as far apart as the shoulders; fingers slightly bent and pointing forward. Throw the legs upward, holding the body in that position, balancing on the hands. In teaching this it will be found helpful to let the pupils put their feet against the wall first.

Sargent School for Physical Education, Cambridge, Mass.

—The visiting committee of the alumni recently spent several days at the School, the object of their visit being to inspect the School and suggest to the Administrative Board such improvements as seem best for the future of the School. The committee this year consisted of Miss Adela J. Smith, of New York, and Miss Josephine O’Connor of Providence.

—Dr. Georle L. Meylan, of Columbia University, one of the honorary

fraduates of the school, lectured to the students a short time ago on “Definite tandards in Physical Education.”

—The Glee Club of the School gave its annual concert on Friday evening, March 19th. The Club is under the directorship of Mr. Willard, instructor in public speaking at Harvard University, to which fact must be traced the unusual success.

—Dr. Sargent has given his lecture, comparing the Olympic Games and the Frankfurt Turnfest, in several places, and it also appears in this month’s issue of Putnam’s Reader.

—Dr. Dearborn, lecturer in the school, delivered a lecture before the Boston Physical Education Society on “Sensory Mechanism of Efficiency.”

—Dr. Ehinger, of West Chester, Pa., was a recent visitor at the School and addressed the students.

—Dr. Sargent has been greatly honored by . being asked to speak before the American Academy of Political and Social Science, at Philadelphia* on April 16th .

■—At the January meeting of the Physical Education Society of Philadelphia, Dr. Allen J. Smith, Professor of Pathology at the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania lectured on hypertrophy of the heart. The lecture .was very instructive, and specimens of human hypertrophical and dilated hearts were shown.

"At a recent examination of candidates for Appointment in the medical corps of the United States Army, more than a dozen young physicians from New York were disqualified on account of failing to reach the physical standard required. Of the fifty-six candidates who presented themselves for examination only fourteen were successful in passing, and of these not one was from New York.”

(N. Y. Med. Journ.)

—Robert Bacon, late Secretary of State, was prominent as a Harvard oarsman, a^d each of his three sons has won his “H” by wprk in the boats.

Digitized by
—73—

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By DJ M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—Dr. J. Madison Taylor of Philadelphia in an article entitled: “Respiratory Education,” published in the February issue of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette, among other good things says the following:	“It

is difficult to say which is the most important part of the body, but ns we are animals, and “anima” is our ‘'breath of life,” and as life processes are so largely conditional upon the integrity of the machinery of breathing, perhaps we are justified in according first importance to the thorax. Not only should the thorax regain its customary capacity when impaired, e. g., by acute or protracted disease, but it is a part of the duty of the physician to urge the attainment of a degree of development which shall he near approach to perfection.”

Curious traditions (simulating instincts) prevail among and dominate many mothers like a religion. Of these, the most hurtful are shreds of archaic but erroneous beliefs a^ to ventilation, clothing and many fallacious notions on personal hygiene.

Fortunately physicians have suddenly realized that in the treatment of all acute, as well as many other diseases, the open air is best for even the very young, Thus at least they are supplied with air as pime as practicable.

This wholly rational method is as radical and qnite as original as Graves* dictum: “he fed fevers,” or ihe now universal use of abundant water internally and extetnally.

Normal rate and depth of breathing, or respiratory balance, is often lost through a diversity of impediments, but is, in the young, as readily regained. The centers of nervous control in youth are rarely seriously impaired; the tissues of the chest are then mobile, unless damaged by collapse of lung tissue, rachitic botie deformity, or the like malformation.

In older persons structures are often found damaged and the mechanisms, motor or nervous, out of repairs. Especially is the thorax, containing as it does those organs whos£ integrity is so essential to vital action, the heart and lungs, frequently found so contracted, rigid., inelastic that these are unable to perform their full duties, because compressed, pushed out of their normal interrelationships, constricted, forbidding that ease of action whereby they are able to perform their allotted work in the economies of nature/5

First fix in mind the principle that in all educative movements accuracy, deliberation and rhythm should be uniformly observed.

Breathing should always be performed through the normal respiratory avenue, the nose, not the mouth. Endless harm results from inability to breathe through the nose fully and comfortably. Any interference should be corrected. —

Physiologists recognize these divisions or volumes of respired air:

(a)	the tidal* (b) the complemental, and (c) the reserve, (d) the residual, and finally (e) vital capacity. The tidal air is that which is taken in

Digitized by v^ooQle
-74-

and passes out during ordinary quiet respiration; the complemental is that air which can be forced in, and the reserve or supplemental that which can be forced out, a varying amount. (This is a problem with which we have especially hereafter to deal.) The residual air is that which remains within the alveoli (air cells) and is only secondarily affected. Vital capacity is the volume which can be forcibly ejected by

(1)	extreme expiration and after (2) full inspiration/’

“There will often be found rigid, limiting contractures throughout the thorax, which is rarely, perhaps was never before, mobilized, especially where faulty attitudes have been acquired, as of stooping or head drooping, sagging down, the lower ribs resting abnormally on the pelvic bones/’

“By getting the erectors of the spine in good tone these several modifications of stooping are influenced favorably and the chest placed in an advantageous posititon, the ribs more nearly horizontal and the whole “rib basket” lifted well above the hip bones. This also tends to preserve the normal level of the pelvis.

The proposition is, therefore, to acquire full mobility of all the junctures, complete extensibility of all the elastic structures directly or indirectly concerned in the process of respiration. In children it is usually possible to reacquire normality in this particular readily enough, although observation will show that rather a large proportion of even these have become rigid and assvmmetric from diverse causes, the chief of which is rachitic deformity, a few from collapse of the lung, pleural adhesions and the like. Among adults few are free from similar limitations, to which may be added others, often originally from small beginnings emphasized by neglect, weakness and faulty attitudes.

In young and old there is commonly to be found lowering of the relative horizontally of the ribs and a narrowing of the antero-posterior diameters (deep axis) of the rib circle. The ribs often have never developed their normal hoop-like shape, becoming irregular in various directions.”

“Another radical factor enters here: correct attitude in standing.

I am inclined to think the key to posture is the adjustment of the thorax. For example, follow this one fixation exercise and it will be plain that the whole attitude becomes pretty nearly normal:

Clasp the hands in front, palms down, midway between extension and flexion—about opposite the end of the breastbone. Raise the ribs and shoulders high as possible, pull in the abdomen (this should tilt up the pelvis in front and straighten the backbone also). Next thrust the hands down steadily and forcibly (palms down) vertically, the shoulders following, but not the ribs—they should be arched as high as possible. This simple act will put the whole person in a splendidly erect position. Relax the arms, but encourage the thorax to retain its well arched posi* tion; the pelvis will thus remain normally level, the abdomen will be drawn in and the legs will swing more freely in walking than in any other posture. Repetition of these movements will soon place the thorax in prdper condition for educational respiration.

Just here it may be well to enunciate and emphasize a most im-

Digitized by v^ooQie
portant principle. Breathing, habitual or systematized, should always be suspended, i. e., not fixed by closure of the glottis, a shutting off of ihe air such as occurs in the act of sneezing, grunting or coughing, or while making a strong voluntary effort as of lifting a weight/'*

HYGIENIC IMPORTANCE OF MODERN METHODS OF ILLUMINATION.

(1)	In the artificial illumination of certain inner rooms the production of the largest possible amount of light is coupled with the important factor of its correct distribution and the obviating of disturbing shadows, and of the dazzling of the illuminating body. Since an even distribution of light cannot be accomplished by direct illumination, nor can the dazzling effect be prevented, and since the, half-shadows formed in illuminating rooms, even otherwise well illuminated ones, interfere so much and the difference in the lighting of the shadowred and un-shadowedd places is so great that the general illumination, however great it may be, is distinctly lessened (further increase of the light having no influence), the desired object can best tje obtained by indirect (diffuse) lighting. The question of whether, or how much, the direct high illumination will correct the faults of the ordinary direct lighting seems so far not sufficiently clear.

(2)	The advantages of the indirect method consist in the absence of the light and the absence 6f shadows and dazzling. Everywhere in the room writing is easy, as is all work.

(3)	For rooms where finer handwork or drawing are to be done a brightness of at least 50 meter-candles is necessary; where only reading and writing are done a minimum of 25-30 is necessary. The usual schoolroom belongs to the latter category.

(4)	Indirect illumination is to be recommended for industrial establishments, except such where fine work and small objects are to be shown.

(5)	When the amounts of light are the same the effect of the illumination depends (a) on the number of lights and their arrangement, the distribution being more perfect the more the lights are scattered around the entire working surface; (b) on the distance of’the lights from the ceiling, being better the closer they are to the ceiling; (c) on the color of the ceiling and the walls, being better when they are whitewashed; (d) on the form of the reflectors and their surface. The reflector must be close, so that it is struck by all horizontal rays, and must possess a large angle of opening. Globes with brilliant surfaces give the best results; (e) on the height of the room to be illuminated, 3-5 m. at least being required.

(6)	The half indirect method where translucent globes are placed below the lights is better than the direct, but not as good as the indirect.

(7)	In indirect illumination any sort of illuminant can be used, the one to be chosen depending on circumstances. As a mle, the electric arc light is the best.

Dr.. Erisman, Wochenschrift fuer Ther. u. Hyg. des Auges, Med. Review of Reviews.

Digitized by boogie
NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—To facilitate the instruction in swimming, the students of the Normal College have been divided into three groups, the first two of which consist of the beginners, the third group comprising the second year students. The first year students are learning the various strokes, floating and diving. The advanced students are practicing life-saving methods—how to sustain weight in water, under varying conditions. The latter group will participate in aquatic sports, hurdle and , other obstacle races. The second year students assist in the instruction of the first year groups. Mr. Hugo Fischer, the swimming master, is enthusiastic over the interest displayed in his work—some of the students having adapted their “dry land swims’* to the different classes of the practice school. (Indianapolis has been promised the largest swimming pool in the country this summer.)

—The officers of the Alumni Association at the last meeting, considered the following propositions:	1. Tht sectional organizations—medical,

athletic and technical—proposed last year, shall be made permanent. 2. The annual meetings of the Association shall be changed to the time of the Christmas holidays. 3. The annual meeting shall be continued in connection with the annual commencement exercises in June. 4. The annual meeting ’09 shall be held in Cincinnati during the week of the National Gymnastic Festival of the N. A. G. U. 5. The semi-centennial of the oldest training school in America for the education of phvsical training teachers—now the Normal College of the N. A. G. U.—shall be commemorated in a fitting manner. It was concluded to submit the several propositions to the members of the Association through the columns of the Turnzeitung and in Mind and Body, and to request an expression of preferences for a meeting place this year. Communications are to be addressed to Mr. C. J. Kroh, 415 Michigan St., Idianapolis. Alumni members are urged to reply not later than May 1st.

—The regular Saturday morning clash of arms, babel of commands, and clamor of advancing and retreating combatants, together with the determined “assaults” of the four “stentorian" instructors during the fencing hours, has been pronounced something “fierce”' by all who have ventured near enough to studjT the plan of individual instruction followed during this practice. Library, offices, study rooms are deserted—the only place of retreat disclosed, being found by the custodian of the buildings, who recently reported that he had “located*’ two students in the southwest wing of the buildings in the second story dressing rooms of the stage in the large auditorium, a block distant from the “salled’armes”. 7 o'clock Saturday morning is the time scheduled for foil and sabre fencing.

—The game of soccer foot ball and a new adaption of basket ball by Mr. Carl Brosius Sputb, the instructor, has proven a great pastime for the students of. the college. The German games of “fist ball” and

Digitized by C^ooQle
“Barlaufen” have also proven attractive games, the Pittsburg delegation of four students excelling in the former game. The freshmen are gradually developing into formidable wrestlers.

—The department of Superintendence of the N. E. A. meets at Indianapolis in 1910. Chicago registered 940 superintendents, with 64 speakers on the program. Indianapolis will be in every way a delightful city for a meeting place.

—The usual Friday evening assemblies of the students of the college are proving an attractive feature. The following topics were discussed on the first two meeting nights of the month: an excerpt of a treatise on physical training by Dr. Stanley Hall, by President Kroh; the development of physical training in America by Mr. Appleton, Class ’10; A survey of physical exercises appropriate to the various ages—based on Dr. Schmidt’s study—prepared by the students. The meetings are usually opened with singing, followed by a reading by the presiding officer or teacher, and recitations by the students in connection with the topic selected for discussion.

—The plans for the summer session of the College have been delayed by the negotiations necessary to complete the arrangements for what promises to be a departure from the accepted order of courses heretofore offered. A vote of the resident and non resident trustees of the college has been ordered with reference to a number of propositions involved in the change of plans.

SPRINGFIELD TRAINING SCHOOL.

The International Y. M. C. A. Training School has at present an enrolment of 72 students in the physical course. The normal practice work has developed so as to require for its supervision the greater portion of one instructor’s time. In addition to that required for graduation 20 men coached and officiated in Rugby football; 15 men in Association football; 40 are coaching and officiating in basketball; 25 teach gymnasium classes; 5 are regularly in the Springfield Boys’ Club; and 3 have private pupils.

J. H. McCurdy, M. D., head of the physical department, is on leave of absence and is studying at Clark University on problems relative to fatigue in growing boys.

• Among the theses to be presented by students who are applicants for degrees are the following:

G. R. D. Kramer, Jr., The German Turn-Vereine in North America.

A. S. Graves, The Construction and Equipment of the Gymnasium Locker Room.

R. C. Cubbon, Football Management.

G. N. Messer, The Technique of Basket Ball.

A. A. Gould, Blood Pressure and Heart Rate through a Course of Training.

A. G. Johnson, The Playgrounds of Springfield.

C.	J. Kilbourne, A Study of Provision Markets.

Lessing Bandlow, The Effect of Exercise on Bodily Temperature.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—78—

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

(Complying with the wishes of many readers this department will hereafter bring news notes from schools, associations, societies, clubs etc. Teachers, secretaries, also active participants in any branch of physical training are requested to send news of general interest to Mr. Hang.)

—West Point Military Academy recently won the Manrique Trophy in the junior fencing tournament held at the Brooklyn (N. Y.) Y. M. C. A. As this is the second victory for the military swordsmen, they became, under the conditions of the competition, permanent possessors of the prize. Seven teams were entered, the largest number that has ever tried for the cup.

—University of Pennsylvania won from the Naval Academy swordsmen far the first time in the history of its athletic relations. The score was 5 bouts to 4.

—At the indoor meeting of the Olympic Athletic Club, San Francisco, three records were broken last month. Andrew Glarner lowered Melvin Sheppard’s record for the half-mile from 2.05 2|5 to 2.00 2|5. Herbert Cheek won the 60 yd. low hurdle event in 7 2|5s. from Smithson af the Multnomah Club. Smithson lowered his own record over the eighty yard high hprdles to 10 seconds.

— The University of Chicago will soon have the greatest athletic library and collection of pictures in the world. The collection of sporting works received a great boost when Alfred G. Spalding, the famous old-time baseball player and head of the great sporting goo'ds house, perfected plans by which he will ultimately turn over his entire collection, including all the material gathered by Father Chadwick, w’ho was largely responsible for the start of baseball. Wm. Spalding undoubtedly has one of the greatest—if not the greatest—collection of baseball material in the country. Wm. Spalding started gathering the material in 1864, when he was playing baseball on the prairies. His collection dates up to the time he retired as president of the National League.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETIC LEAGUE, NEW YORK CITY.

gptanbine	$ump	Vila**	by	s*.	1008—0.

YEAR.	MANHATTAN.  RECORD. WINNER.	
5th			S. 7
6th			 6-ft. 4.3973-ins. P.	S. 7
7th			„	 6-ft. 8 9893-ins. P.	S. 77
8th			 6-ft. 10.6422—ins. P.	S. 77
5th		BRONX.  	 6-ft. 1.274 -ins. P.	S. 32
6th			S. 32
7th			 7-ft. 1.6562-ins. P.	S. 32
8th			 7-ft. 7.3541-ins. P.	S. 32
	BROOKLYN.	
5th			S. 100
6th			 6-ft. 6.3 -ins. P.	S. 26

VIII  .#.......  ....	vi—iv«	v.u	—mo*	v • w#

7tb................... 6-ft.	6.1666-ins.	P. S.	119

8tb................... 6-ft.	11.95 -ins. P. S. 100

Digitized by CjOOQle
-ID-

QUEENS.

5tli.............. 5-ft.	8.8 -ins.	P.	S.	78

<>t)i.............. 6-ft.	3.5 -ins.	P.	S.	78

7tli.............  6-ft.	6.4444-ins.	P.	S.	35

8th............... 6-ft.	10.2777-ins.	P.	S.	7

RICHMOND.

5th......'........ 6-ft.	3.7395-ins.	P.	S.	23

6th..............  6-ft.	2.3333-ins.	P.	S.	23

7th............... 6-ft.	6 0078-inis.	P.	S.	23

8th............... 6-ft.	10.5156-ins.	P.	S.	23

—Inter-class and Inter-societj athletic competitions are becomming more and more a feature of undergraduate activity at the colleges and universities throughout the country. Each year sees an increase in the number of those competitions, and the larger universities are now encouraging such activities with the end in view of gaining material for the ’varsity teams and strengthening the athletic standing of the college.

In reference to the situation at Princeton, the Princetonian, the university daily, has the following to say editorially :

It seemed to us for a long time that there is a widespread need in our internal athletic situation for systematic organization. We do not refer to the already organized sports in which the university competes with other institutions, nor to any of the ’varsity teams. It is to the intracollege sports, the athletic life of the body of students as a whole, that we have reference.

Many men who take no part now in the hit-or-miss methods of exercise open to the ordinary undergraduates would undoubtedly enter largely into such an organized system of competitive series in the different sports of the various seasons. Traces of such an organization of sports are seen now in the interclass competitions in basketball in the fall, the Caledonian track meet, the interclass indoor relay races on Washington’s Birthday, and the interclass regattas on Carnegie Lake. But these are all separate and lead to no central end.

It was therefore with hearty approval that we received a suggestion recently reguarding an effort to improve these conditions and to provide Princeton with a well organized body among the undergraduates which should have charge of all intra-college athletic interests.

The plan was that a body be formed of representatives from the upperclass clubs which should become the permanent executive body. It would have control of all series started in any of the four classes. Iji the case of baseball this spring, for instance, it was suggested that under the direction of this committee Freshmen and sophomores series would be planned and carried through, while the Upperclass Club baseball series, which was more of a success last spring than ever before, would also be continued. This plan could be made to include in this way interclub tennis team matches, soccer series, and basketball series. All such points would have to be considered and decided upon by this board. They cannot be considered now. But this executive board should be organized at once.

There is, we believe, no doubt as to the need of such an organization system of sports for those men who have not the ability* to try for a ’Varsity team. It would afford them as much interesting opportunity for exercise, and what is more, though far from the chief benefit to be derived

Digitized by v^ooQle
-80-

it would also afford a well graded system of training for so large a number of men that the ’Varsity teams would be sure to feel the energizing effect.

—New York Turn Verein Fencers won the Saltus Medals recently by defeating representatives from the Fencers’ Club of New York, Delaney Fencing Club of Phila., French Y. M. C. A. of New York and the Carnegie Fencers’ Club.

In the final round the Turn Verein trio beat the New York Fencers’ Club Trio by the score of 5 bouts to 4.

—The Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America at its joint meeting recently selected the Harvard Stadium as the place for holding the annual track and field meet this spring. At this meeting the recommendation of the Executive Committee that the number of entries permitted from each school in the cross-countrv contests should be increased from twelve to twenty was also adapted.

—Intercollegiate Athletic Associations’ Definition of an Amateur— No student shall represent a college or university in any collegiate game or contest who has at any time received, cither directly or indirectly, money, or other consideration, to play on any team or for his athletic services as a college trainer, athletic or gymnasium instructor, or who has competed for a money prize or portion of gate receipts in any contest, or who has competed for any prize against a professional. In applying this rule the constituted authorities shall discriminate between the deliberate use of athletic skill as a means of a livelihood and technical, unintentional, or youthful infractions of the rules. This rule will cut out one of the greatest evils in the Athletic world—Summer Baseball among College students.

—As an expression of her interest in rowing affairs at Harvard, Mrs. Robert Bacon has presented a new eight oared shell to the Harvard crew. The boat has been ordered of an English builder and is expected to be delivered here in time for its use in the Harvard—Conell race at Ithaca on May 31.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP.

The final rounds were held at the Boys Club, New York City, on Saturday, March 6, and resulted as follows :

105 lb. Class. Won by Teddy Lauer, Bovs Club. Half nelson and scissor hold. Time 1.58 2-5.

lfo lb. Class. Won by G. Bauers, National Turn Verein. Arm and waist hold. Time 2.37 1-5.

125 lb. Class. Won by L. Rugger.s, Grace A. C. Crutch hold in extra bout. Time 9.38.

135 lb Class. Won by L. A. Dale, New York A. C. Double Bar hold. Time 1.48 2-5.

1 145 lb. Class. Won by D. Wartman, German-American A. C. Was awarded bout after two extra bouts for doing the most work. Time 15.00

158 lb. Class. Fred Narganes, New York A. C. Was awarded bout after two extra bouts for doing the most work. Time 15.00.

Heavyweight Class. Won by Jack Gunderson, Norwegian A. C. Body hold after two minutes of an extra round.

Digitized by c^ooQie