MOD AND BODY

JANUARY, 1909.

Vol. 15.

No. 175

fc	Evtoriai	Committee	:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil,, Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

FOLK-DANCES AS PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR THE YOUNG IN AMERIGA.

By George Wittich, Supervisor Physical Training, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

During the past 5 years “Folk-Dances,” a type of physical exercise said to have been imported from Europe, have been introduced into the schools of some of our eastern cities. They were received with much enthusiasm and with high expectations as to their value as a means in physical training, and the praise of these dances has been sung since in most of the Summer Schools to such a degree that it is appropriate now to investigate the matter thoroughly and to ascertain the true physical, pedagogical, aesthetical and ethical importance of this innovation.

All up-to-date educators and physicians agree on one point: that modem physical training must prepare the young for the struggle for existence both physically and psychically, and that this can be done through a rational and thorough system of physical training only, pursued in accordance with psychological, pedagogical and physiological laws. By such a system is ment:

1.	One that admits of a grading according to the average physical -ability of the pupils of the various school grades.

2.	One \that can be adapted both to the anatomical structure and psychical demands of the two sexes, while simultaneously enhancing growth and maintaining health.

3.	One that includes forms of exercises which will improve strength, skill, endurance, alertness and quickness of reaction.

4.	One that will awaken and develop such latent psychical qualities as presence of mind, determination, courage, judgement of eye etc., and will foster cheerfulness and a pleasant frame of mind.

5.	One that includes forms of exercises which will appeal to, and cultivate the sense of beauty in form and grace in motion.

6.	One that is so interesting and absorbing that the young will continue the same after the schoolage.

Digitized by
7.	One that includes forms of exercises which will counteract the detrimental influence oi school-room, office and shop-life.

Now let us ascertain whether or not Folk-Dances fill the requirements.

What is the character of Folk-Dances?

Where do they come from? How did they originate? and Who practices them in his native home?

In the latter part of the medieval Age the various guilds or trade-unions, especially those in the central part of Europe, introduced dances containing movements imitative of the activities of their professions, such as the Flag-Dance of the Clothweavers, the Sword-Dance of the Cutlers, the Dance of the Coopers etc. These dances were performed at the festivities of the unions by those artisans (men) only.

At the same time the peasants and the citizens introduced dances where both sexes, paired off in couples, took part, and which were invariably imitations of the various phases of courtship, in accord with the character and social standing of the people, with the influence of environment and climate.

Previous to this period the peasants, both men and women, performed “Circle Dances” during the celebrations of certain annual festivals, such as the Harvest Festival.

These three types are the true Folk-Dances, but most dances of the first and third types have lost their popularity and only imitations of them are seen these days at pic-nics and masquerade-balls. The second type has developed into our present social round-dance. The so-called square-dance originated mainly in France.

All three types were danced by adults. The movements of trunk and arms, and the steps looked rather clumsy and awkward owing to the long hours of strenuous labor which the peasants and artisans had to perform day by day, and also owing to the fact that they wore wooden shoes or very ill-fitting leather shoes studded with heavy nails. The slow and pompous drag-step dance in vogue in the aristocratic circles during this period can not be considered a Folk-Dance.

The low intellectual development of the peasant population of that time and the influence of their boorish environment are the causes of the crude and often rude and indecent gestures and movements which accompanied some of these dances. Not all Folk-Dances, however, possessed the latter characteristics, yet all these dances possessed the former.

This is in short the history of the three types of the so-called Folk-Dances: the Dances of the Guilds performed be men; the Social Dances of the Peasants and Citizens, and the Dances of the Seasons or other festivities.

Now, of what value are these types of dances as a means in the education of the young in America?

Physiologically they are of some value in as much as they bring into activity the largest groups of muscles and thereby cause an increase of respiration and circulation. But I fail to see any psychological.

Digitized by C^ooQle
pedagogical, aesthetical and ethical value in these imparted dances. To some degree they are the visible expression of the very character of a people who were and yet are so very different from us in costumes, habits, perception and in their mode of viewing things that it seems absurd to offer their dances to our young as a means for the training of their physical and psychical faculties.

Each country of Europe or at least each section has its own dance, or dances, into which the people have embodied some traits of character peculiar to its tribe or population; it has become their inherited private property which can thrive and live only in that particular country.

How dare we transplant such a rude and unrefined, typically foreign, product into the schools of our country, whose inhabitants are a product of a mixture of a dozen races which have come from all points of the compass, and whose beliefs, perceptions, views and thoughts are in many respects entirely at variance with those of all other nations on Earth. These dances were invented by adults for adults; they bear the finished and completed traits of character of adults, and only the matured motives and desires of adults are embodied in these dances. How, therefore, dare we offer them to our young as an entireness, as a part of their training. Our American young people are maturing early enough, sad to say, without such auxiliary means. The motives of many dances are of a meaning that we would not dare to explain and define to our young. “Lot ist tod” is the name of a dance introduced into fhe schools of Greater Hew York City. This dance, which is not even a vigorous one, is accompanied either by singing or by instrumental music. If a child would ask for the translation of the words to which the music of this dance has been composed, the teacher would have to state, that the words are an expression of joy at the death of a relative who has left a rich estate. Truelv, not a suitable subject for our school-children.

In closing my discussion I shall endeavor to compare the principal qualities of the Folk^Dance with the demands made on modem physical training, and will enumerate the various points of adequacy and inadequacy in accordance with the points bearing on a rational system of physical training as given in the early part of my paper.

1.	Folk-Dances can not be graded in accordance with the physical and perceptive abilities of the pupils of the various grades of our schools because they were not created for school use, and in consequence most of the dances contain several grades of difficulty with reference to gestures, movements of trunk and arms and steps. This unmethodically arranged mixture of movements does not correspond with the laws of pedagogy nor with those of physiology of exercise.

2.	Folk-Dances can be adapted to the anatomical structure of the two sexes and most of them may serve as invigorating exercises, that is true, but I can not find any psychical, aesthetical and ethical value in these imported dances for the young of America, for reasons given above. The American young can not and ousdit not to understand

Digitized by t^ooQle
these often too sensuous and emotional expressions in the forms of foreign dances. Besides this, the few dances which are morally harmless, such as the dances of the artisans and the dances of seasons will soon become tiresome to our young if used as regular schoolwork. I can not concieye of a boy between 12 and 15 years of age imitating the cobbler or the farmer, day after day, year in year out, nor can I see how American girls and boys will indulge in the harvest-dance or in any other for weeks and months. If they do, they will certainly become pure automatons in a short time and will execute the dances in an absent-minded and automatic manner, because they can not transport themselves into that joyous condition with heart and soul which is the essential feature of the old Folk-Dance.

3.	Folk-Dances do not contain any form of movement that will promote general strength, skill, endurance, alertness and general quickness of reaction.

4.	Nor can they develop judgment of vision, courage, determination etc.

5.	They do not contain forms of exercises that will educate the emotion of the beautiful because most of the movements are awkward and clumsy, nor such movements that will improve the carriage of the body. The dances of the classic age of the Greeks were better suited for these purposes because they were carefully cultivated and taught by able teachers.

6.	It has been claimed, but only proven by one case in Greater*New York that these dances are practiced voluntarily by children outside of school-hours. Even in the homes of the Folk-Dances they are at present danced only on rare occasions, but each village has a Turn Hall, a gymnasium, where old and young exercise regularly after school and after working hours.

It has often been claimed that the American young will not take to gymnastics after the school age and to confirm this statement the argument is often used, that gymnastics are not interesting. The truth is, however, that true and pure gymnastics have been presented to our young as yet only in an infinitesimal degree; also, that the claimants have always made the mistake of confounding “gymnastics” with “free exercises” (calisthenics). Enquire in Chicago and Boston, where public gymnasia are maintained by the city authorities, whether boys and girls and youths take to gymnastics or not, and be assured that the answer will be in the affirmative.

The Folk-Dance among the girls is always a tame affair and will never be kept up long. It may become a fad for a short time, but that is all.

7.	Folk-Dances can do nothing along the line of counteracting the detremental inf’^nce of school-room, office and shop-sitting, outside of stimulating circulation and respiration to some degree. I do not know a single dance that contains such corrective exercises as are so very essential this day.
-.125-

This comparison shows clearly the worthlessness of the pure imparted Folk-Dances. It is true that most of these dances have passed through the hands of dancing-masters and have been thereby made less clumsy before they were taken up in the curriculum of the schools of some of our cities, but that improves but little their value as discussed under 5. Why, not even in the homes of the Folk-Dances do educators think of embodying them in the program of physical training.

The European Folk-Dance belongs on the entertainment-stage in America. Prominent educators, such as Spiess of Darmstadt and Jenny of Switzerland, have accepted some of the fundamental steps of these dances, have arranged them systematically and have added in a logical and progressive order leg, trunk, arm and head exercises; they thus created a grand system of dancing steps for school-use. All that is true, but even this feature is made use of only as a part (1st unit) of the German Day's order in the physical training of girls and women.

The Folk-Dance as a means in physical training, is a transitory fad here in America this present day, and will die a natural death, as many other fads have done before, e. i. Delsarte, Aesthetic Darning, Some of these types of exercises are valuable parts of a whole system, but, when taken by themselves, as a whole, they are onesided and rather an evil than a blessing.

The trouble with us in America is that many so-called physical directors have not the faintest idea of the subject matter and of the proper progression of the various parts of Gymnastics; the drill is all they know, and they will, therefore, grasp at any fad which is offered as a “cut and dried drill” in order to cover up their deficiency of training along this line as well as to make their teaching less monotonous, whereas only a thorough knowledge and a thorough command of the whole gymnastic system will enable one always to hold the interest of the pupils.

. ENDURANCE RECORD AT YALE BROKEN.

Karl Mann, who distinguished himself by winning the walking match from Berlin to Dresden, in 1902, in which the alleged superior endurance of vegetarians seemed to be demonstrated, presented himself at Yale College the other day and was invited to test his endurance upon the ergograph devised by Prof. Fisher.

An ordinary man of fair muscular equipment can lift the weight in this machine from thirty to sixty times without intermission. Before Horace Fletcher tried his endurance the record stood at 175. Mr. Fletcher.raised it to 350. Karl Mann lifted the weight 687 times and was not exhausted when he stopped. He is what the Germans call a lacto-vegetarian.

A two-mile .runner at Yale, who had adopted Mr. Fletcher's rules of mastication and incidentally reduced his proteid intake, found after three months that his endurance, as measured by the ergograph, had increased sixty-five per cent., and his strength had increased eleven per cent., while his speed remained the same.	Am.	Health.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—326 —

-ELEMENTS OF STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS TAUGHT IN COLLEGES.” *

By G. STANLEY HALL.

A sturdy boy, I knew well, who had won a few pretty trophies at preparatory school, resolved on entering college to cut out athletics and go in for scholarship which had suffered from his sports. He was eigtheen, weighed one hundred and two, and was a trifle over six feet tall, yet had won a pole vaulting contest and so was beset to enter the collegiates in this neglected exercise. He at first refused but was told that the honor of the institution was at stake and that it would be rank disloyalty to refuse. At the end of the freshman year, the result was two more trophies and two varicose legs, requiring two elastic stockings. The sophomore year he tried for the crew and also for the eleven and the nine, and fortunately failed to make either. Overworking in the gymnasium and doing the giant swing one day he fell off the bar and double fractured his lower jaw, which was wired together and all the teeth saved. He was in the hospital four weeks taking all his nourishment through a straw. His mates consoled him by telling him that the form of his jaw and chin was improved by the operation, but he could not set it firmly enough to resist the coaxing of his athletic friends. Junior year he became a strong man and tied with another in the strength tests of the year in the New England colleges, but strained his heart, thereby was home six weeks, and fell back a year in his classes. When he graduated after five years, at the age of twenty-three, he had three so-called silver cups, five medals, several ribbons representing several first, second, and thirds, in things, two enlarged calves, one improved jaw, and an irritable heart. He took up the study of medicine and when I asked him why, he said with a faint, sad smile, “Well, it may at least be handy to be able to practice on myself, or,” he added, after a pause, “possibly my children, if I ever have any, will need my services.”

I. His parents were powerless against the claims of duty to win glory for his Alma Mater, and I will not attempt to describe their feelings toward the system. This, I grant, is an extreme case, but I know many others, and you trainers and heads of gymnasia probably know many more where grave injury has resulted from the very pressure put upon the one-tenth or less of immature collegians who have to uphold the athletic prowess of their institutions. Many, like this husky chap, are too young to bear the excessive strain of the teams. The glory of possible victory and the stimulus of cheering thousands on the bleachers is too tonic a stimulus. You may talk all you will and keep ever so close tab upon heart, lungs, and guard against rupture, strain, and cite , ever so many cases of college champions who have escaped unscathed, but there is a darker side to the picture and this is the first element o?

•Address delivered before the Dept, of Physical Education, N. E. A Cleveland 1908.

Digitized by CjOOQLC
-327-

weakness that I urge. Neither art from the Laocoon down nor the illustrated studies of the physiognomy of the emotions afford any such facial expressions of physical agony as photographs depict in the faces of athletes in the climax of their efforts, and the nerves and muscles of collegians are not ripe for the strain too often put upon them. The training of these men is physical cramp and the reactions from the training table and the severity of preparation are dangerous to the physique and to morals. Only those bv nature beefy can come out scathless, and even Schweinfurths are sometimes coarsened: while to become wonted to the intoxication of victory makes life seem for a season afterwards dull and zestless by contrast, especially in the American air and with American nerves, both so unlike the English or German. Do these few men get the most and best out of four academic years on the whole? I do not think so and I could take the rest of my time telling how heartily some of the parents of these lads agree with me. That there are great and offsetting advantages to some of these defects, we all know by heart. And it is these the public and such meetings as this always hears most of, but there is an athletic madness and it is for the silent over-specialized victims who suffer from the system that I now speak.

II.	Athletics and physical training should be a school of honor, not of dishonor. Which is it to-day? The latter seeks to win at any price; the former was illustrated by the oft-quoted English tennis champion in an international rubber game, who, when his antagonist slipped and made a fluke which would have lost him the victory, made one himself on purpose to offset it, preferring to lose honorably rather than to win on an accident. The history of physical training from the Greeks down shows that in its best periods, it has been animated by the ideal of making men gentle. The true sportsman would infinitely prefer to be beaten than to win unfairly or by any trick or cheating. Codes of honor differ, but the spirit of all rules of all games is to play that the intrinsically best man or team shall win. Honor should be the very religion of the gymnasium and the athletic field. The best definition of it I know is that it is an instinct for ideal conduct. It would, first of all, be magnanimous to a foe whether in victory or defeat. It is not to be too shrill or strident about technicalities and never to claim or accept a victory upon these alone. To my mindr faculty committees are as much justified in requiring a somewhat highe? standard of conduct in the members of their teams than for others, as are trainers in requiring a better regimen and diet, and should disqualify for any sign of sneaking meanness. These.men must be true representatives of the spirit of the college and it deserves to lose if any kind of favoritism of family or money put any but the best man forward, and these men must not break moral training. For the president of a great university to have insisted upon this the other day against the president of the nation was the wholesome illustration of this principle we have had for years, and its effects will be salutary and long. Perhaps there is no greater hero-worship in the world to-day than that of the rank and file collegians

Digitized by CaOOQle
-328-

for their successful champions, and therefore it is of vital consequence, ideal as this may seem, that they should be, so far as possible, heroes of virtue and character. If they are dissolute, great is their influence for bad.

Do you ask for the ultimate reason why the college athlete should be a gentleman or high priest of honor? I reply that, apart from the fact that his example is so potent so that if he can be bad and win, all arguments of the classroom for the healthfulness of virtue fail for his mates and admirers, the muscles are the organs of the will and heart, which are the chief parts of the soul. Their culture closes the gap between knowing and doing. To keep them toned and tense means to make conduct follow more closely upon instinct and motive. Mien, pose, and gesture lay upon the soul more and make acting a part harder. The inmost nature is better known and ready for life, is more demonstrative, and conduct is a larger part of expression and quiet thought, example more than precept, and even the bad is less easily concealed or repressed, because the whole diathesis is more motor than noetic. Psychic tendencies are more revealed and in the open, and the motor type of man is more likely what he seems than to seem to be what he really is. For this reason there is more necessity for the motor minded to be decent in order to seem so, because with them evil, if it exists, tends more to come out. Like muscular Christianity, muscular virtue is more overt and even aggressive. That is why this t}rpe of man has always best exemplified honor and why, when muscles decay, vice is more liable because it becomes more hidden. It is this harmony of min'd and body, extending to the minor morals of manners and deportment, to all good hygiene and body-keeping, that physical exercise should develop. The true sportsman should rather be a Lipton, always beaten and always a gentleman, than to be always successful with the traits of some of his victors, for his conduct under every defeat has raised him a notch in the affections and esteem of two countries.

III.	Physical is for the sake of mental and moral culture and not an end in itself. It is to make the intellect, feelings and will more vigorous, sane, supple, and resourceful. It should make for control and keep the body under and make it a servant and not a master. This it will never be until gymnastics is a department with its own courses, marks and credits, the same as other departments. If a riian is a born athlete, why deny him the same benefit of it as if he is a born mathematician, linguist, artist or musician? It is plain that the academic side here must be developed. The culture history of physical education is a splendid field that we should develop in the classroom; not merely the ordinary rudiments of anatomy- and physiology, but the great movements of ascetic contempt and neglect of the body, along with the splendid periods of its development in the palaestra and the Turnfest, the best age of which in both should in Germany precede by about a generation their golden age of arms, letters, and scieuce. To always keep at the very top of one’s condition requires both science and art; history and biography are rich in inspiring examples and in awful warnings.

Digitized by

Google
-329-

These must be collected and curriculized that these professors in the future may have both brain and brawn, be virile and virtuous in the grand old Latin sense of these terms. Practical ethics of body and soul is the core of all. The history and psychic physiology of military drill, dancing, the great national sports and games and their effects, the morals of measurements and tests, the psychology of periodic stripping and inspection, the relation of maximal effort to sex, drink and in a clumsy three words—the psychologizing, ethicizing, and aestheticizing of athleticism is now its crying need. The ordinary medical side is not enough. j Moral prophylaxis should be included. The love of plain living, of \ / nature afield, should be inculcated, something should be taught of the \ very interesting and suggestive topics of staleness, second breath, rhythm, stages of development, nervousness of the strong, the philosophy of training and reactions, the need of symmetry, and the dangers of specialization, the psychic characteristics developed by addiction to each of the chief forms of sport, that is, how the swimmer, boxer, runner, dancer, and the rest come to differ in character—these topics have now a meaty literature that should be brought together here. In this direction we are to-day like Bunyan’s man with a muck rake, all unaware of the golden crown just above his head which he would wear upon it would he but straighten up. Now this high story of culture in this field is, save for a few happy and scattered beginnings, all undeveloped. When we have realized what is the matter here, we shall look back with poignant self-pity upon the present stage of materialistic beginnings. The Y. M. C.

A. teachers of athletics have shown us how heart, muscle and moral culture can be combined to the great benefit of each, and how worse than useless is strength of brawn and weakness of character, but the best is yet to come. Nothing could do so much to enlist the rank and file of students, the mere rooters and also the grinds, in body culture as such courses; for who could take them, if they began to utilize the resources available, without being inspired to make his own body stronger and his health better, to make the most and best of his physique as the best of methods of attaining any and every kind of excellence and power? Our colleges and universities must offer courses in which they can give degrees, even the highest, with this as a major_ subject. Every really scientific study which any of you make, whether in IFe Thstorical aspects and phases of the subject or of the results of training on individuals or groups, the effects of age, temperament, diets, like the memorable New Haven studies, the, just now so much needed, studies of girls, make contributions to such a course. Could a few of the most scholarly and scientific men in this field now organize and compile from the many now scattered sources the material needed and take the epoch-making step of organizing it into meaty academic form, the problem would be solved. No one has done this and, until it is done, your best efforts are scrappy and incoherent. Is it not in fact your fault that such chairs and degree-earning courses are not sufficiently recognized by college j deans and is it not up to you to remove the cause of your complaint in j this direction, when by combining your efforts you could create a group

Digitized by CjOOQle
-.530-

of courses which every college would feel guilty and ashamed not to give. The athletic problem is becoming graver every year and only you can solve it. We heads of institutions cannot launch new courses on a mere librarian's bibliography of good but scattered references. So, again I say, get together and put together what is already accessible in a scholarly way and we shall all fall over each other to give it credits and academic standing. I wonder if there was ever in the whole history of higher education such a wealth of material so wanted but so unorganized, or any field where some learned and vigorous thinker, bv a year or two of hard work, could so change the aspect of things? Physical training should be the very corner-stone of every sound educational system. Our college presidents and faculties are now pathetically helpless before the athletic problem, distracted and utterly powerless to control or utilize the tremendous energy now set free. These convulsive conclusions of the entire body academic are parturient struggles. A little skillful midwifery that can bring all this blind aesthetic enthusiasm to the birth into the higher cultural field—this is the need of the hour. In it lies concealed immense wealth of motivation to study hard and long a range of topics the most vital for personal and natural health and well-being. Nor has there ever been so large an opportunity or so loud a call. Hippocrates said “God-like is the doctor who is also a philosopher.” We might almost apply the same superlative epithet to a gymnasial expert who can also be a philosopher. Will this physical Messiah appear or must the work be done by many laboring slowly for half a generation? Sometimes the call creates the man, but such a call is always answered sooner or later; and with all the splendid fore-studies you have already made, it cannot now be long delayed. And of all the great departments of this association, yours seems to me surest ere long to see the great light or to have a great leader that will bring, inaugurate, this higher, more intellectual, phase of physical education. What I have to say on the other half of my subject, elements of strength, is summed up in a single sentence—that you have prepared the way for such a consummation.

EFFECT OF SPICES ON DIGESTION.

Although the use of spices for the purposes of heightening the flavor of food is almost universal, it is generally recognized that their influence on digestion is detrimental. Some experiments recently carried out tend to prove that while spices stimulate the motor functions of the stomach they progressively impair the secretary functions, and in the long run inhabit the production of hydrochloric acid. On the whole, therefore, the ingestion of spices hinders rather than accelerates digestion, though an exception may be made in respect of persons in whom slowness of digestion is due to a deficiency of muscular activity on the part of the stomach, and also possibly of the victims of hyperacidity.	The	Indian	Lancet.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-381-

THE OLYMPIC 400 METER RACE.

By William E. Day, Dayton. Ohio.

Much has been said and written about the 400 Meter Race between Carpenter and Hallswell at the Olympic Contests in London, and probably a great deal more will be said and written about this memorable event.

The writer has certain convictions on this matter, which view the situation from a slant not heretofore given. These convictions have been gleaned not only from American papers but from English papers which I have before me. The “London Daily Graphic” of Friday, July 24, says, in an account of the contest, that “Carpenter would have won out in any case.” In describing the event they say .“The pace was fast along the opening straight, it was not till the first bend of the curve was reached that Hallswell got up to the two leaders, and rounding the bend got into second place.” As will be noted later, he pumped himself out, the pace being so fast that he was all in catching up with the leaders. “He was then on the outside of Carpenter, and kept outside of Carpenter all around the bend.” If this is so, he evidently showed a palpable lack of judgment in trying to pass a man on the turn as he would consequently have to run 15 to 2Q yards further than the man on the inner side, depending, of course, on the length of the turn. It is reported that the English rules under which the race was run prohibit a man taking the pole (inside) even if he does not'interfere with the progress of any other contestant. As I am not familiar with the English rules I am not competent to pass judgment on this matter, but will say that if such is the case, a revision of their rules would be in order. The American rule which allows* a runner to take the inside provided he is two paces ahead (6 feet) is just and fair. It would not have been to Carpenter’s advantage in any way, when he had the pole to deviate from his path, going to he outside to get in front of Hallswell. If such a thing really did occur, it would not have interfered in any way with Hallswell’s running, as the judges claimed that Carpenter was a yard in front of the Scotsman. Then with Carpenter a yard in the lead, how would it be possible for him to “bore” Hallswell? Hallswell claimed to have run the distance at one time in somewhere near 48 2/5, a record which he never afterwards equalled. - In the run off after the race with Carpenter, where he had no one to interfere with him, and where he had the pole, he failed to even equal Carpenter’s record, going the distance in 50 seconds, and if he was only the equal of Carpenter, then in this trial he should have made better time than Carpenter, as the Scotsman has nothing to think about but to run the distance as fast as possible. From the London and English papers too, I judge that Hallswell went in to run Carpenter and the other American runners off their feet in the first part of the race, but the task was too much for him and he “blew up” as he did in the subsequent run off near the 300 mark.

Nothing has been said of the attempt of the Englishmen to beat out Shepherd in the 800 Meter Race. It was all fixed up according to

Digitized by Google
-332-

the “Daily Graphic” of Wednesday, July 22, between two English runners, Crawford and Just, to take care of Shepherd in this race, but the account says that there was only one man in the race and that was Shepherd. Quoting the “Graphic”:—“A fine strategic attempt had been made between Crawford and Just to win. Crawford set out to make the pace in the hope of making it so fast that Shepherd’s famous final spurt would be bereft of its customary vigor and that Just might possibly run him down. It was not to be, Crawford ran himself out before the first lap had been covered,” as Hallswell ran himself out at the 300 mark.

The story that there has been no feeling on the part of the Englishmen in these contests seems to lack general confirmation. In the “Daily Mirror” and other clippings which came to hand, they hail with great eclat the fact that the French runner, Henri Siret, beat Hayes’ Olympic time, 17 min. 55 sec.

Incidentally anathemas have been hurled upon the head of Mr. James Sullivan, recently re-elected President of the American Athletic Union. I firmly believe that the American public owe a great debt of gratitude to Mr. Sullivan, for it was only through his determination, pluck and energy, that there were teams at Athens and at London. Mr. Sullivan protested vigorously against unjust decisions, and of course had the right to be heard and a fair and impartial verdict rendered, which evidently was not given.

The English Athletic Associations have disqualified Carpenter, and the Amateur Athletic Union at its recent meeting, not only refused to accept this ruling, but showed a marked appreciation of Mr. Sullivan by re-electing him to the presidency for the third successive time.

3oth NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U.

The work preperatory to the National Tumfest of the North American Gymnastic Union to be held in Cincinnati, 0., from June 19.—27. is now in earnest. The general committee was organized by electing the following officers:	Aug.	Herrmann, President; Henry

Hoefle, Vice-President; Gustav Clemens, Secretary; E. von Borgen, Financial Secretary; Adam Benus, Treasurer; Geo. F. Dieterle and Geo. Singer, Delegates, and N. C. Seuss, Chairman of the technical committee.

President Herrmann, the chairman of the National Base Ball Committee, is known all over the country for his executive ability and I am sure, if any one, he is the man capable of filling such an important position. Mr. Hoefle is also known for his capacity as a hustler, and under the guidance of these two men the festival certainly ought to prove a success.

The Carthage Fair Grounds, a place of many acres, for the improvement of which about 30,000 dollars will be spent, will be the scene of the festival. On Government Square a platform 75x300 feet will be . erected, where the model work of the different classes will be shown.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-333-

Four days previous to the festival the local societies and schools will give exhibitions on this platform.

The most important work of the festival will, no doubt, fall upon the shoulders offMr. N. C. Seuss who was chosen to select the exercises and to conduct all the mass drills.

In selecting the work for the mass drill of actives, Mr. Seuss has departed from the trodden path of tradition, not having selected wand exercises, which we have been accostumed to see at every turnfest since Mr. Kroh in *89 inaugurated the turnfest in its present form with its mass drills, instead the model work by a selected few.

This time the exercises for the actives will consist of calisthenics, three groups of five exercises each, somewhat difficult, but very pleasing combinations.

The wTork for the ladies’ classes will consist of club swinging in combination with leg movements and trunk-bending, also very pleasing combinations.

In order that we may not forget how to use the wand, this has been given to the old men’s classes, wrho will demonstrate that they still know how to make good use of it.

The public schools will participate, and in a meeting held last week the constructors agreed upon the following program:	.

The High Schools each to furnish ,a class for the model work, the district schools having gymnasia to furnish a number in apparatus work, the other schools to furnish a number in club-swinging and one of calisthenics.

Every position of the obligatory work will now be photographed and reproductions wTith minute descriptions of the same will be send to all intending to participate and by about the first of February the work will no doubt be under way in all societies of the organization.

E. H. POOS.

ABOUT THE EVENTS AND SCORING

OF THE QUINTUPLE AND SEXTUPLE CONTESTS AT TH® GYMNASTIC TOURNAMENT AT FRANKFORT ON THE MAIN, JULY 1908.

By Carl O. Hierholzer, Philadelphia.

The most important features of the Gymnastic Tournament held at Frankfort on the Main last July were the cpiintuple and sextuple contests. In the sextuple contest there were more than 2000 and in the quintuple about 2800 contestants. In the former it is possible to score 150 points. The first man, Mr. Bruno Mahler of Munich, scored 130 points. Each contestant scoring 100 points or over received a diploma and a wreath of oak leaves. 336 men scored the necessary points, among them where seven Americans. In the latter event J. Wagner of Bern scored 108 out of a possible 110 points. 499 men received diplomas

Digitized by CjOOQle
-334-

and wreaths hv scoring the necessary two thirds of the possible 110 points. There were 14 Americans who won prizes in this event.

Among the Americans the highest quintuple score was 91.5 by John Grieb of Philadelphia and the highest sextuple score 310 was made by Wm. Lemcke of Rochester, N. Y.

The quintuple contest consists of 5 track and field events and one group of free or hand apparatus movements. These events are selected by the Gymnastic committee and are chosen from the following:

JUMPS: High jump, broad jump, broad high jump, pole vault for height, pole vault for distance, ruunning hop, step and jump.

SPRINTS:	150 meter dash (1 M. equals 3.28 feet), 100 M. dash,

100 M. hurdles with 4 hurdles.

WEIGHTS: Putting the 15 Kg. stone (1 Kg. equals 2.2 pounds), putting the 10 Kg. shot, bowling the 5 Kg. shot, hurling the 2 Kg. ball.

WEIGHT LIFTING: 371/2 Kg. with both arms.

ROPE CLIMBING: Climbing hand over hand for speed.

In the recent tournament the quintuple contest events were: Broad high jump, hop, step and jump, 100 meter dash, putting the 15 Kg. stone, hurling the 2 Kg. ball, and one group of free movements.

Since contestants may compete in both contests these do not take place at the same time. The track and field events are published 8 weeks and the obligatory free movements 6 weeks before the tournament.

The sextuple contest consists of apparatus work on side and long' horse, parallel bars, horizontal bars, three field and track events and one group of free or hand apparatus exercises. Every contestant must perform 2 obligatory and one chosen combination on each apparatus. The obligatory combinations are arranged by the gymnastic committee and are published 6 weeks before the tournament; The track and field events are published 8 weeks before. One of the obligatory combinations is dropped shortly before the tournament and in place of this is substituted a group of free or hand apparatus movements. This time * the swing combination on the parallel bars was omitted and free movements substituted. The obligatory exercise on the long horse this year was the straddle vault with a buck placed in front of the horse and with the beat board placed 1.30 M. away from the horse. The field events of the sextuple contest were 100 M. hurdles, running high jump and putting the 10 Kg. shot. These are also chosen by the Gymnastic committee from the list given above.

In judging the apparatus work the points that are especially considered are:	Performing	of	the	obligatory combinations as prescribed

and demonstrated (each obligatory exercise is performed by a leader for each squad); skill, beauty and form, and as regards the chosen combinations; difficulty and combination as well as form.

In judging the obligatory apparatus work and free exercises the highest possible score in each is 10 points, from 10 to 9 very good, 8 to 7 good, 6 to 5 sufficient, 4 to ^ deficient, 2 to 1 insufficient. Wholly unsuccessful exercises are marked with 0. All exercises must be scored in whole points. When it is considered that the auditing committee

Digitized by

Google
has to figure up the scores of about 5000 men one realizes that this provision is a wise one.

In the track and field events of the two contests a man may not score more than 20 points in any one event, but wherever this occurs the contestant is given honorable mention for the performance on his diploma.

The rules of the track and field events are as follows:	Hurl	Ball;

the ball is of leather stuffed with hair or felt and must weigh 2 Kg., its diameter must be 25 Cm. It is thrown in a lane 20 Cm. wide and may be thrown from a run on from stand and with or without turning. The run is unlimited. Stepping over the scratch line or the ball falling outside of the lane makes the throw a foul without result. The throw is measured from the scratch line to the nearest break of ground made by the ball. Each contestant is allowed two throws of which the best counts. 27 M.=0 points; each further 75 Cm.=l point; 42 M.=20 points.

Putting the stone:	The	stone may be either round or square, it

must weigh 15 Kg. and is put from stand in a square 1.50 M. on a side. The put is made with one hand. Each contestant is allowed two puts, the best to count. The put is measured from the front side of the square to the nearest break of ground made by the stone. 4 M.= 0 points; each 10 Cm. over 4 M.=l point; 6 M.=20 points.

100 M Dash: Each runner must have his own lane which must be straight and 100 M. long. There must be a scratch line at the start and finish. The signal to start is given by one of the judges from an elevated position. Every 1/5 second less than 16 second3=one point; 12 seconds=20 points.

Hop, Step and Jump:	Two styles are allowed in this event, i. e.

the regular hop, step and jump, and two steps and a jump. The take-off is from a beat board 90 Cm. long by 10 Cm. high. The jumps are measured from the front edge of the beat board to the nearest break of ground made on the jump. Two jumps are allowed, the best to count. 9 M.=0 points; each 15 Cm. farther=l point; 12 M —20 points.

10 Kg. Shot Put:	The	shot must weigh 10 Kg. and may be put

from run or stand. Stepping over the scratch line constitutes a foul and is a trial without result. The measuring is the same as in putting the stone. 5 M.=0 points; each 20 Cm. farther=l point; 9 M.=20 points.

100 M. Hurdles:	The	lanes for this event must be 20 M. long and

are divided by four hurdles into spaces of 20 M. long each. The hurdles are 1 M. high and are made of light laths. The upper cross piece must be 80 Cm. high from the track and the remaining 20 Cm. must be made of some yielding material. Only four men may run in each heat and each man must have his own lane and flight of hurdles. The rules for this are the same as in the 100 M. dash. Upsetting one or more hurdles disqualifies the competitor, but touching the material at the top is not noticed. One heat only is allowed. 18 seconds—0 points; each 14 second less than 18 seconds=l point; 13 seconds=20 points.

Digitized by

Google
High Jump:	The	jump may be made from either foot with un-

limited run, the take-off is from a beat board 90 Cm. long by 10 Cm. high. The front edge of the board is 120 Cm: away from a scratch line immediately under the tape. (A tape or cord is used instead of a bar as in our sports.) Each contestant is allowed two trials at each height. To count a jump must be made free without touching the tape. Touching the tape, touching the ground with the hands oi falling on alighting to the ground are considered fouls and make a trial with no result. Each 5 Cm. over 120 Cm. of actual jump—after deducting the height of the beat board—count 2 points. Those who were obliged to drop out on account of touching the tape, that is, without knocking it off, are given credit for one point in addition to the previous jump cleared. Crossing a balk line 4 M. from the take-off and then not jumping is considered a trial without result.

Broad High Jump: Run and take off are the same as in the high jump. The beat board is 2 M. from a line directly under the tape which is set at 1 M. high. From here the board is moved back 10 Cm. and the tape raised 5 Cm. each time. Each 10 Cm. of broad jump over 2 M. and each 5 Cm. of high jump over 1 M.—after deducting the height of the beat board—count together 2 points. The rule for touching the tape is the same here as in the high jump. Instead of moving the beat board back each time, the standards may be moved forward.

EXERCISES ON THE MAT.

(SECOND SERIES.)

By PHILIP G. LEWIS, Philadelphia, Pa.

EXERCISE NO. 17—ROLL OVER BACKWARD.—Stand on the mat, feet apart, bend forward as far as possible keeping the knees straight, arms hanging down with fingers pointing to the toes, gradually jet yourself fall backward, rolling over on the shoulders and head; turn the head to the side and push with the hands, coming to a stand on all fours.

Now try this a few times pushing off a little more with the hands, until you can come to a stand easily.

Then try this exercise with the feet together at the start.

EXERCISE NO. 18.—Stand on one leg, roll over backward, coming to a stand on the same leg.

EXERCISE NO. 19.—Stand on1 one leg, roll over backward, coming up to a stand on the opposite leg.

EXERCISE NO. 20.—Roll over forward to a sitting position, legs straight and together, hands on the mat at the sides.

EXERCISE NO. 21.—Roll over backward from the sitting position; lean well forward, quickly throw the body backward, drawing the legs over the head, push off with the hands, coming to a stand.

EXERCISE NO. 22.—Roll over forward to a sitting position and then immediately roll over backward to a stand (combination of No. 20 and 21). Roll forward to a stand and then immediately roll backward.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-3.J7-

. EXERCISE XO. 23.—Roll over forward, legs crossed at the ankles, left leg in front, come to stand with a half turn right and immediately roll over backward to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 24.—Roll over backward twice, then roll over forward, legs crossed at the ankles, right in front, come to stand with a half turn left.

EXERCISE XO. 25.—Roll over forward without the use of the hands, follow this immediately with a roll over forward, using the hands, crosing the legs at the ankles, left in front, come to stand with a half turn right, immediately roll over backward to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 26.—Roll over forward, without the use of the hands, legs crossed at the ankles, right in front. Come to a stand with a half turn left and immediately follow with the same kind of a roll forward coming to stand with hands on the hips (or any place desired).

EXERCISE XO. 27.—Roll over forward preceded by a standing broad jump.

Stand about three or four feet from the end of the mat, jump forward on to the jriat and immediately roll over forward coming up to a stand (grasping shins). This kind of a start is called “take off with both feet.”

EXERCISE XO. 28.—Jump forward and immediately roll over forward, without the use of the hands.	,

EXERCISE XO. 29.—Jump forward, roll over forward, cross the legs at the ankles, right in front, come to a stand with a half turn left and immediately roll over backwards to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 30.—Jump forward, roll over forward, coming up on one leg, roll over forward, cross the legs at the ankles, come to a stand with a half turn; immediately roll over backward to a stand, then roll over forward (no hands), arms folded, coming to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 31.—Roll over forward from a run.

Take a short run, “take off” with one foot and roll over forward, coming to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 32.—Run, roll over forward, grasping the shins, follow with a roll forward (no hands).

EXERCISE XO. 33.—Run, roll over forward, crossing the legs at the ankles, come to a stand with a half turn, immediately roll over backward to a stand.

EXERCISE Xo. 34.—Run, roll over forward, using the hands, roll over forward, holding the ankles, roll over forward to a sitting position and then immediately roll over backward to a stand.

EXERCISE XO. 35.—Run, roll over forward, come up to a stand on one leg, then roll over forward with crossed legs and come to a stand with a half turn; immediately roll over forward without the use of the hands, coming to a stand with the hands on the hips.

EXERCISE XO. 36.—Run, “take off” with both feet, roll over forward to a stand.

All the previous exercises can be taken with this same “take off.” (To be continued in the next number.)

Digitized by C^ooQle
—^.■58-

CAPTAIN BALL.

(1009 Revised Rules.)

	Capjaln	
P\qV\t  Corntr	A  8  Sa6trf\dn Guarti Basc'hiidirv Ovard Gva rd	
TUgVt  forward.	TK —1 8 G v&rd	8<tae men  8 1— OvdTd
! i	»  	 A  8	A  &
		A

A

8

L<

Fo

--------------------------------------J

The field is an oblong, 30x60 ft., divided into two equal parts, (oee diagram.)

Ten players form a team. They are divided into five basemen (two forward basemen, two corner basemen, and one captain basemen), and five guards (two forward guards, two corner guards, and one captain guard). Their positions are shown in the diagram.

The bases are two feet square.

The object of the game is to get the ball (a basket ball) successively into the hands of two or more basemen of a side.

The game is played in two halves, of from ten (10) to fifteen (15) minutes each.

Digitized by CjOOQle

Or*
—&J9-

EULES.

Guards are not allowed to go info the territory of their opponents, nor to step into the boxes or out of the field of play.

Basemen must always have at least one foot in their boxes, and must not step out of the field of play. They are, however, allowed to jump up into the air to catch the ball.

The game is in charge of an umpire who calls all fouls. At the beginning of the game he tosses the ball up in the center of the field between two guards. After a score has been made he again tosses the ball up in the center between another pair of guards. He takes a different pair of guards, playing the same position on the opposite team, every time it becomes necessary to toss the ball at center.

When a ball is held by two opposing players, it is given to the guard.

In case of a foul the umpire decides which forward-baseman shall have the ball for a free throw. In a free throw the baseman having the ball shall not be interfered with.

There shall be a scorer who is also timekeeper.

If in the course of a*plav the ball rolls or is thrown off the field it shall be brought back by the guard nearest the place where it crossed the line. He will bring it to the line at that place and put it into play again.

Points are made as follows:

If a baseman catches a ball from a baseman of the same side the play counts one point.

If a captain baseman catches the ball from a baseman of the same side, the play counts two points.

If the ball successively gets into the hands of two different basemen and the captain baseman the play counts three points.

If the ball successively gets into the hands of three different base-men and the captain baseman, the play counts four points.

If the ball successively gets into the hands of all four basemen and the captain baseman, the play counts five points. This is the highest score possible in one play.

After the captain once gets the ball from a baseman no further point may be made and the ball must again be tossed up in the center.

In order to score, no baseman may handle the ball more than once during a play.

The ball may rebound once from floor, ceiling, players, etc., and still be a “fair” ball. But more than one rebound would end a scoring play.

Fouls are made as follows:

1.	Carrying the ball (taking more than one step).

2.	Striking or touching the ball when it is in the hands of a player.

3.	Holding, pushing, striking or tripping an opponent.

4.	Getting out of a box with both feet.

5.	Stepping into the opponents’ territory or boxes.

6.	Stepping out of the field with one or both feet.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
- :U()

NOTE.—These rules were revised November 1908, by the Department of Physical Education of the Board of Public Education, Philadelphia. Suggestions for improvements are invited. Alison G. Cody, Janet B. Walter, Carl 0. Hierholzer, Committee.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

Mr. Carl Lieber, treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., recently presented to the College a work of,art, entitled: ,,La Meta Sudans, Fontaine on les lutteurs sortant du Cirque venaieut faire leurs ablutions44.

Mr. Jacob Metzger, a pionier member of the Turners’ Organization, upon his return from Europe recently presented to the College “Meyer’s Grosses Konvenations-Lexikon,’* a general reference work published in Leipsic and Vienna. It is the sixth and latest revised edition—a monumental work containing 11,000 illustrations and 1400 charts and plans, as well as 130 text supplements. The magnificent gift comprises 21 volumes and the charts. The gifts of Mr. Carl Lieber, as of Mr. Jacob Metzger were gratefully acknowledged.

Prof. E. H. Kemper McComb has succeeded Prof. Chas. Swain Thomas as Director of the Seminaries in English Language and Literature in the Normal College. Prof. Thomas has gone to Boston.

Director of Physical Education of the Philadelphia Public Schools, Mr. Wm. Stecher, and Prof. George Wittich, formerly Director of the Milwaukee Normal School of Gymnastics of the N. A. G. U., attended the sessions of the College on Friday and Saturday, Nov. 27 and 28, upon invitation of the College Trustees. The two gentlemen represented the non-resident trustees of the College, who hold appointments to report on the progress and needs of the College each half semester.

The officers of the Alumni Association of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. recently held an interesting meeting in the German House in Indianapolis, at which the preliminary steps for the next annual meeting, to be held in June in connection with the Commencement exercises, were considered.

A number of requests for admission to the College next Semester (February) were refused by the College Board. Applications for admissions will be considered prior to the opening of the Fall terms only.

‘ The Saturday afternoon outings of the men so far have been enjoyable, as well as instructive. A number of interesting experiments with reference to the effects of endurance marches were recently made.

Among the visitors of the College, Thanksgiving week, was Miss Madge Allen, Class ’07.

We offer $1.00 Cash for Nos. 1,2,0 and 21;

One years* Subscription for Nos. 114, 115, 116, 157,158, 159, 169 and 170 of MIND & BODY.

MIND AND BODY Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wia.

Digitized by Ljooole
/V\lND ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

SnbMcrlption Price, $1.00 per Year.

"WLecoaajaLaa..

SOT Address all irasincss letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—SKATING TIME is now here and all our energies ought to be bent toward giving old and young a chance to enjoy this ideal exercise. Fortunately, it is a simple matter to place a skating rink at your back door, and once there, particularly if extended over irregularities in the yard and to include the trees, it will develop infinite delights. Clear off every snowfall, pushing the snow into a bank around the selected site. After sundown the first hard freezing night, water the clear space and the inner base of the bank, using spray hose or a sprinkling can. From this beginning the trick is merely to produce a skating surface in as short a time as possible, taking advantage of melting snows that freeze again at night to help. The ground being frozen, it acts as a watertight bottom. In a cold, open winter no enclosing bank is needed— just cover your lawn with successive layers of ice. Obviously, grass should be close cropped in advance.

You are bound to get enough skating on this sort of rink to repay any amount of trouble; young folks will build one without trouble.

Children and their friends are saved hours of walking to a distant lake, and are safer and happier on the rink at home or on the next empty lot. Evenings the older folks have their turn, and refuse to miss it. The plan is practicable and delightful for any size place, while spots fifteen feet square will give children under twelve huge fun without danger or discomfort. The ripks do not injure lawns and are ideal for learners. An evening spent on the ice will bring greater returns in -health and fun than work in the best gymnasium.

According to the figures compiled by the New York Health Department, the death rate among women over forty-five years of age on Manhattan Island is greater than it was forty years ago. The theory is put forward that this is due to the signally enlarged participation of the feminine sex in scores of occupations outside their own homes— occupations in which it is assumed that the physical strain upon them inflicts permanent injury upon their health.

Much more evidence will be required on this point before that theory can be regarded as firmly established. It is not to be forgotten that the women of past generations were in numberless instances compelled to work quite as hard within their homes as their husbands, fathers and brothers worked on the farm or in the factory. The multiplied conveniences of modern city life were then largely non-existent. Cookery and houseeleaning, the rearing of families and all the endless

Entered at the Milwaukee Poet Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by Google
-342-

tasks which fell on female home-makers had to be conducted with appliances which would seem primitive indeed nowadays. Sources of amusement and relaxation were far less frequent in 1868 than in 1908.Bread, which is now furnished by the baker, then commonly came from the domestic oven. Clothing for children, now purchased from the department store, was usually made at home—and often Without the aid of the sewing machine.

It may be susceptible of proof that the huge army of young women wage-earners throughout the United States—most of whom only retain their positions for a few years until their marriage—are made less fit to become wives and mothers by their activities as stenographers, clerks and factory operatives. Yet if this were conclusively shown to be the case, it would be futile to expect their banishment from the industries which employ them. The tendency is toward an increase rather than a decrease in their number. If deterioration in physical stamina is the result, the remedy is to be found, not in solemn preachments, but in intelligent action to improve hygienic conditions in their places of labor, to lessen the length of their hours of toil, and to offer to women more and better facilities for sane gymnastics.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYS IOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadclph a.

The personal equation of boys plays too important a part in their development to make set rules possible, but in the great majority of cases the satisfying outlet for these instincts is through some form of interesting physical activity.

The secret of creating in boys a feeling of social responsibility which shall lead to intelligent discrimination in conduct, is not to be sought in talks on morals, but in the unconscious influence of the ideas and actions with which they are surrounded, and in pure air, simple, wholesome food and abundant exercise of a sort that appeals to the impulses of their stage of development.

Led by these physical activities into cooperative helpfulness, the indolent, not infrequently, show surprising interest in their school work. Their life is no longer seperated into two sections, one for play and the other for so much drudgery as may be forced upon them; but, instead, it is now one continuous round of mutual activity, in which the part that each plays is essential to the whole. The sports demonstrate to the boys, unconsciously it is true, and for that reason more convincingly, that the teacher who participates is one of them; his work is theirs as

their play is his.--------

But while the improved ways of doing a thing come unconsciously, those that survive do so for a reason, and in it lies part of the educative value, in its intellectual aspect, of manual training and of play. The child finds himself doing a thing in a certain way, and the question ol

Digitized by ejOOQie
its success come before him for decision. The value of constructive play as a factor in development is an unworked educational mine. — Prof. Edgar James Swift in his recently published book:	“Mind	in	the

Making.” Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York.

PSYCHO-THERAPY—A WARNING.

There is a great deal of conscious popular interest just now in the mental treatment of bodily complaints, and much good is being accomplished through this “new” means of healing. So much stress has been laid upon the frequency of disorders needing mental treatment only, that there is much danger that the lay mind, even that portion of it which professes to follow the leading of medical science, will overemphasize this idea.

While those who have spent years in the special study of the exceedingly complex human body-mind are deliberate and cautious in determining what part may be at fault and how it may be remedied,* there is a strong natural tendency in the lay mind to diagnose a fault at once and to prescribe the proper treatment without hesitation. In forming our judgements in such matters we are always very lenient with ourselves but not so charitable toward others. Our troubles are always ‘’organic,” while the ailments of our friends or even “loved ones” are always due to “nerves,” and are without sufficient excuse for their existence. Even though the diagnostic guess may be nearly correct, the spirit of it is not always wholesome nor helpful to the afflicted. It may be our own nerves that are causing the whole or a part of the trouble in others, who are too sensitive to withstand the friction of our rasping natures.

Serious mistakes, distressing to all concerned, are but too common. As an example, a woman of middle life who had previously been very energetic, began to complain of weakness and of pains in her chest. Her husband laughed at her, told her it was all her imagination, and ridiculed her for seeking relief through a physician. Within a few months an operation for cancer was necessary, from which she did not recover. In another instance, a young woman, who, through fortune's will, remained at home to take charge of household affairs while her brothers and sisters worked abroad, complained of lameness and general lack of strength. She was listened to without patience, and was told by one for whom she toiled that she had enlisted the doctor’s sympathy that she might take things easy, that she needed ‘“mind cure,” and could do her work as before if she really thought she could. She was suffering from hip disease, from which she was later incapacitated. It is unnecessary to give harrowing details, nor is it needful* to draw conclusions as to the effects of this mental treatment. The organic process may not have been greatly hastened thereby, but—! These cases did not occur in Christian Science homes but in supposedly Christian homes of the highest culture.

We are at present so constituted that a large and growing proportion

Digitized by
—:U4-

of the community finds itself unable to cope with life’s everyday experiences. Trifles fret us—things that should roll from us, in the classic phrase, “as water from a duck’s back.” We continue to nurse minor ills which should have left but a momentary impress on our nervous systems. Disorders amenable to mental treatment have a foundation in physical derangements, though these be not of a permanent nature, and faulty nerve working, while often accompanied or caused by unwholesome views of life, is more usually at bottom the result of general bodily insufficiency and instability of the nervous system, which hinders our life purposes and makes us fret under life’s ordinary cares.

So long as we continue to disregard the need of complete bodily growth and vigor as the only basis for strong, healthy mind, so long will nervous disorders increase, and no amount of mental treatment will lessen the number of such unfortunates, for at best mental treatment is largely a glossing, a making of life more endurable through an appeal to personal courage and the practice of stoicism. It directs nervous energy from improper and harmful into normal and healthful channels. It may economize, but it cannot create bodily vigor.

Much mental treatment would do more good were it applied to the relatives and friends of the patient, for it is of little use to drop a drooping plant if its soil and other influences remain the same.

Our knowledge of the efficiency of mental treatment should make us more careful of our conclusions as to the ailments of our friends, and should warn us to avoid a mental attitude toward them which wrould make even organic troubles worse. Our mistakes along this line should become fewer. It is our own ills rather than those of others which we should look upon as imaginary, and which we should attempt to correct by mental means.	(The	Dietetic	and	Hygienic	Gazette.)

THE TEACHING OF PHYSIOLOGY.

The child entering school for the first time, having lived a life of more or less boisterous freedom, comes under changed conditions. The physical activities are being subdued, the intellectual awakened to be trained. Good health which was so easily maintained is now beset with a multitude of enemies. Physical restraint; crowded, usually overcrowded, schoolrooms; poor ventilation,—alas, often none at all,—exposure to infectious conditions from the bodies of other children, all conspire to injure the physical well-being of the child.

The study of physiology in the public schools has come to occupy a very important place in the curriculum. Through it the child gets his first knowledge of the body, its structure and functions. The simplest rules of personal hygiene must be made the important part of this study. The safeguarding of the health of the school child can be accomplished only when there is intelligent cooperation of children, parents, and the school authorities. To obtain this cooperation there must be some knowledge of hygiene, and this is possible only through the study of physiology.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—345—

This is a required study in the public schools of many states. Unfortunately it is not a very interesting study to most children, or at least, it is not made interesting. So much time and space have to be given to the evil effects of alcohol and tobacco that the child wonders what it is all about, and at the end has little more than a confused idea that physiology, alcohol, and tobacco are in some way closely allied. Yet physiology can be made interesting as well as valuable to the child.

A class of forty hoys averaging ten years of age was having a recitation on the physiology of digestion. The use of the teeth, mouth, saliva, and gastric juice were considered and the answers given showed the results of good teaching, but when the exercise was over there was left the feeling of incompleteness. What had the boys gained that was useful? Some knowledge of the processes of digestion. But how were they to make use of this knowledge? So far it was a general knowledge only. Could any part of it be made personal? Why, yes, the part'the teeth play in the process of digestion might be made personal. Questions were then asked concerning the value of the teeth. What would happen if there were too few teeth or none at all? What caused a loss of teeth? What were the evil results of rotten teeth? The boys were eager to answer these questions, edged out of seats, waved hands frantically, scowled at wrong answers, and when called upon to answer stood erect by the desk and proudly gave what they considered correct answers. To the final question, “How many of you boys have cleaned your teeth this morning,” there was but one response. One boy in a class of forty had cleaned his teeth that morning. The other boys sat dejectedly in their seats, ashamed. Further questioning showed that more than one half of these boys made no use of the toothbrush at all, the others only occasionally.

If the study of physiology were made more personal in its application, if less attention were given to the evils of alcohol and tobacco, which children use not at all, and the time thus spent were given to the study of personal hygiene made simple and attractive, an interest in physical development and the care of the body for the joys it would bring, would take the place of the present apathy or f^ar of irrelevant evils.	“School	Hygiene.”

—OVERTASKING OF SCHHOOL CHILDREN has been made the subject of a report by Consul-General Guenther, of Frankfort, Germany. He quotes Dr. Otto Dornblueth, a neurologist of that city, who writes against the practice of afternoon sessions, and who states that an investigation of 16,000 children showed that sickness among those who attended school in the forenoon alone is one-third less than among those attending both sessions. He does not state the health conditions of those who do not go to school at all, but from other sources we can assume them to have been still better. Dornblueth asserts as a fact that afternoon sessions exhaust the children, disturb digestion, and * tire their brains. No doubt every one’s personal experience in their

Digitized by CjQOQle
—*4(>-

own childhood days confirms his statements. In spite of his opinions as to the exhaustion due to afternoon school, he makes the astonishing proposition to have a morning session of five hours, a relaxation of fifteen minutes being provided in every hour. This, of course, is entirely too long a time to deprive young children of food, and* even in our high schools it is known to he productive of much harm now and then, unless the scholars are able to get a nourishing lunch at noon, instead of the usual sweet , bun and bit of candy. To supply some hot thick soup with bread and milk may smack of socialism, but might so strengthen the poor bodies as to lead to better scholarship. It is a plan which is being seriously considered in many parts of the world. For the youngest children a morning session of three hours seems more reasonable, and to overcome the objections of the mothers who want the state to look after their children in the afternoons because they cannot do it themselves, Domblueth suggests the establishment of retreats where the little ones can be under proper nurses—a plan which is in actual practice in one of our western states. Though it sounds socialistic it is physiologic. It at least emphasizes the fact that in the lower grades our schools are custodial nurseries anyhow, where these mere babies learn good English by imitation.

The dangers of excessive home work have been so long known, and the system has been so widely abandoned in the best American schools, that it is somewhat of a surprise to find the matter under discussion in English journals. A parent complains in a London daily paper that his child is given on Friday evening enough work to occupy all of Saturday and some of Sunday, too. The journal replied that hard work was necessary in a competitive world, and seemed utterly oblivious of the fact that such early strains were the best means of injuring a child so that it could not take up its future struggle of existence. The Hospital, of London, commented editorially upon this matter in a most wholesome way, but it seems rather primitive to American pedagogs, who have settled such matters long ago—theoretically, at least, if not practically. It says, “even the most thick-headed can recognize the folly of a system which enables a boy to come out first in a competitive examination at 14 years of age and qualifies him for a lunatic asylum at 40.” The subject should be harped upon in this country, too, lest we forget. Prize pupils are not necessarily or even generally the successes in life—indeed, we have so many vigorous “self-made” men, whose vitality and energy is the result of normal development out of school, that the question naturally arises, why cannot we have more of such types from the schools? It seems almost heresy to say anything against the public school system—indeed, it is heresy to decry it as a system—but its defects, which are really being remedied as fast as they are discovered, are producing a distinct feeling of uneasiness in the minds of many thoughtful writers, and are dilated upon by its enemies. It is wisdom, then, to lessen the nerve strains of everv description ‘in this early period when strains are so disastrous, to the cud that children

Digitized by

aogle
-347-

in school will eventually be found to be as healthy and strong as those deprived of its vital advantages.	Amer.	Med.

AIDING THE CIRCULATION.

One of the easiest, and least inconvenient “baths” to be taken is the “friction** bath. This consists of simply rubbing every part of the body briskly, with either the bare hand, a dry towel, or with soft brushes, and is an excellent way to start the circulation of the blood. It can be taken in the morning on getting out of bed, at night on retiring or at other times found most convenient. The friction bath is excellent for the toning up of the nervous system, and of especial value to be taken just before or after a cool sponge bath, bringing a warm glow all over the surface. A rough turkish towel is excellent to use in the rubbing process.

Many sufferers from cold, clammy feet will find relief through washing the feet every night, first through hot water, then douching thjem with cold water, after which dry with soft towels, then rub vigorously either with the bate hand, or a rough towel, or with both, rubbing each toe separately, spreading them, and massaging on all sides. Cold feet are generally the result of poor circulation of the blood, and this bathing and rubbing thoroughly will bring the blood to the surface and through them.

Try exercise for warmth, rather than “hugging the stove/* when you feel chilly. Start the warmth from within and do not depend upon thick clothing or artificial heat. A brisk walk in the outer air will do more good than gallons of bitter tonic. Plenty of pure water and fresh air with a determination to get one*s full share of both, will work wonders in one*s health, if presevered in.	“Hygiene/*

DENTAL INSPECTION.

“Emerson has taught us/* says President Eliot, “that if we hope to reform mankind, we must begin not with adults, but with children; we must begin in the schools.** The study of oral hygiene should, therefore, be introduced into the public schools; toothbrush drill is just as important to the health of the child as the prescribed physical exercises.

Several attempts have been made in this country at teaching and practicing in the schools this branch of hygiene. One instance in particular is worthy of note. The results of treatment in a children's home , were, according to the superintendent's report, a marked decrease in contagion, with a consequent financial saving to the institution. Dental inspection has been introduced into the public schools of Brookline, and Prof. William H. Potter, of the Harvard Dental School, reported on the results of this work in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal (December 13, 1906). The teachers of the Dental Department of Harvard University are urging the public school officials of Boston to introduce dental inspection and the study of oral hygiene into the school system. The united testimony of high authorities on this subject

Digitized by LjOOQle
I

—348—

is strong. Dr. George V. I. Brown says:	“If	the	mouths	of the chil-

dren in our public schools could be systematically examined,.... the death-rate of this country would be very materially lessened, the percentage of illness much reduced, and a stronger and more vigorous race result ”

According to the London Lancet (October 21, 1902), Professor Osier's words are:	“If	I	were	asked	to	say	whether more physical deterioration

was produced by alcohol or by defective teeth, I should unhesitatingly say defective teeth.”

The city of Strassburg, in Germany, affords a striking example of systematic compulsory education in the care of the mouth and teeth. The third annual report of the work declares:	“Since	the	introduction

of the treatment there is a marked improvement in the general health of the public school children, and there are less headache, earache, and stomach troubles.” It is almost unnecessary to add that pain from dental origin has been practically controlled.

“School Hygiene.”

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By ROBERT NOHR, M. D., Cincinnati, Ohio.

(Continued.)

A Lesson for Business Men (Age 30 years and upwards.)

A Class Drill, division (squad) work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Combination Beetle Chase and Pass Ball.” See explanation below.

A preliminary run followed by light gymnastic tactics precedes the floor work.

After receiving dumbbells march forw. in flank formation and form ranks of fours or sixes in successive order upon arriving at the center of either end of the gymnasium, then continue to location for the drill. Open ranks outw. (from the center) by marching forw. to two steps distance, the rows (files) following after two steps intervals (5, 3 and 1 steps resp.)

DUMBBELL DRILL.

1.	a) Toetouch forw. 1. and r. alt. and raise arms forw. and return—1,4!

b) 44 sidew. “ 4 4 4 4 4 4	4 4	4 4	4 4 sidew. 1. and r. alt. and

return—1, 4!

Stride pos. sidew. and raise arms sidew.—jump!

2.	Quarter turn 1. on the heels, bend 1. knee, move r. arm downw.

then forw. upw. obi., the 1. arm downw. backw. obi.—1! Pos.—2!

Same opposite—3! Pos.—4! Pos.—jump!

Arms to thrust—bend!

3.	a) Raise heels and thrust arms upw.—1! Pos.—2!

b)	Bend trunk forw. and thrust arms outw.—l! Pos.—2

c)	A and b alternately—1, 4!

Arms—down!

L. leg sidew. and hands on hips—raise!

Digitized by Goode
-349-

4.	Cut sidew. with 1. foot (i. e. transferring the weight from r. to 1. foot by a hop) and raise r. leg sidew.—1! Hop on 1. leg and still hold r. leg sidew.—21 Cut sidew. with r. foot and raise 1. leg sidew.—3! Hop on r. leg—4! Repeat in lively rhythm. Pos.—standi

Arms outw.—raise!

5.	a) Bend knees deeply and move arms upw.—1! Pos.—2!

b)	Bend trunk- backw. and bend arms inward (elbows on a level with the shoulders and back as far as possible, hands in front of respective shoulders)—1! Pos.—2! Arms—Down!

c)	A and b alt.—1, 4!

Arms—down!

Intermediate Exercise.—March forw. four steps—1, 4! L. about face in four steps—5, 8! Repeat to starting point and 1. face upon the last count (% turn in all)—9, 16! Repeat toward the remaining three sides to starting point—17, 64! Start with r. foot and repeat the above toward the r.—1, 64!

6.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise arms forw. upw.—1! Quarter turn

1.	on the heels and bend arms to strike (i. e. the forearms are flexed upon the arms, elbows well back on a level with the shoulders and hands above the latter—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

Bend knees deeply and rest dumbbells on the floor—lower!

7.	Jump to stride pos. sidew. and raise arms sidew.—1! Jump to starting pos.—2! Repeat in lively rhythm. Pos.—stand!

Stride pos. sidew. and raise arms to strike—jump!

8.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alt. and strike arms sidew.—1, 4!

Pos.—jump!

9.	a) Lunge forw. 1., raise 1. arm forw. upw. obi. and r. arm backw.

downw. obi.—1! Pos.—21 Same opposite—3, 4! b) Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. arm sidew. upw. obi. and r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3, 4!

10.	a) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. in livelv rhythm,

b) 4 4	4	4	4	4	4	4	extended 44 forw. 4 4	4 4

11. Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowlv and raise arms forw. upw.—1, 4! Exhale slowly and lower arms sidew. to starting pos.—5, 8!

Close ranks toward the center by marching forw.

Class march forw. the ranks r. face in successive order to flank formation and deposit dumbbells.

Form divisions and march to assigned places for the apparatus work

First Division.—Low parallel bars (side jumps.)

Second	“	Flying rings (nearly	height of reach.)

Third	“	Side horse.

Fourth	“	Oblique ladder.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division. Low Parallel Bars (side jumps.)

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to front leaning rest on both bars—1! Squat over rear bar to inside side stand—2! Squat backw. to front leaning rest as 1—3! Flank vault forw. 1. over both bars—4!

Digitized by

Google
—350—

2.	Jump to momentary free front rest on the farther bar and squat over near bar to inside side stand—1! Squat backw. to front leaning—2! Rear vault dismount r. over both bars—3!

3.	As ex. 1,—1! Straddle vault forw. over near bar to inside side stand —2! Squat vault backw. to front leaning rest—3! Squat vault forw. over both bars—4!

NOTE.—The leader stand ready to offer assistance if necessary.

4.	Flank vault 1. over both bars.

5.	Rear vault 1. over both bars.

6.	Rear vault r. over near bar with % turn 1. to crossseat—1! Swing backw. and turn over forw. to upper arm balance—2! Turn over sidew.r. to crosseat \on the farther side—3!

7.	As ex. 6, to upper arm balance—1, 2! Lower backw. to straight arm rest, immediately turn over backw. to upper arm rest and flex the thighs over trunk—3! Kip (upstart) to straight arm rest and front vault r. or upstart to straddle seat in front of hands, then swing backw. and finish with front vault r.

8.	An exercise free for all if time permits.

NOTE.—Each exercise to be repeated on the opposite side before the succeeding one is taken up.

Change with the second division on the flying rings.

First Division.—Flying Rings (nearly height of reach,)

NOTE.—Step backw. to full reach.

1.	Run forw., jump up, swing both legs upw. and V2 turn 1.; repeat with Y2 turn r. at the end of the next swing. Repeat several times.

2.	Run backw., jump upward V2 turn 1.; repeat ’with V2 turn r. at the end of the next swing. Repeat several times.

3.	Run forw., jump up, swing both legs upw., turn over backw. and spread legs wide on the outside of the anus; intermediate swing in this pos. and at the next forw. swing lower to hang, run backw. and forw. and repeat once.

4.	As ex. 3, but place both feet in the respective rings and turn over backw. to the bird’s nest.

5.	As ex. 3, but rest the 1. leg (kneehang) on the 1. wrist, the r. leg and trunk on the same level. At the next forw. swing quickly change from 1. to r. kneehang on r. wrist. Repeat once and down.

6.	As ex. 5, but rest the 1. leg (kneehang) on the r. wrist and vice versa.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—Flying Rings (nearly height of reach.)

Execute the same exercises as the first division.

Change place with the first division on the low parallel bars.

Second Division.—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps.)

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to front leaning rest on both bars—1! Place 1. foot on the farther bar (knee stretched)—2! M turn r. place r. foot and r. hand on near bar to front leaning rest—3! Dismount sidew. 1.

2.	As ex. 1,-1, 2, 3! Two intermediate swings—4, 7! Front vault I. (over farther bar)—8! •

• Digitized by Google
3.	As ex. 1,—1! Place 1. foot on the near bar—2! *4 turn 1., pass r. leg under the 1., place r. foot on the farther bar and 1. hand on the near bar to back leaning rest—3! Two intermediate swings—4, 7! Rear vault r. (over farther bar)—8!

4.	As ex. 1,-1, 2! Dismount forw. by passing the r. leg under the 1. and down—3!

5.	As ex. 4, but with *4 turn 1. in passing over the bars.

6.	As ex.l,—1! Flank vault dismount forw. 1.

7.	“	“	“	Rear	“ #	“	“	r.

8.	An exercise free for all if time permits.

NOTE.—See note under first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the side horse, the fourth on the oblique ladder.

Side Horse.

From front side stand, grasp 1. pommel with the r. hand, jump up with Y2 turn 1. and grasp the r. pommel with the 1. hand to back side rest and execute the following:

1.	Squat backw. with both legs to rest on the saddle—1! Stand erect—2! Dismount backw.—3!

2.	Squat backw. 1. to side riding rest—1! Squat backw. r. to front side rest—2! Raise both legs backw. and down—3!

3.	Pass 1. leg backw. under the 1. hand to side riding rest—1! Squat backw. r. simultaneously raise 1. leg backw. and meet the r. to momentary free front rest and down—2!

4.	As ex. 3, with 1. leg—1! Same opposite to front side rest and down—2!

5.	As ex. 4, but to front rest—1, 21 Raise knees to kneestand on saddle—3! Dismount forw.—4!

6.	Squat backw. with both legs to front side rest—1! % turn r and pass r. leg backw. over croup to crossriding seat—2! Place hands in front of thighs and raise both legs backw. to a front leaning rest—3! Straddle dismount forw.—4!

7.	Squat backw. to front side stand—1! Flank vault forw. 1.—2!

8.	An exercise free for all.

Fourth Division—Oblique Ladder.

Hands on the beams, feet on rounds.

1.	Travel forw. on the upper side to upper end—1! Lower to straddle seat on the beams and slide down backw.—2!

2.	Travel to upper end on the under side—1! Lower to straight arm hang and travel downw., moving the hands alternately—2!

3.	Travel backw. to upper end on the upper side—1! Lower to straddle seat on the beams and slide downw. forw.—2!

In front crosshang, hands in outside grasp on the beam?.-

4.	Travel to upper end and downw. with side swinging.

5.	Travel forw. on the upper side to upper end, hands and feet moving alt. on every other round—1! Lower to front leaning rest (feet on beams)—2! Travel downw. moving the hands alt. on the rounds.

6.	As ex.2, but feet and hands on the rounds—1! Lower to straight arm hang and travel downw. moving the hands alt.—2!

Digitized by

Google
-352-

7.	Travel forvv. to upper end on the upper side, without the hid of the hands—1! Grasp the beams and travel around to the under side of the ladder and lower to a straight arm hang—2! Travel downw. moving both hands simultaneously—3!

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of alt apparatus and form one large or two smaller circles for the game “Combination Beetle Chase and Pass Ball/'

Explanation of the game.—After forming a circle face inward, the members about four feet apart. A medicine ball, or a basket ball is passed in circle 1. (i. e. from 1. to r. neighbor.) The beetle (or stuffed club as it is commonly termed) that is made of soft material (Turkish towel rolled pp and sewed,) of about sixteen or eighteen inches in length, is placed upon the floor in the center of the circle.

The ball is passed as rapidly as possible from one to the next member with the purpose that some one eventually drops the same. The one who drops the ball must pick it up and carry it once around the outside of the circle to his starting point; simultaneously the one who delivered the ball last steps quickly to the center of the circle, picks up the beetle and breaks through the circle at the nearest point, to the runner and endeavors to strike him on the legs as often as possible before he can reach his place. Then the ball is again passed and the beetle thrown to the center of the circle. The game continues thus indefinitely.

NOTE.—The ball must not be thrown too hard or purposely out of reach to cause any mem-ber to drop the same. The member with the beetle must not head off tne runner cairymg the ball. The game can be played by both sexes above ten years of age. The seniors prefer to use the medicine ball.

About sixteen members to a circle makes the game very lively.

After conclusion of the game dismiss

(To be continued.)

SOCCER FOOT BALL. No. 2.

(Advanced form. See December Mind and Body for Soccer No. 1.)

The Field.—The field should be between 50 and 100 yards wide and between 100 and 150 yards long for a match game (otherwise whatever space is available) divided into two equal parts by a line through the centre, called the half way line. The two long lines bounding the field are called the “touch lines” and the two short lines bounding the field are called the “goal lines.” The centre of the field shall be marked with a circle with a ten yard radius.

Goals.—Two posts with a cross bar, are placed on the end lines in the middle. The posts are 8 yards apart. The cross bar is 8 feet above the ground.

Goal Area.—Lines are marked 6 yards outside of each goal post at right angles with the goal line for a distance of 6 yards and these lines are connected with a line parallel with the goal line, The space within these lines shall be known as the “Goal Area.”

Players.—Eleven players constitute a team, they are named as follows:	Centre,	inside	right,	outside	right,	inside	left,	outside	left,	left

halfback, centre halfback, right halfback, right fullback, left fullback and goal keeper. Their positions are shown in the diagram.

Time of game.—The game is played in two halves of from 20 to 40 minutes each with an intermission of five or ten minutes.

Digitized by Google
Choice of goals.—The winner of the toss (toss of coin) has the option of the kick off or the choice ,of goals. Goals are changed at half time (end of the first half).

Start of game.—The game is commenced by a place kick (kick off) from the centre of the field in the direction of the oppenents’ goal. No opponent may approach within 10 yards of the ball until it has been kicked off. Should this rule not be complied with, the kick must be taken over. After a goal has been made the losing side kicks off; after the change of goals at half time the ball is kicked off by the opposite side to that which kicked off at the start of the game.

Scoring a goal.—A goal is scored when the ball has passed between the goal posts and under the cross bar, providing it has not been thrown, carried or touched by the hands or arms (knocked on) by any player of the attacking side. A scored goal counts one point.

Out of play.—The ball is out of play when it has crossed the goal line or touch line either on the ground or in the air.

Throw in.—When the ball is “in toueh” (that is when the ball has crossed the touch or side line) a player on the opposite side to that which played it out shall, while standing on the touch line facing the field of play, throw the ball in with both hands, over his head, into the field of play. He must not, however, play the ball again until it has been played by another player, A goal cannot be scored from a “throw in.”

Goal kick.—When the ball is played behind (over) the goal line by a player of the attacking side, it shall be kicked off* by any one of the players behind whose goal line it went, within that half of the goal area nearest the point where the ball left the field of play. If it be kicked across the goal line by one of the defending players a player on the opposite (attacking) team kicks the ball from within one yard of the nearest corner. No opponent is allowed within 6 yards of the ball until it has been kicked off (a kick of this kind is called a “corner kick”).

Goal-keeper handling ball.—The goal-keeper may within his own half of the field of play use his hands, but must not at any time carry the ball. The goal-keeper cannot be changed without first notifying the referee.

Dangerous play or fouling.—Tripping, kicking, or jumping at a player is not allowed. Holding or pushing a player is not allowed. For the infringement of these rules a free kick is given to the opposing side, at that place where the ball was at the time of such infringement of the rules.

Free kick.—A free kick is a kick at the ball without any interference, in which case the kicker’s opponents must not be within 6 yards of the ball, unless they are standing on their own goal line. The kicker must not again play the ball until it has been played by another player.

Restarting the game.—In case of a temporary suspension of the game from any cause whatever, the ball shall again be put in play at the place it was at the time the play was suspended. The ball is thrown down where it was when the play ceased. The ball is in play as soon

Digitized by C^ooQle
-354-

as it touches the ground, and the ball must not be played until it does touch the ground.

Officials.—The officials shall be a referee (who has full charge of the game), two linesmen (one for each side of the field) and a timekeeper, who shall also act as scorer.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

(Complying with the wishes of many readers this department will hereafter bring news notes from schools, associations, societies, clubs etc Teachers, secretaries, also active participants in any branch ot' physical training are requested to send news of general interest to Mr. Haug.)

—The Undergraduate Council at Harvard at the opening of the foot-ball season elected, by the Australian ballot, six of their fellow students whose duty it is, in connection with the captains of the major athletic teams, “to prevent team and crew members being absent from recitations and to keep their scholarship, during the training season, up to the general average.” They are called “prods” for short.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION INDOOR CHAMPIONSHIP MEET.

Nov. 30 and Dec. 1, 1908.

Madison Square Garden, New York.

The greatest battle for athletic supremacy in the history of indoor track and field sports was held at Madison Square Garden at the competitions for the indoor championship of the A. A. U.

Record breaking performances marked the competitions The most meritorious competition of the meet was the 5 mile run, which was won by T. J. Collins, Irish American A. U, who covered the distance in 25:19 2-5, establishing a new record and lowering that of E. C. Carters made in 1887, which has heretofore defied the greatest American

distance runners.

Following is the list of new indoor champions:

60 yard	Dash:	R.	Cloughen, Irish American A. C........Time	.06	2-5

75	”	”	R.	Cloughan, Irish American A. C.......... ”	.07	4-5

150 ”	”	J.	J. Eller,.Irish American A. C.......... ”	.16

300	yard	Run:	L.	B. Dorland, Pastime A. C............. ”	.33	2-5

600	”	”	M.	N. Sheppard, Irish American	A. C.	”	1.14	4-5

1000	”	”	H.	Gissing, unattached ................. ”	2.20

2	Mile Run:	M. P. Driscoll, Mercury A. C............... ”	9.28	3-5

5	”	” T. J. Collins, Irish American A. C.............. ”	25.19	2-5

220 vards Hurdles:	J. J. Eller, Irish American A.	C.... ”	.28	2-5

300 " ”	”	J. J. Eller, Irish American A. C..... ”	.37	2-5

1 Mile Walk:	S. Liebgold. Pastime A. C.................. ”	7.174-5

3	”	”	S. Liebgold, Pastime A. C.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-355-

56 lb. Weight, Height:	P.	McDonald, Irish A. A. C., 16 ft. 3-8 inch.

Running Higjj Jump:	H. F. Porter, Irish A. A. C., 6 ft.

Standing Broad Jump:	Platt	Adams,	New York A. C., 10 ft, 6 in.

Putting 8 lb. Shot: M. J. Sheridan, Irish A. A. C., 61 ft. 6 1-2 in. Running Hop, Step and Jump:	Platt	Adams,	N.	Y.	A.	C.,	45	ft.	4	in.

Pole Vault, Distance: W. A. McLeod, Irish A. A. C., 26 ft. 9 1-2 in. Standing High Jump: J. A. Biller, Brooklyn Central Y. M. C. A., 4 ft. 11 in.

3	Standing Jumps:	S.	C. Lawrence, Howard University, 32 ft. 10 in.

Putting 24 lb. Shot: W. N. Coe, Boston A. A., 34 ft. 111-2 in.

Pole Vault, Height:	C.	Vazin,	Princeton	University,	11	ft.	2	in.

—President James E. Sullivan of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States was recently re-elected for the third consecutive time to the presidency contrary to all precedents. By this unanimous re-election the A. A. U. voiced its approval in the stand taken by Mr. Sullivan at the Olympic Games held in London and at the same time has placed a ban on the Amateur Athletic Association of Great Britain. The following resolution was unanimously adopted:

“Resolved, That this union gives and does give by this resolution its hearty approval and indorsement to the acts of its Commissioner, James E. Sullivan, and so far as within its power to the acts of the American Olympic Committee, while representing the United States of America at the Olympic Games at London in 1908.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Amateur Athletic Union be instructed to communicate with the Secretary of the Amateur Athletic Association of Great Britain, acknowledging the receipt of his letter of Nov. 6, 1908, setting forth its disqualification in Great Britain of J. C. Carpenter, and replying that this union declines to recognize its disqualification of Mr. Carpenter.

Resolved, That hereafter no athlete registered with the Amateur Athletic Union be given permission to compete in any international competition in the department of sports, over which the Amateur Athletic Association has jurisdiction, unless such meeting and management thereof are approved by the Amateur Athletic Union.”

In connection with future international and Olympic contests the following resolution was unanimously concurred in:

“Resolved, That the union appoint a committee, consisting of James E. Sullivan, Bartow S. Weeks, Joseph B. Maccabe, Everett C. Brown, and Gustavus G. Kirby, with power in its discretion to add to its number others who need not be members of this union or of its allied bodies, in an effort to bring together representatives r of the governing bodies of amateur track and field sports of the nations of the world, to the end that there be discussed and decided by such international committee the time and place of the next international or Olympic contests and the events to he decided, the

Digitized by C^ooQle
—*>50—

rules and regulations governing such contests, the officers and officials to have charge of such contests, and all other patters having to do therewith/'

The list of officers elected follows:

President: James E. Sullivan, New York.

Vice-Presidents:	Everett C. Brown, Chicago; H. G. Penniman,

Baltimore; H. M. Inglis, Seattle, and A. J. Lill, Jr., Baltimore. Secretary-Treasurer:	Major John J. Dixon, Brooklyn.

RECORDS RECENTLY APPROVED BY THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION.

Sixty-five-yard run, Indoor—Lawson Robertson, 7 seconds.

120 Yards High Hurdle^A. B. Shaw, Darthmouth College, 15 1-5 sec. 220 Yards Low Hurdles Fifth of a Mile Track, Around a Turn—J. J.

Eller, 24 4-5 seconds.

220 Yards High Hurdles, 3 Feet Six Inches—J. J. Eller, 27 3-5 seconds. 440 Yards High Hurdles, Three Feet Six Inches—Charles Bacon, 1 minute 3-5 seconds.

900 Yards Run—Andrew Glarner, San Francisco, 2 minutes 1 2-5 sec. Sixteen-Pound Shot—Ralph Rose, 49 feet 10 inches.

Twelve-Pound Shot—Ralph Rose, from seven-foot circle, 57 feet, 3 in. Discus (seven-foot circle)—M. F. Horr, 132' feet 11 inches (weight 4.4 pounds).

Discus (Olympic style)—M. J. Sheridan, 140 feet 5 1-2 inches. Sixteen-Pound Hammer—John Flanagan (nine-foot circle), 179 feet 6 3-4 inches.

Eighteen-Pound Hammer (including weight of head and wire handle)— B. F. Sherman, Boston, 131 feet 1-4 inches.

Twenty-one-Pound Hammer (including weight of head and wire handle) —B. F. Sherman, 109 feet 1 1-4 inches.

Pole Vault—Walter R. Dray, Yale, 12 feet 9 1-2 inches.

Olympic Records, try-outs, Philadelphia, June 6:

Greek Discus—Martin J. Sheridan, 110 feet 7 1-2 inches.

The 100-Meter Dash—J. A. Rector (equals record), 0:10 4-5,

The 800-Meter Dash—M. W. Shephard, 1:45.

The 400-Meter Dash—Hurdle three feet high, Charles Bedeon, 0:55 4-5. The 1500-Meter Dash—J. P. Halstead, 4:01 1-5.

The 100-Meter Dash—H. J. Huff, at Pittsburg, June 20 (equals record), 0:10 4-5.

The following swimming records by C. M. Daniels were approved:

The 60-yard Bath, Two Turns—December 19, 1907, Pittsburg, 0:30.

The 75-vard Bath, Two Turns—March 31, Pittsburg, 0:45 1-5.

The Eighty-yard Bath, Three Turns—March, New York City, 0:43.

The following records were awarded to C. M. Daniels, made in open tidal salt water at Travers Island, September 19:

The 220 yards, one turn, 2:40 3-5.

The 330 yards, two turns, 4:15.

Digitized by CaOOQle
The 440 yards, three turns, 5:54 1-5.

Other swimming records approved were:

The 200 yards, breast stroke, hath, nine turns, A. M. Goessling, March 18, 2:45 2-5.

The 150 yards, hack stroke, hath, five turns, A. M. Goessling, March 18,2:101-5.

The 400 yards relay, C. M. Daniels, C. D. Trubenbach, L. B. Goodwin, George South, March 27. Time, 4:13 3-5.

Plunging, one minute time limit, 74 feet, C. S. Brown, March 21.

—Fifteen dead and 338 injured was the harvest reaped in football during the season just closed. These figures, which include the contests in the West on Saturday, surpass in number of accidents any year of the old game, and make it appear as tjiough debrutalized football is only a myth.

The open play game, brought about by the ten-yard rule, forward passing and onside kicking, which was supposed to lessen the perils of the gridiron, seems to have been a failure as far as any great saving of life and limb was concerned,'

In 1908 baseball there were 17 deaths directly due to the game, while 26 persons were seriously injured. At least 230 persons were hurt, but most of the injuries were slight. The baseball season was also a record breaker compared to the two previous years. In 1907 the deaths numbered 5, while in 1906 12 persons lost their lives while taking part in or witnessing the national game. Considering the far greater number, of players in baseball than in football, however, the percentage of diamond casualties is much less than that of the gridiron.

INJURY ROLL IN FOOTBALL.

Broken collar bones....

Broken legs............

Broken arms............

Broken jaws............

Broken noses...........

Broken ribs (plavers) .

Concussions of the brain Torn ligaments........

42

80

18

6

21

16

12

20

Sprains..........................

Dislocations.....................

Lockjaw....... ...................

Insanity .........................

Miscellaneous—Teeth knocked out, scalp wounds, cuts, etc..........

Total. ...........................

RECORD FOR EIGHT YEAR.

55

2X

1

1

90

.388

r^“Year	Deaths.	Ini’d.

^ 1901................. 7	74

^ 1902................ 15	1.06

*"■1903............... 14	63

r 1904................ 14	296

Year	Deaths.	Inj’d.

1905	................ 24	200

1906	................ 14	100

1907	................ 15	166

1908	................ 15	338

Prof. H. G. Lord, chairman of the Columbia Faculty Committee, reporting unfavorably on intercollegiate foot ball at that institution, issued an individual statement of his conviction, which he maintains is held by a majority of the faculty, that foot ball is absolutely a dead letter at Columbia University, New York.

He describes the situation os follows:

“The committe believe that foot ball can perhaps be played in a

Digitized by Google
—358—

wholly honorable and sportsmanlike way, though the temptations to foul play are greater in it that in any other college sport. They believe that it can be made a school of moral discipline more severe than any other sport for the very reason of its temptations. They believe that its danger to life and limb have been decreased by amendement of the rules.

“They believe all this and are yet unwilling to re-establish the game in Columbia.

“There is another reason of weight for the action of the committee which I wish to mention. It is that coming, as the foot ball season does, at the beginning of the year, it had a demoralizing effect on the student body, giving them an attitude of mind that is often fatal to a proper interest in all those things for which a college exists and for which the professional schools pre-eminently exist.”

BOOK REVIEW.

—SEX AND SOCIETY, Studies in the Social Psychology of Sexr by William I. Thomas, associate professor of sociology. University of Chicago. 325 pages. Price postpaid $1.65, published by the University of Chicago.

Speaking of this interesting book Mr. Graham Taylor says in Charities and the Commons, that the distinctive value of this volume is the masterful way in which Professor Thomas tests and interprets inferences drawn from anthropological data regarding inherent differences in the sexes, by the adaptation which both women and men have made to their respective social functions. The assumption that woman is inherently inferior to man is shown to ignore not only the characteristics which she has acquired in fulfilling her own function in the family and society, but also the superior qualities involved in adapting herself to her distinct and specialized modes of functioning.

Social control exercised by women in primitive society is explained by the more central and essential relationship of motherhood in the primitive groups. This continued so long as the group depended upon the stationary, conserving function and habit of the female. When with higher organization, the group became dependent upon the more rapid movement and physical powers of the male, then social control passed from women to men. The social feeling out of which morality and ialtruism spring Professor Thomas considers to have been evolved from the sensitiveness developed by courtship, the consideration for physical weakness developed through love of offspring, and the comradeship in the united effort required to protect and promote common family interests. Yet this very chivalric, protective attitude of men toward women proves to have enthralled the sex by customs and limitations of sphere which have excluded the female from community of interests and equality with the male ever since masculine ascendency was attained in primitive times.

Particularly interesting and significant is the recital of the process-

Digitized by CjOOQle
by which man superseded woman in industry. His primitive subordination to her when she was comparatively stationary while he roved; when she acquired the arts and property upon which he depended for sustenance and comfort was reversed when the hunting, fishing and nomadic life no longer yielded him adequate reward or satisfaction. Then he brought the strength, agility, enterprise, and versatility acquired in the chase into the industries of civilized life. Thereafter for generations she became relatively restricted and inferior in social status. The author therefore regards as phenomenal the progress which woman is now making wherever she is admitted to an equality of opportunity with man in developing and applying her inherent capabilities and in acquiring new aptitudes.

The summaries which the volume furnishes of the facts and conclusions of anthropological research make it invaluable for readers who desire to know the sources and results of this science rather than its processes. Professor Thomas’s own social interpretation of the facts, and his reasoning in reaching them, are not more a distinct contribution to scientific literature than they are the most satisfactory presentation of the subject to those without technical knowledge of the science and literature underlying these studies.

A very distinct point of view is established by the thesis of the volume which is, “That the differences in bodily habit between men and women, particularly the greater strength, restlessness, and motor aptitude of man, and the more stationary condition of woman, have had an important influence on social forms of activity, and on the character and mind of the two sexes.” Whoever views or reviews history or contemporary life, industrial status or social progress, customs or morals, with the insight thus given of the differentiation of the sexes in function, in acquired characteristics and in inherent potentialities, cannot fail to be more accurately considerate in judgment or better grounded in hope for the future..

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—SOME LIVING THINGS, primary lessons in physiology, by Ella B. Hallock, 214 pages, 6x7% inches. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Price, postpaid, 45 cents.

While there are quite a number of books for teaching physiology in the middle and upper grades there are none for the primary grades. The deficiency is supplied by this book. Beginning with the form of animals and their parts, the child’s attention is drawn to similar parts of its own body. By asking for a statement of their differences the child is compelled to note things that otherwise would not attract its attention. In the same manner the senses, various bodily functions etc. are examined.

Many good illustrations make the book of greater interest to children. To all who need the use of a textbook on physiology for the primary grades the book is recommended. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by
-360—

—"MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS” by Gulick and Avres, 276 pages, 6x9*4 inches, published by Charities Publication Committee, New York. Price $1.00 postpaid. This book is one of the results of the “Backward Children Investigation” which was begun about a year ago in the city of New York, giving the information relative to medical inspection which was gathered from all parts of Europe and America. In its twelve chapters it treats of the nature and aims of medical inspection, school physicians and nurses, examination for the detection of contagious diseases, and of non-contagious defects. Then come administration, controlling authorities and legal aspects. For schoolteachers the last chapter on retardation and physical defects is the most interesting. When last spring, (based on certain examinations made on New York schoolchildren) the statement emanated from New York that nearly 75 per cent, of schoolchildren in America must be defective we wondered if“we had been blind or if the New York conditions on which the statement was based were abnormal. In chapter 12 an illuminating light is cast upon these examinations what they really represent, and we breathe easier and feel more hopeful of seeing children grow into man- and womanhood of about the same type we now represent. The book is recommended to all teachers. May be had from “Mind and Body/ Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TUBERCULOSIS IN THE UNITED STATES including a directory of Institutions dealing with Tuberculosis in the United States and Canada compiled by Philip P. Jacobs, published by the Charities Publication Company, New York. Price, postpaid, $1.00.

Tuberculosis takes more lives than any other disease, 150,000 a year in the United States. But it is curable and preventable and the country is organizing to stamp it out. State and city, governments, private associations and individuals everywhere are at work in solving its problems.

In thiR book one may find, for any city or State in the United States, just what the law is, what the nearest institutions are, and the requirements for admission. There is also included a directory of Canadian Sanatoria. It is complete), thorough up-to-date; an invjaluable reference for one who may need to advise consumptives or their families, and for the student of social and health problems.

Contents:	Sanatoria, Hospitals, and Day Camps in the United

States and Canada; Hospitals for the .Insane Making Special Provision for Tuberculosis Patients; Penal Institutions Making Special Provision. Dispensaries and Clinics; Tuberculosis Classes; Associations and Committees for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis; Typical Forms of Organization of Associations; Legislation; Typical Laws.

To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

HSUr* A.SK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by C OQle


----lfto'V W J_

COAL Ant*

~ o

c°^k K«s.tr ta.

opal Line

Hipht

o

FOWU^CK

-I

c	CtHTKt

£ C

*	Hav.fbm:»s

r	*ipht

*	H^tFAACK

U^FT

O

Fl/kk3ACK

ULFt

9

HALFBACK

OUTStBfe

o

»hs\br

o

**PHT

CtKTtt Ift^iot

OUT«lpt

o

LtFT

HALFWfVf

MNfc

o	o	o	o

O

o

GOM.I	C	AUCA
	1		

Ooau hue

SOCCER FOOTBALL, NO. 2.

Digitized by

Google

Touch uke
Digitized by LaOOQle
30th National Gymnastic Festival

OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (N.A. T. B.)

JUNE, 19th TO 27th, 1909, AT CINCINNATI.

General Offices at North Cincinnati Turn Verein, Vino and Daniels Sts.

OFFICIAL, BULLETIN NO. 1

Cincinnati. November 5th, 1808.

The General Committee having charge of the arrangements of the next National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union, have decided to issue and send out Official Bulletins from time to time to Turner Societies, Turners in general and all others who may be interested throughout the United States, giving the details and arrangements pertaining to what we hope will be the greatest event in the history of the Union.

“THE FESTIVAL IN CINCINNATI IN 1909”

The Place: CINCINNATI “The Queen of the West.” The Time: JUNE 19 TO 27, 1909, Both Inclusive.

A HEARTY WELCOME AND A SPLENDID ENTERTAINMENT.—It will be the aim of the Committee to extend a hearty welcome to every visiting Turner and all friends that may come with him, and with that end in view, the Committee respectfully requests that it be informed of the time of arrival of all visitors. including the name of the railroad.

LADY TURNERS AND VISITORS,-It is the desire of the Committee that all visiting Turners bring with them their wives, mothers, or sisters, as the case .may be. A program will be arranged for them, the details of which will be presented in our subsequent bulletins, and will include visits to the famous Rook-wood Pottery, the Zoological Gardens, Ft. Thomas, and other places of interest in and around Cincinnati.

THE PROGRAM.—The entire program for the Festival is now in the course of preparation, and will be printed for your information in our next bulletin. For the present the Committee only desires to state that it will endeavor to make it the best in the history of the Union, including many new features and novelties, and we are quite sure will leave such an impression on all of the visitors, that one need only to mention to them the name of Cincinnati, at any "Time in the future, to bring to their minds the most pleasant of recollections.

THE CAMPUS.—What is known as the “Carthage Fair Grounds” has been selected for the Campus and Fest Platz. No more beautiful site could have been secured anywhere. Over $30,000 will be expended in additional improvements. The Athletic field is now in the course of construction. It will be as level as a floor, all newly sodded and will surpass any Athletic Field in the United States. Extensions will be made to the Grand Stands, improved sanitary conditions will be provided for, including all toilet facilities, and the whole campus will be beautifully illuminated during the whole Festival.

REDUCED RAILROAD RATES.—The Committee has already taken up the question of securing reduced Railroad Rates with the following Associations: Central Passenger Association; Western Passenger Association; Trunk Line Association; Southeastern Passenger Association; New England Passenger Association.

Corespondence already had indicates that proper rates will be secured from all these Associations, which will be fully set forth in one of the succeeding bulletins and as soon as possible.

HOTELS AND ACCOMMODATIONS.—A Special Committee has been appointed to look after hotel rates and accommodations. Assurance can be given at this time that there will be no increase in hotel rates and no overcrowding of rooms. In the next bulletin a list of hotels and their respective locations will ; :bi€ submitted, giving price per day, both American and European plans.

WATCH FOR THE NEXT BULLETIN.—It will contain a number of new and novel announcements. The most important of all: “THE WOODS IN THE HEART OF T^JM^TY.” (Details Later.)

The Committee . n i to have the correct address of every Turn verein and the proper person to whom mail should be addressed. Please do so at once.

For information of all kinds, address. General Committee, Tuinfest 1909, North Cincinnati Tum-halle,

. Cincinnati.

Issued by the order of the General Committee.

AUG. HERRMANN. Chairman.	ADAM BENUS, Treasurer.

HENRY HOEFLE, Vice Chairman. GEO. F. DIETERLE.

GUSTAVE CLEMENS, Secretary. GEO. A. SINGER.

ERNST VON BARGEN, Fin. Sec’ty. N. C. SEUSS, Technical Director.

r ’A/Lrio -‘5
GYM IN AS I U M

Gymnastic Apparatus Loc kers Bowling- Alleys Playground Apparatus

Anthroporjietrlc Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

r

Write for Catalogs.	PROVIDENCE, R.I., U.S.A.

NORMAL COLLEGE § NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415*419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

KARL J. KROH, President The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 1861; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics (G. G ). Four-vear course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to’the degree of Master *6f Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-vear course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Iifb.

The Chicago School of Physical J7’ in cation and Expression S

811-313 Wabash Avenue - Chicago, 111.

TWO YEARS’ NORMA^L COURSE IN GYMNASTICS

SUMMER NORMAL COURSE JUNE 20, to JULY 31, 11*09