o

>RAR

pv





MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	JANUARY,	1922	No.	304

PaMished By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mina.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Edftorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-close matter October if, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

THE PLACE AND SCOPE OF ATHLETICS IN HEALTH

BUILDING.

BY DR. CHARLES A. KEENE, HARRISBURG. PA.

Health is “that condition of the body and its organs necessary to the proper performance of their normal functions,” that is, physical efficiency, physical fitness. In building this physical efficiency, this health, the school is the most important available factor. Not only has the school here a great opportunity, but it has an actual duty. Physical characteristics arc fixed for life by the time the child completes his eighteenth year. During two-thirds of these years, the child spends one-half of his waking hours in the class room or in preparation of class room work. Because the school is demanding more and more of the time of the child, the duty of the school to build up the physical side is becoming rapidly greater each year.

A few short generations ago the school was a brief incident in the life of the child; he attended school during three or four winter months, when his labor could not be used for farm work, and for only four or five years of his life. At school, he received training only in the three

* Read at the annual meeting 0/ the Pennsylvania Educational Association. December, 1920.

Digitized by Google
864

R's. His real life training was received through work and experience in the activities of his parents in whose footsteps he was destined to follow, largely as a tiller of the soil. As we have become an urban people, his outdoor practical training has ceased and we have demanded more of his time within the class room in an effort to fit him for his life work. That we have failed in this attempt is sufficiently evidenced by the draft figures, which showed that at the ages 20—35, just when he should be at his physical best, about 46 per cent of our young men were physically defective and the bodies of over 29 per cent were so defective that they were unfit for any kind of military service. This means not only that we were deprived of one third of our field fighting force in a great world crisis, but it also means that industry, the man himself, his family and his community are laboring under a load of ill health and inefficiency that is beyond our power to compute.

The schools must take up their burden daily and leave nothing undone in the effort to improve this most serious situation. They must spare no effort to check this waste of the strength of the nation, particularly at this time of strife and struggle for national strength and survival, with which the world today is seething. Our schools are giving too much training in how to make a living and too little in how to live.

So far as the schools are concerned there are four essentials of health building:	i:	Adequate	physical	examination	of	every	child	at	least	once

each year, with efficient follow-up in the homes so that defects may be checked and, wherever possible, removed. 2: Good sanitation of school buildings, both as regards construction and maintenance, covering such vital factors as heating and ventilating, pure water supply, decent toilets including water carriage of sewage, proper lighting, seating, facilities for physical activities both within and without the building, safety from fire, adequate cleaning methods, and the like. 3: Health education, not so much along the lines of physiology and anatomy, the effort here having been largely a failure, as a real effort to build up health habits and health character through application of knowledge of hygiene to hourly and daily acts. 4: Physical education of mind and body through properly directed activity.

Under this fourth essential, there are usually considered three groups, —formal gymnastics either freehand or with apparatus; rhythmic work, such as singing games, song plays, folk dancing, etc.; and games, among which are the more or less organized games and sports which we call athletics. All these groups and subdivisions have their advocates and their detractors. Probably the true facts are that all of them have their value :f kept in their proper place and not permitted to become the whole activity. All of them tend to produce mental and physical vigor and speed, to build up proper posture whereby man has been enabled to get up on h;s hind legs, walk correctly and look the world in the face.

Athletics become increasingly importat and more nearly essential as boys and girls approach puberty and are herefore a problem of the upper grammar grades, of the junior and senior high school, and of the normal school and college. Properly handled, they are of great value, not only for their physical benefits, but because they are builders of grit, courage, quick decision, altertness, and on intense co-operation and sub-

Digitized by

Google
855

ordination of self to the davantage of the group, which is the true essence of loyalty; and loyalty, loyalty to America, and the ideals of America is today our greatest need. As actually handled in many communities they, on the whole, do more harm than good.

As there is no value in destructive criticism solely, I shall not only speak of some of the glaring faults of athletics as at present conducted in many schools, but shall also attempt to show how most of these faults may be corrected or at least ameliorated. The present intense competition of interscholastic athletics as carried on in the majority of places puts all effort on turning out winning teams at any cost. Now do not think I criticise the desire to win. I would not give two bits for the boy, team, or school that did not want to win and work to win, but the intensity of this desire oftentimes defeats its purpose. The result of the school team propaganda is that only a few boys get the benefits of the physical activity and competition and these naturally are the ones who need it least, because if they were not superaverage in development, they could not “make” the team, In the meantime, the average boy and the undeveloped one are absolutely neglected, and the bulk of the school rolls up its trousers instead of its sleeves, sits on the bleachers and has hysteria. And what is even more important, the girls under this system get no attention, or they, too, have a school team with most of the evils of boys* teams intensified.

Even worse, is the tendency to shade the rules at every possible point both as to eligibility of players and as to the rules of the game itself. Back of this oftentimes is the professional coach whose only affiliation with the school is as coach, and whose professional reputation depends not so much on building boys to be ethically and physically sound, as on the number of wins and the size of the scores made by his teams.

Another evil is the gate receipts. I have seen high school teams jockey for hours and tie up a whole league schedule in order to get their game listed on a particular date when attendance was likely to be large. This evil also enters into the win-at-any-cost realm, as a winning team draws gate receipts. Bickering over officials often goes to most unsportsmanlike extremes. I can understand why a school might well object to a special official but when any school tries to insist on having a certain one, there seems cause for suspicion as to motives. Under the usual interscholastic system, where the school team is the only recognized athletic activity of the school, the winning teams and particularly the “star** players get an exaggerated idea of their importance. Also the losing team—the one which loses most or all the time—becomes depressed to such a degree as to have a serious effect upon their mental state and upon other school activities. A school with a winning team is affected detrimentally in a scholastic way. Athletics cease to be a diversion and a recreation, and for a period of weeks become almost the sole topic of conversation and the main object in life for a large part of the student body. Interscholastic athletics too often mean that all attention is given to one branch of athletics as football or baseball or track athletics, etc. If the school has all these teams, the same gladiators usually participate in all branches and are therefore so busy that they have little or no time for keeping up other school work.
Then, too, in the smaller schools particularly, many immature pupils are so forced physically as to be under serious strain. At the ages 14—16, roughly, the heart has increased rapidly in size, but this new material has not had time to become strengthened, and intense competition may result in a heartstrain with more or less physical incapacity for the balance of life. These children are not ready for contests requiring much endurance. This is largely due to the fact that the teams are not based on a broad foundation of universal, compulsory, physical education under scientific, adequately trained instruction and supervision in properly equipped gymnasia and play fields.

There is no doubt that in the vast majority of schools and colleges the^existing system is one of the few, and whether or not it is a real advantage to the few is a matter of grave question. The few in many cases carry the burden of all the athletic activities of their school, oftentimes to their own great physical and moral detriment. The boy who plays football in the fall, hockey or basketball during the winter, and track or baseball or both during the spring, playing it as he now does under the immense pressure and strain of a perverted interscholastic competition, aside from the fact that he gains an exalted idea of his own importance in the world, often develops an enlarged heart.

Neither boys nor girls play enough. The average citizen and many school people do not believe this but they have in mind the activities of the most active rather than the quietude of the less physically efficient. Therefore, I urge not less athletics, but more athletics, which shall reach all children in all schools, small or large, rural or urban.

The Remedy.—As rapidly as possible, provision should be made as regards school play, as regards teaching personnel, and as regards time in the curriculum for physical activity, so that every child in every school may get a sufficient amount of supervised physical activity every day, not only through formal calisthenics and gymnastics, but through competitive plays and games. Many private schools accomplish this. They succeed for several reasons; they have ample facilities of gymnasia and play fields, and they have a sufficient number of athletically minded teachers in the school faculty to keep things humming. In many of them, practically every pupil and teacher goes out on the play field one or two hours a day. Some of them go so far as to permit practically no interscholastic competition. These schools not only keep vigorous all their student body but they win games and turn out great athletes, as shown by the fact that in one recent year one of these schools furnished twenty-one of the men on the great hockey teams of Harvard, Yale and Princeton. Undoubtedly such a system of universal athletics in a school would in a few years put it far ahead of its competitors in interscholastic contests, as there would be a much larger group of trained players from which to draw.

We must not only enormously increase the number of boys and girls participating in athletics, but we must broaden the content of athletic competition. Such content should not only include the present college type of football, baseball, basketball and track athletics, but also the less known but excellent, and for many types of physique better, games, such as hockey, both field and ice, soccer football, volley ball, rowing

Digitized by t^ooQle
857

and paddling, swimming, tennis, hand ball, etc., and a type of competition, based largely on field and track athletics, known as mass competition, whereby a whole class room or school may compete against another whole class room or school, the events being graded in severity to suit the age and sex of the contestants and reduced to a percentage basis so that the small class or school may compete with a fair chance of success with the large class or school. These events are usually running* jumping, chinning on horizontal bar, bal throwing, etc.

The present system of interscholastic competition is largely a matter of contests between city schools. The scene roughly outlined, lends itself to the use of small town and country schools, and will not only arouse the interest of pupils in their school, however small, and thus tend to keep them in the country, but will also arouse the interest of parents and Boards of Education to such a pitch that they will take more pride in their local school and therefore more freely support it both with influence and money. Moreover, this offers a real opportunity for girls, not only for their physical welfare, but for building interest in and loyalty to their school through athletic service to it. They feel themselves a real part of the life of the school because each contributes her mite to its athletic prowess. So again I urge not less athletics but more athletics.

The coach should be a member of the regular faculty employed for the same period as other teachers and equally responsible to the principal of the school and to the Board of Education, and responsible not so much for winning games as for the ethical, scholastic and physical development of the boys and his teams.

Not only should athletics be based on a broader physical education but no boy should be permitted to participate in them without passing through physical examination given by a physician designated by the Board of Education. And this physician should be present at all inter-scholastic athletic contests and readily available at all times when any type of athletics is in progress. His opinion, and his only, should be the deciding one as to whether a contestant is physically fit to enter, or to continue in, a game. He should give immediate care to all injuries, thus preventing what recently happened in one city in this state when two boys died of blood poisoning, the result of minor wounds received in an athletic contest. This care will not only guard the contestants, but will guard and conserve the contests which now frequent, serious accidents and deaths tend to wipe out. As a further protection, the rules of athletic associations should prohibit any pupil playing on more than one school team in any one term.

If the state is so large that more than one interscholastic association is needed, all of them should be working under the same set of rules as to procedure and eligibility. This would make possible a central, neutral authority to whom could be referred questions of dispute concerning schedules and eligibility. It would also provide for an approved list of officials, from which list officials could be assigned to any game, a school having the right to reject an official thus chosen but not the right to dictate in any way who should be assigned in place of the rejected one.
858

The gate receipts evil should be done away with by two methods working hand in hand, i. Cut expenses; the employment of one of the regular faculty members as coach with a slight increase in pay for this work will help here. Many schools spend too much for supplies and too much for travel. 2. The athletics should be an integral part of the course of study and therefore, supported by the Board of Education.

So I urge not only more athletics, but saner, broader and more beneficial athletics. The evils of athletics are not a necessity; they are the result of poor pedagogy, worse philosophy, and sometimes moral cowardice on the part of those responsible for their administration. We must eliminate the cigarette smoking loafer who gets his exercise vicariously sitting on the bleachers. In the colleges as well as in the school systems all the athletics should be under one man, who should be a professor with a seat in the faculty, one who should be responsible, and given sufficient power so that he could be held responsible, for all the physical activities in the institution. This would mean that certain of the alumni who support their team for financial considerations would be conpelled to keep their hands off athletics, and allow the participants to be instructed in the right kind of loyalty, loyalty to athletics, to the team, to the institution, and what is even more vital, loyalty to honor. In short, we need fewer “sports** and more sportsmen, and our motto must be “Knuckle down, don’t fudge, play the game right.**

PHYSIOLOGICAL HEAT REGULATION AND THE PROBLEM

OP HUMIDITY.*

BY E. P. LYON, UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.

“The human body is a thermostat.** “The temperature of the body— that is, the internal parts— is constant. By constant is meant exactly what engineers mean when they say that the temperature of a room with thermostatic control is constant. It really varies somewhat, and the small variations are made the basis of regulation.

“The body is a machine for transferring energy. One aspect of this transformation is the developing and regulating of heat. The constant temperature of the body is an expression of the fact that the body loses its heat as fast as it produces it, or produces heat as fast as it loses it.

“The body produces heat by oxidizing foods. The steps in the process are complicated, but in the long run the result is the same as if the food were burned in a furnace. One gram of starch or of fat will give in the body exactly as many calories as if burned in a bomb calorimeter, and the waste products are the same.**

The muscles were explained to be the chief source of heat production although a certain amount is probably due to chemical reactions. The large proportion of heat production due to muscular action is released during the contraction of the muscles. Some of these, such as the heart and the respiratory muscles work automatically and continuously so that there is a certain amount of muscualr heat production going on in the

* Read at the Convention oj the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, Phila., 1921.

Digitized by LiOOQle
859

body all the time. Other involuntary forms of muscular action which produce heat are the shivering and tightening up of the muscles incidental to cold weather. Heat regulation on the production side is largely accomplished by variation of the voluntary muscular activities of the body.

“The more important element of body temperature regulation is, however, on the heat-loss side. The body loses heat in several ways. Usually it is warmer than the substances (air, especially) in contact with it. Therefore, according to the laws of physics, heat will be conducted, as heat, into neighboring matter. The rate of such transmission varies with the difference in temperature of the substances in contact; say, body surface and air. This difference in temperature may vary from the outside in a variety of ways. By use of a fan we can renew the layer of air frequently and thus increase temperature difference and heat loss. By clothing we can keep the layer of air in contact, raise its temperature, and diminish the rate of heat loss by conduction.

“The rate of heat loss by conduction also depends on the heat capacity and conductivity of the material in contact with the skin. Moist air has a greater heat capacity than dry air of the same temperature. Hence at temperatures around the freezing point and somewhat above, moist air ‘feels* colder than dry air of the same temperature. The moist air takes away heat from the skin faster; therefore the skin is cooler. Conditions are very different at higher temperatures, where atmospheric humidity, by hindering evaporation, is a heat preserving factor for the body. Thus arises the anomaly that humidity may keep us warm or cool, depending upon the temperature of the air in which the moisture is held.”

Evidently, if the surrounding substance is at the same temperature as the body there can be no heat loss by conduction and the same is true for the second means of heat loss, radiation or energy transmission in the form of ether waves.

“The third way in which the body loses heat is by evaporating water. This occurs at both the skin surface and the lung surface. The rate of evaporation and consequently of heat loss, varies with numerous factors. It increases with temperature of the air on the skin, and therefore acts, in general, opposite to conduction and radiation, which is a fortunate fact. Evaporation increases with increased renewal of air, consequently a fan or wind cools the body; as likewise does rapid breathing. Evaporation rises with increase of the surface of liquid exposed. We expose more liquid surface when we sweat than when the skin is, as we say, ‘dry/ Of course it is never absolutely dry, and insensible perspiration is constantly being evaporated.”

By the three methods mentioned, namely, conduction, radiation, and evaporation of water, the body loses all the heat that it produces. All of these vary in rate with external and internal conditions. All of them become ineffective under conditions of combined high temperature and high humidity.

“Various external factors have been referred to, that affect the rate of heat loss by the three methods of conduction, radiation, and evaporation. The body from its side is not passive. It has two ways of ac-

Digitized by
860

commodating or adjusting itself to the three methods of heat loss and thus keeping a constant temperature. The first is by distribution of the blood. When the outside temperature is hot, much blood is sent from the internal parts to the skin. The skin temperature is raised by this warm blood and the rate of heat loss by conduction and radiation is increased. When the outside temperature is low, little blood is sent to the skin and less heat is lost by conduction and radiation.

“The second method of internal adjustment is the sweat secretion. This liquid, which is practically nothing but water is extracted from the blood by coiled tubes, called sweat glands, located in the skin. When the temperature is high the amount of secretion increases; the liquid surface exposed to the air increases; evaporation increases; the heat loss increases; and the temperature of the body falls.”

Both of these methods of internal adjustment are made by muscular expansions and contractions of the circulatory system, which are in turn actuated and .controlled by the nervous system. We call this method of nerve control “reflex action.”

Each part of the body is connected, either directly or indirectly with the brain by two types of nerves. One kind, the afferent, carries messages from the part to the brain; the other kind, the efferent, carries messages from the brain to the part. Furthermore, the brain is so arranged that connections between the proper parts are made automatically, according to the character of the conditions to be faced. These switchings of nerve currents and the resulting responses, when involuntary, are called reflex actions.

“The thermostatic control of the body is effected by widespread reflexes. Let us suppose one steps from a cold into a warm room. The heat stimulates certain nerve endings in the skin; nerve currents or impulses are aroused; these currents travel into the brain where they are switched or relayed to the other nerve fibres leading out to the blood -vessels. The muscles of the blood vessels in the internal organs are -stimulated and contract, so that the vessels are smaller; therefore less blood goes through. At the same time the blood vessels of the skin dilate, and more blood goes there. Thus heat is lost, and the body accommodates itself to the warmer room.”

The opposite action would occur in passing from a hot to a cooler temperature and a similar action attends the regulation of sweat secretion in accordance with temperature conditions to which the body is subjected.

“Man adjusts himself to every degree of atmospheric moisture from the practically absolute dryness of sub-zero air to the saturated air of tropical forests. Humidity is of little importance except when considered in connection with other conditions, particularly temperature and air movement.

“The most usual condition under which the body heat control breaks down is high humidity and high temperature combined. This condition obtains in crowded rooms and auditoriums, because every person gives off both heat and water vapor. Such rooms need primarily, new and moderately heated air. Movement of air also helps. Movement under extreme conditions, for example, saturated air of body temperature, would

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
861

not help heat loss at all, but under usual conditions and for reasons already given it does help.

“Movement of air in our public places and homes should be worked for. If we become accustomed to air in motion, we are less affected by outside conditions, where such movement is the rule. We ought to be accustomed to drafts and not affected by them. I shall not be surprised if we come to use electric fans in winter, even more than in summer.

“The greatest problem from the standpoint of humidity is the home or office, where a few people live and work, in winter in our northern states. We take into our house subzero air which has almost no water content and heat it to 70° F. Even with the water which such air eagerly laps up from furniture, plants, cooking processes, and from the skin and lungs of every occupant, nevertheless this air in our homes is likely to be dryer than that of any desert on earth.

“The body thermostat can adjust the temperature of the internal organs to these conditions. There is not such discomfort and danger as comes from overcrowded, unventilated movie theatres or school rooms, But there are somewhat important disadvantages.

“In the first place, in order to keep up the body temperature in dry air, much blood is withdrawn from the skin. Moreover evaporation is active. The skin is cooled, and we “feel” chilly. Hence the tendency is to have hotter rooms, up to 75, 80 and 85°. The skin gets cracked and rough, which is not pleasant to say the least. The same tendency to rapid drying extends to the mucous surfaces of the nasal passages, the pharynx and trachea, with consequent respiratory disturbances. Nose and throat specialists, generally, attribute the frequency of infections in winter more to the dryness than to the cold. This all amounts to saying that in order to protect its indispensable internal temperature, the body has to abandon more or less the outlying provinces such as the skin and mucous surfaces. They have not enough blood and get dry; they pick up germs and become inflamed.

“More theoretical, as yet, but perhaps to be found of more fundamental importance is the effect on the nervous system, which in the hot stagnant air of our winter homes is assumed to be deprived of the constant tonic of nerve impulses coming from a skin stimulated by cool, moving air.

“I advocate strongly the artificial humidification of dwelling houses in winter in our northern states. The standard should be as high as can be secured without precipitation on inside walls. I do not think we can go above 50 % in our houses, as ordinarily built, even with double windows.

“On account of leakage the amount of water to be evaporated is large; say 15 or 20 gal. a day for a small house. Therefore, the devices on the market, to be used on radiators, are all absolutely inefficient. Tests shows that few of them evaporate as much water as one person gives off from his lungs. Most of the devices used in connection with hot-air furnaces are of little real use.

“The problem can be solved, but it requires special attention to certain factors of evaporation, namely, surface of contact of water and air and movement of air. These are more important under house con-

Digitized by Google
ditions than temperature. I have, described various experimental humidifiers that are effective. A system to be of much use must be automatic, as few people will carry half or two-thirds of a barrel of water daily to hand-filled humidifiers.

“As a matter of opinion I may say that some type of humidifier, by which air movement would be created, e. g., a combination of electric fan and convenient water surfaces, would be the ideal. Why should not people be willing to pay for humidity and air movement, two important hygienic factors? I understand, however, that such apparatus has not so far proven a commercial success.”

GYMNASTICS A LA MODE FRANCAIS.

A short time ago it was my privilege to visit Captain Hebert's gymnasium and training place for women teachers in Paris. Captain Hebert is but picking up the threads of his educational work since his demobilisation, and he is finding it, like many other enterprises, cramped for lack of funds, and particularly for lack of suitable accommodation. The Paris headquarters is at the moment rather uncomfortably situated in a disused circus attached to a large private residence at No. 6 Rue Benouville. This is the “West-end” of Paris, close to the Bois, and the clientele is evidently a smart one, but while the shape and structure of a circus lend themselves very well, in many respects, to the purposes of a gymnasium, the close proximity of occupied stables presents an overwhelming difficulty to the sensitive British nose.

By the courtesy of the Principal and his staff (who could not speak English, and therefore lost much valuable time deciphering my French), three classes of children were watched at work. In each class there were only 8 or 9 pupils (varying from io—17 years of age) with one chief teacher and two assistants or “improvers,” but in Deauville, which is really the headquarters of the Hebert system, much larger numbers of children are taught together and under one teacher.

Apparatus and Method.—There is a good amount of fixed apparatus, rings, ladders, ropes, trapeze, etc., which is used freely between movements on the ground. Movements are not done to command in the Swedish sense, nor by counting, and neither is music used. When the class is told what movement to do, the teacher uses some word such as “go” or “start”, and similar whipping-up and emulative injunctions may be vised at any time when the exercises are in progress. The method of conducting the lesson seemed somewhat feverish and noisy without putting very much tax on the teaching powers of the teacher, who demonstrated nothing, but now and then worked in unison with the children in their floor movements.

The Lesson and its Effects.—The lesson consisted of a rapid succession of movements, evidently of interest and familiar to the children, which unquestionably produced the full physiological effects of exercise, including the joy, though one or two children in certain exercises seemed exceptions to this. Even those who were naked, except for a pair of brief pants, certainly got thoroughly hot, and the number of items crowded into the *

* Reprint from the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham.

Digitized by Google
868

table can only be possible when the very minimum of time is spent on formation, class- and squad-arrangement. There seemed to be no time for explanatory hints or helpful criticism, and as far as could be judged, not a single second was spent on correction of posture. Of direct educational effects it is harder to speak. It is not part of the system to stand at attention, do any precise movements or make any class manoeuvres, and I imagine that class-feeling does not exist. Possibly the work resembles what the Greeks did in their gymnasia, but in any case it bears no resemblance either to present Swedish or German work or the old-fashioned calisthenics.

Conclusions.—My opportunity for observation was very limited, but two conclusions were come to: (i) that under such tuition the unfit child would remain where he was, i, e.> “unfit/* but that (2) the fit child would have a very good time, become fitter, more alert and elastic, and—almost without conscious effort or application—develop soundly and normally. Exercise was very all-round, all-over and natural; it had none of the ordered plan and crescendo of Swedish work, nor the swinging sequence of German work, nor the soothing silliness of musical drill, and carried on, out of doors, as Captain Hebert intends, it cannot fail to be health-giving. There is a sense of balance about the lesson, in spite of its kaleidoscope changes, and nothing approaching over-development nor the cultivation of brawn was seen so far as the children were concerned.

To refer again to the “unfit” children, I include in this category the lumpy, too fat, anemic child, the overgrown, awkward and timid person, and those with slow reactions—in fact, all the “duds” who are fit to take part in gymnastic work. There were one or two children especially that one yearned to take out of this Paris class and put under an ordinary Swedish teacher, so that they might have a little detailed instruction which would enable them to do what was required of them without either fear or complete confusion of mind and body. The supposition of Hebert's system is that if you throw the discus every week you will eventually throw it rightly; that if you climb a ladder with your limbs in a hopeless mix-up, and your heart in your mouth, often enough, your anatomy will evidentually sort itself into effective positions, and one day you will be at the top. The idea that the “one day” may be brought much nearer to the inept by analysis and progression in the application of movement seems to be disregarded.

I am completely unable to visualise the application of this method to a British elementary school, but for smaller schools, with some supplementary Swedish coaching for the “duds,” and for the adult who just wishes to keep fit, it might do well. It certainly is a very jolly form of gymnastics, making the minimum tax on the powers of attention.

The following table was used practically without variation for the three lessons on the day of my visit. The class was divided into squads, and the squads formed into irregular ranks, and rank followed rank up the centre of the circus in rapid but untimed succession. On reaching the far side the children in each rank divided and ran round the circumference of the circle to the starting place again.

TABLE.

1. Running forward a few steps, with sudden changes to backward, sideways or forward, according to command.

Digitized by CjOOQle
864

2.	Crawl-running—f. b. and sideways, with sudden executive commands.

3.	Leaps f. into std. pos., feet together, and curt. sitt. in, in a continuous rhythm.

4.	Balance crawling round the arena (on that nice padded bench where the clown usually sits.)

5.	2 crook, hg. (on any of the apparatus) (8 to 10 times).

6.	Incl. prone fall 2 A bd. and str. (hands on arena bench).

7.	Vertical rope climb. 8. Vertical ladder climb. 9. Hanging, over and under gr. somersaults (trapeze). 10. Balancing on minute metal foot stools. 11. Very long frog-hopping (remarkably like the animal.) 12. Stand jump, run jump, fence-jump, long jump (measured). 13. Sand-bag or discus throwing f., and s. and b. overhead. 14. Tug-of-war with rope. 15. Push-of-war, with a long pole (very amusing).

16.	Fireman’s lift—pannier-lift with hands linked on wrist—various other lifts.

17.	A long steady run—followed by a walk.

18.	Short and somewhat rule-less game of netball.

“La Palestra,” the College Gymnique of which Monsieur Hebert is founder and director, is at Tourgeville, close to Deauville. Here young women train either for their own benefit or as teachers. The training includes athletics, games, rowing, swimming, and dancing, as well as gymnastics. It is caried on entirely out of doors in beautiful grounds close to the sea. The working costume worn is a bright coloured sleeveless crepe tunic, girdled at the waist, with knickers en suite. All stockings, shoes, suspenders, or undergarments are not supposed to be worn, and the children’s classes exercise nude. Students or pupils can enter the College at any time, and can lodge in the vicinity or camp within La Palestra itself. I almost persuaded Captain Hebert to hold a short Holiday Course for English teachers, and think he will do so when he is a little more established.

National System.—There is no national system of gymnastics in France. Physical education has lately been made compulsory for all schools—on paper—and there it remains. Some schools have a little physical work of their own choice, but most of them have nothing. The French people, especially women and girls, do not seek exercise, and disciplined exercise goes greatly against the grain with them all. The Hebert system is adopted and organized in the French navy, and is the only training used in the army—although it is not called Hebert’s system.

“HEALTH WEEK” AT LATIMER JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL,

Pittsburgh, Pa., April 18—23, 1921.

Because of the lack of any definite health instruction in the school, it was thought necessary that some sort of campaign in this work be inaugurated. Hence, the purpose of this “Health Week,” was to stimulate in each student a greater interest in his health, to promote better health habits among parents, teachers and students, and to prepare for a program of health in the future. Perhaps this program, or some parts of it, may prove successful in other schools.

Digitized by v^ooQle
865

/. Health Letters.

On the Friday preceding Health Week, a letter outlining the campaign and stating the fundamental laws of health, was sent through each student, to the parents. It was felt that in this manner, the co-operation and interest of the parents might be secured.

2. Poster Display.

All during the week a large display of posters was exhibited in the halls and the corridors of the school. These posters, in general, depicted the various rules of health and created a vivid picture to appeal to the minds of the children. Of the 300 posters exhibited, 200 were the product of our own Art Department, and the rest were secured through the Department of Hygiene, University of Pittsburgh.

?. Health Tags.

On Monday, each teacher and student was * tagged” with a “Health Tag,” the purpose of which was to impress on the minds, of all, the purpose of the campaign.

4.	Health Bulletin.

The current number of the school paper was devoted to the subject of health and several interesting, original writings were published. This Health Number was, probably, one of the most interesting issues of our school paper this year.

5.	Health Essays.

Through the co-operation of the English Department, the students were encouraged to submit essays on the various phases of health, these essays to be used in future health programs.

6.	Food and Clothing Exhibits.

The sewing and cooking teachers of the Domestic Science Department very kindly arranged two exhibits, one of which portrayed proper breakfasts and lunches for school children, the other showing sensible clothing in contrast to ill-fitting clothing.

7.	Health Inspections.

Throughout the week, the school doctor gave individual health inspections, these being of a very superficial nature, yet sufficient to detect any evident disorders of health.

8.	Assembly Programs.—The “Jolly Jester.”

On Wednesday, April 20th, the “Jolly Jester,” a Health Clown (from the Child Health Organization, 156 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.) gave a very amusing yet instructive and helpful entertainment in which the laws of healthy living were clearly defined, p. Health Leaflets.

Through the generosity of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, various health pamphlets and books were distributed in each room

10.	Health Slides.

Lantern slides on health were procured and exhibited in several of the rooms.

11.	Class Room Programs.

In addition to the assembly programs, a number of the report rooms throughout the school conducted distinct health programs, plays, etc.

12.	Health Officers.

No campaign is productive of great results unless some definite
866

instruction follows. To this end, the Latimer Student Self Government plan is working. In each room, the associate representative of the Student Government organization is also the Health Officer in the room. The duty of this officer is to care for and increase the health and efficiency of his room-mates. It is planned to have the Physical Education teachers meet once each week with these Health Officers and present certain topics of health, which, in turn, will be presented by these officers to their respective rooms. This feature of health instruction promises to create a good health morale in every room and has already evidenced itself in more attention to personal appearance among the students.

In general, the Health Week has been instrumental in arousing a keener interest in health among both faculty and students. A basis for future work along this line has been assured.

The Health Committee. Pittsburgh, Pa.	J. F. Landis, Chairman.

UNIVERSAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION IS ESSENTIAL.

Health a By-Product of Physical Education. Universal Training Safeguards the Future.

BY HONORABLE ARTHUR CAPPER, UNITED STATES SENATOR FROM KANSAS,

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Our national pride received a severe jolt with the publication of the draft statistics showing more than 35 per cent of the young men examined physically disqualified from full military activity. On the heels of this announcement came the publication of the equally startling results of various surveys relating to the health conditions of school children. It was alleged that not more than 25 per cent of the school children of the nation could be regarded as fully fit, physically.

These revelations have roused a widespread interest and study of the problem of how best to set in motion the processes which will successfully combat this unsatisfactory condition. While it is recognized that many of the activities in peace time do not require the degree of physical perfection needed for effective military service, yet we cannot deny that the conditions revealed indicate a material sapping of the energies of the nation for industrial, agricultural, and professional activities in peace time.

COMPULSORY MILITARY TRAINING.

The advocates of a continuous program of compulsory military training for all young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one have argued that in addition to strengthening the nation for national defense, such a program would facilitate the effort to overcome the physical deficiencies revealed by the draft. I have expressed myself openly as being opposed to the proposal for compulsory peace time military training. I regard this as a matter to be considered mainly from the standpoint of *

* Reprinted jrom The Nation's Healthy May, 1921, issue, VoL ///,

No. 5.

Digitized by t^ooQie
867

providing the adequate defense of the nation. l am against such a program because I regard it as unnecessary in providing for the adequate defense of the nation and because of the tremendous expense involved.

If we cannot justify compulsory peace time military training as a necessity for national defense, we certainly cannot justify this plan—involving an expenditure of at least five hundred million dollars—as a means for promoting the physical fitness of the nation. In the first place, it would apply only to the young men, and I am thoroughly convinced that whatever we may do in providing better opportunities for health and physical efficiency should be extended also to our young women. Furthermore, it is true that the basis for ill health and inadequate physical development, when they appear in later life, has usually been established previous to the eighteenth year. No extended argument is necessary to prove that we cannot, in a period of six months’ military training at the age of nineteen, overcome the results of ignorance and neglect during the earlier years.

EDUCATE THE YOUNG.

I would not advocate universal physical education as a substitute for compulsory military training in providing for national defense. However, I am convinced that the most hopeful method of improving the health and physical efficiency of the nation is not to be found in the establishment of compulsory military training at the age of nineteen. Neither do I believe that we can hope for much progress in mere efforts to dis-. cover and correct the physical defects now existing among children o^ adults. We must, rather, extend to all the young children adequate: training in the practice of healthful habits. We must teach them what and how to eat and the other fundamentals of health, such as the proper-amount and conditions of sleep and proper clothing. Furthermore, w£ must stimulate and guide our children in those physical activities which incidentally yield health and normal physical development. I do not mean by this that we must try to make athletes and gymnasts out of all our children. I do mean, however, that we must carry on the proper supervision of those activities which develop alertness, poise, good posture, and the spirit of team play.

I regard health as a natural by-product of physical education. If space would permit, I might elaborate upon the significance of physical education in the promotion of mental efficiency and sound moral qualities* We have passed the day when we regard time and money as wasted when spent in guidance of the play of children. We have learned to realize that by promoting happiness and the joyful optimistic outlook upon life we are also promoting productive efficiency. After all, the condition of the spirit determines in large degree the effectiveness with which we work.

CHANCE FOR EACH YOUNGSTER.

We do not need to establish special schools and camps throughout the Nation in order to extend the opportunity of adequate physical education to all the children. We already have facilities for education— school houses and teachers covering the entire land. Through these facilities, about one-tenth of the children are already receiving more or less adequate physical education. The other nine-tenths can be reached by the establishment of physical education as a part of the training program in every school of the Nation. I am firmly convinced that this is.

Digitized by Google
868

a matter which should be primarily in the hands of our educators. Already there is a growing appreciation of the fact that no matter what we may do to train our children in reading, writing, arithmetic, craftsmanship, and agriculture, we are failing to give them an adequate start in life unless we also provide adequate physical education. Without a strong and efficient body, the mental training will be of little value to our youth.

FEDERAL AND STATE CO-OPERATION.

Now if physical education is to be made a fundamental part of education—and I feel sure that this is the only wise method—the major responsibility must rest with the states and local communities. The Federal Government cannot and should not interfere with local and state control of education. It is a bit discouraging, however, to note that in spite of the progress of physical edudcation during the past twenty years, only one-tenth of our children are receiving this training and many of the programs now operating are lamentably inadequate. It is also true that the annual appropriations of all the state legislatures for physical education total less than five hundred thousand dollars.

The Federal Government can, however, through entirely appropriate action, stimulate the more rapid extension of this important training. I believe, furthermore, that without any improper intrusion into the affairs of the states, the Federal Government can help promote economy and effectiveness in the extension of physical education. We must provide for the universal establishment of physical education in our own American way. We do not wish to follow the method of Japan, where physical education was established twenty years ago by imperial edict as part of the program of every school. We do not wish to follow in the footsteps of France, where only recently the national legislature enacted a law requiring that physical education be established for all boys and girls up to the age of sixteen. We shall wish to preserve local autonomy in the determination and administration of programs of physical education, but we shall also find it necessary to add the stimulus of helpful Federal co-operation with the states if we are to secure the establishment of universal physical education within the next twenty years. I do not believe that we shall be less effective than are the provety stricken nations of Europe in extending this fundamental training to their children, but we shall do it in our own way.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION MEASURE.

In the preparation of the National Bill for Physical Education, I have co-operated with Representative Simeon D. Fess, who, before entering the United States Congress, was for many years a prominent educator. Advice has been received from many competent physical education authorities. The Bill, which is number 22 in the House and number 416 in the Senate, proposes that the Federal Government shall co-operate with the States in the expense of training and employing teachers of physical education. This co-operation will be extended to those states attaining certain minimum standards specifically described in the Act. These standards are moderate and only sufficient to insure that the Federal appropriations will not be wasted. No arbitrary authority is given to any Federal official or board to impose requirements beyond those specifically
869

described in the Act. The amount available for each state is based upon the number of children bewteen the ages of six and eighteen. No state can receive more than the amount already appropriated by state and local authorities for the same purposes. In order to continue receiving Federal aid, the states must within five years provide the opportunity of physical education for all persons between the ages of six and eighteen. The total Federal appropriation to be available for distribution is ten million dollars. It is probable that during the first year only a part of this appropriation would be expended.

The Bill provides for the establishment of a Division of Physical Education in the Bureau of Education, which shall be equipped to administer the Act and to co-operate with those states desiring assistance for increasing the quantity and improving the quality of their physical education programs. The United States Public Health Service is authorized to co-operate with the Bureau of Education and with the states in giving technical advice relating to health supervision. I wish to emphasize that the administration of the Act is to be assigned to the Bureau of Education. I believe it is a sound policy to place the responsibility of this program in the hands of the educators and that the relationship of the health authorities should be advisory. I wish further to emphasize that we have included in the Bill a provision making clear that there shall be no discrimination between the various recognized schools of medicine and that nothing in the Act shall be interpreted as requiring minors to receive medical examination or treatment against the expressed wish of their parents or guardians.

WHAT IS REAL ECONOMY.

The necessity for extreme economy in Federal appropriations is well understood. I regard the physical education bill as an economy measure. Real economy does not always mean simply refraining from expenditures. Wise and conservative investment for the realization of assured profits is one of the wisest forms of economy. It has been conservatively estimated by the United States Commissioner of Education that last year there was a loss of approximately one hundred million dollars in the public schools because of absence of enrolled children due to ill health. The young people in industry under the age of nineteen—who would be affected by the legislation—lost through ill health last year $71,250,000. These are only two of the readily calculable bills paid by the nation as the price of ill health and physical deficiency. If we can reduce these amounts alone by as much as 10 per cent, we shall have saved more than the entire cost involved in this legislation. While we are spending hundreds of millions for battleships, I cannot but regard the proposed expenditure of ten million dollars for promoting the physical fitness of our youth as a wise and economical investment.

Digitized by Tooele
870

INTRAMURAL ATHLETICS AT MIAMI UNIVERSITY, OXFORD, OHIO.

james"g. bliss, director of physical education.

One of the most important functions of the department of physical education during the past year has been the development of exercise activities among the students along two main lines—non-competitive, including class work and individual exercise on the gymnasium floor; and competitive, such as soccer, basketball, baseball, handball, and other forms, both indoors and out, for which we could provide facilities.

The administration of the freshman and sophomore activities presented no great difficulty because of the requirement of two periods of exercise per week. The promotion of habits of exercise and participation in games by the other classes demanded a different treatment. With this object in view and coming in co-operative relationship with the student Intramural Athletic Association, an intensive and varied program of sports was carried on. Results show that 90 per cent of the undergraduate men at .Miami were engaged in some form of exercise or athletic competition during the past year.

Reference has been made to the Intramural Athletic Association. An inquiry some time ago to determine its age and history recalled the fact that very few in the University knew anything about the organization. It is of sufficient value and importance to warrant a brief statement.

THE MIAMI INTRAMURAL SYSTEM.

There has seldom been difficulty in arousing interest among the student^ in any institution in any organization that promised trips out of town and competition or contests of any sort with representatives of other institutions, and there frequently spring up sporadic organizations among clubs, fraternities, etc., for the conduct of contests of one sort or another. Such a condition was characteristic of Miami until about 1913—

14.	Up to 1910-11 the general athletic activity of the student body was more or less spasmodic as shown by an unusual amount of competition during one year and a lapse the following year. In 1910-11 the students organized an inter-class basketball series, inter-fraternity baseball schedule and inter-class track meet. In addition to these, the annual freshman-sophomore contest was held. In 1911-12 an inter-fraternity indoor track meet and one cross-country run were added to the program as outlined for 1910-11. In 1912-13 the same program was followed as in the preceding year, but extended somewhat in the number of contests held. In 1913-14 all of the afore mentioned leagues and series were continued and there were added individual intramural tennis and two inter-fraternity basketball leagues. In 1915-16 the same program, somewhat more intensive, was carried on as of the past year. In 1916-17 the initial step was taken in organizing an intramural athletic association with constitution, by-laws and some eligibility rules worked out. The business of the

* The University publishes a little booklet with the constitution of the Intramural Athletic Association which should be of great value to many of our readers. Ed.

Digitized by ^jOOQle
871

association was vested in a committee, composed of one representative from each of the Greek letter fraternities. Intramural Athletics at Miami operated under this system until 1920-21, when a larger and more representative organization with constitution, by-laws and eligibility rules was worked out and printed in booklet form for distribution among the students. The membership contains representation from the halls, dormitories, fraternities, independent organizations, freshman, sophomore, junior and senior classes. The work of the association is delegated to an Intramural Council composed of one representative from each of the foregoing groups. The association has developed a series of contests in all branches of athletics and has used as units of organization all of the afore mentioned groups.

I think that this organization is unique in its purpose and history. I know of no other instance in which the undergraduates, acting on their own initiative, have organized and kept alive an association with membership, schedules, prizes demanding a budget of over $300. etc., for the purpose of providing opportunities for, and promoting athletic competition among those who were not candidates for university teams. The success of the work is shown by the crowds of men who frequent the gymnasium, the tennis courts, the baseball fields, the football field, and the track, to take part in practice or contests for the various championships.

THE EXTENT OF THE WORK.

The extent of participation by the students and the interest which those engaged take in the competitions, team or individual, are very significant, and would seem to indicate an encouraging growth in the habit of personal work and a departure from the old custom of watching a varsity squad at practice and getting exercise by proxy. During the past year, the writer made a special effort to get data that would enable him to draw some conclusion as to the actual extent of the work’and the number of students involved. There are several ways of making such a computation and none are free from difficulties. During the past year recreation and physical activity was provided in the following proportions. The numbers given indicate the number of men competing in each sport. In many instances the same man competed in several sports:

FALL SEASON.

Number in each sport

All Freshmen and Sophomores, required	work .........................300

Football, Varsity ......................................................50

Football, Freshman .................................................... 40

Football, Sophomore .................................................   30

Football, Soccer Intramural............................................ijo

Cross country, Intramural and Intercollegiate ......................... 50

Tennis, Intramural and Individual......................................100

Total..............................................................720

WINTER SEASON.

All Freshmen and Sophomores, required	work........................... 300

Basketball, Varsity ................................................... 20

Basketball, Freshman .................................................. 20

Basketball, Intramural ................................................300

Track Athletics, Intramural............................................200
872

Boxing, Intramural and Intercollegiate.................................... 70

Wrestling Intramural and Intercollegiate ................................. 30

Handball, Individual Contests............................................. 20

Total ................................................................960

SPRING SEASON.

All Freshmen and Sophomores, required work............................... 300

Baseball, Varsity ........................................................ 30

Baseball, Freshman .....................................................   30

Baseball, Intramural .....................................................240

Track Athletics, Varsity ................................................. 25

Track Athletics, Freshman ................................................ 15

Track Athletics, Intramural ..............................................100

Tennis, Intramural and Individual ........................................150

Handball, Individual Contests ............................................ 30

Total ................................................................920

OUR GREATEST NEED.

Even a casual consideration of the figures presented herewith will disclose the obvious fact that the greatest need for increase in facilities for exercise and general athletic activity exists indoors during the winter months when it is possible only infrequently to work out-of-doors. Handball courts, squash courts, boxing, wrestling and fencing rooms would do much to relieve the pressure during the indoor season.

The building of the men’s gymnasium will go a long way in making all these developments real possibilities, and the betterment of the intramural ideal “Athletics for All” a reality.

ETHICS FOB TEACHERS.

1.	A teacherf should actively affiliate with professional organizations of teachers and should become acquainted with the proceedings of the State associations. (The principal professional organizations for classroom teachers are the National Education Association, the Michigan State Teachers’ Association, the Schoolmasters’ Club, and certain county and local organizations. School authorities should encourage active participation in certain of these organizations by all teachers.)

2.	A clear understanding of the law of contracts is incumbent upon a teacher. Since a teacher should scrupulously keep whatever agreement is made, he should refuse to sign a contract unjust and humiliating in form. (A teacher should ask such questions as:

a.	Does the contract provide sufficient salary as indicated in Article 3?

b. What provision is made for terminating this contract? Is this provision fair to both teacher and board of education?

c. Does the contract cover the essential items as defined by the *

* Report of the committee on professional ethics of the Michigan State Teachers' Association.

t The term “teacher” as used in this Code shall include all persons employed in teachings and all superintendents, supervisors, principals, special teachers, and county commissioners of schools.

Digitized by Google
873

Superintendent of Public Instruction? See School Law, revision of 1919, p. 281.)

3.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to sign a yearly contract to teach for a wage that is sufficient to cover living expenses for twelve months. (According to the resolutions of the Michigan State Teachers* Association in Grand Rapids, 1920, the minimum salary for any teacher should be sufficient to cover living expenses for twelve months, plus three hundred dollars for savings. To determine living expenses for twelve months, the cost of board, room, laundry, and street-car fare, in the community where the teacher is employed, should be taken as representing fifty-two and one-half per cent of the total living expenses for the year.)

4.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to resign unless his contract provides for release on giving of proper notice.

5.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to underbid knowingly a rival in order to secure a position. It is expected that a teacher will verify a rumor of a vacancy before filing an application. In a graded school, application should be filed with the superintendent.

6.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to tutor pupils of his own classes for remuneration except by special permission of the school authorities.

7.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to absent himself from a school or to call in or allow the use of a substitute except for serious illness or for other grave reasons.

8.	It is unprofessional for a teacher to measure his duties and responsibilities to the pupils, or to the school, or to the community, in terms of financial rewards.

9.	Since teachers are rightly regarded as examples to pupils, a teacher should so conduct himself that no just reproach may be brought against him. Where liberty of conscience is not concerned, a teacher should stand ready to make personal sacrifice, because of the prejudices of a community.

10.	It is unprofessional for a superintendent or other school officer to offer a position to a teacher under contract without first determining the willingness of the teacher’s employer to grant a release.

11.	It is unprofessional for a superintendent to refuse to aid a successful teacher to secure worthy promotion within his own or another school system. (It is the opinion of the Committee on Professional Ethics that the surest way to attract and retain superior men and women in the teaching profession, is for superintendents to aid such teachers in the securing of worthy promotions within their own or another school system.)

12.	It is unprofessional for teachers to criticise co-laborers or predecessors in the presence of pupils or patrons. Such procedure tends to injure the school and to weaken the confidence in which the work of teachers is held by the public.

13.	Teachers should be ready at all times to assist one another by giving information, counsel and advice, and by such services and acts as teachers can perform without detriment to themselves or their work. Such reasonable service should be regarded as a professional duty for which remuneration beyond actual expenses should not be accepted.

Digitized by t^ooQle
874

MOUTH HYGIENE AND CHILD WELFARE.

££ EDWARD T. HARTMAN, SECRETARY, THE CHILD FEDERATION,

PHILADELPHIA

£ The problem of the mouth is to possess a mouth which is clean and which can function, as it is intended to function. A dirty mouth contaminates all food taken into the body. Pure food, at whatever cost of care and money in its production and preparation, becomes impure food when taken into the body through a filthy mouth. To function properly the mouth must be clean and there must be sound and usable teeth and the teeth must be used. They must be used to prepare food for digestion and they must be used, much used, on hard and chewable food to develop the teeth, the jaws, the face, the skull and the brain cavity.

The mouth problem is a part of the problem of health promotion. Mouth hygiene is one of the items of a health promotion program. Like other items, each in its proper field, the broad aim of mouth hygiene is to develop and maintain proper teeth. This includes the preparation of food for digestion by the proper use of the teeth. For food which is not properly prepared and digested, decays in the stomach and intestines, where are found the best possible conditions for quick decay—darkness, moisture, heat. If, in addition, the food is mixed in the mouth with pus from pyorrhea pockets, with bacteria from decayed teeth, from food previously left among the teeth and from diseased gums, it decays the more quickly.

While mouth hygiene is but one of the items of a health promotion program, it is a big and definite item, and it is tied up with several other problems, such as prenatal care, nutrition and infections of the body. But it is not a panacea. It must be worked out in connection with other health promotion problems.

The statistics are well known and need not be covered in detail. It is enough to say that one may with difficulty find two good sets of teeth in each hundred children examined in our schools, including only the first five grades. If all grades are examined the proportion of good mouths will be less. In Stratford, Connecticut, five hundred and fifty children were examined and only one child was found to have teeth free from decay. And not only has each child one decayed tooth; he has, on the average, seven decayed teeth.

What is the meaning of this condition? Before the arrival of the civilized white man the Eskimos had no words for decayed teeth or toothache. They now have use for the words, just as we have. Tooth decay is largely unknown among the primitive peoples, such as in the north of Scotland, in Norway and Sweden, in the rural districts of Italy, and several similar areas. And the decay is attributed not to the power to read and write, not to the power to think, but to denaturized foods and to failure to use the power to think. Our overwhelming tooth trouble is due to foolish or ignorant parents and to the food manufacturers.. It is due to the products and conditions of civilization, especially civiliza-

* Reprinted from The finals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Philadelphia, November, 1921.

Digitized by

Google
876

tion’s foods. Denaturzied foods, haste, with its consequent faulty mastication, do not produce teeth.

Along with poor teeth, decayed teeth and dirty mouths comes a whole chain of evil consequences, induced diseases and related ills. Autointoxication, a quite respectable disease, is in some cases a fashionable name for a body full of decayed food. Rheumatism is in many cases the name given to local infections due to pyorrhea pockets. Malnutrition is often due to the fact that the teeth cannot prepare food for the digestive fluids. The after results of a poor mouth, results which are not commonly connected with the condition of the mouth, are now well known to the leaders of the dental and medical professions. These results are so extensive in their various ramifications that they are beginning to form a great specialty in dentistry and medicine. They complicate diagnosis, broaden the range of treatment required and greatly add to the burden of curative treatment. They involve not merely a study of possible break in the enamel of the teeth; rather, as Fones says: “Today we realize that dentistry must concentrate upon the soft tissues, the gums, the pericementum and the pulp, for these are the tissues chiefly involved in permitting the ingress of bacteria into the lymphatics and thus in the production of many systemic infections.”

The trend of the times is toward a toothless age. But progress towards this condition need not continue. We know, in the main, the precedent causes of most of the bad conditions. We know at least enough to make it a truism that if we further progress towards a toothless age it is because we are at the same time progressing in senselessness. We know that we can give up some of our bad habits or continue to give up our teeth. The unfortunate aspect of the matter just now is that our bad habits have a stronger hold on us than have our teeth. There is a job ahead for every promoter of a health program, for every citizen worthy of the name.

The present and future welfare of every child is inspearably tied up with the condition of his mouth and teeth. Upon this, frequently upon this alone, depends comfort, appearance, general health and efficiency of the individual. Malocclusion alone, induced by faulty care of the temporary teeth, malnutrition, thumb sucking, pacifiers, etc., ruins the appearance of the individual, causes mouth breathing, prevents mastication and develops a secondary chain of results which are ghastly and inexcusable. Thus follows a round of difficulties in part hinted at and too numerous to be even catalogued in a short article.

Mental retardation, induced by all the conditions above mentioned, is so terrific in its effects on the individual and in its costs, direct and secondary, to the child and the community, that one would think mere knowledge of the facts would prompt speedy action. Yet there is probably but one city in the country, Bridgeport, Connecticut, which has made a serious attempt at actually meeting the conditions.

As in all matters of health promotion, the development of a program has come in backwards. Dental surgery, a means of patching up bad teeth to do as well as they may, has made great progress, nowhere more than in America. The developments of the past twenty years

Digitized by
876

speak volumes for the ability and the earnestness of the leaders of the dental profession. And the work has been ably seconded by leaders in the medical profession.

But dental surgery is devoted to cure. It does not and cannot, alone, promote good teeth. It should be in the nature of a supplementary activity to a program for promoting healthy mouths. There are less than fifty thousand dentists in the country. To pursue the course now mainly followed, using dentists only when the teeth are troublesome, would require the services of an army of perhaps three hundred thousand dentists and they would then be unable actually to get under the problem. We shall always need the dentist, far more than we now think we need him, but he will need help. With a right program the dentist could give the required attention to the sixth year molars, could treat decay in its early and painless stages and could function more effectively than we now permit.

The next item to develop was mouth hygiene. This is largely a preventive activity and its need is largely induced by failure in the fundamental work. Mouth hygiene is a development of the past ten years. In 1914 the first mouth hygienists were graduated. Their work, under the direction of Dr. Foneffl and of private dentists in various places, was so significant that the movement produced a complete revolution in dentistry. This change is only now in progress. Thirteen states have recognized it by making it legal for mouth hygienists to practice. Like modern dentistry, it is making rapid strides and will prove of almost unlimited value in the campaign for health promotion.

Let us lay down as one of the fundamentals that right mouth conditions will be promoted most effectively by a program of tooth building and maintenance. Dental surgery is curative. Mouth hygiene is preventive, but it can easily be made constructive, that is, by aiming directly at maintaining good teeth in a good condition. But the big item of the program, because the only one which can accomplish the task before us, is tooth building and maintenance. In this work there are three main items.

First comes prenatal care. This is important because the enamel of the temporary teeth and, to some degree, of the permanent teeth is formed in the prenatal period. This will be good enamel or poor enamel, depending upon the condition of the mother during the period of pregnancy. It was formerly considered normal for a mother to give up some of her teeth at the birth of a child. This was due to plain ignorance. The growing organism will take all it can get, at whatever sacrifice to the parent organism. But it is possible to rob the mother and still not supply the needs of the growing child. Prenatal care is therefore imperative to the welfare of the mother and child. Every child has a right to be born fit. No mother should suffer abnormal injury through giving birth to a child. Right conditions at birth go a long way in solving the problems of child welfare and promoting the interests of the individual.

Then comes the item of nutrition. Having started the teeth in the right way, the next thing is to keep them growing properly in every way until they are fully formed. This is largely a problem of nutrition. So nearly is it a problem of nutrition that if we were to solve the nutrition

Digitized by v^ooQle
877

problem we should be a long way on the road to a solution of the tooth problem. But nutrition depends upon the condition of the teeth. Without good teeth the individual cannot prepare food for digestion. So here we have two inseparable problems. To promote one and ignore the other, is to fail.

Free sugar and starch form the base of the tooth problem from the nutritional standpoint and on the negative side. Lactic acid, the destroyer of enamel, comes from sugar and from starch converted into dextrose. On the positive side, the development of the teeth depends upon a “well balanced diet, with special emphasis on the calcium content foods. ”

Mouth hygiene, which includes the prophylactic processes plus full instruction in regard to the care of the mouth, as well as instruction as to foods which will produce teeth and warning against foods which destroy teeth, is imperative in both the constructive and remedial campaigns and is, or should be, within itself both constructive and preventive. It forms the great bridge which will lead us from the present morass of difficulties to the solid ground of right living which will mean good teeth, first, last and between.

We shall probably never use enough of the foods which polish the teeth. So the hygienist must polish them, thus keeping them free from the bacteria plagues which start decay. The hygienist must remove the tartar or teach us to avoid, when someone finds what they are, the foods which produce it. And he must teach us, always teach us, till we reach that position where we individually feed ourselves and our children with the same care used in feeding cattle or in supplying automobiles with fuel and oil. We keep function in mind in every case except when feeding and clothing ourselves.

The profession of mouth hygiene offers a field of usefulness hardly surpassed among the professions. Its importance cannot be overstated. Its significance grows upon us from day to day as we study the situation in which we find ourselves and the possibilities of mouth hygiene as a remedy.

We have poor teeth and we know the cause. We know that to promote tooth health is cheaper and more effective than cure. We know that we will not be able to provide and maintain enough dentists to care for the problem by curative processes. There are those who insist that the tooth problem, as it now faces us, is more serious, responsible for more ills, than was liquor before prohibition. We also know that the tooth problem is tied up with our food habits and that food habits are as difficult to change as other habits. They are perhaps more difficult, for, ,while it is a besotting crime in the eyes of many to poison the body with whiskey, it is not so considered when we fill the stomach with food doomed only to decay and thus to ruin health. And we have to eat.

Let us keep in mind, therefore, the seriousness of the problem and the need for action by parents, teachers, dentists, hygienists, doctors, the

Sress; by everyone who forms a contact and who would claim to in-uence people. For if the influence springing from a contact is not good, it is nothing or it is bad. Who is going to claim the right of a contact, which is also an opportunity, when it produces only harm?

Digitized by
878

Mouth hygiene deals with the care and use of the mouth and the teeth. Its progress during ten years gives it a distinct and permanent field. To those who will deal with mouth hygiene in its broader aspects there is no more useful field for work.

MILITARY OFFICERS DIRECT PHYSICAL TRAINING.

French Army Corps Commanders Organize Course of Instruction and Provide Teachers for Schools.

Physical education in France is practically an outgrowth of military activities. Created primarily for war purposes the system was gradually extended to serve in time of peace. It is still in the hands of the army until such a time when the universities, departments and townships shall be ready to play their part. Physical education is carried out along the following lines:

The commander in chief of each army corps gives his attention to the organization of physical education for young people in the district under his command and works in touch with the heads of the different sports clubs and other similar institutions. He places at the disposal of educational establishments instructors and such other means as he may have to promote physical education.

He organizes instruction courses for teachers of physical education and assures himself that the system adopted at his regional center is in conformity with the type of instruction generally given and that the officers and instructors have the necessary pedagogic and technical qualities. He fixes the date, length, and nature of the courses at the regional center.

He lays down rules for the organization of holiday physical education courses, and assures himself that such education is given in the manner prescribed by ministerial orders in all the establishments to which military instructors have been assigned.

In 1920 the Government appropriated 6,800,000 francs for the promotion of physical education. This sum was distributed to 26 federations and to approximately 3,000 clubs which have received Government approval.

The Government program for physical education comprises:

1.	Obligatory physical education.

2.	The standardization of such training.

A law voted by the Senate on July 10, 1920, making physical education and preparation for military service obligatory, has just been voted by the Chamber of Deputies.

In order to co-ordinate the action of different ministerial departments and of the different federations, a bill for the creation of a national office of physical education and sports, already voted by the Chamber of Deputies, is now before the Senate.

As far as the second part of the Government program is concerned, the above-mentioned law provides for the establishment of a higher school for teaching physical education which will provide male and female civilian as well as military instructors.—School Life.

Digitized by v^oosle
879

BOOK REVIEWS.

“education in health,” E. George Payne, Editor. 253 pages, 5K by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by Lyons and Carnahan, New York and Chicago. Price Ji.oo.

In twelve chapters many of the teachers of the Harris Teachers College of St. Louis present subject matter that shall contribute its appropriate part to the development of individual and social practices essential to healthful living. The topics for these chapters are as follows:-I. The Problem of Health Education.

II.	The Method of Health Education.

III.	Health Education Through Physical Education and Instruction in Hygiene.

* IV. Health Teaching and Language.

V.	Education in Health in Reading.

VI.	Civics and Education in Health.

VII.	Health Teaching and History.

VIII.	Relation of Geography to the Conservation of Health.

IX.	Arithmetic's Contribution to Health Education.

X.	Health Education Through Drawing.

XI.	Manual Training and Home Economics as Related to Health Education.

XII.	Administration of the Health Program.

Each chapter has been written by a specialist in that particular line. No. Ill, for instance, by Miss Ethel Weeden; while Dr. Payne has edited and co-ordinated all. The book is the result of experiments conducted at the Harris college as well as in its practise school. It can be recommended to all progressive teachers as well as to parents that take aa intelligent interest in health education.

“the conflict, a health masque” by Gertrude K. Colby. 70 pages 6 by 9 inches fully illustrated. Published by A. T. Barnes and Company, New York. Price $i.jo.

Those members of the American Physical Education Association that attended the New York convention of the association in April 1920 will remember the wonderful production that one evening was shown to the delegates. The present booklet is a complete description of that pageant with all the details worked out so that either the masque as a whole, or parts of it can be used.

“the forward pass in football” by Elmer Berry. 25 pages, 6 by 9 inches with 5 illustrations, paper cover. Published by A. L. Barnes and Company, New York. Price 50 cents.

If this little pamphlet were read—and understood— by all football coaches we certainly could look forward to an improved type of playing.

“games and play for school morale”. Published by Community Service, No. 1, Madison Ave., New York City. Price 25 cents.

It is always difficult for a layman to decide just what games are best suited to children at their various ages. The problem is, of course, to-

Digitized by

Google
880

get something that will be interesting enough to capture the attention of the child.

“Games and Play for School Morale,” are arranged by Mel Sheppard and Anna Vaughan.

The most satisfactory feature of the booklet is that only a very small percentage of the games in it need any sort of apparatus.

The last section is given over to group games for adults. Anyone who has ever had charge of a school or community social realizes that it is not an easy task to find sufficient games to fill an evening with simple and wholesome entertainment conducive to sociability. The thirty games described will prove a boon to club hostesses and school workers.

•d——i r i ■ i ————

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

Muscular Tone and General Metabolism.—Dr. F. Grafe says there is considerable evidence for believing that not only muscular contraction but also relaxation of the muscle is produced by a special nervous impulse. If the second impulse, owing to certain pathologic processes in the nervous system, is not forthcoming, then the muscle remains taut, like a stretched rubber band. It is highly probable that the shortening is brought about by a process resulting from the formation of acid in the sarcoplasm. During this first stage there is probably no consumption of oxygen. The absorption of oxygen begins with the stage of relaxation. If relaxation does not take place, it becomes at once plain why an increased consumption of oxygen beyond the normal consumption for the rest period does not occur. It remains to be seen whether this hypothesis can be supported by establishing the existence of nerves whose function it is to cause relaxation of muscles. Complete article in the “Deutsche medizinische JVochenschrift,” Berlin Dec. 2, 1920, 46, No. 49.

hygiene in high schools—At a meeting of the advisory committee on physical education held in Frankfort, Kentucky, March 18, it was decided to require a full year’s work in hygiene of all high school students, the work to be done in the freshman year. The committee believes boys and girls should be in separate classes and that sex hygiene should be taught.

use of schools in mass, as health centers.—According to the plan announced by the health commissioner the various school centers will be used as health centers three nights a week from Oct. 15, 1921, to May 15, 1922, and one night a week thereafter until the end of the school session.	______________________

INFLUENCE OF PHYSICAL EXERTION ON THE SliE of the heart.—Dr. K. Secher tabulates the heart findings in 31 wild rats (brown) forced to run until exhausted, comparing them with 11 normal rats of the same species and with 11 that died from the effects, at once or within a few hours up to three days. The findings confirm that acute overexertion entails dilatation of the heart and that this may reach a fatal point, but also that

Digitized by CaOOQle
881

the acute dilatation may retrogress. The rat hearts increased by 15 per cent to 20 or 27.6 per cent over the normal size. In a further series of experiments with laboratory rats, 25 were given daily training in a treadmill and the findings are compared with those in 10 normal controls. They confirm that training enables the heart to stand extreme exertion without dilatation, the heart muscle growing capable of standing great strain. The mass of muscle also increased by about 5 per cent. The results thus confirm the general assumptions on this subject, including Kuelb's research on war dogs, and the findings with comparative anatomy which show that the swiftest animals and birds have the relatively largest hearts.—From Hospitalstidende, Copenhagen, Jan. 26. 1921, 64, No. 4 Con’n in No. 5.

sandwich calories.—Nowadays there is something convincing about calories. The word no longer is veiled in the mysterious uncertainty that formerly seemed to envelop it before the eyes of a student of medicine. The expression calories has become associated, even in the popular mind, with the idea of energy, a beneficent factor in human life. During the war, and long thereafter, the cry for calories came from many parts of the world and helped to give concrete character to the problems of food fuel. Thus, it has come about that the “substantial” foods and the important meals of the day furnish a reminder of high calory values. Such items of “extra food” as sweetmeats, the ice cream soda, the bite between meals and the omnipresent box of candy are commonly thought of as incidental and relatively insignificant additions to the daily food. This reputation is by no means justified, as appears in numerous studies, particularly those of Benedict. The most recent analyses concern the composition of the American sandwich. Meat sandwiches, such as are commonly sold in this country in public places, average 75 gm. in weight and represent approximately 225 calories in fuel value. The familiar Frankfurt variety usually is even richer in energy-yielding food. Salad sandwiches, with their complement of fat-containing mayonnaise, are usually looked on as mere morsels of food, insignificant in the day's supply of sustenance. Yet some of the purchased specimens exhibited a value' equivalent to 485 calories—almost a lunch in itself. Such items are far from negligible in nutrition; and, as Benedict remarks, the sandwich taken as extra food is by no means without significance, particularly in cases of obesity. Verily there is nothing elusive about calories, even between meals.—Current Comment in “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc*9 May 21, 1921.	_____________________

RECREATION CENTERS FOR TREATMENT OF AMBULANT TUBERCULOSIS

patients.—Dr. F. G. Collins suggests that tuberculosis recreation centers should be	established	in populous districts. The site for such	centers

should be	some carefully selected open	space within the district	and, if

possible, easily accessible from all quarters. The center should be under medical supervision, and the rest and exercise of the patients attending there suitably regulated, and every endeavor made to map out roughly their daily	life. Care	would have to be	that the recreation center	or day

colony did	not in any	way supplant the	sanatorium for early cases	or the

hospital for advanced cases.—From an article in Tubercle, London, April,., 1921, 2, No. 7.

Digitized by VjOOQle
882

INFORMATION FOR GUIDANCE AND ASSISTANCE OF REG-ISTRANTS DISQUALIFIED FOR ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE BECAUSE OF PHYSICAL DEFECTS.

If you are specially classified or are not available for military service for physical reasons, you are urged carefully to note the suggestions given for improving your condition.

Consult a competent physician or dentist, according to your needs. Hospitals, dispensaries, local Health Departments and the United States Public Health Service are also sources of information and possible relief. If you are in a deferred group for physical reasons and not declined, report to your local board before having any radical operation and secure information as to the best course to pursue.

You owe it to yourself, to your family, and to your country, to place yourself in good physical condition for whatever service you can perform, whether military or civil.

Many men have a number of defects apart from the main disqualifying defect. All defects should have attention.

The following are the common causes for rejection or for special classification:

Defective Eyesight.—Be sure that your vision is corrected by properly fitted glasses. Have this done by an eye specialist, eye dispensary, or eye hospital. Do not try to fit cheap glasses to your own eyes. Eye strain from badly fitting glasses may in time seriously affect your eyesight or health.

Teeth.—Decayed roots, infected gums, decayed teeth, irregular teeth which can not grind may cause many forms of serious disease, and should have immediate attention, Artificial teeth or bridges should be secured if the grinding teeth are missing, for if you do not properly chew your food your health may be affected. Brush the teeth thoroughly at least twice a day. If you have defective teeth or much gold work or many fillings in your mouth, X-Ray to discover possible root infection is a wise precaution, especially if you have rheumatism or any joint trouble, for which other causes can not be found.

Feet.—Aside from paralysis, clubfoot, or deformities resulting from injuries, etc., most foot troubles are due to improperly fitting shoes, improper position in walking or standing, lack of exercise, and weakness of the muscles in the forepart ot the leg that support the arch of the foot. Properly fitting shoes, ot correct shape, with a straight inner edge (the Munson Army last is a good style) will help to correct weak toot, bunions, corns, callouses, and painful joints. Exercise the toe muscles by working the toes up and down over the edge ot a thick board, 30 times daily. Stand with feet parallel and somewhat apart with great toes firmly gripping the ground. Without bending the knees or moving the feet rotate the thighs outward repeatedly. This is chiefly done by strong contraction of the great muscles of the back of the thigh and seat. Improve your general health; take general exercise to strengthen your body. Bathe the ieet daily. See a surgeon if these simple measures are not sufficient. The arches found in the shops will not correct flatfoot. They merely act as

Digitized by v^ooQle
883

crutches. Hammertoe, bunion, and many other defects can be corrected by a surgeon. Painful feet may be due to infection in tooth sockets or tonsils—search for such conditions should be made. Mere flatness of the foot without pain or other deformity may be of no importance.

Underweight.—Underweight is often due to irregular habits of eating and sleeping and lack of regular exercise. Have a thorough examination at intervals by a competent physician, or in dispensary or clinic, to determine whether or not any serious disease exists (especially hookworm or tuberculosis). Eat freely of fat-forming foods mentioned in next paragraph.

Overweight.—Secure as much regular exercise as possible. Be thoroughly examined for evidence of disease. Extreme overweight, especially at middle life, produces as high a death rate as heart disease. Cut down the fat-forming foods, such as bread, butter, cereals, sugars, fats and substitute more green vegetables and fruits.

Hernia or Rupture.—Operation is often advisable. Consult a competent surgeon and confer with your local board.

PileSy Hemorrhoids.—These are often caused by constipation and lack of exercise. Do not use drugs or purgatives. Plenty of bulky food, bran bread or biscuits, fruits, lettuce, spinach, cabbage, brussels sprouts, carrots, turnips, celery, tomatoes, salsify, onions, parsnips, and oyster plant will tend to correct constipation.

If piles are severe operation will help, but the original cause should be removed by proper diet. Agar-agar harmless, and not a drug, can be had at any drug store. Take a teaspoonful three times a day.

Varicocele.—If severe enough to cause rejection operation may be performed. Upbuild general health by exercise and nourishing diet and fresh air. A suspensory bandage is often required.

Varicose Veins.—Support by bandage or stockings. At times removal by operation. (Great caution necessary, consult your board.)

Bladder^ Kidneyy Urinary Troubles.—Go to your physician or to a clinic and place yourself under careful medical supervision. Regulation of your diet, work and activities may be all that is necessary, but your condition should be watched from time to time. Albumin in the urine may be temporary but should always be followed up and examinations made at intervals. Give the benefit of the doubt to your kidneys, and live a temperate and healthful life, avoiding stimulants, excess of meat and overeating generally. Be examined periodically. Sugar in the urine calls tor careful medical supervision and regulation of diet and periodic examination by a physician.

Discharge from Ear: Ear Trouble.—See an ear specialist or go to an ear clinic. Do not neglect such a condition, which may infect other parts of your body.

Heart Murmurs:	Heart	Affections.—A man with an imperfect heart

may not be fit for military service, but with proper regulation of diet, exercise, work and rest, his heart may carry him to old age. Avoid stimulants and tobacco, be very temperate in the use of tea and coffee, avoid excesses of all kinds; eat moderately; avoid heavy meals at night; get plenty of fresh air; exercise daily in the open but be careful not to over-
884

fatigue your heart or circulation—walking and gentle hill-climbing arc good, but never when they cause pain in the chest or shortness of breath. Avoid dissipation and undue excitement. If there is breathlessness* dropsy, or dizziness, careful medical supervision is necessary. All damaged hearts should be examined at least once a year by a physician and the condition noted. Irregular action of heart in some cases is of little importance; in others it is serious and medical observation is important to settle this.

High Blood Pressure.—This may be temporary but should be watched and life regulated as above, especially avoiding physical and mental overstrain and dissipation. Eat little meat; avoid stimulants, tobacco, and overeating.

Lung Troubles.—Where there is suspected tuberculosis consult a competent physician and follow orders stricdy. The basis of treatment is abundant fresh air and nourishing diet, such as bread and butter, cereals and fats, but do not neglect green vegetables and fruits. Avoid alcohol and tobacco. Do not take patent medicines or advertised remedies, or patronize advertising quacks. Avoid fatigue, or physical and mental strain. Do not take any chances. Report to the health officer or Health Department of your district. They will be glad to counsel you.

Rheumatism.—This may be caused by infection in tonsils, teeth, nasal cavities, or elsewhere. Liniment will not cure it. Be examined by a physician and dentist and have infection removed.

Syphilis—Gonorrhea.—Thorough-going persistent treatment is necessary for your protection and for the protection of the members of your family as well as that of your community. In large cities clinics for the treatment of these diseases are available for those without funds.

Alcohol.—Alcohol as ordinarily taken is not a stimulant but a depressing drug. Your brain and nervous system govern your body. Alcohol not only reduces the efficiency of a nation, but life insurance experience has shown that the death rate among steady drinkers supposed to be temperate — even within the bounds of so-called moderation—is nearly double that among average people.

Drink may lead you into trouble, possibly to a miserable death.

Why deliberately expose yourself to this sort of machine-gun fire?

Nervous and Mental Diseases.—Such conditions should be closely observed by your physician or at some clinic for nervous diseases. Some nervous diseases are due to bad mental habits, to fear, failure to take a courageous grip on life and forget one’s troubles. Many nervous diseases are caused by physical conditions which should be sought for and cured by a thorough medical examination and treatment.

Miscellaneous Conditions.—Nose and Throat Trouble; Gall Bladder Trouble; Chronic Appendicitis; Skin Affections.—All such conditions should have immediate medical investigation. If you have no family physician, or if your means are limited, seek hospital or dispensary treatment.

Do not go through life with handicaps that may be easily removed. Do not shorten your life, reduce your earning capacity and capacity for enjoying life, by neglecting your daily condition.

Google
885

GYMNASIUM CREDIT GIVEN FOR HIKING.

As a stimulus to the recently reorganized student outing dub at the Pennsylvania State College, the department of physical education has agreed to give credit for gymnasium drill to all freshmen and sophomores who “hike” ioo miles between now and the end of the term. Those •electing to hike must register their preference with the department and .an accurate record will be kept of the distance covered by each student.— School Life.

RED CROSS MEDICAL SUPPLIES AID RUSSIANS.

Medical supplies contributed by the American Red Cross and distributed by the American Relief Administration are being shipped into Soviet Russia in increasingly large quantities. By the end of the year Red Cross supplies valued at more than $1,750,000 will have been placed at the disposal of the American Relief Administration for use in the disease-ravaged provinces.

These supplies include drugs, hospital supplies and equipment and hospital clothing from Red Cross stocks in Europe and in the United States. Medical effort will be concentrated in the Provinces of Kazan, Simbrisk, Samara, Saratov, and to a limited extent in Petrograd and Moscow.

Dr. Henry Beeuwkes, who is directing the distribution of the Red Cross medical supplies says in a recent report to National Headquarters:

“The Cholera epidemics have been relieved and the disease is now sporadic.

“Typhus fever is appearing and severe and extensive epidemics are expected this winter.

“Malaria has been severe and is still prevalent in chronic forms.

“Typhoid fever and Scorbutus are very prevalent as well as infectious exanthemata, and diseases of the skin and eyes.

“Constitutional diseases are severe and widespread.

“Drugs and hospital supplies are extremely scarce and satisfactory medical and surgical work is in consequence impossible. A leading surgeon in Simbrisk told me that they draw thread from clothing to secure suture material. Hospitals are congested and have long waiting lists.

“Our present plans contemplate the supplying of existing hospitals and clinics with drugs and hospital supplies essential to their operation, the organization of clinics at food distributing centers in areas without medical facilities, and the inauguration of measures to prevent and combat diseases in areas in which we operate.

“In order to combat typhus we have in view the establishment of large numbers, of bath and disinfecting units to be installed and controlled by American personnel and operated by the Russians. Installations will

Digitized by LjOOQle
be simple and the cost low in comparison with the benefits they will render in areas badly infested and without bathing facilities.”

MORE STATES ADOPT PHYSICAL EDUCATION

New Virginia Law Seems Especially Effective—Every School Child Must Receive Physical Training.

Virginia, Mississippi, Kentucky, and Georgia have enacted legislation during the past year which more or less effectively initiates State-wide programs of physical education, according to the National Physical Education Service, 309 Homer Building, Washington, D. C.

In Virginia, the legislation is backed by substantial appropriations of $25,000 to the State board of education for physical education and $25,000 to the State board of health for child welfare and school medical inspection. The law authorizes local public authorities to appropriate funds for the health examination and physical education of school children and the employment of school nurses, physicians, and physical directors. Appointments are to be approved by the health commissioner and the State superintendent of public instruction.

The law requires that all pupils in the public elementary and high schools of the State shall receive such examinations, health instruction and physical training as shall be prescribed by the State board of education and approved by the State board of health.

Every normal school in the State is required to give an approved course in health examinations and physical education and upon these courses every person graduating must have passed a satisfactory examination.

The State board of education is authorized to establish regulations requiring from each applicant for a State teacher’s certificate satisfactory evidence of having covered creditably an approved course in general physical education.

The State board of education is required to appoint a supervisor oF physical education, who shall direct a program of hygienic instruction and physical education in the secondary and normal schools of the State ^ Mr. Guy Throner has been appointed to this position.

The State board of education is instructed to pay to the local school* trustees employing a physical director an amount not to exceed one-halF the annual salary of such employee, and similarly, the State board of health is instructed to pay to the local school trustees employing a nurse or physician an amount not to exceed one-half of the annual salary oF such employee.

The laws passed in the other three States follow the general lines of the Virginia law but do not carry the same degree of compulsion in requiring the establishment of physical education by local school committees. Dr. J. W. Carr has been appointed director of physical education n Kentucky, but it is not probable that similar appointments will be* made in Mississippi and Georgia in the near future. The Mississippi law do s not become operative until Federal funds shall be made available foi~ the assistance of the State in carrying on the work.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
887

Educators all over the country have responded with enthusiasm ter* the suggestions embodied in the lectures on health education recently delivered by J. Mace Andress, Ph. D., sent out as a specialist in health: education by the Bureau of Education at Washington. Acting in this capacity and also as associate director of the Child Health Organization of America, he has reached large audiences in many States.

There can be no doubt that there is keen interest in vitalized health teaching, and the question of ways and means of improving existing systems, of installing scales in schools, and of finding time for teaching health, met Dr. Andress at every turn.

“I think,” said Dr. Andress recently, “that the greatest need in the field now is to get teachers interested in what they can do. One way to get a community or a school system to wake up is to take a single school*; and show what can be done.

Coal economy schemes, forced upon the English by the scarcity, to say nothing of the high cost, of coal, are taking a curious turn, proving' again that necessity is often the mother of invention. While we in this country have been developing combination stoves and boilers, made up in single units, the English have gone a step further in perfecting a com-, bination cooking stove and house heating boiler. The same idea is also, being applied to a combination boiler and cooking oven, the flue outlet of the boiler being connected to a flue-encased oven, with an estimated saving of 75^ of the fuel used for cooking. Of equal interest is a boiler designed for continuous domestic hot water supply, house heating and: cooking, all from one fire.

Such developments as these, especially when taken in connection with, the new heating devices now on the American market, as well as those, shortly to be announced, leave no room to doubt that we are gomg to. see shortly some decided changes in present-day heating practice, at least in connection with the smaller class of installations.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON THE COMMUNITY CENTER.

Interest in community organization has become so general, its value as a means of bringing together the people for acquaintance, entertainment, mutual instruction and co-operation, and as an indispensable agency for vitalizing citizenship so well recognized, and the desire for consistent practical plans for its successful promotion so great that there seems to be special and urgent need at this time for a nation-wide conference on this subject. The Commissioner of Education is, therefore, with the cooperation of the community organization board, calling a conference on the community center to meet in Washington April 21, 22, and 23.

This conference will bring together the results of experiments in community organization in various parts of the country, particularly in the District of Columbia, where an annual appropriation of $3 5,000 is made by the United States Congress for the use of community centers in the schools. From these results and other data definite plans of procedure, sound in principle, flexible in application, and comprehensive in pur-

Digitized by L^ooQle
888

pose, by which the practical benefits of community center development :may be realized throughout the Nation, will be formulated.

NORMAL SCHOOLS AND HEALTH EDUCATION.

“Health training for teachers,” a leaflet prepared by the Child Health Organization of America and published by the Bureau of Education, sets forth the role which normal and training schools should play in the advancement of health education.

As an aid in organizing the work of a normal department of hygiene definite suggestions are offered, among which are the following:

Normal students, future teachers, should at the very beginning of their course become convinced of the value to themselves of good health in relation to success and happiness.

Students should be brought to see that good health is an indispensable part of the teachers' special euqipment.

Students should become possessed of the best modern ideals of healthy living and develop a steadfast loyalty to these ideals.

The students should at the outset be led definitely to form good health habits, to recognize good and poor physical tone in themselves, and be aided in every way to reach and to keep perfect physical condi-, tion.

They should become enthusiastically “outdoor-minded."

They should become convinced of the supreme value of good health for school children and of the urgent need of improving the health teaching in our schools.

The normal teacher should acquaint students with the immensely interesting and richly fruitful health movements of to-day and enlist them wholeheartedly in the cause of better health for America and the world.

Students should become acquainted in a paraqtical way with the best methods and devices for training in healthy living.

The students should be trained in the elements of school hygiene, and as far as possible be fitted to co-operate with the school medical •inspector and school nurse.

The normal school should be expected and enabled to help teachers in service in the State to do good health teaching.

The leaflet is listed as Health Education No. 8 and may be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., at j cents a copy.

REGULATIONS GOVERNING HEALTH SUPERVISION AND HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT CERTIFICATION.

Adopted by the State Board of Education of California.

PART I. DUTIES OF ALL TEACHERS.

It is the duty as heretofore of each teacher employed in the public .schools to look after the health conditions of all his pupils, whether or Jiot supervised by specialists. It is his duty to make observations in

Digitized by i^ooQle
889

order to establish health conditions for reference to the home or in the* case of all pupils whose parents have not asked for exemption from physical examination, for reference to the special school inspector, if one is employed, as follows:

1.	Observe personal habits, and seek to establish correct habits as to cleanliness and proper amount of sleep, rest, recreation, et cetera.

2.	Note signs of contagious diseases or skin and scalp infections.

3.	Make simple tests of sight and hearing.

4.	Observe condition of teeth and note signs of obstructed breathing.

5.	Observe posture for general postural instruction.

6.	Note conditions of nutrition, and where it is deemed advisable, measure height and weight.

7.	To give first aid.

8.	Inspect the sanitary conditions of the school plant.

9.	Make seat adjustments.

PART II. HOLDERS OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT CREDENTIALS.

Under the new law, Section 1618a of the Political Code, health and development supervision may be conducted only by the holder of a Health and Development certificate.

County boards of education may grant such certificates only to—

(1)	Physicians and oculists holding unrevoked certificates to practice medicine and surgery issued by the California State Board of Medical Examiners.

(2)	Dentists holding certificates issued by the California State Board of Dental Examiners.

(3)	Nurses holding certificates of registration as nurses granted by the California State Board of Health.

(4)	Holders of life diplomas of California or special credentials in physical education issued by the California State Board of Education.

Each applicant must hold, in addition to a certificate, diploma or credential enumerated above, a special credential for Health and Development work granted by the California State Board of Education.

Teaching on health and development certificates.

Holders of Health and Development certificates are not authorized to serve as regular teachers unless properly certified as such, but are authorized to give such instruction or advice to individual pupils, or such occasional lectures to classes or schools as will promote the development of proper health habits, according to plans adopted by local school authorities.

DEFINITION OF AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

Definition of authority for inspection by each of the following holders of Health and Development certificates: (a) Physican and Oculist Inspector; (b) Dentist Inspector; (c) Nurse Inspector; (d) Teacher Inspector;,

(e)	Nurse Assistant; (0 Limited Teacher Inspector.

Section 1618a of the Political Code authorizes:

Physical inspectors of the physician, oculist, dentist, nurse, or teacher types to organize and administer under the direction of local boards of education health supervision of the school buildings and pupils enrolled in the public schools. Any of these inspectors may be placed in charge of any of the work of the district for which they are certificated.
890

~A. Physician inspectors and oculist inspectors are authorized:

1.	To instruct and advise teachers in their functions in health supervision.

2.	To conduct health inspections in order to detect contagious diseases .and infections and to determine exlusions.

3. To make physical inspections (examinations) in order to note and refer to the family for attention any physical defects needing correction.

4.	To make physical examinations in order to determine the fitness of pupils for the regular physical training activities, or any need that may -exist for the provision of special activities; to note any need that may exist for the modification of pupils* school environment; all of this for reference to the proper authorities.

5.	To inspect sanitary conditions noting defects for reference to the proper authorities.

6.	To make seat adjustments.

B.	The dentist inspector is authorized:

1.	To examine the teeth of children in order to note any defects that may exist and to report to the family.

2.	When authorized by the board of trustees or board of education and with the consent of the family, to treat the teeth of school children. vC. The nurse inspector is authorized:

1.	To advise and where necessary to instruct teachers in their duties j-elating to health supervision.

2.	To conduct health inspections:

(a)	To note personal health habits that need attention for report and advice to teacher and to parents.

(b)	To note symptoms of contagious diseases requiring exclusion and to report to home health and school authorities.

(c)	To note skin and scalp infections to be reported to teacher and family.

3.	To make physical inspections (examination) in order to note and to report to the family:

(a)	Symptoms of defects of eyes, ears, nose, throat, and teeth.

(b)	Symptoms of nutritional insufficiency to be reported for school or home attention.

4.	To make simple tests of sight and hearing.

5.	To inspect sanitary conditions, noting any defects therein for reference to the proper authorities.

6.	To make seat adjustments.

D.	The teacher inspector is authorized:

To perform the same functions as the nurse inspector and in addition thereto to determine capacity for physical training activities and adapt such activities to individual needs.

E.	The nurse assistant is authorized:

To perform the same service as the nurse inspector (except organization and administration) but only under the direction of a physical inspector.

F.	Ihe limited teacher inspector is authorized:

To make physical examinations in order to determine the fitness of pupils for the regular physical training activities, or any need that may

Digitized by
891

exist for the provision of special corrective activities, said examination to bejreported to home and school.

STANDARDS.

Standards for Health and Development credentials are as follows:

First—Every applicant must be recommended for this work by the county superintendent of schools, or the city superintendent of schools, or the principal of a high school in the district in which he resides.

Second—The following additional qualifications are necessary:

A. For the physician, oculist, dentist or nurse, one of the following:

1.	Evidence of successful experience in school health work; or

2.	Evidence of special fitness for school health work, such fitness to be established by either documentary proofs or by examination.

B.	For the teacher inspector:

A credential in general physical education or in physical education and training or a life diploma with evidence of training equivalent to that required for a credential in general physical education and in addition thereto evidence of one of the following:

1.	Evidence of successful experience in school health work; or

2.	Evidence of special fitness for school health work, such fitness to be established by either documentary proofs or by examination.

C.	For the nurse assistant:

A certificate of registration as a nurse granted by the California State Board of Health.

D.	For the limited teacher inspector:

A credential in physical education and training, or in physical training activities or a life diploma with evidence of a training equivalent to that required for a credential in physical training activities and in addition thereto evidence of one of the following:

1.	Successful experience in conducting for physical education purposes the examinations specified.

2.	The successful completion of a satisfactory course designed to prepare persons for such examinations; or

3.	The passing of an examination designed to establish the ability to conduct such examinations.

EXCEPTION FROM PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.

Section 1618* of the Political Code provides as follows:

“The board of school trustees or the city or city and county board of education shall make such rules for the examination of the pupils in the public schools under their jurisdiction as will insure proper care of the pupil and proper secrecy in connection with any defect noted by the physical inspector or his assistant and may tend to the correction of such physical defect or defects; provided, however, that a parent or guardian having control or charge of any child enrolled in the public schools may file annually with the principal of the school in which he is enrolled a statement in writing, signed by such parent or guardian, stating that he will not consent to the physical examination of his child, and thereupon such child shall be exempt from any physical examination, but whenever there is good reason to believe that such child is suffering from a recognized contagious or infectious disease, such child shall be sent home and shall not be permitted to return until the school authorities are satisfied that such contagious or infectious disease does not exist.”
892

We continually receive requests to duplicate copies of Mind and Body which have for one reason or another gone astray. This we are perfectly willing to do provided we are in any way to blame for their not arriving at their destination but where subscribers change their addresses they must notify us at least two weeks in advance in order that the notice may be sure to be received by us and to give us time to make the change. For instance, if you expect to change location any time before January 25, 1922, you must notify the publishers not later than January 10 if you expect to receive your next copy of the magazine at the proper address. Do not write to us January 25 and say you have moved and expect your magazine to follow at once. When we send you a duplicate copy of any number that means to break up one of our own volumes and if you want us to do this you should send a remittance to cover the cost of the copy. That is only fair and we will not deal on any other basis. If non-delivery is due to an error on our part we will either return your remittance or give you additional credit on your subscription* It is our intention to furnish all copies that are ordered and paid for and if we make an error we cheerfully correct it. We expect others to be willing to do the same.

Every subscriber to Mind and Body knows that his subscription expires once a year. When that time arrives each subscriber will find a renewal notice enclosed in his magazine. It would save us a great deal of money that is now uselessly spent if each subscriber who finds such a notice would at once write out a check ($2.00 in the United States, $2.25 Canada or Foreign) and mail direct to us. If you have fully decided not to renew your subscription, write the word “Cancel” across the notice and mail to us immediately. If you can and will, we shall be glad to have you write on the back of the notice, the name of some friend to whom we could send a sample copy of Mind and Body. If every subscriber who uses the renewal blank would send us just one name we should be able to add several hundred subscribers to our list every year— and the more subscribers we get, the more money we will have to use in improving Mind and Body. We spend hundreds of dollars every year collecting renewals. If you save us this expense by sending your renewal in the minute you are notified it is due, we shall have a great deal of money to spend on improving your magazine. If you send your orders promptly it costs you a 2 cent stamp. If you do not renew promptly it costs us all the way from 5 cents to $1.00—hard, cold cash—to get your name back on our list. It’s your first move!

If you find a pink renewal blank enclosed here, it is time for you to notify us of your wishes with regard to renewing your subscription.

Digitized by i^ooQle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

FRED E. FORRTSCH, PITTSBURG.

WAND DRILL.

BY OSCAR RUTHER, LEAVENWORTH, KANS.

For Public Schools, Grade VI.

Music: Our Director March, Victor Record No. 35204.

Introduction: Pupils lower the wand and stand at attention—6 counts.

GROUP I.

Exercise /.

a)	Raise the wand forward - 1, pause - 2- 4................ 2	M.

b)	Raise the arms upward - J, lower the wand rear of shoulders - 6, straighten the arms upward - 7, lower the arms foredownward -

8 .............................................................. 2	M.

c)	Repeat the exercise three times - 9 - 32................12	M.

Total

16 M.

Exercise 2.

Repeat exercise 1 with bending knees deep on - 1, and straight-

ening knees on	-	5 .................................16	M.

Exercise J.

a)	Raise the arms foreupward -1, pause 2-4.................... 2	M.

b)	Lower the arms forward - 5, bend arms for thrust (elbows

sideward) - 6, straighten arms upward - 7, lower arms foredownward -8 .............................................................2	M.

c)	Repeat	the exercise three times - 9-32.....................12	M.

Total .........................................................16	M.

Exercise 4.

Repeat exercise 3, jumping to a side stride stand with a % turn left on - 1, jump with closing heels on - j - total............16	M.

Note: With each repetition of the exercise a further turn is executed.

INTERLUDE.

Lunge left sideward - 1, pause 2-4, replace left foot and raise the arms upward - J, pause - 6-8, lunge right sideward - 9, pause -10-12, replace right foot and raise arms upward - 13, pause - 14-16, lower the arms fore-downward - 17, pause - 18-20, total........10	M.

Exercise /.

GROUP II.

a) Raise left arm upward, right hand front of left shoulder - 1,

Digitized by
894

pause - 2-4, straighten the right arm upward - J, bend arms for

thrust - 6, thrust arms forward - 7, lower the arms - 8.................. 4	M.

b) Repeat a) beginning right, left and right - 9-32................12,	M.

Total ........................................................ 16	M-

Exercise 2.

Repeat exercise 1 with lunging left sideward and bending trunk right on - 1, replace left foot with straightening trunk on - 5, complete arm movements - 6-8, and repeat the exercise right, left and

right - 9-32, total .................................................16	M.

Exercise 3.

a) Lower the trunk forward with arms forward - 1, pause - 2-4, raise the trunk with raising the arms foreupward - 5, pause - 6-8, lower the trunk forward with arms forward - 9, pause - 10-12, raise

the trunk with lowering the arms to starting position - 13, pause,

14-16 ............................................................... 8	M.

b) Repeat the exercise .......................................... 8	M.

Total ........................................................16	M.

Exercise 4.

a) Raise the arms foreupward - 1, pause - 2-4, march 4 steps in place with executing turn left and lowering arms foredown-ward - 5-8, repeat three times - 9-32, total.......................16	M.

For the next interlude of 8 counts the pupils stand in position. Repeat exercises 1 and 2 of Group I.

Repeat the interlude after Group I.

Repeat exercises 3 and 4 of Group I.

ATHLETIC DRILL.

ARRANGED BY A. H. PRITZLAFF, SOCIALER TURN VEREIN CHICAGO, ILL.

NOTE: The following exercise was one of the model numbers shown at the National Festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June, 1921.

Performed dy the Men's Class of the Socialer Turn Verein, Chicago.

Music:**Military March" dy Franz Schubert.

Play 1st strain once, then play thru as written, play 1st strain for the last exercise and then the introduction for the finish.

Formation: Column of front ranks in open order.

Introduction, Stand in position .............................. 6	M.

Exercite /. “Warming up."

(a)	Leap left sideward, swing arms sideward; Leap right in rear

of left, swing arms down........................................... 1	M.

Repeat (a) moving toward the left............................. 1	M.

(b)	Jump to side stride stand, swing arms obliquely sideupward

and pause ......................................................... 1	M.

(c)	Jump to position, arms sidedownward ..................... 1	M.

Digitized by

Google
895

Repeat 3 times, right, right and left ...................12	M»

16 M.

Exercise 2. “Discus.”

Pose—Place left foot backward and bend both knees (left knee above the right heel). Swing the right arm well backward the left arm downward, left hand in front of the right knee, turn trunk right so that the left shoulder is directed forward and bend trunk slightly forward over the right knee, turn head left. Hold position 3 M, close to position and hold 1 M................................ 4	M.

4 M.

Throwing the Discus.

(a)	Step left forward, raise right foot backward and raise both

arms obliquely fore-upward, hands together....................... 1	M*

(b)	Step right backward a short step and immediately place left

foot backward, bending both knees, the left knee being above the right heel; at the same time swing the right arm well backward, the left arm downward so that the left hand will come in front on the right knee; turn head left........................................ 1	M.

(c)	Step left forward, raise right leg backward; swing the right

arm downward and obliquely fore-upward, the left arm back downward ............................................................. 1	M,

(d)	Step backward on the right foot, close left to right; lower

arms to sides ................................................... 1	M.

Repeat 3 times, starting left each time......................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 3. “Javelin.”

(a)	Face left and step left forward, raise right leg backward; swing right arm obliquely fore-upward, left arm slightly backward .. 1 M.

(b)	Turn trunk right and immediately step right sideward and

bend right knee; belnd trunk right: draw right arm backward and right sideward, swing left arm downward and obliquely fore-upward; turn head left.................................................... 1	M*

(c)	Jump with yi turn left, landing on the right foot, left leg

backward; at the same time swing the right arm upward and hold obliquely fore-upward, (throwing the javelin) swing the left arm downward and	backward ........................................... 1	M*

(d)	Step backward left and close right to left; lower arms to

sides ........................................................... 1	M-

Repeat 3 times,	facing left each time........................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 4. “Shot Put.”

Pose—Face right and place the left foot sideward, bend right knee; bend trunk sideward over right knee; raise left arm obliquely side-upward, bend right arm upward (hand at the right shoulder) turn head left.

Digitized by
896

i M.

Hold this position 3 M. close to position and hold

4 M.

Putting the Shot.

(a)	Face right and place the left foot sideward, bend right knee;

bend trunk sideward over right knee; raise left arm obliquely side-upward and bend right upward ....................................... 1	M.

(b)	Swing left leg sideward, straighten right knee and thrust

right arm upward - 1. Return placing left foot behind the right and bend both knees; arms as in (a) .................................... 1	M.

(c)	Spring sideward left, finishing as position in (a) and imme-

diately yi turn left, landing on the right foot, left leg backward; straighten right arm obliquely fore-upward left arm backward; head back looking up at the right hand................................... 1	M.

(d)	Step back on left foot, close right to left; lower arms to

sides ...............................................................1	M.

Repeat 3 times. Facing right twice, finishing the second time with yi turn left. Then facing right twice and finishing with turn left to position ..............................................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 5. “Bow and Arrow/’

(a)	Face left and place left foot forward outward; raise arms

forward, hands together...........................................   1	M.

(b)	Place left foot back inward; draw right hand backward until in front of the right shoulder (elbow up) ...................... 1	M.

(c)	Fallout left fore-outward; arms forward clap hands, and immediately straighten left knee, raise right leg backward; draw right

arm backward as in (b) ............................................. 1	M.

(d)	Step back on right, close left to right foot; lower arms to

sides .............................................................. 1	M.

Repeat 3 times, facing left each time ..........................12	M.

16 M.

Pose—Bow and Arrow.

(a)	Place left foot forward-outward; raise arms forward, hands

together ...................................................... 1	M.

(b)	Place left foot back inward; draw right hand backward and

pause ..........................................................4	M.

(c)	Close	to position ..................................... 1	M.

6 M.

Exercise 6. “Hurl Ball.”

Jr* (a) Face right and place left foot sideward; raise arms left sideward, hands together; turn head left - on count 1. Swing right arm downward and right sideward - on count 2....................... 1	M.

(b)	Step left sideward, step right, crossing in rear of left. 1 M.

(c)	Step left sideward (small step) immediately step right crossing in front of left and raise the left leg backward............... 1	M.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
897

During (b) and (c) i 7-8 arm circle with right arm to right arm obliquely fore-upward, palm up; left arm backward.^

(d)	Step back on left, close right to left; lower arms to sides___1 M.

Repeat as above ................................................... 4	M.

Face left and repeat .............................................. 4	M.

Step forward left, lean slightly forward, watching flight of ball. 1 M.

Step back right, close left to right............................... 1	M.

Face right and repeat hurl ball exercise as above, finishing with yi turn left to position ................................................ 4	M.

18 M.

Exercise 7. “Basketball Far Throw.”

(a)	Step left sideward; bend trunk forward; arms forward....... 1 M.

(b)	Straighten trunk; swing arms fore-upward; bend upper

trunk ............................................................... 1	M.

(c)	Bend trunk half forward; swing arms forward to obliquely

fore-upward position ................................................ 1	M.

(d)	Close left to right; lower arms	to sides .................. 1	M.

2.	Repeat, starting right...................................... 4	M.

3.	(a) Stride left sideward ................................... 1	M.

(b)	Bend trunk forward; arms forward .......................... 1	M.

(c)	Straighten trunk and bend upper trunk; swing arms fore-

upward and back (delivering ball over head)	... .................... 1	M.

(d)	Close left to right; lower arms	to sides .................. 1	M.

Step left sideward; turn trunk left; turn head left (looking over left shoulder to note the throw) .......................................... 1	M.

Step right, close left to right................................. 1	M.

Repeat 3, starting right ....................................... 4	M*

18 M.

Exercise 8. “Running Broad Jump.”

(a)	Running steps forward .................................. 2	M*

(b)	Jump forward, landing on both feet, knees bent; swing arms fore-upward during the jump and downward to the forward position

in landing; straighten knees; lower arms to sides................ 2	M.

(c)	Turn left and walk back to place, turning left to position... 4 M.

8 M.

Repeat twice................................................ 16	M.

24 M.

Exercise p. “Running.”

(a)	“On your marks” face left and kneel left (left knee at right instep) place hands on ground yi foot length in front of right foot.. 1 M.

(b)	“Get set”. Straighten left leg slightly, lean well forward over

hands .......................................................... 1	M.

(c) Rise and 4 small running steps forward................. 2	M.

Repeat 3 times, running on the lines of a square left......12	M.

2. yi turn left and repeat (a), (b), (c) .................. 4	M*

Digitized by Google
3- Repeat 2

898

4 M.

24 M.

Exercise 10. As Exercise	1 ......................................16	M.

Finish.

Pew*—Bow and Arrow.

(a)	Place left foot forward outward; raise arms forward, hands

together ........................................................ 1	M.

(b)	Place left foot back inward: draw right hand backward

{elbow sideward) ................................................ 1	M.

(c)	Fallout left fore-outward; arms forward, clap hands and im-

mediately straighten left knee; raise right leg backward; draw right arm backward, right hand at right shoulder (elbow sideward) and pause ........................................................... 3	M-

(d)	Step back right, close left to right; lower arms to sides- 1	M.

6 M.

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From the journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

“The Relation of Physical Training to Work's Efficiency."—H. Hargrave Hunt.

“The average employer if asked whether he was interested in the question of physical training for his workers would answer with an emphatic negative. He would probably reply that he had quite sufficient to do with a shrinking market, rising cost, lessened hours of work and a reduced output, without being worried with any fancy ideas of that kind. Being a manufacturer myself, I can understand and sympathize with his attitude. And yet, if he has a number of young workers of either sex in his employ, it may be submitted that although he may not be interested in the positive question of training, he is unpleasantly interested in the result caused by its absence."—“It must be remembered that the average “Young Person" comes to his work badly handicapped physically; witness the official statement that “over one million children of school age are so physically or mentally defective as to be unable to derive reasonable benefit from the education that the State provides/* The result of this is a*lack of concentration, absence of initiative, and loss •of interest as affecting the^employee, and a low output and loss of time in regard^to the employer."—“In industrial matters the ideal is arrived at when employee and employer are rightly satisfied with the conditions, output, and remuneration of labor. The extent to which any one of these factors is not fully satisfied is the measure of the loss of efficiency in the industrial machine."—“The first step towards the realization of the ideal conditions is surely the providing all children with an opportunity of

Digitized by

Google
899

attaining that sound body that shall be the temple for the sound mind.”— **We now come to that more directly concerning him as an individual— how the “Young Person” in the factory and office may be kept in good physical condition.

It must be quite clear that the criterion in this matter is the effect on the business.—My object in writing this paper is to state that physical training is a commercial proposition, to be judged solely by its result, and the experience of one large manufacturing concern may be given as proof of this statement. Some years ago they commenced giving physical training to their workers (in this case a large number of young girls were employed), and a large room in the works was adapted for this purpose. It was not at all ideal for gymnastic work, but it was desired to test results before sanctioning any larger outlay. A trained gymnastic mistress was engaged and a regular scheme installed by which each worker obtained a short period of training weekly. A few years later the results were considered so satisfactory that a much larger room was devoted to the training and a considerable enlargement was made in the equipment. Still later, a special gymnasium was built, the equipment transferred and again increased.

The firms were now giving facilities for all their girl workers to take the training as part of their day’s work i. e. they were paid for the time taken by the training. This affected some hundreds of girls, but not only was the weekly output not reduced, it was considerably increased, under the same working conditions, showing a direct and tangible gain to the works’ turn over. Equally valuable results were, however, gained in addition. The amount of lost time through sickness, previously a considerable item, was reduced, and perhaps the best result of all was the better feeling engendered between the management and the workers. The latter, as they individually began to feel the benefit of the training, realized and appreciated the value of the facilities that had been provided.”—“For the successful installation of a works* gymnasium, either alone or as part of an education shceme, there are three essentials:	(i)

an adequate room; (2) an up-to-date equipment, suited to the needs of the individual firm; (3) expert instruction. Emphasis must be laid on the last point as many promising schemes have failed because of the neglect of this detail.”—Vol. XIII., Summer 1921.

“Shall Remedial Gymnastics be Compulsory in the Training of the Gymnast?”

The Third annual conference of the Ling Association was held at the Ling Gymnasium, Notting Hill Gate, on Saturday, July 2nd. Delegates from the Local Societies and the Old Students* Associations, and the staffs of the Physical Training Colleges were present, as well as the Ling Association Committee.

In connection with the discussion on the value of remedial gymnastic work in the school, the following resolution was passed by a narrow majority:—“That the Ling Association shall recognize two sections in remedial work (1) Elementary—to be taken by all students, comprising massage and all that is required in the treatment of postural defects likely to occur during school life, (2) Advanced—including hospital work

Digitized by Google
900

and the treatment of those diseases for the cure of which medical gymnastics are recommended/*

In introducing the resolution, it was pointed out that there is in it no suggestion that remedial work be abolished, but that on the contrary those who have aptitude and a desire for it should be freed, from something else in the curriculum, say, advanced dancing, in order to devote themselves more closely to their chosen remedial work: At the same time by limiting the time necessarily spent by every gymnastic student, willy nilly, on this subject, more time might be spent on other subjects of study by those who found themselves without tpecial aptitude for remedial work.

An animated and enlightened discussion followed this proposal, the opposers being particularly well entrenched and prepared with their arguments.

There is more in this discussion than at first appears. Some clarification of our views as to what is essential in the manufacture of the gymnast is badly needed. Most Scandinavian countries have accepted a differentiation of type, and the gymnast of the schools, say in Denmark, first trains for three years as an ordinary teacher, and finally specializes with a year’s educational gymnastics, much as another teacher may specialize in history.—There are few such teachers in England now; the quality of their work in physical education is unquestioned, but, largely because they have no medical training. They are not recognized by the orthodoxly-trained gymnast as expert.—”Vol. XIII., Summer 1921.

Among the interesting results of a test made at Yale University on thirteen Yale students who were subjected to varying amounts of carbonic monoxide gas, was the discovery that the average person can inhale 10 parts of this gas in 10,000 parts of air for a period of two hours without any noticeable after effects, and anaemic persons and infants can safely breathe 3 parts in 10,000. The tests were conducted by the Bureau of Mines for the New York and New Jersey Bridge and Tunnel Commission, to determine the amount of exhaust gas from automobiles which can safely be present in the air of the proposed Hudson River vehicular tunnel. The gas was obtained from the exhaust of motor trucks and kept in glass tanks. The student undergoing the test was placed in an air-tight chamber into which a measured quantity of the gas was introduced. The student sat in a chair and read a paper or a book for two or a yi hours. His blood pressure was than taken and compared with his condition before entering the chamber. Others who underwent the test were Professor Henderson of the bureau and Clifford M. Holland, chief engineer of the joint commissions, the former suffering no more serious effects than a severe headache.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe