VoL 3.

APRIL, 1896.

No. 26

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood. Chicago, III.

Wm. Stecher, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd 4 Chestnut 8t., St.LouiS, Mo. .Hans Ballin, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State normal University, CARBONDALE, 111.

THE OLYMPIAN GAMES AT ATHENS.

By HANS BALLIN, Carbondale. Ills.

WE have reported in a previous issue of “Mind and Body” the attitude taken by the gymnastic organizations of Europe toward the Olympian Games at Athens. All of these have rejected an active and official participation in them, because they did not approve of the sportlike programme. The largest union in Europe, “Die Deutsche Turner-schaft” which alone would have sufficed, if it had taken a part, to increase the number of contestants considerably, has not accepted an invitation. The union was not called upon to be represented in the Arrangement Committee, and was not invited, as were the other organizations, by the proper authorities, but by the local committee at Athens a month or so ago. These reasons, and its objections to the sportlike character of the games, prompted this union not to accept the invitation.

A rough estimate may place the members of all gymnastic unions of Europe at nearly 600,000 gymnasts. These out of the race, it appears to us very doubtful whether these Grecian games are a revival of ancient blood and splendor.

The enthusiastic comment of our American press, that does not ponder over educational theirhas, by freely advertising this event, succeeded in drawing pubfr ^ _ Lion to the classic grounds. Moreover, several teams from our uchlet^ <??.Trles, have hurried to Athens, and, as

Digitized by G,OOQle
-26-

\ve predicted a few weeks ago,* covered themselves with “glory.” A Chicago daily does not anticipate, we suppose, the involuntary satire when, giving in one of its recent issues the athletes in Grecian postures on pedestals, asking, if our nation will erect monuments, as did the ancient Greeks, in their honor. The satire will reach its climax, when the young victors come home from the “Field of Honor.”

It is a satire on the ancient Olympia. Not that we should not welcome a revival of the times of yore, with all its magnificent features modernized, but this revelry is but a sign, that we have entered a wrong course, which we should not pursue. Sport and athleticism have in our day no less than at the time of Theodosius, all the selfish and morbid characteristics which tended to the downfall of Grecian hegemony among the nations of Antiquity. Side by side with, and as a part ot rational and well ordered gymnastics, as practiced in many quarters, sport and athleticism would lose some of their worst features ; left to themselves, they will still drift more widely into wrong pursuits, striving to achieve victories at the expense of elevating emulation.

We sincerely hope that when the clouds of perverted enthusiasm have rolled by, sober reflections will forecast a brighter outlook during the next Olympiad. The North American Gymnastic Union, rich in experience of gymnastic contests of the past, can furnish telling data. Though never encouraging the education of a selected few, always looking to the welfare of the many, it permitted for more than twenty-five years the contests of teams of their societies at the national festivals. The Newark festival, in 1885, was the last of their order. Mr. Karl J. Kroh had visited the republican festival of Switzerland, had seen the large number of gymnasts participating in a tournament of a union, ranking among the smallest in membership in old Europe. Enthused by the plan, he, on coming back to this country, advocated the Swiss system of society gymnastics, i. e.-, the taking part of all, or nearly all, the active gymnasts of a society in a festival. These were to be judged, not a few selected members. He carried his point. Four years after the Newark tournament, in which about 500 gymnasts had an active part, we witnessed at Cincinnati, under the leadership of Mr. Kroh, two thousand gymnasts on the fiejd, all vying for the honors, not for their individual self, but for their home town and society. This did not exclude the contests of the best gymnasts among themselves. They also entered into competitive work, but not unless they had helped in their own society-class. Four years later, again, on second trial, the Milwaukee contest called out from 40,000 members, of which 7,000 were active gymnasts, more than 3,000 for society contest. Not alone had the national festivals thus changed the number of participants from a selected few, to a gathering ot the weakest (we saw hunchbacks among the classes at Milwaukee) and the strongest, this method has made each of the thirty district tournaments of the Union as populous, as formerly was the one national.

But the change of affairs will not take place, in our country at least, as long as in our colleges and universities gymnastic work is looked,

*

“Nord-Amerikanische Turnzeitung” (North American Gymnastic Gazette:)
-27-

upon as inferior to athletic work, which must be the result, when we entice college boys and girls to enter the gymnasiums, holding before them the prescription panacea exercise as their only salvation from invalidism or even an untimely death. When we look upon these young persons as invalids, we cannot expect a healthy atmosphere in these gymnasiums and must not be surprised to see those only who passed into class A No. 1 by physical examination, those on the fields of sports and athletics, come to the front. No sooner will there be a change of affairs, at least in these schools, until we shall adopt progressive work in classes in which all can take part, side by side, none ever fearing to tear open somebody’s imagined weak ventricle, or burst asunder a lung. Let good teachers know where to place the students. The gymnasiums are no hospitals. How many thousands, uncounted thousands, have passed, after years of practice, healthy and well, out of the Turner Halls ! If physical activity is so natural to human nature, why make it so odious by watching, or rather trying to watch—tor it cannot be done as practiced now—every step a pupil takes, as one would a sick person.

The notion of prescription gymnastics, or the developmental school, has arisen from this aspect of the physical make-up of college boys and girls. However, a weak heart, a disturbed circulation, affected lungs, will suffer greater harm from an injudicious overstrain by mental worky from being confined in the study room in close air for hours, than they are harmed by the training under the care of a teacher who well knows how to arrange his material for progressive work. * Just what these young persons need most, the mirthful activity among class-mates, they are deprived of. It is by no means necessary to tax all alike. There is certain work which all can do, other exercises can be well arranged so as to be adapted to the weakest as well as to the strongest.

Another great difficulty lies in the circumstance that many teachers have had no systematic training, do not know sufficiently the material, or cannot arrange it for progressive work.

The gymnasiums must be the centers for all physical training. They are the elementary, secondary and high schools for any rational bodybuilding. They prepare for all other body-work. Games and plays are begun here, so are sport and athletics. The open fields simply offer convenient opportunity for more extensive work, and also for more desirable work. This Jahn pronounced absolutely necessary as early as 1816. But games and plays, sport and athletics, highly valued as they are, do not offer a complete system of physical training in themselves; they will not train the body, if practiced exclusively, in that harmony which is the aim of a true culture. Any one-sided work carries with it the professional spirit. How long it will yet be, before German gymnastics will find such a place in our gymnasiums, as it should have, is difficult to say, but we will not graduate finished athletes in four years, as Julian Hawthorne deplores that we do not do now, until a rational system be followed. Then we will educate the masses, and not a few, and will soon train such physiques, that will be the models for the Phidias of our days. But beauty cannot be attained, unless “she sits in the council of the highest powers !’’
-28-

Gymnastics in the Public Schools of Cincinnati.

By CARL ZIEGLER, M. D., Superintendent of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio/

IX order to give a full history of the Physical Training work in Cincinnati it will be necessary to go back through a period of nearly forty years. In doing so, I use some data from the Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Education, for the year 1892.

From this report it appears that previous to the year 1857 no attempt was made to teach Gymnastics in the Public Schools of the city, for in his report of that year Supt. A. J. Rickoff says, “The enterprise and liberality of individual trustees has resulted in the placing of a few parallel bars, horizontal ladders and circular swings upon the play-grounds of four of our school-houses.” He recommends that, “provisions be at once made for instructing the teachers employed in the schools in such a system of gymnastics as shall be adapted to the several grades in the schools from the first to the sixth.” In the following year the board of education ordered five minutes to be given to calisthenic exercises.

But it was not until the year 1861 that special instructors were employed for the purpose of teaching gymnastics in a systematic way.

The teachers then employed were Mr. Louis Graeser and Miss Hattie Mulfurd. The latter received a salary of $600, but her services were dispensed with after a few years. Mr. Graeser was appointed at a salary of $1000, which was gradually increased to $1900. He retained his position until 1873, when in order to reduce expenses the position of instructor was abolished and the services of Mr. Graeser dispensed with. During the time that he was instructor the work was made obligatory upon all pupils, permanent excuses being granted only on recommendation of a physician. The exercises included all kinds of free gymnastics, the use of dumb-bells, rings and hoops, and, as Mr. Graeser and others who were connected with the schools at that time assure the writer, the re-suits were excellent.

Although the rules governing the teaching of gymnastics remained in force until 1883, the dismissing of the instructor was almost equal to the banishment of the subject from the schools, and, while a few enthusiastic teachers continued to give the lessons, the subject received less and less attention and finally was entirely forgotten, so much so, that of the teachers who were still in the school when the writer took up his work, none could teach a lesson in gymnastics with any degree of efficiency, and they had to learn the work again.

Through all these years the Turners were continually at work, trying to have the subject re-instated but were unsuccessful.

Mr. Wm. A. Stecher who taught from 1883 to 1887 in the North Cincinnati Tumverein made an heroic effort to that end. He asked and received permission to teach in the Normal School, and for a number of years taught there very successfully, but he neither received any recompense for his labor nor accomplished the end for which he had under-

w Read at the first Annual Meeting of the Ohio Physical Education Association, Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 29th and 30th, 1895.

Digitized by c.ooQie
-29-

taken it. Mr. Stecher accepted a position in St. Louis and Mr. Oscar Sputh, his successor, continued the effort, to convince the educators of the necessity of gymnastic training. He, however, turned his attention to the district schools, and for a long time taught in the loth and 23d District Schools ; but his work attracted little attention from the authorities.

All these movements received the encouragement and support of the members of the Turner Societies who were ever on the alert to advance the cause for which they were banded together—the advancement of Physical Education.

When in the year 1892 the “Molter Bill,” which was to make Physical Culture compulsory in all schools in cities of the first and second class, was introduced in the State Legislature, the members of these organizations were ready and eager to lend the movement their united support. As a result of their efforts, aided as they were by some of the most prominent and influential citizens of Cincinnati by the press, and by the Turners throughout the state, the bill passed and became a law on the 12th of April 1892.

Thus Ohio was the first state in the Union to make Physical Training a part of the public school course.*

While the Bill was pending the Turners of the city, organized in four .societies with a total membership of 1000 persons, elected a Committee of Seven, and charged it to bring the subject properly before the Board of Education. Wm. H. Morgan, Sup’t. of schools, who was in sympathy with the movement, recommended that the board accept the offer of the Turners and permit the teachers of the various societies to teach for a period of three months by way of experiment. The Board consented, and Messrs. Eckstein, Knoch and Speidel were each assigned two schools in which they gave regular instruction twice each week.

So successful was the experiment that at the close of the school year, Mr. Bernhard Bettmann, who was and is now a stanch advocate of Physical Training, offered the following rule which, after being recommended by the committee {o which it was referred, was adopted without a dissenting vote:

“There shall be one Superintendent of Physical Culture, to be appointed at a salary of $1600 per annum and increased annually $100 until the salary shall be $1900, and four assistant teachers, to be appointed at a salanr of $600 per annum and increased $50 per annum until the salary shall be $800.”

Acting in accordance with this rule Supt. of Schools, W. H. Morgan, appointed the following:	“Superintendent:	Dr.	Carl Ziegler, Assistants:

Mr. Gustave Eckstein, Mr. Arthur Knoch, Miss Florence Wells, and Miss Adelaide Spills. The first three are graduates of the Normal School of Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union, Miss Wells

* Not, however, the first state that had tried it. The movement of state legislation was started in Pennsylvania in 1890, when the editor was teaching in the Erie Public Schools. Mr. Wm. B. Flickinger succeeded in passing a bill through the Pennsylvania legislature, but it was vetoed by Gov. Pattison. The .•effort which was made in this state, though unsuccessful, should never be forgotten. And, as no mention is made at any time anywhere of the editor’s efforts and his work for the promotion of both bills, we wish to say, with pardonable pride, we also had a ‘hand in it.’—Editor.

Digitized by G,ooQle
—30—

is a graduate of the Anderson Normal School; Miss Spills received her training from members of her family and from private tutors in the city.

The plan of instruction is as follows:— The pupils of the two lower grades receive a lesson every two weeks, those of all other grades once each week, from the special teachers; the local teachers continue the work until the next visit of the special teachers. The time allotted for each lesson is ten minutes per day.

The division of work is as follows:— The Superintendent teaches in the four Intermediate (Grammar) Schools and the Normal School, the male assistants in the intermediate and upper grades of the district schools, and the schools which have all grades; while the lady assistants teach the four lower grades.

By this arrangement the superintendent has about half of his time for teaching and half for supervision. Each assistant teaches on an average twenty-five classes a day, and, I may truthfully say, fills one of the most arduous positions in the schools.

The method of supervision has proved to be an excellent one and has given general satisfaction. The superintendent visits every school once in about eight weeks, either alone or in company with assistants. In the former case the local teachers give the lesson upon which they happen to be working, the superintendent notes any mistakes that are made either in giving or in executing the exercises, and afterwards calls attention to these mistakes and corrects them.

If the teacher is at fault, a model lesson is given to bring out the points in which the teacher is deficient.

To be sure, at first this was no easy task either for the supervisor or the local teachers. The latter especially dreaded these visits, but by showing a kindly disposition rather than authority, and by exercising the utmost caution and tact in making necessary corrections, both pupils and teachers have come to look forward to these visits with joyful anticipation rather than dread.

Many of the principals call meetings of their teachers, at which time these receive practical instruction in the work, and it can be said, without boasting, that at the present time 95 per cent of the teachers can give a very satisfactory lesson, some, indeed, doing the work as well as the special teachers can possibly do it.

The lessons were all compiled by the superintendent and are furnished to each teacher in book form. They are arranged on the principle of the unity of nerves and muscles aiming at the development of the body in recognition of this union and not at separate parts. This to such a possible extent, as the limited work now in vogue permits. The work is based upon the German system, but modified and adapted to the use of the schoolroom. The lessons are so arranged as to conform to the strength and mental abilit}T of the pupils, and comprise all kinds of free-movements, from the simplest in the lower grades to the more intricate and complex form in the higher grades. They are intended to develop not only muscle, but also grace of movement by strengthening the powers of co-ordination, and by vigorous exercise, increasing the
-31-

circulation and respiration, thus improving the health of the pupil, as will be shown later.

The lessons are all given in the schoolroom, except one school which is fortunate enough to have a gymnasium. In this school hand apparatus, dumb-bells, wands and Indian clubs, are used. The others have only free-movements.

In pleasant weather during the spring and autumn the special teachers give the lessons in the schoolyard, in those schools having suitable playgrounds. In these schools games adapted to the age of the children have been taught and the children enter into them with a great deal of interest.

This part of the work will receive more attention in the future, for it really seems that city children must be taught to play; they have no games of their own.

In the Normal School the teaching is both practical and theoretical. One hour a week is devoted to theory, and fifteen minutes a day to practice. Thus every new teacher is well prepared to teach gymnastics even without a special teacher ; and most of them like this work very much, and it may be assumed that the future generation will not lack for gymnastic training.

But the best work is undoubtedly done in the High Schools. Thanks to the efforts of a former member of the Union Board of High Schools, Mr. F. B. James, each High School has a handsome gymnasium. Woodward and Hughes High Schools having each a special building and the Walnut Hills High School having a gymnasium in the schoolhouse proper. The special buildings cost $12,000 each and the equipment for the three schools, which is as complete as need be, cost $1500 each. The floor space of each gymnasium is about 2500 square feet, and the floors are about 20 feet from the rafters.

The instructors for these schools are, at Woodward, Dr. A. E. Poos ; at Hughes, W. A. Ocker ; at Walnut Hills, Arthur Knoch, the latter having been promoted from the district schools and his place filled by Mr. Robert Nohr. All these men are graduates of the Normal School of Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union, and all teach the German System.

The salary of the high school teachers is $1200 each. The attendance upon the gymnasium is obligatory for all pupils, unless excused upon a doctor’s certificate of inability.

The classes average about fifty, and receive two lessons of 45 minutes duration in* each week. Each sex is taught separately. This department is also under the direction and supervision of the superintendent of Physical Culture.

From what has been said it will be seen that the High Schools, at least, are well provided for, while the other schools are on an equal footing with other cities. And if the recommendations of the Superintendent of Physical Culture receive the attention it is expected they will receive, the Cincinnati schools will soon be ahead of those of most cities in the matter of gymnastics.

Digitized by taOOQle
-32-

The recommendations referred to are contained in the last annual report and are as follows :—

1st. The time devoted to this subject should not be less than twenty minutes a day.

2d. All grammar grades should be supplied with apparatus for light gymnastics.

3d. A portion of each schoolyard should be made available for the practice of field sports.

4th. In all present schoolhouses a large room should be set apart for gymnastics, and the halls should be used whenever practicable.

5th. All new schools should be provided with a gymnasium.

6th. The Normal School should have access to a gymnasium where the work would be more efficient and thorough than it can be in the schoolroom, and the subject should be placed on an equality with other studies.

When these wishes shall have been realized, and it is hoped that they will be, it is safe to assume that the physical development of the children will be well provided for.

The question might here be asked : What are the results of this work, and does the result justify the expense ? This can best be answered by a few abstracts from the last Annual Report of the Schools.

This report shows the expense for teaching gymnastics during the last year was eleven cents per pupil on the number enrolled, and thirteen cents on the daily average attendance. It shows further that while the total expense of all the schools was the same in 1894—95 as in the previous year, the expense on the average daily attendance was less in 1894—95, showing that there was less absence, which fact is also shown in the column for average daily absence; and as absence is most on account of sickness, no other, cause being excusable, it follows that the pupils must have been in a better state of health during the school year of 1894—95 than during the previous year.

And if any theory is worth anything we may well claim that it is due to the physical exercise which the children are receiving, and this is becoming more evident as the training has time to show its effect.

Whether this apparent improvement in the physical condition of children is worth the expense of eleven cents per child is a question that will hardly need discussion. It will certainly be answered in the affirmative by all those present.

Athletics in the High Schools of Cincinnati.

ON the 23d day of March, 1896, two representatives, a teacher and one pupil from each of the following schools. Hughes, Woodward, and Walnut Hills High School, and Franklin and Technical School, met and formed the “Interscholastic Athletic Association of Cincinnati.” The representatives then organized by electing officers and thus constituted the “Board of Managers’’ of the above association.

x

Digitized by CjOOQle
-33-

Mr. W. A. Ocker, Hughes High School, who brought about this association, explained the duties of this board, which, in brief, are :—

1.	Protection and purification of athletic sports and games in and between the various schools.

2.	Passing upon the eligibility of contestants.

3.	To act as a Court of Appeals, as it were, in cases of dispute. Following are some of the more important rules governing the

athletic sports :—

—The Board of Managers shall take cognizance of all violations of the rules of the association and the rules governing the several athletic contests, and decide all cases of dispute.

—All pupils who shall participate in any of the spring and summer athletic contests (base-ball, field-day, and rowing) must have been enrolled as regular pupils in the school they represent on or before February 15th last preceding.

—All pupils who shall participate in any of the fall athletic contests must have been enrolled as regular pupils in the school they represent on or before the second Monday in October.

—No pupil who shall have been absent from school ten (10) days in the aggregate after entrance shall be permitted to participate in any athletic contest.

—No pupil shall be permitted to participate in any athletic contests who shall not have at least fifteen (15) periods of school work per week, distributed among at least three studies.

—No pupils shall be permitted to participate in any athletic contest who shall not have attained an average of seventy (70) per cent in the fifteen periods required by above rule, in the school to which he belongs.

The above rules, which are but a small fraction of the Rules and Regulations adopted by the Board of Managers, well nigh prevent any school from playing the so-called “ringers.” They also prevent semi-professional athletes (such as attend school only to win laurels on the athletic field) in taking part.

The last rule is a somewhat severe measure, but the Board held, that if a student falls below the passing mark (70 per cent) he should resign his position on the team and stop training at once, until his average is again up to the standard. This will encourage the poorer pupils in school to do better work, and will also raise the standing of athletics in the school.

So much for interscholastics.

Athletics at Hughes High School is in charge of a Board of Directors, elected annually by the boys of the school, and consists of four representatives from the highest or A grade, three from the B, two from C, and one from the D or lowest grade.

This Board controls all games and contests of the school, but is responsible to an “Advisory Committee” which consists of four teachers appointed by the principal of the school.	W.	A.	O.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-34-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

XVI.

Slant Ladders.

Apparatus.—Four slant ladders, placed next each other, two feet apart. (Bottom of ladders nearest wall, upper ends projecting into hall. Angle 45°.)

Class Formation.—Four files of six or ten pupils each, in ‘flank order,’ at a distance from and facing the lower side of the ladder.

Marching Order.—Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus, and return to rear of files (passing left or right flanks) upon leaving same,—files moving forward one or two steps with each succession.

For Preliminary Class Exercises (without apparatus) see ‘Poles, Ropes.1

I.

[For execution, etc., see previous lessons.]

Spring upward to hang-support position, beams grasped outside (arms —body—extended); alight—(deep knee-bending, etc.) Repeat several times. [1-4*.]

Same, arms bent.

—In hang-support position : raise legs ‘forward-backward’ (left forward, right backward) to cross-stride pos.; outward (sideward) to side-stride pos.; raise knees forward alternately or simultaneously; ditto, legs (bent) backward; raise or swing legs obliquely forward (legs astride—body bent sharply at hips); ditto, obliquely forward left and right (legs closed). Turn trunk left and right alternately. Repeat each exercise—separately—a number of times.

Repeat leg exercises in connection with trunk-turning.

Repeat exercises in hang-support position with arms bent.

[Exercises may be executed with the different hand-grasps on beams and rounds. See ‘Horizontal Ladders.’]

[Exercises may be executed in the ‘front’ as well as ‘back-hang-support position’—facing ladders, or facing class. Exercises on the ‘Horizontal Ladders’ can be repeated in full in the back-hang-support position—observing the different hand-grasps on beams and rounds. See lesson.]

II.

As above:

Lift left and right hands alternately—begin. 1-2.

Reverse left and right hands alternately and re-grasp (grasp beams inside—ulnar grasp)—begin. 1-4.

[Change grasps various ways, from beams to rounds, etc.]

Raise legs forward and place feet on rounds, beams grasped outside ; step upward, from round to round, changing grasp upward, alternately. Same downward. [Step left and grasp right, right and grasp left ; step and grasp left, right.]

[Practice different hand-grasps.]

III.

As above:

Swing sideward (short swing).

Same, with change of hand-grasps, as above.



Digitized by
-35-

Same, grasping (traveling) upward.

Same, arms bent.

IV.

As above:

Lift both hands and re-grasp quickly, arms extended—begin! Halt. Reverse and re-grasp (both hands simultaneously)—begin ! 1, 2.

Grasp rounds and beams alternately (both hands simultaneously)— begin ! 1-2.

Repeat exercise, arms bent.

Grasp upward repeatedly (both hands simultaneously—‘travel’ upward.) Downward same way.

Repeat exercise on rounds ; beams and rounds alternately ; one hand on round, one hand on beam ; both hands on one beam (sidevyard).

Repeat, arms bent.

Repeat exercises under II, III and IV from back-hang-support position.

Step upward, lower side, hands on rounds, beams, etc. Travel downward.

Travel upward, lower side, legs placed over beams (bent). [Step left and grasp right, etc.; step left and grasp left, etc.] Glide downward, hands on beams or rounds.

Deep-jumping exercises : Travel upward, lower side ; jump downward. Increase height of jump with each repetition.

Upper side:

Step upward to top of ladder, hands grasping upward alternately on beams or rounds. Downward same way.

Step upward to top of ladder; stem-support position (hands on rounds, feet on beams); step downward (with hands, from round to round).

Stem-support position ; step upward (hands) from round to round. Downward same way.

Same, but sit astride middle or top of ladder ; glide downward, grasping left and right alternately, round to round.

Repeat, grasping with both hands simultaneously, round to round.

Repeat, skipping one or more rounds.

Step upward to top of ladder; turn about and sit. astride, hands grasping beams rear of body ; glide downward.

Same, but bend forward middle or top of ladder to secure front stem-support position (hands grasp rounds in front of body—body stretched); glide downward, stepping (with hands) from round to round. (Legs are placed around and under beams—footgrasp.)

Same, but glide downward with leg and foot-grasp only, arms extended in position sideward or upward, hands placed on hips, etc.

Connect exercises executed lower and upper side of ladders, changing position from lower to upper side middle or top of ladder.

Execute lower and upper side exercises simultaneously—two pupils each ladder.

s

Digitized by CjOOQle
iiGAMES AND PLAYS’!*

Nos. 77—82.

Butterflies and Bees.

n -ri-Jl

::Hr^

9 4 •	■	*'"3.	'



Butterflies, Butterflies, happy and gay,

Where are you flying this bright summer day ? We’re sipping the honey from out of the flowers. We’re busy all the long, bright, summer hours.

Busy bees, busy bees, happy and gay,

What are you doing this bright sunny day ?

We’re gathering honey from out of the flowers; That we may have food in the long winter hours.

This is a circle game. Several children are butterflies and others are bees. The butterflies fly with a half circular movement of the arms representing the opening and shutting of the butterfly’s wings. Those who are bees fly as bees do. The children in the circle are flowers of various kinds, some growing near the ground, others are tall. They hold their hands with wrists together for flowers and as the bees and butterflies pass, they gather honey. The children on the outside sing the first two lines, the butterflies answering. While the children sing the first two lines of the second verse, the bees fly about and we hear buzz, buzz. Then they sing their reply and all form a circle again.

Wood-Tag.

A number of players hie themselves to the woods, where all but one so group themselves, that they can readily touch a tree. The players continually exchange places, being watchful, that the player without a place is given no opportunity to get one. If he succeeds in tagging a player in the act of changing his place, or, if he succeeds in securing a vacant place, some one else, of course, will be without place and in turn become seeker.

Ring Game.

A number of persons holding a line, on which a ring has been placed, form a circle. The players begin to pass the ring to and fro, each pretending to push it to a neighbor by moving the hands to the left and right, the seeker within the circle endeavoring to locate the ring. When the holder of the ring has been found, he must exchange his place with that of the seeker.

This game may also be played without a line, the ring or some other

article being passed either in front or rear of the circle, row or rank. The finder, who may place himself on the in- or outside of a circle, or in the front or rear of a row, may also chase the holder around the ring or row, or run in an opposite direction, the one first reaching the place held by the holder, taking it, the other becoming seeker.

Dare-Base.

At each end of the play-ground is marked a ‘home-base’ (chalk-line, if indoors, a plank, if outdoors). Midway between home-bases is marked the ‘dare-base,’ at the ends of which are posted the two catchers. The players, equally divided on the home-bases, endeavor to cross and re-cross the centre base as often as possible without being caught by the catchers. Those who are caught, take their places at the ends of the centre base behind their captors.

The following rules are to be observed: Players can be caught between end-bases only. Players on the centre base are safe until ‘off’ again. No player can return to the same base from which he came. * The last player caught wins the game and in turn becomes catcher, choosing his assistant.



Digitized by

Google
—37—

Giant-Ball.

Giant-Ball is played with a huge rubber ball 2 to 3 feet in diameter and weighing not over 12 pounds. The teams consisting of eleven men each with substitutes, line up as in foot-ball. The centre man is called ‘advance roller.’ To his left are two left ‘forwards’ and to his right are two right ‘forwards.’ These men are assisted in their work by two men each, called the left and right "‘covers.’ Two men at each goal are called left and right ‘goal-keepers.’

00  So  46  40  JS	- m 6°AL'
	
	
	
	%
S*  5"  zo  *s  to  s  Ckktxk  s  to  ts  to	
	
	S3 * 6  A a a A
	S 4 3 2 1  A A A A 19%.
	
			
	/ 2 3 4 6
	6 7 0 9  A A A A
	•w W W w
	
S*5 $ »	
I30  ss  40  46  <so  7s	
	
	
	fO tt  A .. A
		V “  GOAL

Left Forward. L«ft Forward. Advaooe Roller. Bight Forward. Rlabt Forward. Left Cower.

Left Cower.

Right Cower.

Right Cower.

Left Goal Keeper. Right Goal Keeper.

DIAGRAM OF FIELD SHOWING TOSITIONS.

The game, called Roller-Ball in the “Young Men’s Era” (1893) is described as a combination of foot-ball and basket-ball. The size of the ball and its elasticity make it a game of less danger than foot-ball, the ball acting as a protector between the playing teams. There is hard work for the players and much fun for the spectators when they watch the players as they roll over the big ball without injury to themselves. Another ‘advantage’ claimed

exists in the fact, that the ball can be seen and readily followed by the spectator, whether he is familiar or not with ball games. The following rules accompany the description :

1.	The field shall be 330 feet long by 160 feet wide. Two goal posts must be placed in center of 160-foot goal line. Distance between goal posts, 18V2 feet. Ball must be three feet in diameter.

2.	Ball must be placed in the center of the field at tjie beginning of the game, and tvhen either side makes a goal.

3.	Players must be back from ball ten yards at start of game.

4.	Only one player from each side will be permitted to start the ball at beginning of the game. The rest of the players cannot cross their ten yard line until one of the open players has touched the ball.

5.	When ball goes outside of bounds, the ball must be brought straight in ten yards from where it crossed the line, and the side that rolled it out loses the ball, which goes to the opposite side.

6.	When tne ball is brought in from out of bounds ten yards, the side wrhich has the ball is permitted to line up even writh it, but the opposite Side must go back five yards from the ball. No one is allowed to touch the ball. If the referee cannot decide wdiich side had rolled the ball out, then four men put in play by lifting it overhead.

7.	The ball can be put in play by throwing, or anyway except kicking.

8.	Any one who crosses the line after lining up is off play, and that side must go back one yard for every off-play. The opposite side and ball remain in the same place until the ball is started.

9.	When the ball is blocked by four or more players it is called a ‘‘down.”

10.	When the referee calls down, the ball must be put in play by four players by lilting the ball overhead.

11.	Any rough play, as slugging, tripping or striking, shall disqualify a player, but a substitute may take his place.

12.	When a foul is called on a side, it counts one to the opposite side, and three fouls in one half count a goal, or four points.

13.	Tackling and interfering are allowed.

14.	A fair tackle is anywhere above the hips and below the neck. A foul tackle counts one point for the opposite side.

15.	Tackling any one who is not rolling, or who has not any part of his bod>T touching the ball is a foul.

Digitized by Google
16.	Any kind of interfering is allowed, except that specified in rule fifteen.

17.	The game shall be composed of two twenty-minute halves, with ten minutes intermission between each half.

18.	There shall be one referee and two umpires.

19.	A goal counts four points.

20.	A goal-punt counts two points.

21.	A side which makes a goal has the privilege of bringing the ball in ten yards in front of the goal posts, and may try for a goal puntr

22.	A goal punt must be tried from the ten-yard line. The ball is held by one or more players, and must be held off the ground. The ball must go over the cross-piece, which is six feet high.

Bear in the Ring’.

A number of players join hands and form a circle, the bear-pit. One of their number, previously selected for bear, wanders about on the inside, attempting to get out by testing the bars. The bear may break through the bars by placing his weight on the grasped hands, but he can not jump over or crawl under the same. If he breaks I through and escapes, the keepers give I chase, the one catching him in turn be- I coming bear.

MIND i AND i BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

lutt l-wat-vaJcee,	TXTl»eoaa.«ln.

Subscription Price,	$1.00	per	Year.

0®“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

We shall mail to each person who sends us the name of a new subscriber, together with one dollar for his own subscription, a copy of Dr.

F.	A. Schmid’s “Physiology of Exercise of the German S}'stem of Physical Training.”

The following well known writers Will be among the contributors to the columns of “Mind and Body” for the ensuing year : Dr. W. N. Hailmann, Superintendent of Indian Schools ; James L. Hughes, Inspector of Public Schools, Toronto, Can.; Dr. Wm. 0. Krohn, Department of Psychology, University of Illinois ; Dr. John Dewey, Department of Pedagogy, The University of Chicago ; Dr. G. W. Fitz, Lawrence Scientific School, Harvard ; Dr. Bayard Holmes, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago,

111.; Dr. Franz Pfister, College of Surgery and Dentistry, Milwaukee, Wis. ; W. A. Lambeth, Fayer-weather Gymnasium, University of Virginia ; Emil Dapprich, National German-American Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.; Dr. F. E. Leonard, Oberlin College, Oberlin,



Digitized by kjOOQle
O.; Susie Cocroft, Secretary Physical Culture Extension Society, Chicago, 111. ; Hope W. Narey, The Durant Gymnasium, Boston, Mass.; Christian Eberhard, Boston Athletic Association ; Dr. Edw. Luehr, Chicago, 111. ; Nettie D. Kimberlin, Director Physical Training, Public Schools, Detroit, Mich.; Thomas C. Karns, Department of Philosophy and Pedagogy, University of Tennessee ; Clara G. Baer, Director of Physical Training, Newcomb Memorial College, New Orleans, La.; H. Brown, Leeds, England ; F. L. Jahn, Los Angeles, Cal.; Dr. C. C. Van Liew, State Normal University, Normal, 111.; Ellen Le Garde, Director Physical Training, Public Schools, Providence, R. I.; W. C. Schaefer, Chicago, 111. ; Ellen H. Morrison, Director Woman’s Gymnasium, University of Illinois ; Dr. Carl Ziegler, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati, 0.; Dr. E. H. Arnold, Yale, New Haven, Conn.; J. W. Shaw, Y. M. C. A., Chicago, 111.; Dr. Del-phine Hanna, Woman's Gymnasium, Oberlin, 0.; Blanche Anna Phillips, Cook County Normal ; Dr. Paul Carus, Editor “Monist”; Dr. D. F. Lincoln, Boston, Mass. ; W. A. Ocker, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

This list is an assurance that “Mind and Body” has entered upon its third year well prepared to offer the best to its readers. We hope that our efforts may be in a measure appreciated by assisting us to carry “Mind and Body” into a still larger circle of readers.

Modern history, basing its investigation upon the phenomena of moral and intellectual progress of mankind, will disclose the manner, how an unhampered and free use of bodily activity" of a people advances

the blessings of freedom, while a stunting of this activity, on the .other hand, dwarfs freedom, leading on to subjection and slavery. It was (was it the instinct of hounds?) anticipated by the “Holy Alliance” that saw the danger to absolutism from the popular awakening of Turnen under Jahn.

How much moral and intellectual progress, by virtue of this principle, has advanced in our day, is worthy of the study of the most profound. We may have exhausted all we wish and may know about Greek philosophy, aye, we may have outgrown it in theory. But, we are far removed from having put into operation the most practical device of Grecian life, by which alone this nation attained her exalted place among all others in Antiquity, we mean the participation of all the people in physical exercise.

And, too, it may fall to the lot of the historic philosopher to prove that a republican government must rely upon a healthy and vigorous spirit and love of all the people for physical activity. We remarked in our article on “Militarism”: “Had gymnastics found in Uncle Sam as ardent a supporter as military drill has, this country would laud its blessings to-day most cheerfully.” The encouragement, however, which Physical Training has found by the United States Government is very limited. Other governments have their training schools for teachers in gymnastics ; Germany has five, Sweden one. for instance, and there are private schools in other countries.

In our country the revival is principally left to the efforts of in-

Digitized by CjOOQLe
dividual organizations. The Nor-j mal School of Gymnastics of the North American Gymnastic Union, at Milwaukee, Wis., for the last thirty years has graduated efficient teachers who have filled responsible positions in all the different schools of learning.* Its Summer School for Physical Training, whose second course will begin June 29th and continue for six weeks, is especially for the training of Public School Teachers to fit these to carry on gymnastic instruction in a more efficient manner. It is to be hoped that many will avail themselves of this splendid opportunity. An efficient corps of teachers has been secured, and while this school is not a private enterprise for lucrative gain, it is also the cheapest. Among those now in the faculty are : Prof. Geo. Wittich, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.; Prof. Emil Dapprich, National Ger-man-American Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.; Dr. Karl Zapp, Cleveland, 0.; Dr. Franz Pfister, I Milwaukee, Wis.; Prof. Karl Kroh, Chicago and Cook County Normal; Dr. Wm. 0. Krohn, University of Illinois; Prof. Ferd. Froehlich, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. Julius W. Rohn, Milwaukee, Wis.; Prof. Geo. Brosius, Director of the Normal School of Gymnastics, Milwaukee, Wis. and Hans Ballin. There was never a faculty for any such school that could commend itself so well to all those who wish to become teachers of physical training. This should surely be very satisfactory to the many who

* This Normal is open to both sexes. For members of the Union tuition is free, for outsiders tuition is charged. These courses begin in September of each year. Applicants should address : Secretary of the Normal School of Physical Training, 568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

have been desirous to study the German System of Physical Training.	________

As a free and healthy people loves free and healthy exercise, so the individual that strives to attain a nobler position does not willfully neglect his body. The highest and noblest qualities and achievements of the mind can only be secured with an active and healthy body. On the other hand, the finest equipped mind does not soar to the loftiest thoughts and aspirations, if the body, inactive and sluggish, acts like a weight on the shackles of a slave. Such persons shun bodily activity, and even against their better judgment will endeavor to evade it. Many a just complaint has been heard from physical training teachers who lament that those who need their instruction most, are most apt to avoid it. Parents should come to the teacher and consult with him in the interest of their wards.

German gymnastics has been charged with fostering too much automatic movements, and also, of practicing too much for exhibition. Both charges are fallacious. Poor teachers may overdo, and we know of some who have overdone in automatism. Some who made this criticism, and just it is, where such a practice obtains, have only seen German gymnastics at exhibitions, and they have never seen the work done in the gymnasium. If, however, on the other hand, it is claimed that gymnastic instruction should not practice automatism, and, if it is claimed that exhibition work should not be given, we most emphatically differ. There is a point in instruction, up to which a careful and methodical teacher has trained

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—41—

his pupils, where automatic practice becomes not only desirable, but where it is absolutely necessary, if the benefit shall not be lost, and the next lesson shall not prove | the same difficulties in teaching, as ! the previous one. Certainly, auto- j matic exercising should never take j place, unless the movements are: fully mastered by all, or nearly all, [ the pupils. That ought to be self- j evident.

Gymnastics is an art. Like any i other art, it wants to be represented. The complete, the perfect, the combination, the theme, the beautiful, need representation. Not only to satisfy the teacher, or the public, but the pupils. What teacher and what pupils would contend in singing the scala all the time? What other art contents itself with piece work ? We hold, that if gymnastics is to work upon the esthetic sense of the child, it can best do it by gymnastic compositions. But these must be the result of careful preparation, of careful, not superficial instruction ! We wished that a certain class of teachers who claim that German gymnastics is doing wrong to the child when employing music, would for once bear in mind that music should be only then combined to the gymnastic art, when the movements have been acquired as well as can be expected. What harm, we ask, can then there be in making use of two arts, instead of one?! Is music estimated so low in Sweden, its effect so undervalued, that the Swedes would still object to it then ? We know that some teachers of Swedish gymnastics are of the same opinion, as we are. But, there have cropped out at times such absurd ideas on this subject, that we wish to be set right. And, if the German gymnastics, besides rhythmic movement,

and the most wonderful art of rhythm, music, if, we say, rhythmic movement and music combine with poesy, as in the German roundel, who is so utterly blase, as not to see its beauty ? !

Twenty new school-houses will be completed in Chicago this year. They will cost $1,317,000 and accomodate about 20,000 pupils. With an additional expenditure of $100,000 all of these schools might have been provided with suitable gymnasiums which might have accommodated the 20,000 pupils of these schools, and 20,000 more in schools near by. Why should physical training not begin sooner than in high-schools and colleges ? When will there be again a Friedrich Ludwig Jahn ? !

The Illinois Society for Child-Study will convene for its annual congress at the Chicago and Cook County Normal School, Englewood, 111., May 14th, 15th and 16th. It is to be hoped that all students of child-nature who can possibly attend, will not fail to be present. Let those stay at home who think they know it all; the great majority of teachers who do not think so, will witness at the cradle of this movement in Illinois one of the most enthusiastic gatherings of educators the educational world has vet seen. They err who think that any pretensions are made that the absolute truth is found ; the greatest truth for any teacher is, that there is much to learn yet. Let it be a gathering also to prove the insufficiency of the narrow walls of old Cook County Normal School to accommodate the new ware that has come.

The Massachusetts Medical Society has issued a circular to the

Digitized by

Google
-42-

teachers of the state, requesting their opinion on the teaching of physiology and hygiene. This is a timely move. There are no other studies in our public schools so much abused, and whose value is so utterly mis-apprehended, like these. Physiology and hygiene should be treated as natural sciences, pure and simple, and to force them upon children who are not capable of understanding the subjects, is an educational crime.

Every brain is a field where nature sows the seeds of thought, and the crop depends upon the soil.

Every flower that gives its fragrance to the wandering air leaves its influence on the soul of man. The wheel and swoop of the winged creatures of the air suggest the flowing lines of subtle art. The roar and murmur of the restless sea, the cataract’s solemn chant, the thunder’s voice, the happy babble of the brook, the whispering leaves, the thrilling notes of mating birds, the sighing winds, taught man to pour his heart in song and gave a voice to grief and hope, to love and death.

In all that is, in mountain range and billowed plain, in Winding stream and desert sand, in cloud and star, in snow and rain, in calm and storm, in night and day, in woods and vales, in all the colors of divided light, in all there is of growth and life, decay and death, in all that flies and floats and swims, in all that moves, in all the forms and qualities of things, man found the seeds and symbols of his thoughts, and all that man has wrought becomes a part of nature’s self, forming the lives of those to be. The marbles of the Greeks, like strains of music,

suggest the perfect and teach the melody of life.—Robert Ingersoll.

This is a good beginning, let others follow:

Appleton, Wis , April 18.—A petition has been circulated among the students of Lawrence University and signed by many which will, if granted, abolish the military drill required of students, which has been in force several years. The petition asks that the drill be made optional. Among the reasons given is that war is not usually conducted in a Christian spirit,* and that the exercise is not equal to systematic gymnasium work. There is little probability that the petition will receive serious consideration frc m the faculty, as the plan of military drill was given careful consideration before adoption. The argument that war is usually conducted in an unchristian spiiit is not regarded as the main reason for the dislike of drill on the part of the originators of the petition.

Dr. Fritz Lange, a practicing physician in New York, has donated over a quarter of a million dollars for the erection of a ‘Palaestra Albertina’ for the students of the Konigsberg University. This Palaestra is to contain large grounds for various games and sports, a beautiful garden, a swimming pool, a complete gymnasium with all modern improvements, and many other buildings for different gymnastic and social purposes. We hope that some of our readers may follow the generous example of Dr. Lange in form of a gift for our Normal School at Milwaukee which for thirty years has done much for the promotion of physical training in this country.

* We think the term “humane spirit” should be used.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-43-

ATHLETICS * AND i SPORTS.

TELEGRAPHIC NEWS OF THE OLYMPIAN GAMES.

ATHENS, April 6. — The athletic contests which are intended by the projectors as a revival of the ancient Hellenic contests opened to-day, and the preliminary exercises were accompanied f>y an impressive ceremonial. Great enthusiasm was manifested by the people, and the occasion is observed as a national festival, the city being gayly and brilliantly decorated and thousands of sightseers being abroad. Many visitors are here, attracted by the athletic events.

The day opened with a religious ceremony, the singing of a Te Deum in the cathedral. This was attended by the royal family and a great throng of spectators and auditors. Although the sky was overcast and threatened rain, this did not detract in any appreciable degree from the enthusiastic interest in the sports. The number of spectators who looked on at the contests is estimated at 80,000 — a gathering of truly Homeric proportions.

The royal family entered the inclosure at 3 o’clock, except tKe Crown Prince Constantine, the Duke of Sparta, who has been an active factor in the making of the arrangements for the contests, and who to-day accompanied the organization committee.

The crown prince and the committee met King George as he advanced in the middle of the arena. Here he was welcomed by his son on behalf of the committee, the crown prince begging him to take over the Stadium, which had been restored as nearly as possible to its pristine condition through the generosity of a noble Greek, M. Averof, whose statue was unveiled yesterday.

King George in reply praised the incomparable beauty of the restored structure and cordially welcomed the athletic youths who have come from all parts of the world to lend additional brilliance to the festival. The king then took formal possession of the Stadium in the name of Greece.

The united military bands, playing as one, then rendered a hymn which had been specially composed for the occasion, while the king, the members of the royal family and their attendants took the places which had been allotted to them, overlooking the arena from an advantageous point of view, and at the same time in sight of those who had gathered to witness the games.

The vast concourse of people, eager in interest, yet silent and attentive under the open sky to the ceremony the religious touch which was given to the exercises, the historic associations of the place, and the almost reverent purpose manifest to revive in some sort and preserve the memory of the cherished glories of antiquity, all appealed strongly to the mind of each of the 80,000 persons who were ranged about the arena. All this was a stimulus to the young athletes gathered to test their prowess, and all were eager in the competition, although the utmost courtesy was manifest in the intercourse of the contestants.

The members of the American teams from Princeton and the Boston Athletic Association came into the arena in excellent condition and full of confidence, and the Greeks were plainly in fear of their American competitors. The result proves that the confidence of the Americans and the fears of the Greeks were both fully warranted, the Americans carrying off first honors in each event in which they entered.

To-day’s contests were preliminary trials, and so decide nothing definitely as to the final awards of victory The trials were running races at 100 meters, 400 meters and 800 meters, and throwing the discus, a sport as old as Greece itself, and to which the putting the shot of modern athletics is most nearly allied. The hop, skip and jump was also contested and won by an American.

In the 100 meters dash, the first heat was won by

F. A. Lane, of the Princeton team ; Szokoly, a Hungarian, coming in second — time, 12 2-5 seconds.

In the second heat at 100 meters, Thomas P. Curtis, of the Boston Athletic Association, won. Chalkokndg-his, a Greek, coming in second — time, 12 4-5 seconds.

In the third heat of the 100 meters, Thomas E. Burke, of the Boston Athletic Association, won; Osman, a German, being second—time, n 4-5 seconds.

The final heat in the 100 meters dash is fixed for F riday.

In the running race for 800 meters, none of the Americans competed.

In throwing the discus, Captain Robert Garrett, of the Princeton team, won against the Greeks, Parasre-vopulo and Verie.

In the 400 meters running race, first heat, H. B. Jamison, of the Princeton team, won; Osman, the German, being second.

In the second heat Thomas E. Burke won, Gimelin, an Englishman, being second.

Of the above-mentioned Americans, F. A. Lane it from Franklin, Ohio. He prepared for Princeton as the Wittenberg College, Springfield, Ohio, where he held the all-round championship. He is 23 years of age, weighs 153 pounds, and is 5 feet 7 inches in height.

Thomas P Curtis was t>om in San Francisco and is 24 years old. He has been a football player, and is considered the most promising hurdler in America. He is of medium height and weighs about 145 pounds, trained.

Thomas E. Burke is not yet 21. He weighs 144^ pounds in condition, and is 5 feet 11% inches in height. He was bom in Boston and won his spurs at the international games between the New York Athletic Club and rtie London Athletic Club in New York last fall, when he won the 440-yard run in 49 seconds.

Robert Garrett, of Baltimore, is 20 years of age, weighs 178 pounds and stands 6 feet 2 inches in height.

H. B. Jamison is from Peoria, 111. He is 22 years of age, weighs 152 pounds, and is 5 feet 8 inches in height.

LONDON, April 6.—An Athens dispatch to the Times says;

The coincidence of the seventy-fith anniversary of the declaration of Greek independence with the revival of the games has stimulated Greek patriotism to the highest degree. The great success of the festival warrants the enthusiasm. Not a single mishap has occured. The weather remained fine. Their majesties sat in marble chairs at the circular end of the station. J. B. Connolly, an American, won the hop, step and jump, covering 13,71 metres. Captain Garrett’s success with the discus against the Greek champion was somewhat unexpected. The success of the Americans was all the more remarkable, as they have had no time to practice. There were many illuminations and a torchlight procession to-night.

ATHENS, April 7.—At the Olympic games to-day the American contestants again covered themselves with honor.

Thomas P. Curtis of the Boston team won the heat in which he competed for the hurdle race. His time was 18 seconds. An Englishman, Goulding, won the other heat, in 18 2-£ seconds.

Ellery H. Clark of the Boston team won the broad jump, with 6 meters 34 centimeters. Robert Garrett, captain of the Princeton team, was second, with 6 meters. James B. Connolly of Boston was third, with 6 meters 84 centimeters.

Thomas E. Burke of the Boston team won the third heat of the 400-meter running race, in 54 1-5 seconds. H. B. Jameson of Princeton was second.

Robert Garrett of Princeton won the shot-putting event, with 11 meters 22 centimeters.

Flack, an Australian, won the first heat of the mile run, in 4 minutes 33 seconds. Arthur Blake of the Boston teaui was second.

In the trial heat of the hurdle race W. W. Hoyt of the Boston Athletic Association was also defeated by Thomas P. Curtis of the same team.

Another great crowd was in attendance at the game to-day and the interest in the festival continued unabat-

Digitized by C.ooQle
-44-

ed. The royal family of Greece witnessed the games from the position especially provided for them, as they did yesterday.

To-night the Acropolis is illuminated and all the world and his wife is abroad to take part in the gayeties of the occasion. The city presented a most animated appearance.

SPRINGFIELD, O., April 7.—Special Telegram.— Francis A. Lane, the Ohio boy who walked away with first honors at the opening of the Olympic games at Athens, Greece, received his first instructions in athletics here at the Y. M. C. A. part, while a student at Wittenberg College. He became popular with the students, and was one of the foot-ball favorites in 1892. He played halfback on the college team, and became noted, in a small way, for his sprinting abilities. In 1894, while still here, he created a sensation in the field, contests. He entered the 100-yard dash, and won with ease, making it in 6yx seconds. After this he began to gain a state reputation as a sprinter, in wanning many 100-vard dashes at various points in Ohio. It was his success in this races that led him to enter Princeton, where he kept up his wonderful record, with the result that he was chosen to go to Athens.

ATHENS, April 9.—The Americans competed in the gymnastic exhibition on the rings, parallel bars, horse leaping and team work, which were the features of the Olympian games to-day. On the rings the Greeks won the first victory and the natives w-ent wild with enthusiasm. The keenest interest is manifested in the foot race to be run to-morrow from Marathon to Athens, Thete are twenty competitors entered for this race, which is for a cup offered by Michel Breal, of the Institute of France. The favorites with those vWio are striving to pick the winner are Flack, the Australian ; Arthur Blake, of the Boston Athletic Association ; a Frenchman named Lermusiux and a Greek named Laurentis.

ATHENS, April 10.—The interest in to-day’s sports at the Stadion excelled that of any previous day, as it was the day for the foot race from Marathon to Athens, an event that has been looking forward to w'ith more excitement and impatience than any other on the programme. The fact that three Greeks were the first ones in this race has stirred up the whole population to the deepest enthusiam.

The race from Marathon to Athens is a revival of an old and historic event, established in ancient Athens in memory of the great victory of the Athenian army, commanded by Miltiades, over the Persians under King Xerxes, and of the remarkable run to Athens from Marathon of the messenger bearing the news of the victory.

The monument erected to the Athenians who fell in this great battle is still visible on the plain of Marathon and was the starting point of the race. The distance is about forty-eight kilometers (twenty-nine miles). The winner of the contest to-day is a Greek peasant named Laurentis, from the village of Ambrosion. His time was 2 hours 58 minutes.

There were twenty competitors and the favorites were Flack, the Australian, Arthur Blake of the Boston Athletic Club, Lermusiaux, a Frenchman, and Laurentis, a Greek.

There were fully 60,000 persons within the inclosure of the Stadion, besides many thousands on the high ground surrounding it, when the victor was brought in to receive the trophy offered to the winner.

When the Crown Prince Constantine, Duke of Sparta greeted Louis the vast assemblage looking on became fairly frantic and paid a tribute to the prowess of their victorious countryman such as the epic heroes of antiquity might well envy, had they been here to see it.

The Crown Prince then presented to Louis the magnificent antique vase offered to the winner by M. Michael Breal of the Institute of France.

The news of the athletic contest was flashed all over Greece and the whole country is rejoicing over it tonight as over a national victory.

Great interest was manifested also in the final contests in the running races and track athletics, in which the

American team carried the stars and stripes to victory in every event.

In the finals Thomas E. Burke of the Boston team was the winner of the 100 meters race. Time—0:12 1-5.

In the high jump Ellery H. Clark of the Boston team won the final competition with 1 meter 81 centimeters ta his credit.

In the hurdle race final no meters, Thomas P. Curtis of the Boston team won in 0:17 3-5.

The final pole jump was won by W. W. Hoyt of the Boston team, with 3 meters 30 centimeters; A. C. Tyler of the Princeton team was second with 3 meters 20 centimeters.

Robert Garrett, captain of the Princeton team, and James B. Connolly of the Suffolk Athhtic Club of Boston tied for second prize in the high jump.

In the rifle and revolver contests two brothers named Payne were the winners.

ATHENS, April 13.—The festival in honor, of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the independence of Greece, continues though most of the important athletic events have been decided. A luncheon was given at the palace Sunday in honor of the victors of the games, the guests at which included the members of the various committees connected with the festival, the correspondents of foreign newspapers, and representatives of the local press.

After the luncheon King George toasted M. Averof, the rich Alexandrian who made such liberal donations for the restoration of the Stadion, as well as other donors to the same purpose, the Crown Prince Constantine, and Princes George and Nicholas, all of whom, his majesty said, had worked for the success of the festival. He also said that he hoped the foreign athletes present would proclaim abroad the success of the games and the evidences they had seen of Greek progress.

The chief event of the day was a bicycle raee from Athens to Marathon and back, the distance being ninety kilometers, which was won by a Greek named Constan-tinides, in three hours twenty-two minutes and thirty-one seconds. The Greeks are much gratified at winning the two Marathon races, today’s bicycle race and the foot race won by Louis from Marathon to Athens amid such great enthusiasm. Those two races, in fact, were fixed upon by the popular opinion as the leading events of the games, and the Greeks feel that to have had their champions win both of them goes far to compensate for other defeats.

BOOK FOURTH:

popukr^. Gymnastics

2ltl?Ietics attb Sports of tfye piaY=<5routt£>.

With Original Illustrations by WILLIAM WEBER . ---------------BY---

eetz,

Director and Supervisor of Physical Culture, Publjc Schools, Kansas City, Mo.

PRICE:	-	-	73	CENTS.

Address:

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 E. W. St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CiOOQle