

Eoitorial Committee :

D* * H. ARNOLD. New Haven. Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR. Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

AO business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wts.

____________________________________________________________________________________________

THE PLAY OF MAN.

By KARL GROOS.

(A Resume read before the Principals’ Club of Indianapolis by WILLIAM A. STECHERA

IT was Professor Groos’s interest in AESTHETICS which first induced I himto turn his attention to the subject of play. In the preface to the Play of Man he says that although it was the aesthetic phase of the question which interested him greatly he wants it to be distinctly understood that his inquiry has not been conducted wholly in obedience to such leadings. In the present work his aim has been to present the anthropological aspects of play, while in the prior volume, the Play of Animals, the psychological foundations of the whole phenomena of play are given. As it is absolutely necessary to have some knowledge of this first book in order to understand the second a short resume of this will be given before reviewing the Play of Man.

In the preface of his first book, in the “Play of Animals,” Groos says that until recently animal psychology was looked upon as a rather trifling study. In order to better understand anthropology a few investigators had taken up this study, but they had made the mis-

Digitized by LaOOQle
-34-

take of looking mainly for such traits in the animal that were humanlike. This is an error. If animal psychology is to be used to solve anthropological problems the opposite course must be pursued; attention must be paid mainly to the specific animal traits in animals in order to better understand the animal traits in man. Groos finds these specific traits to be the instincts. According to the recent researches of many investigators man has at least as many instincts as the animal, but most of the human instincts have been subdued by intelligence and tradition so as to be scarcely recognized as such. Therefore, in order to understand how powerful these inherited traits are in mankind an accurate study of animals is necessary, as in them the instincts show themselves clearly.

The world of play, to which art also belongs, is a great and interesting phenomenon, says Groos, and an investigator approaching to study it ought to have a number of souls in order to understand it. He ought to have the training and insight of a psychologist, physiologist and biologist, the experience of a globe trotter, the knowledge of a zoologist and the recollection of a forester. But most of all he should be a student of aesthetics, for he only could describe the psychology of play. Knowing that he is short of these requirements of a universal genius, the author asks forgiveness should he fall short in some respects. In chapters one and two Groos gives the two current explanations of play. According to the first theory animals (as well as human beings) play when they feel good, are healthy and strong; according to the second animals prepare themselves by means of play for their future vocations.

The first theory looks at play from a physiological standpoint, the second from a biological. The scientific foundation of the first explanation was given by Schiller and Spencer in the theory that play is an overflow of physical and psychic surplus energy brought about by favorable conditions of food, temperature, environment, etc. There can be no doubt, says Groos, that this definition gives one of the most prominent characteristics of the play-condition, but it does not explain all. A surplus of energy will place any individual in a condition to do something, but this does not explain how it is that all individuals of a species will always show this play-activity in a definite manner, and that this activity is always the same with a species, but different from other species. Every species, says Hudson, or group of species, has its own inherited form or style of performance; and however rude and irregular this may be, as in the case of the pretended stampedes and fights of wild cattle, that is the form in which the play-feeling will always be expressed. An activity showing such marks of inheritance can not be explained merely by a surplus of energy. This merely gives us the favorable conditions for play. Many cases clearly show that the instincts are a factor in play which do not need an ovetflow of energy to be put into activity. The author here cites many cases of the play of young animals and children to support his view. He reaches the conclusion that the physiological conditions which prompt a young animal to a racing or running play need be no other than those which prompt an older animal to chase its prey. But many facts lead us to

Digitized by Google
-35-

search for the solution of play-phenomena through the instincts, and here its great biological importance immediately impresses us. Most plays of young animals serve for the preservation of the individual-all plays, however, serve for the preservation of the' species. All the natural plays of man, that is the plays of children which are spontaneous, are not only for the good of the individual, bat for the good of the species. This demand for play in young animals is of vital importance, for without these plays the grown-up animal would be poorly prepared for its life mission. It would not have the needed exercise in running and jumping, its ability to pounce upon its prey or to flee from its enemies, etc. Its musculature would not be developed or trained sufficiently, yes, even its skeletal frame would suffer. Groos therefore puts the instincts at the foundation of play. But, says he, all play is not induced by the instincts only; quite the contrary. The higher up in the forms of life you go the more abundant and finer become the psychological phenomena which influence the instincts, changing, improving and often completely hiding them. In the chapter of Play and Instinct, Groos shows how play also promotes the development of intelligence. The moment, he says, when in progressive evolution the organic world is so far advanced that independent intelligence can accomplish more than mere instinct, in this moment inherited tendencies will begin to wane, and individual tendencies will take their place. In speaking of the great biological significance of play, the author says, “perhaps we have youth so that we may play.” Animals then would not play because they are young, but they have youth because they must play.

In the next chapters Groos has a systematic classification of the plays of animals. His arrangement is as follows:

In the last chapter the author inquires into what constitutes the psychic accompaniment of play. As tlijl fundamental accompaniment he mentions joyfulness resting on the gratification of the demands of instinct. His investigations as to what joy is and what causes joy are very interesting.

The joy of power is the psychological foundation upon which all plays that have a higher mental significance are built. Its highest psychic aspect play finds in pretence, in sham occupation.

The book closes with a short chapter in which the artistic productions shown by animals in a more or less rudimentary form are enumerated and classified.

Now, coming to the second volume. The Play of Man, we find that the author has divided it into three parts, the first and second treating of playful experimentation and of playful impulses, while the last treats of the theory of play from various standpoints, of which, as teachers, the pedagogical will interest us most.

1.	Experimentation.

3.	Chase or hunting plays.

5.	Love plays.

7.	Nurse plays.

2. Movement plays 4. Fighting plays. 6. Building plays.

8. Initiative plays.

9. Inquisitiveness.

Digitized by

Google
-36-

In his introduction the author says that while many have undertaken to classify human play satisfactorily, in no single case has the result been entirely fortunate. Under these circumstances he hardl\r hopes that his classfication will satisfy all demands. I consider, says Groos, the governing force of instinct as having been fully established in my study of animal play. In this book I reached the conclusion that among higher animals certain instincts are present which, especially in i j youth, but also in maturity, produce activity that is without serious intent, and so give rise to the various phenomena which we include in the word “play.” In child’s play opportunity is given the animal, (/* through the exercise of inborn dispositions, to strengthen and increase his inheritance in the acquisition of adaptations to his complicated environment. This achievement would be unattainable by mere mechanical instinct alone. The fact that youth is “par excellence” the period of play is in thorough harmony with this theory. An analogous position is tenable in the treatment of human play, although the word instinct, while generally applicable, is not universally so. We lack, says Groos, a comprehensive and yet specific term for these unacquired tendencies which are grounded in our psycho-phjfsical organism as such.

It is safer, therefore, to speak of such play as the product of “natural or hereditary impulse,” although this definition does not include everything.

The first important distinction made is that between the impulses by which the individual wins supremacy over his own psycho-physical organism without regard to other individuals prominent in his environment, and such other impulses as are directly concerned with his relations to others.

To the first group belong all the manifold impulses which issue in human activity, those controlling his sensory and motor apparatus as well as the higher mental dispositions which impel him to corresponding acts. To the second group we assign the fighting and sexual impulses, imitation, and the social dispositions closelv corfnected with these. Each of these manifests its own peculiar play activity. While awaiting better names for them, says Groos, I will call them impulses of the first order and impulses of^he second order. To denote the playful exercise of the first order, I sn^ll use the expression “playful expert imentation” which is already adopted in child-psychology.

The biological criterion of pla^ is that it shall not deal with the serious exercise of the special instinct, but with practice preparatory to it. Such practice always responds to definite needs and is accompanied by pleasurable feelings. The psychological criterion of play corresponds with this; thus, when an act is performed solely because of the pleasure it affords, there is play.

We now come to Groos’s impulses of the first order which he clasess under the head of Playful Experimentation. This part of the book he has divided into three large groups, namely: I. Playful Activity of the Sensory Apparatus; II. Pla}ryful Use of the Motor Apparatus;

III. Playful Use of the Higher Mental Powers.

Group I, Playful Activity of the Sensory Apparatus, has six sub divisions; 1. Sensations of contact; 2. Sensations of temperature

Digitized by Google
-37-

3. Sensations of taste; 4. Of smell; 5. Of hearing; 6. Of sight; with the divisions of Sensations of brightness, perception of color, form and movement.

Taking up the sensations of contact, the author shows by many examples how the susceptibility to touch sensations of the new-born infant gradually grows into playful experimentation. W. Preyer in the “Soul of the Child” shows that the merely instinctive movements of the first days are multiplied and fixed, by means of inherited adaptation, progressively from the beginning of the second quarter year. In the eighteenth week, whenever the effort of the child to grasp was unsuccessful, its fingers were attentively regarded. Evidently the child expected the sensation of contact, and when it was not forthcoming wondered at the absence of feeling. At eight months StriimpeFs little daughter took great pleasure in picking up small objects like bread crumbs or pearls. This illustrates the familiar fact that play leads up from what is easy to more difficult tasks, since only deliberate conquest can produce the feeling of pleasure in success.

Older children lose the habit of playful investigation quite as little as any of the other manifestations of experimentation. Richard Wagner liked to handle satin, Sacher Masoch delighted in soft fur. In later life as well, says Percy, all the senses strive for satisfaction; when the adult is not forced by necessity to put all his faculties at the service of “attention utile” he becomes a child again. We all know how hard it is for school children to keep their hands still during recitations; how some people twirl their thumbs, others play with a pencil, others again whittle. Carrying a cane is another playful satisfaction in which the hand’s sensation of contact has a part. These are genuine cravings which betray themselves in all sorts of awkward movements if we try to deny their indulgence.

A few words may suffice in regard to playful use of touch sensations in other parts of the body. An infant enjoys being softly stroked, and we all know of the fondness of children or adults for throwing themselves into a well-filled feather bed or on piles of hay, to feel themselves sink into the elastic mass. Under this head also come the delightful sensations of touch that water affords, or the soft contact of waves of air caused by fanning.

Passing very briefly over the sensations of temperature, smell and taste, Groos devotes about thirty pages to the sensation of hearing with its subdivisions of receptive and productive sound-play. Pleasure in listening to tones shows itself remarkably early. Even when crying from hunger a gentle sing-song will cause a cessation of crying in a child, such as spoken words can not effect. According to GURNEY appreciation of melody as such appears in the fourth or fifth year. It is otherwise frith rhythm. Just as ethnology shows us that from the first inception of music rhythm was more prominent than melody, so it seems that the child too, as a rule, is sensitive to rhythmical cadence even if the beauty of melody is lost upon him. Even half-grown boys and girls take but little note of sense, compared with the interest they bestow upon rhythm and rhyme. With children an instinctive demand for some employment of these organs of hearing has much to do with their pleasure in harmony and rhythm.

Digitized by Google
-38-

Turning to Productive Sound-Play, to the subjects of sound and tones spontaneously produced, we recognize the beginnings of, or rather the introduction to art. A classification must be made distinguishing between vocal and instrumental music. The child’s first voice practice consists in screaming. More important than crying are the babbling, chattering and gurgling of the infants, which begin about the middle of the first * three months. Without this playful practice he could not become master of his voice, and the imperative impulse to imitation which is developed later would lack its most essential foundation. Attention is called to the various voice plays of older children giving expression to delight by shouting, whistling, yelling, crowing, humming, smacking, clicking, and the like.

Two especially interesting motives are operative in producing voice practice—namely, the stimulus of what is agreeable and the stimulus of difficulty—and these introduce us to the formal side of poetry. The pleasurable stimulus here takes the form of enjoyment of the repetition of like and similar sounds of a peculiar stress. Little children delight in repeating a senseless succession of words and syllables arranged rhythmically.

Pleasure in overcoming difficulties is an essential feature in all play. The determined onset against opposition, which is so conspicuous in play, shows how important is the fighting instinct, so deeply rooted in us all. Even in the lall-monologue, when a child accidentally produces a new sound by means of some unusual muscular effort, he intentionally repeats it. Older children cultivate dexterity of articulation by repeating rapidly difficult combinations of sounds as, Peter Piper’s pickles; the rain ceaseth, etc. The restless experimentations of little children and of infants in their first attempts at accommodation are not only useful for the development of their intelligence, but are indispensable as a means of determining reality in a literal sense. We can never estimate how much of the common knowledge of mankind is attained in this way. In all this we have not touched on the subject of acoustic playthings, and it is interesting to note that the primitive musical instruments are accounted for as the result of instinctive sound-play and the experimentation with noise producing implements.

Speaking of the sensation of sight, Preyer in recording his experiments says: Long before the close of the first day the facial expression of the babe held facing the window changed suddenly when I shaded his eyes with ray hand. The darkened face looked much less satisfied. Children are passionately fond of light and everyone knows what an attraction a bonfire is to the young and old. Nansen wrote, when the electric light blazed for the first time on the “Fram’:	“What	a	tremendous	influence light has on the spirits of men!

This light enlivened us like a draught of good wine.M

Next in order are taken up the perception of color, form and movement.

The powerful attraction which movement has for us is well grounded biologically, for evidently it is of the greatest importance in the struggle for * existence that attention should be at once and instinctively aroused by any stir or change in the enviroment. As a matter of psychological fact there is associated with movement, as with sensations of hearing, a strong emotional effect.

This chapter closes with references to movements of jugglers, the beautiful flight of a flock of condors, the roll of the ocean, and dancing.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by Google
-39-

PHYSICAL CONDITION OF SCHOOL CHIL^DRfiN,

"

EVERY autumn, at the beginning of the school year, it seems advisable to eall attention to the fact that one of the most important features of success in school work is that the child shall be in normal health. Without this qualification it is absurd to expect the child to succeed in its studies like normal children, or even that it shall do itself justice in the trying process of the development of its faculties. If there were any need for emphasizing this point, the recent report of the Department of Health of New York with regard to the physical condition of school children in a number of metropolitan schools would furnish it amply. Altogether, 13,941 school children have been examined. Of these, 6,294 were reported by the medical school inspectors as requiring medical attention. One thousand and ninety-two children were reported as poorly nourished; that is, as being in such a poor state of nutrition from lack of food as to require special care on this score. A number of the settlement workers in the slums of various American cities have recently reported that they found not a few school children in regular attendance at school who did not have breakfast before leaving home.

It is, as being in such a poor state of nutrition from lack that the physicians report one out of every fourteen children as insufficiently nourished.

These figures are surely startling enough to arouse all our municipal health and educational authorities to the necessity for greater care of the physical condition of school children, but they are not all. It was found, for instance, that 3,219 children were suffering from defective vision, and that 469 children had defective hearing. Almost needless to say, children laboring from notable defects of the most important faculties used in modern educational methods, can not be expected to keep up with other children. Many of the children set down by teachers as dull were found to be suffering from either a defect of vision or of hearing, for the correction of which nothing had been done. In addition to these, 1,623 children suffered from breathing defects that frankly put them in the class of mouth-breathers. The intellectual development of the mouth-breather, as a rule, is so much retarded by the physical abnormality that it is not surprising to find that the most of these children also were considered to be dull. They will continue to be backward until relieved of their serious respiratory handicap.	t

The examinations as made in New York seem to have been carefully carried out and with sufficient attention to detail to make the report valuable for general statistical purposes. While the school children examined all came from the poorer districts of the city, care was taken to avoid the worst quarters, in which the mortality and morbidity rate is highest, so that the results obtained might be of average value for comparative purposes. The result, then, startling as it is, is a statement of actual conditions and not a chance statistical exaggeration.

The figures we have quoted, however, point out only the educdctional	•

disadvantages. There are some other details of the report of special interest to physicians. For instance, it was found that over 2,300 children were suffering from enlargements of the cervical glands. Most of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-40

these cases are doubtless tuberculous in nature. Now that we have learned how much can be accomplished by out-door air and good nutrition, in such forms of tuberculosis as enlarged glands, it seems important that these children should not be allowed to develop this disease to the extent that will make them foci of infection in the crowded neigh-boods in which they live. In other words, this careful examination of school children has given valuable material not only for the educator, but also for all those who are interested in the great work of the prevention of disease, and no more promising field for progress in the prophylaxis of disease has been opened in recent years.—Journal A. M. A.

SUCCESSFUL PHYSICAL TRAINING.

How straight the way and narrow the gate which leads unto perfection, and how few find it. Of course! That is simple. It takes strenuous training, or, as the Bible says, striving in agony to reach perfection. But are only a few to be healthy—are only a few saved t The answer is “Strive! for broad is the way that leads to destruction and many go in it.”

In these days, when kndwledge has taken the place of superstition, all men know what they ougkt to do to keep well. You do not often see the statement that a man died by an “act of Providence,” except in the engrossed copy of resolutions passed by some lodge, and then it is only the persistence of custom in the use of words, just as in legal documents the terras and phrases obsolete for centuries still prevail.

From the dreaded smallpox down to the more-to-be-dreaded consumption, nearly every time the victim of the disease is the victim of his own lack of action according to his own knowledge. And that, as the Bible says again, “is like building a house upon the sand.”

A man choked with pleasures brings no fruit to perfection. The preacher often expresses himself as perplexed by the fact that men are so careless regarding the welfare of their souls, but it is only natural; they are just as careless of their bodies. Men know, theoretically at least, that exercis# is just as necessary as food and sleep. Many men know by practical experience of the vigor and buoyancy of health that comes from regular gymnasium work, and express themselves, when in the glow of enthusiasm produced by recreation, as unable to understand why.tlfe gymnasium is not overcrowded with men exercising. And yet every ftw days notice comes that one and another former devotee has died of consumption or has had to stop work and go to a sanitarium, and in every instance it was simply self-neglect that caused the break-down.

Scores of other cases prove that those who act according to knowledge develop from puny delicate adolescence into stalwart, useful manhood, strong not only in physical power, but equally improved in moral and mental fibre by the very persistence required of him in physical training, of doing what he knew he ought to do. Many first shall be last and the last first.—Dr. C. G. Lang.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you far one year on receipt of $4..00 for 4 new subscribers

Digitized by LaOOQle
-41-

THE FETISH OF PHYSICAL EXERCISE.

The human body is a very delicately and, withal, strongly constructed organism, fitted for a great variety of activities. It is commonly thought that its strength and capacity for action can be increased by exercise. Like a great many generally accepted ideas this contains both truth and error. The error is that mere exercise as such is conducive to health. The professional or business man, the clerk and all those engaged in the sedentary employment usually think that there is great virtue in plunging through a half hours’ dumbbell or Indian club exercise in the morning or evening. But such exercise is merely a fetish and is practically worthless,—at times even injurious.

The first requirement of exercise is rational purpose and must either take the form of work toward some end beyond itself, or of recreation to enliven or relieve the mind.

EXERCISE AS WORK.

The athlete, the juggler or the dancer exercises to acquire a certain skill of performance, and in so doing is concentrating intelligent effort in every motion. His body wonderfully responds to this rational direction of the will and the results are just exactly in proportion to the mental control. Failure in any case is due not to lack of hard work, nut of hard, persistent, concentrated thinking, along the line of development. When the mind wanders, and the will is relaxed, there are no results in muscular strength and skill.

Hence, it is that all the bed-room gymnastics of professional men are meaningless. The sticking the foot out in one direction so many times or thrusting the fist out in another direction so many more times with or without clubs or dumbbells is a waste of valuable time and energy.

EXERCISE AS PLAY.

For all persons whose special business is not in the use of muscular skill and for whom, therefore, exercise does not take the form of intelligent work toward an end, exercise to be of any value, should be of some form of agreable recreation. And this simply means a release of the mind from its habitual stress by turning to something that requires not only a different sort of effort, but an effort that interests and pleases. A saunter through the park or the autumn woods, a stiff climb up the mountain side, a game of tennis or golf, even a half hour’s hoeing in the garden are admirab’e. But not one of them should be taken merely as exercise but as intelligent, exhilarating recreation,— the first for the simple pleasure of a day dream or revery, the second for the enjoyment of some fine view or sense of accomplishment, the third for the stimulus of a friendly rivalry and the last for a genuine feeling of nearness to mother earth and the subtle processes of her mysterious life.

In either case, whether we take exercise as intelligent work toward some end, or as pleasurable recreation, one thing is absolutely indispensable, and that is the presence of the directing mind; else our efforts are all vain.

Digitized by Google
-42-

MOVEMENT STORIES FOR LOWER SCHOOL GRADES.*

THESE lessons are designed to take the place of formal gymnastics with young school children, giving them an idea of the simplest forms of exercise. The weather and circumstances surrounding the public school child often make out-door games and plays impossible; also most school rooms are too crowded to admit of many of the games which can be used in the gymnasium. So an attempt has been made to take the child out of doors, in spirit, at least, at the same time adapting the work to his environment.

The idea is not original. Miss Stoneroad has done work of this kind for several years, but these especial lessons are, so far as I know, my own.	R.	B.	Stahl,

Assistant Supervisor Physical Training, Pubic Schools, Buffalo,N. Y.

FLYING KITES.

The wind is blowing hard. It tries to blow our hats off. When it comes from the west, we lower our heads sideward left to keep our hats on, when it comes from the east, we lower our heads sideward right. (Head lowering and raising.)

When it comes in our faces, we bend forward. (Trunk bending forward and raising.)

We get ready to fly our kites in our hands and then toss them up. (Raise arms forward-upward (1). Toss (2). Lower arms forward-downward (3).

Away the kites fly. They pull so hard that they raise us on tiptoe. (Heel raising and lowering.)

We run with them, pulling them in, and winding the string as we run.

A RAINY DAY.

Imitate the pattering of rain drops by drumming on desk with fingers. Begin softly and gradually increase the force.

The wind blows the tops of the trees. (Head lowering forward, sideward left and right, and backward, in series.)

Poplar trees. (Trunk bending sideward left and right, with the arms raised forward-upward, holding the position.)

Spreading trees. (Arms raised sideward.) The branches wave. (Arm raising and lowering.)

We run home out of the rain, jumping puddles as we go.

A VISIT TO THE SEA SHORE.

Watching the waves. Some are large, some small.

Small waves. (Heel raising and lowering.)

Large waves. (Knee-bending and straightening.)

Going for a row. We bend forward as we pull, then backward. (Trunk bending forward and straightening, backward and straightening. Then forward and backward in 2 eounts.)

Swimming. Arm movements. (Raise arms forward. Carry arms sideward (1). Bend arms forward (2). Straighten arms forward (3).

* These stories were written in 1903.

Digitized by Google
-43-

Sailing. Look up at flag on mast to see which way the wind is blowing. (Head raising and lowering.)

Sailing before the wind. (Running around room.)

JOINTED DOLLS.

Children stand in a row.

No. 1 says to No. 2: I am a jointed doll!

No. 2 says to No. 1: What can you do, Dolly?

No. 1 says to No. 2: I can stand straight and stiff. (Takes proper standing position.)

No. 2 says the same to No. 3, and so on, till all have taken the standing position.

They continue the conversation in the same way, No. 1 announcing that she can move her head, next her trunk, then her arms, then her legs, and showing some simple movement of each part.

After each child has imitated the movements separately let each put them up together.

AN ACTION STORY.

THE EARLY BIRD CATCHES THE WORM.

IN teaching in the primary grammar grades of the New Haven public schools I found great need expressed on the part of the teachers for exercises of this nature.

At their request I made a few action stories. I offer this one for publication that many more teachers may be given the use of them.

The pupils are to remain seated while the teacher first tells the story; and while she next combines the story and the action. Then the movements are to be done imitating the teacher. Lastly the movements are to bit done by the pupils with an occasional cue on the part of the teacher as the story is repeated.

I.	The worm is squirming in the sunshine.

II.	The chickens run to him, to eat him for breakfast.

III.	A little bird quickly takes the worm in the mouth and flies high up in the air.

VI. The chickens turn around and look for another worm.

V. The chickens drink water and again are happy.

MOVEMENTS.

I.	Informal trunk and head turnings in opposite directions and simultaneously.

II.	Running in place (or around the room once).

HI. Enthusiastic arm raisings side-upward and lowering side-downward, accompanied by rising on the toes and bending the knees. (Ill is to be done rapidly.)

VI. Facing about and returning. (Facings are to be extremely informal.) V. Head and trunk lowering for-downward and backward alternately. Clap the hands lightly (to indicate happiness in the end).

Edna P. Brown, N. H. N. S. G. ’05.

Budd Lake, N. J., March 13, 1906.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-44-

OLYMPIC GAMES AT ATHENS.

Through the courtesy of Messrs. Cook and Sons, Ludgate Circus, London, we are able to give our readers an illustration of the restored Stadium, where the eagerly looked for International Meeting will take place.

PUBLIC SCHOOL PHYSICAL TRAINING SOCIETY CONVENTION, NEW YORK CITY.

Interesting Program and Demonstration of Physical Training in the Public Elementary Sshools, March 30 to 31.

PHYSICAL directors and students of physical training from the different normal schools turned out in large numbers to witness the demonstration of the work given in the public schools and in Wadleigh High School of New York City.

The work of the morning began at 9.30 in Public School No. 0 under the direction of Miss Jessie Bancroft, Ass*t Director of Physical Training. The first room visited was the playground in the basement of the building. Here were the little girls of the first and second year classes playing games such as “Did you ever see a Lassie?”, “Bean Bags in a Circle,” ‘’Visiting,” etc.

In the next large room were the boys of the first and second year classes, playing games somewhat similar to those played by the little girls.

The children enjoyed themselves and played away as if they were alone and not being watched by so many people. Each grade teacher had charge of and directed her own pupils.

From here the people were taken, half of them guided bv Miss Bancroft and half by Dr. Crampton, to the grade rooms.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—15—

The first lesson was one of story gymnastics, a demonstration of the Snow Play by 1—A boys. This gave the children the necessary physical exercise in a playful way. In the next class room the children executed the gymnastics with bean bags after which they played an interesting little game. In one class room was given the Two Minute Drill which is given three times a day in all grades above the first year. This drill is intended to stretch the body in an upright position, to accelerate circulation and to require deep breathing.

In the gymnasium, where the next exhibitions took place, a game of Stride Ball was played by 6—B boys. Dumb-bell exercises, a steel wand drill and exercises with iron grace hoops were presented by 7—A girls, 7—B boys and 7—B girls. An Indian club exhibition by 8—B hoys was especially interesting. The boys swung arm circles and hand circles while kneeling, or bending trunk, or while facing in different iireetions. The children executed the lessons exceedingly well, showing their interest and enjoyment in a phase of school work that is surely making its necessity evident.

By this time the morning was over. Arrangements were made for Inncb at the Hotel Wilhelmina by Miss Bancroft for the visitors from the Normal Schools of Gymnastics.

The afternoon session began at 12.55 at the Wadleigh High School, 114th Street. The class of the fourth year was on the floor under the charge of Miss Beiderhase. A wand drill was first presented, followed by stepping exercises of no little difficulty. Then came work on the parallel bars. The exhibitions of this class were very interesting. Miss Beiderhase has excellent control of her pupils and teaches well, insisting on and getting almost perfect form.

In the next gymnasium were pupils of the second year. Here girls entertained the visitors with a Russian dance that was so rhythmical and pretty, that they were asked to repeat it several times.

In the third gymnasium were girls of the first year. They executed several fancy steps and showed some ladder work.

The athletic contests were held in the first gymnasium. An interclass game of base ball was played. The girls showed themselves very apt in catching and batting the ball as well as sliding bases from a hard run. Following this was a game of indoor Hockey. Then came a contest in putting the shot which was very much enjoyed by the contestants as well as the spectators.

Relay races by girls from the Curtis High School under the direction of M. J. Blake Hilger came next on the program, the races made progression in difficulty by passing dumbbells. The first one in the line ran with dumbbell, touched wall and in return run was met by second one in line who took the dumbbell and went on to the wall. The first one then had to touch the nearest one, or third one in the line, who ran to meet the second returning, etc.

In the second race two dumbbells were used and exchanged while passing. In the third race two basket balls were exchanged.

As Miss Blake said in her reading at the mass meeting, the relay race is the almost ideal competitive sport, for there every girl does her best in her own place and there can be no personal rivalry.
In the auditorium of Wadleigh High School two papers were read, on “Inter-School Athletics” by Elraa S. Warner, Eastern Ditsrict High School, Brooklyn; the other on “The Paid Coach” by Mr. Gustavus J. Kirby, Chairman Advisory Committee, Intercollegiate Athletic Association. These papers were much enjoyed because of their instructiveness in these matters which are claiming so much attention just now.

The evening session opened in a mass meeting at 8 o’clock in the hall of the Board of Education, 59th St. and Park Ave.

Dr. William H. Maxwell, Superintendent of the Schools of New York city, acting as chairman delivered a short address on the Progress of Physical Training in the Public Schools of New York under the guidance of Dr. Luther H. Gulick, Director of Physical Training in the public schools. Dr. Maxwell introduced Dr. Dudly A. Sargent of Harvard University, a man of great authority in regard to athletics.

Dr. Sargent’s subject was The Modifications of Athletics for Girls and Women. He held that girls might use men’s athletics, but in a modified form; for instance, in shot putting the weight of the shot might be reduced; in basket ball the time should be shortened and the game played with lines forcing the players to keep their places and so lessening the strain on the vitality.

Miss Katharine D. Blake, Principal of Public School No. 6, read a paper on “General Health of Girls in Relation to Athletics.” She maintained that girls and even boys should be kept out of athletics since death often ensued from reckless play, and there is no glory in conquering another human being.

The next paper, “Ethical Value of Sports for Women,” was to have been read by Miss Frances A. Keller, but she was unable to attend the meeting.

Dr. E. Hermann Arnold, Director of New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, spoke on Athletics for Endurance. His remarks were instructive and witty, provoking the people to laughter and good feeling. He spoke of the muscular differences of men and women and therefore their difference in mechanical effect. A man can put forth a greater effort but a woman having the greater nutritive power can endure the longer. Dr. Arnold said that women having this peculiarity of long endurance ought to have a form of gymnastics fitting them, while exercises of sudden great effort should be left to the men. He made a plea that the women who know themselves better, should discover these exercises and not leave it for the men to do.

Dr. Luther H. Gulick talked on Athletics from the Biological View-Point. He said that a boy is judged by his physical ability but a girl by her fineness of finish, although athletics are not a test of either manhood or womanhood.

With a few closing remarks by Dr. Maxwell the meeting adjourned at 10 o’clock.

Saturday, at 9.30 a. m., the convention continued at Public School No. 188, East Houston Street, with athletic games and rhythmical exercises for elementary school girls under the direction of the Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools Athletic League, conducted by Miss Elizabeth Burchard and Miss Adela J. Smith. These exhibitions showed

Digitized by CjOOQle
that dancing is taught a great deal and the children enjoy this side of the physical work. The revival of the folk dances has brought with it a lore for the graceful figures and rhythmic exercises that have helped very much in introducing the more distasteful parts of physical training. A word should be said as to their hygienic effect. They necessitate vigorous movements of all parts of the body that can not help but result in better condition of respiratory and circulatory apparatus.

In the assembly room of school No. 188 the report on examinations of physical training teachers in the large cities of the United States was given by Mr. J. Blake Hillyer.

Following the report was a business meeting and election of officers with which the convention closed.

Josephine Biggak,

New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

THE INTELLIGENT QUITTER.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D.

WHEN a man gives his interest to anything, that is the time to look out for himself—he is in danger of losing his balance. Especially is this true when that interest is related to other fellows equally enthusiastic. He may, by himself, be able to do justice to all he has to do and carry on his fad without injury und with benefit, but when he becomes part of a movement, he is likely to be drawn into the irrisist-ible current.

We see this result daily in the recreations which men fancy—bowling, billiards, baseball, golf, gymnasium, basket ball. All these things are good in their place and when rightly related to the obligations which a man has assumed and those which we ought to assume, but when indulgence in them causes one to be unfitted for best work, depleted physically, or drawn away from any duty, either to himself or others, he needs some one to call his attention to his lack of balance.

While there is often excess in all the features we have named, one of the most seductive sports is basket ball. The intensity of the game and the premium which it puts upon endurance and excessive energy, lead many a man to seriously overdo, and to find himself at the end of a given period, far behind his standard of vitality. The same man that will do this will wonder at and condemn the plunger in stocks, and yet there is no real difference between them.

There is many a badly-used-up heart walking ’round town that traces its trouble to a single occasion of physical excess. It is small consolation to be able to thus definitely identify the cause, even tho* the over-effort won the game. The intelligent man is he who uses recreation for his best and knows when to quit.

Another notable fact in connection with this matter is that some of the best players on the teams even up in their physical needs by conscientious gymnastic work. One does not need to be unusually astute to pick these men as the ones on top in five years’ time, in real health. The fellow who won’t do what he ought for vitality’s sake, because he’d rather play for fun’s sake, has got to settle up with vitality by and by.

Digitized by ^ooQle
Mind and body. ^

8at*cripU«a Price, f 1.00 per Year.

— Published Monthly.

■Y

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.*

’ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

A POSTGRADUATE COURSE FOR TEACHERS OF

GYMNASTICS.

REALIZING that there is quite a desire among teachers to know more of the modern methods and aims of dancing for gymnastic purposes, the Committee on Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union—Turnerbund—has arranged a course of lectures and demonstrations to be held at Chautauqua for two weeks, namely from July 16th to 28th. But the time is not to be wholly taken up with dancing steps, for other features, also closely related to successful training work, will be taken up, foremost among them being massage, the equipment and management of summer camps, the newest methods of mass-instruction in teaching swimming in children’s classes, new or valuable gymnastic games, etc.

Mr. N. C. Suess of Cincinnati, one of our successful teachers of gymnastics and a graduate of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing, will have charge of the dancing steps.

The work will be arranged for beginners as well as for advanced pupils. Dr. E. H. Arnold, of New Haven, will lecture and give demonstrations in massage. For the instruction in camp life the services of an army officer will be secured, and the balance of the work will be in the hands of eminent specialists.

A circular giving more detailed information is being prepared and will be ready for distribution about May 15th. Teachers interested may receive -same by writing to Mr. William Stecher, 1707, Broadway* Indianapolis, Ind.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN ENGLAND.

(Concluded.)

German Gymnastic Society.

EXERCISES FOR THE ANNUAL GYMNASTIC COMPETITION,

To be held in the Gymnasium, 26 Pancras Road, King’s Cross, London, N. W.„ on Friday Evening, December 1st, 1905, with Preliminaries on Thursday, November 30th, 1905.

CONDITIONS OF THE COMPETITION.

The Competion will be held under the Rules recommended by the A. G. A. and will consist of Two set exercises ami one voluntary exercise on the Horizontal Bars ; one set and one voluntary exercise on the Rings and on the Horse sideways; two set exercises on the Horse lengthways; High Jump; and Rope Climbing.

The maximum number of mark> for each exercice by each Judge is 10.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—40—

SET EXERCISES.

Under the rules governing the Competition a set of exercises may be reversed ; that is, right-handed movements may be substituted for left-handed movements, and vice versa; but, where any part of an exercise is reversed the exercise must be reversed throughout.

Horse.—Sideways with Pommels. From side stand on near side of horse jump to rest, half left circle of right leg front shears left, half right circle of left leg, complete right circle of both legs twice, half right circle of left leg, front shears right, half left circle of right leg, complete left circle of both legs twice, double feint right mid triple rear vault over croup to cross stand on off side of horse.

Lengthways without Pommels. Horse not less than 4 feet high. Board not less than 1 yard from croup.

Run, hands on neck and straddle forward over horse to ground.

Run, hands on neck, squat forward over horse to ground with straight legs.

Parallel Bar.*.—Quick Movement. From front cross stand at end of bars jump to rest, swing to hand stand, front pump and forward travel, drop backwards with shoulders between bars, short upstart, straddle forward over left bar, cross right leg in front of left and cross straddle backwards over left oar, circle both legs forward over right bar, swing back between bars, drop back to upper arms, swing forward between bars to back shoulder stand, back up, rear vault over right and left bars to cross stand outside bars.

Slow Movement. From front outside side stand straddle over near bar to hang on off bar with legs in half lever, circle to crocs leaning rest, shift right hand to near bar, elbow lever on rignt arm, quarter turn of body and sink legs to cross rest, lift to double shoulder stand, sink body (straight) between bars to hang on upper arms backwards, rise to cross rest, raise legs to half lever and quarter left turn of body shifting right hand to left bar, drop to ground to side stand with back to bars.

Horizontal Bar.—Quick Movement. From side hing with ordinary grasp, jerk upstart to front rest, raise feet on bar in straddle position (sole standi, complete circle backwards and drop back in the same position (and releasing legs when body under bar), underswing with half turn of body, half long swing to front rest with combined grasp, drop back, bringing legs to bar, and pass right leg behind bar outside right hand, half circle forward and flank vault right with quarter turn left to cross stand.

Sow Movement. From side nang with combined cross grasp (left arm in front of nght and left hand in reversed grasp), slow nse with half turn to front rest, short circle forward to front rest, sink backwards to hang with legs in half lever, sink legs and half left turn backwards to hang with twisted grasp, circle to rest, changing hands to reverse grasp, squat over bar to side stand with back to bar.

Rings. Slow rise to rest, drop backwards and three quarter circle of body to back lever, screw over right arm to bent arm rest on left arm and rise to rest, drop forward to hang with legs between rings, upstart backwards to rest, drop backwards to hang with legs between rings, upstart forwards to rest, sink to hang through crucifix and jerk upstart to rest and jump to ground.

VOLUNTARY EXERCISES.

No exercise must occupy more than two minutes.

HIGH JUMP.

One-half of a point (multiplied by the number of judges, so as to make the total obtainable equal to the total obtainable for an exercise on the instruments) will be scored for each inch over 4 ft. up to 5 ft. 8 in. The jump will not be frbm the mat, but from the floor.

Rope Climbing. One point up to a maximum of 10 points (muliphed by the number of judges, so as to make the total obtainable equal to the total obtainable for an exercise on the instruments), will be scored for each second less than 20 seconds taken in reaching the tape at the top of the rope. The length of the rope to be climbed will be 7 yards, and the hands only must be used.

The Gymnastic Teachers* Institute*

(Founded March 4th, 1897.)	,

THE EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 12th. 1905.

The Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Gymnastic Teachers' Institute was held in the Gymnasium of the Northampton Institute, Clerkenwell, on Saturday, July 8th, 1905.

Present—The President, Mr. H. Arnold, in the Chair. The Vice-President, Mr. A. A. Stempel: the Treasurer. Mr. A. F. Stempel, the Misses R. Ardington, C. Smyth, T. D. Stempel, G. Hassell, K. Klett, J. Andrew, C. Durand, G. S. Roberts, A. G. Berry, E. A. Prout and E. M. Eyles; and the Messrs. W. G. Warner, R. A. Reeves, T. P. Cox, T. E. Gray, W. Connor, H. E. Naylor, W. T. Powell, R. Oberholzer, and the Hon. Secretary. Mr. T. Williams.

The Minutes of the last Annual General Meeting were read and confirmed.

The Hon. Secretary read the Report of the Council and the Balance Sheet for the year ending rath June, 1905. The President briefly reviewed the progress made by the Institute during the year, and moved, "That the Report of the Council and the Balance Sheet for the Year ending 12th June, 1905, be adopted.” The motion was seconded by Mr. Powell and carried unanimously.

Votes of thanks were unanimously passed to the President and Officers, and to the Council, the Board of Examiners, the Hon. Instructors to the Members’ Practice Meetings, the Auditors, and to the Hon. Secretary ftf their services during the past year.

The following Officers and Members of the Council for the year 1905-6 were unanimously elected: COUNCIL:	President, Mr. H. Arnold Vice-President, h.r. A. A. Stempel: Treasurer, Mr. A. F. Stem-

pel; Librarian, Mr. R. Oberholxer. Messrs. W. Connor, T. P. Cox, H. Blackeby, T. E. Gray, H. H. Davies, W. T. Powell and J. M. Hubbard. Hon. Secretary, Mr. T. Williams.

BOARD OF EXAMINERS: Gymnastics and Calisthenics:	The President, Vice-President, Treas-

urer, Librarian, Secretary, and Messrs. W. Connor, T. P. Cox, H. H. Davies, H. Blackeby and J. M. Hubbard. Fencing: Professors J. Morel, F. McPherson, J. L. Danguy and J. Blackburn.

Theory: C. R. Keyser, Esq., F.R.C S.

Hon. Instructors Members* Practice Meetings:	The	Presiden:,	Vice-President, Treasurer, Librarian, and

Messrs. T. P. Cox, W. Connor, H. H. Davies and W. T. Powell.

Auditors:	Messrs. W. T. Powell and R. A. Reeves.

The meeting terminated with a vote of thanks to the President for presiding.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 50-

REPORT OF THE COUNCIL, AND BALANCE SHEET FOR THE YEAR ENDING nth JUNE, 1905.

The Council have pleasure in presenting to the Members of the Institute their Annual Report for the Year ending 12th June, 1905.

The Receipts for the year amounted to £128 19s. id , which, added to the balance of £97 13s. rod. brought forward at the end of the last financial year, amounts to £226 12s. ud. The Expenditure was £94 6s. sd., leaving a balance to be carried forwaid of £132 6s. 6d.

There were 22 Candidates for examination, and the Council held 5 Examinations, with the result that 11 of the Candidates passed with First Class Certificates, and 5 with Second Class Certificates.

The following are the particulars of the Examinations :

2nd July, 1904.—Northampton Institute. 4 Candidates. 1 First Class and 2 Second Class Certificates.

14th July, 1004.—Goldsmiths’ Institute. 4 Candidates. 1 First £lass Certificate.

17th December, 1904.—Stempel’s Gymnasium. 6 Candidates. 2 First Class Certificates.

8th April, 1905.—Alexandra House Gymnasium. 3 Candidates. 3 First Class Certificates.

27th May, 1905.—Northampton Institute. 5 Candidates. 2 First Class Certificates.

Nineteen new Members were registered during the year, 11 with First Class Certificates, and 8 with Second Class Certificates.

The Council were represented on a Committee of Teachers of Specialist Subjects, which was formed for the purpose of approaching the Board of Education with a view to the re-opening by the Board of the consideration of the conditions for the registration of Special Teachers in the Supplementary Registers, and the Council are glad to report that a letter was received from the Secretary to the Consultative Committee, dated 19th May, in which he stated "that the question is now under discussion, and should the Consultative Gommittee be in want of further information they will be happy to receive a deputation from your Committee.”

The Practice Meetings of the Members have been better attended, and the thanks of the Coundl are given the Governing Body of the Northampton Institute for their kindness in granting the use of their Gymnasium for these meetings. The thanks of the Council are also given to the Honorary Instructors for their services.

The Members’ Annual Display was held on May 20th in the Large Hall of the Northampton Institute, Clerkenwell, before a large audience, and was a most successful display.

The thanks of the Council are given those Members of the Institute and their pupils taking part in the display, and to the Members in the Display Committee, the President, and Messrs. R. Oberholrer, W. Connor, and W. T. Powell, and to the Secretary for organising the display.

The thanks of the Council are given to the President, Sir. H. Arnold ; the Vice-President, Mr. A. A. Stem-pel; the Treasurer, Mr. A. F. Stempel; the Librarian, Mr. T. E. Gray; the Auditors. Messrs. W. T. Powell and R. A. Reeves, and to the Hon. Secretary, Mr. T. Williams, for their services to the Institute during the past year.

PROSPECTUS FOR TRAINING LADY PUPIL TEACHERS IN THE METHODS OF THE GERMAN AND SWEDISH SYSTEMS OF DRILLING, CALISHENICS, PHYSICAL CULTURE, GYMNASTICS AND FENCING.

The Course of Training at Stempel’s Gymnastic Institute is of two years’ duration in Practical Work, combining the German and Sw< dish Systems of teaching Drilling, Physical Culture and Gymnastics. It is also necessary for every student to attend at the same time lectures in Elementary and Advanced Physiology, Hygiene, Anatomy and Ambulance at a Polytechnic Institution. These latter courses are always-from October to March.

Students can enter the Gymnasium at the beginning of either the Autumn, Spring or Summer Term.

Students have to attend at the Gymnasium for Ladies’ Classes on Monday and Thursday afternoons, 3 to 5 o’clock,; for Juvenile Cla>ses on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons, 3 to 4.30, in order that they may get a thorough practical knowledge in teaching children, and to take sections of girls or little boys. Also a Special Students’ Class on Mondays, 11.30 to 1. and Saturdays, 11 to 1. A new class is being arranged for extra Swedish Work on Tuesdays, 3 to 4:30, starting in the Autumn Term, 1905.

FENCING.—During the winter months, October to the end of March, students are taught this branch on either Monday or Thursday afternoons, from 2 to 3, or elementary on Monday mornings from 10 to 11.

HOLIDAYS are Christinas two weeks, Easter two weeks, and Summer vacation from about end of July to middle of September.

TERMS.—The course of training for two years is 30 guineas, payable in advance, either the full amount, or in half-yearly instalments of £7 17s. 6d.

CERTIFICATES.—Mr. Stempel will be pleased, after the student has attended regularly for two years, to give her the certificate of his Physical Training Institute as a qualified teacher, according to ment. The student is at liberty to remain and attend the Classes at the gymnasium to keep up her practice without any further fees; also every student is most carefully prepared for the Gymnastic Teachers' Institute, London, to obtain their first class certificate, which is the highest standard a teacher of physical education can reach. Should students desire they will also be prepared for other examinations.

ENGAGEMENTS.—During the second year of training, if the student has sufficiently advanced, a class will be given into her hands to enable her to gain experience and self-reliance. When the student has finished her training Mr. Stempel will do his best to assist her in obtaining a position.

MASSAGE, ANATOMY AND CURATIVE GYMNASTICS.—A special class in the above is arranged for advanced students under a fully qualified and trained mistress. Terms for this special course, £6 6s.

DANCING.—For students who wish to take dancing for teaching purposes, arrangements have been made with a first-class London dancing master, his fee being ^5 for the complete course, with certificate at the conclusion.

SWIMMING.- During the summer months the students meet together at one of the fine Ixrndon swimming baths for practice, but for those who cannot swim there is a course arranged with an experienced swimming mistress, whose fee is 12s. 6d. per pupil until proficient.

GAMES.—There is a Hockey and Basket Ball Club attached to the Gymnasium which students are expected to join. There is a small yearly subscribtion per membcr.

COSTUME.—Students are required to wear the regular costume of the Gymnasium, made to measure, £1 is. White gymnastic shoes are worn.

REPORTS are issued at the end of each term as to progress, also a yearly examination is held.

Digitized by C.ooQle
- 51-

Lady Teachers of Drilling, Calisthenics. Physical Culture, Gymnastics and Fencing, can receive Private lessons in any subject, and be Coached for Examination or for giving lessons.

For Terms apply : —

ADOLF \. STEMPEL, M.G.T.I., Sole Proprietor and Director.

MISS STEMPEL. M.G.T.I.

MISS B. M STEMPEL, M.G.T.I.

A. FERDINAND STENPEL, M.G.T.I. Also Master of Fencing.

And Best London Masters.

CURRICULUM FOR THE COURSE OF INSTRUCTION FOR LADY TEACHERS I. EXERCISES WITHOUT ANY KIND OF APPARATUS, i Positions, Turnings, Formation and Changing of Lines, Wheeling, Marching, &c.

2. Ornamental Marching.

5	Reels and their ombinations.

4. Trotting Exercises and their Combinations, &c.

5- Extension Exercises (Calisthenics), in the English, Swedish and German. &c., Systems.

6	Resisting Movements and their Combinations.

7.	Tacto-Gyranastical Exercises, or Marching Exercises with Combination Movements, and other Exercises, Sec.

II. EXERCISES WITH SMALL HAND (OR MINOR) APPARATUS.

8.	Wooden Wand EXERCISES (length of Wand 4 ft. 6 in ).

9.	Short Wooden Wand Exercises, as adopted from the Iron Wand (a new style of Exercises arranged from

the German system, length of Wand 3 ft.).

10.	Iron Wand Exercises, (length of Wand 3 ft. 3 in., weight 4 lbs. to 5 lbs.).

11.	Wooden Gun Drill (or Dummy Rifle).

12.	Wooden Dumbbell Exercises.

13.	Iron Dumbbell Exercises (weights about 2 lb. each).

14.	Wooden Bar-Bell Exercises (the light or the medium size).

15.	Ring Exercises in Line and in Groups.

16.	Ball Exercises.

17 Single Flags Swinging Exercise* (One for each Hand).

18.	Double Flags Swinging (One Pole with Flag on each end).

19.	Skipping-Rope Exercises, the small and the Tong rope 20 ('best Expander Exercises.

21.	Swinging Short Quarterstaff (La CemeT, (life 5 ft. long Malacca Cane, adapted from the German, Swiss.

French, Belgian, and Dutch systems), lately introduced into England by Mr. Stempel, a very large and most interesting Group of Exercises.

22.	Indian Clubs ana Sceptres Exercises (this is a very large and perfectly mexhaustive group).

23.	Double Clubs Exercises (Stempel’s Patent No. 5272). The new Exercise of Swinging this Club, invented

by Mr. Stempel, a very large Group

24.	Eendng (Foils or Single Sticks), Preliminary and Advanced. &c., Sec., Sec.

25.	Ladder Exercises—

a) The Vertical Ladder, b) The Slanting Ladder, c) The Horizontal Ladder. r>. Horizontal Bar Exercises—

a) The High Bar. b) The Low Bar for Vaulting Exercises.

27. Double Horizontal Bar Exercises tone Bar above the other). a8. Parallel Bars Exercises—

a) The High Bars, b) The Low Bars in all groups from the Cross and Side Positions.

29.	owing Exercises (Stationary and Swinging Exercises)—

a) The Hand Rings, b) The Trapeze, c) The Foot Stirrups, d) The Standing and Sitting Boards, e) Fly Swings from Ring to Ring. All the Exercises on the different Apparatus in changeable heights. A very large Group in all its branches.

30.	Giant Stride Exercises (the German Adjustable Giant Stride with small Hand Ladders) a) The Single hold, b) The Double hold, c) Vaulting.

31.	Vertical and Slanting Sparred Plank Exercises, also can be placed in Horizontal positions.

32 Climbing Exercises—

a) The Climbing Scaffold b) Ditto Vertical Poles (fixed and swinging), c) Ditto Slanting Poles, di The plain Climbing Rope, e) Ditto Rope Ladder, fi Ditto Black Rope, g) The Sparred Climbing Pole.

33. Jumping Exercises—

a) High Jump, b) Long Jump, c) Deep Jump, d) Standing Jump. e> Window Jump, f) Stepping Jump, g) Double Jump, h) Hoop Jump. And various other combinations.

31 Storming Board Exercises —

“>’ fumom? S,0™ing B°?‘rd Exe^ise5-	) Wi,h combination of High and Long jumping,

. , O.mbi.g........................... <H.gh	I	Vaulting.	&c.

35. Vaulting Horse Exercises—

a) Horse from the Side position, b) Horse from the Croup position. An inexhaustive Group of Exercises. 3$. Vaulting Table Exercises with the use of the Spring Board, (Trampolin)a very interesting group of Exercises). 37. Vaulting Box Exercises (in -11 positions as to height, long and sideways).

3S. S«*e-Saw Ladder, See-Saw Board, and See-Saw Beam Exercises. (Stationary and Swinging.)

33. Balancing Poles and Balancing Planks Exercises—

a) The Double Balancing Poles and Plank. Ix>w position 1 ft. high. Medium position 2 ft. high, b) The Single Balancing Pole and Plank. High position 3 ft. high. With many combinations.

40	Stilt Exercises—

a) The Single Bracket Stilts, b) 'Hie Double Bracket Stilts, c) The Crutch and also Adjustable Bracket Stilts.

41	Light-Weight Exercises—

a) The Iron Dumb-Bell, b) The Iron Bar Bell, c) The Iron Bell Weight.

42. Gymnastic Chair Exercises—

Digitized by kjOOQle
a) The Single Chair, b) The Double Chairs, c. The Double Chairs with adjustable Platform and other combinations.

43- The Trainer with Double Ropes and Cradle.

44.	The Roller Trapeze with Steel and Wire Pulleys. &c

45.	Rowing Machine Exercises (a first-class combination of a perfectly inexhaustivc group).

46.	Pulling Weight Machine and Polymachmon (a very large group of Exercises on both Machines, which

can dc set to any height, regulated to any weight to suit anybody, and particularly beneficial for spinal movements, Trunk, Shoulder, Arms, and Legs Exercises, &c., &c., &c., &c.

HEALTH AND SUCCESS.

A hardy old Scotchman who pushed into the Adirondacks half a century ago when it was a real wilderness still cuts timber in the winter at the age of 77, presides at the kettle and pans in the spring, boiling the sap of which maple syrup and sugar form the residuum, and in the summer gives his superabundant energies to the care of “city folks” who are his summer boarders. The modern invasion of the railroads has left his demesne forty miles from the railroad station, and in that remote spot he and his rugged wife have raised nine children— all chips of the old block—and have never called a physician during their existence. A doctor’s visit now would cost $15, and in the early part of their career a physician was beyond reach.

The summer boarders are certainly not below the average of city folk in health, strength and vigor, yet they all seem to “have something the matter with them.” Those who have no acute or distinct ailment say they require long rests and seasons of quiet; they impress the Scot’s family as being weak and sickly, and he often remarks to his old acquaintances, “What puir critters city folks must be.”

Among the yearly visitors of the backwoods farm on the lake is a highly educated man of 55 years, who, though not an invalid, is a valetudinarian. He is a man of good parts, rnd was graduated, after a distinguished college career in America, from a leading German university with the degree of doctor of philosophy at a time when the winners of that degree in America were a handful.

A career of distinction was prophesied for him by his friends, but his life has been a bitter disappointment. His every undertaking has been a failure because his health always “broke down”; and at an age when he should be reaping the rewards of his ability, training and industrious he is, through the kindness of early friends, the secretary of a New York dining club, a mere derelict on life’s ocean, a bit of driftwood on the shore, a disappointed, miserable, broken, hopeless old man, whose life has been wasted; a tragic failure.

The old Scot and his wife were workhouse children sent to New Lanark, Scotland, to work in the cotton mills at the age of 6 in accord with the barbarous practices of that day. Owing to the system of primary education established at New Lanark by that remarkable enthusiast, Robert Dale Owen, who just before their time had left that place for larger fields, they received some schooling; but at best their education consisted of the barest rudiments of a lower grade primary school. The Scotchman’s horizon is not widely extended, but he and his wife have performed their duties bravely and efficiently, and the world and the nation are better for their success. The university graduate went down like others because he was careless of his health

Digitized by LaOOQle
—53—

and lived under conditions where constant care and watchfulness are the price of health and success.

“Good health and good sense are two of life’s greatest blessings.” Don Quixote says that one of the greatest drawbacks of poverty is that it prevents good work. However benevolent a man may be, his intentions are sterile unless he has the means of carrying them out. Without health all efficient work that counts is likely to be impossible. There are illustrious exceptions, of course. Pope, the poet, was a fragile invalid. Lord Nelson was delicate, Samuel J. Tilden, a man of power in his day in America, was exceedingly delicate. Francis Parkman, the splendid historian, was a martyr of racking diseases, and yet left a monument to his fame more lasting than brass. Genius works according to a law of its own, and there are thousands of instances of physically weak men who have been endowed from birth with a certain greatness of soul and with mental and nervous energy; but for ordinary men in “such a world as this” the rule is to safegard, train and strengthen the human machine if the performance is to result in a worthy product.

In the modern time there has been a great advance in the treatment of man, the animal, and there is beginning to be a widespread recognition of the vital importance of making the temple worthy of the spirit enshrined in it. Preparatory schools, intelligently conducted, are now introducing compulsory gymnastic hours, which are just as much a part of their regular curriculum as the arithmetic or history or English lesson; and who shall say, in the light of experience and of modern knowledge of the relation of body to mind and of mental health to bodily health, that the right condition of the body is not of more importance than any one thing in a curriculum, or perhaps than all put together? For what shall it profit a youth if he know the forty tomes of Aristotle and all the new science if he is to break down at 30, with a helpless family on his hands, and remain a burden to himself and to others the rest of his life?

Parents are much to blame in that they do not place the right stress on health for their children. They are mightily disturbed about the neglect of the English lesson or the arithmetic lesson, when no attempt is made to fill out that sunken chest or to straighten those stoop shoulders, «*r to enlarge that heart and that frame which is to carry the burden in after years.

“Health is the vital principle of bliss.” People hunt eagerly for happiness, but if they recognized the facts they would know that the neglected health in youth and early manhood has taken from them the means of happiness which they are seeking so passionately. “Keep vour heart up and you’ll do,” says Stevenson, and an essential foundation for keeping the heart up is to see that it is a strong motor ready to do its work. Much of the discontent, misery, envy, hatred and unhappiness of the world is due to ill health, or to that dejected, apathetic state which permits of a scarcely tolerable existence, and it is melancholy to think that this ill-conditioned state of men is due to causes which *may be readily prevented. The enlightened people of tomorrow will confidently declare that much of the illness and peevishness

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—54—

of the world which is occasioned by preventable causes is immoral, and that “to do all in our power to win health and to keep it is as much our duty as to be honest.”—PA/Va. Ledger.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

< Continued. ^

AN INDIAN CLUB DRILL, without, and combined with, foot, leg and trtink movements. As a preliminary a short run and gymnastic tactics. Class work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Captain Ball.”

After all have received clubs, form a front line and count off to fours from r. to 1. Open order forw., the r. flanker leading 6, 4 and 2 steps respectively, as shown here, then the class to turn 1. (or r.) face so that the shorter members stand in front.

vvvtvvvTvvvTVvvT

' t ; t ; t ; ; t ; t	: t	:	t ; t

T	T	T	T

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

1.	a) Cross clubs in front of chest—1*! Extend arms upw.—2! % double arm circle outw.—3! Bend arms to starting pos.—4!

b)	Repeat a in combination with stride pos. forw. 1.—1! Raise heels—2! Lower heels—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

2.	a) % double arm circle inw. (to pos. outw.)—1! Dip clubs on arms—2! Return in reverse order to starting pos.—3, 4!

b)	Repeat a in combination with stride pos. backw. 1.—1! Kneel on 1. knee—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

3.	% double arm circle outw.—11 Bend trunk forw. and dip clubs on arms (in front of shoulders)—2! Return in reverse order—3, 4!

4.	Stride sidew. 1. and % double circle sidew. 1. (to pos. sidew. r.)—1! Bend 1. knee and dip clubs on the arms—2! Return in reverse order—3, 4! Same r.—5,8!

5.	V* double arm circle sidew. 1.—1! Again double arm circle sidew 1., the 1. arm to bend on the back (M» arm circle), the r. ¥l to upw. pos. and bend trunk sidew. 1.—2! Extend trunk, swing arms sidew. upw. to the 1. to overh.—3! Bend arms to starting pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

Lower clubs to floor and in place—rest!

Pos.—stand! Clubs—grasp!

Clubs at sides.-r-

6.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Lunge forw. 1., %, double hand circle forw. on the outside of the arms and move arms downw. backw. obi.—2! Return in reverse order to 1st pos.—3! Pos.—4! Same— r.—5, 8!

Digitized by Google
-55-

7.	Jump to cross stride pos. (r. forw., 1. backw.) and raise arms forw.—1! Yl double hand circle backw. on the outside of the arms and move arms overh. with bending trunk backw.—2! Return in reverse order to 1st pos.—3! Jump to starting pos.—4! Same with opp. pos. of the feet—5, 8!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

8.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and Yt double arm circle sidew. 1.—1! Lunge sidew. l.and % double hand circle behind shoulders—2! Toe-toueh sidew. 1. and % double arm circle sidew. 1.—3! Close heels and bend arms to starting pos.—4! Same r.—i,4!

9.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and % double arm circle sidew. 1.—1! M turn on heels, bend 1. knee, bend trunk forw., move arms forw , downw. and backw. to horizontal pos.—21 Vl turn r., extend trunk and raise arms overh.—3! Close heels and bend arms to starting pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms inw. to starting pos. in one count.

Note.—The arm movement is really an arm cirele inw. from beginning to end. Repeat five times.

CLASS FORMATION.—Form as many files as there are parallel bars so that two may exercise simultaneously (one at each end). The class to stand at r. angle to the bars, far enough distant to allow for a short preceding run and in line with the ends. If there are not enough parallel bars to accommodate the entire class, in case it is a large one, then only one half of the class may exercise on the same, while the other half be working on the climbing poles. The fourth division to execute the first exercise, the third division the second, the second division the third, and the first division the fourth. This method of development of the exercises produces a pleasant effect for exhibition purposes also.

MARCHING ORDER —Members approach the bars and step inside near the ends (two members to each bar) to side stand, facing toward the farther bar with hands in ordinary grasp on the same. The exercises are described as executed by the members on the 1. end of the bars.

1.	Jump to front rest and V2 circle 1. (backw.) with 1. leg to rest on rear bar; V2 circle r. with r. leg to join the 1. to front leaning rest; dismount backw. to Vi bent-knee pos. and hands resting on the near bar; stand erect and step to one side (toward the outer side) and turn about. As the next members approach the first return to rear of the files, the class moving forw. one step.

2.	Jump to front rest and Vi circle 1. (backw.) with r. leg on rear bar; Vi circle r. with 1. leg (under r. leg) to front leaning rest; dismount backw.

3.	Jump to front rest and Va circle 1. (backw.) with both legs to front leaning rest on rear bar; place inner foot on farther bar; dismount forw. to back side stand.

Clubs at sides.—

R.—face! Close ranks forw., turn 1. or r. face, deposit clubs. Low Parallel Bars.

GROUP I.
—56—

4.	Jump to front rest, etc., as ex. 3, to front leaning rest; squat forw. over rear bar to starting pos.; Vt circle r. with both legs to front leaning rest; flank vault orw. ftoward partner over both bars to back side stand.

GROUP II.

Inside side stand as Group I.

1.	Jump to front rest and Vfc circle 1. (backw.) with 1. leg to rest on rear bar; Vi turn 1., Vi circle 1. with r. leg and lower on farther bar to straddle rest in front of hands; rear vault dismount sidew. r. to cross stand, near hand on bar. facing outw.

:2. Jump to front rest, Vi circle 1. with both legs, simultaneously Vi turn 1. to straddle seat (facing outw.), hands in rear of thigh; intermediate swing, then rear vault r. with Vi turn 1. to front side stand, both hands on farther bar when landing.

:3. As ex. 2, to straddle seat; raise both legs forw., immediately V2 circle 1. with r. leg (cut backw. under 1. hand), the 1. leg to swing •backw. between the bars and again meet the r. and scissors mount backw. (V& turn r.); hands in rear of thighs so as to keep near the end; intermediate swing and rear vault 1. (over farther bar) with V2 turn r. to cross stand (facing outw.).

4.	As ex. 2, to straddle seat, but toward partner (inw.); hands in rear of thighs and as near to the end as possible; raise both legs forw., immediately cut backw. with 1. leg under r. hand, then cut forw. 1. under 1. hand (the r. leg swinging between the bars) and front scissors mount (Y2 turn 1.), hands in front; raise both legs backw., intermediate swing and double rear vault (over both bars) to cross stand (facing outw.)

group in.

Side jumps.—A short run precedes all movements of Groups III, IV and V.

NoTg.—When mounting or vaulting over one or both bars, if exercising on the 1. side, the 1. hand may be placed on the rear (near) bar and the r. on the farther one in the beginning, then transfer the 1. hand to the farther bar as the thighs lower on the rear bar to front leaning rest. The opposite when executing the movement toward the r. Both hands to be in the ordinary grasp for all movements excepting those for the front vault mounts ana front vaults, when the hand on the near bar is in reverse grasp.

,1. Jump to front leaning rest; % circle r. with 1. leg (between bars) and return to starting pos.; V2 circle 1. with r. leg over both bars and Vi turn 1. to straddle seat (facing outw.); dismount sidew. r. to cross stand.

2.	Jump to front leaning rest; % circle r. with 1. leg (between bars) and on returning Vi turn 1. and circle r. leg forw. under the 1. to straddle seat (facing outw.), raise both legs forw., swing backw. to front leaning rest, then move hands to ends of bars; straddle dismount forw. to back cross stand.

3.	Jump to front leaning rest on r. thigh, the 1. leg simultaneously executing % circle r. and return (between bars) and Vi turn 1. to straddle mount (facing outw.); place hands in front of thighs; raise both legs

Digitized by
backw., swing forw. and lower backw. to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body; kip (upstart) to dip rest, continue the swing and turn to upper arm balance; after a brief rest turn over forw. to back cross stand.

4.	Jump to front leaning rest on r. thigh and % circle r. with 1. leg (between the bars) and return to meet the r. in the front leaning rest, then Vi circle 1. with the r. leg (between the bars and cut back under 1. leg) with Vi turn r. and straddle mount (facing inward); drop kip to straight arm rest, swing forw. and front scissors mount (V6 turn 1. or r.); hands to ends); raise both legs backw., intermediate swing to hand balance; after a brief rest turn over forw. to back cross stand.

GROUP IV.

1. Rear vault mount r. (facing outw.); rear vault dismount sidew. r.

2. Rear vault r. over near bar to cross rest; intermediate swing and rear vault r. over farther bar.

3.	Double rear vault r. (over both bars) to cross stand (facing outw.).

4.	As ex. 3, but turn 1. to cross stand (facing inw.).

group v.

1.	Rear vault mount 1. to straddle seat in front of hands (facing inw.); raise both legs forw., swing backw. and front vault 1. (over farther bar) to cross stand, facing partner.

2.	Rear vault 1. over near bar to cross rest, swing backw. to straddle seat behind hands; turn over forw. to r. shoulder balance; lower backw. and front vault 1. (over farther bar) to cross stand, facing partner.

3.	Rear vault 1. over near bar to cross rest, swing backw. and Vi circle r. over 1. bar (forw. under 1. hand), swing backw. between bars, then Vi circle 1. over r. bar (forw. under r. hand) fig. 8, again swing backw. between bars and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; after a brief rest turn over sidew. toward farther bar to cross stand, facing outw.

4.	Double rear vault 1. (over both bars) with Vi turn r. to front side stand (on the far side of the bars); front vault r. over near bar to cross rest; swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body, then kip to straight arm rest and continue the swing to hand balance; turn over sidew. 1. (toward the farther bar) to cross stand, facing outw.

Note.—The above rear vault may be to the r. (opposite side), if feet of members touch.

Climbing Poles. (Two or more.)

One pole for each member.

Class formation similar to that for the parallel bars.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands close together; raise lower legs backw.; lower to hang, and down. Repeat twice.

2.	As ex. 1, raise knees forw. on 1. side of the pole; lower legs; raise both knees on r. side of the pole; lower the legs; down.

3.	Jump to bent arm hang; pull up and raise both legs forw. on the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-58-

1.	side of the pole; lower legs; raise both legs on the r. side of the pole; lower legs; down.

4. Jump to straight arm hang; pull up and raise both legs forw. on the 1. side of the pole; lower and extend arms; pull up and raise both legs on the r. side of the pole; lower legs and extend arms; down.

5.	Jump to climbing pos., then climb to upper end, both hands moving simultaneously; descend in the same maimer.

6.	Jump to straight arm hang, both legs to be in rear of pole, or held forw., spread more or less and climb to upper end, moving hands alternately; descend in the same manner.

7.	As ex. 6, but move both hands simultaneously.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and arrange class for “Captain Ball."

Clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—®r. £• 91. $dimtbt of $onn, the noted German authority on physical training, who is well known all over the civilized world on account of his original writings on the matter, has been honored by the German government by being appointed to an actual professorship at the University of Bonn.

This has been done in recognition of his scientific contributions on physical education.

—GMt rtcxotuit of want of space we are compelled to lay over some of the articles on hand.

For the same reason we are unable to publish even part of the programs of exhibitions sent us. We acknowledge such from the Iowa State Normal School (Director G. B. Affleck, B. A.); from the St. Louis Turnverein (Director, A. Kin-dervater), and from the Temple College (Director Horace Butterworth, Ph. B ).

SUMMER SCHOOL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

We are in receipt of the announcement of Summer Courses in Physical Training from the following institutions:

$dfool of	©bucation,	(Chautauqua,	11.	U.	Director: Jay W\

Seavers, M. D. From July 9th to August 18tli. 1906.

Hals ltniu#r*tty, Hem Haven, fann. Director: W. G. Anderson, M. D-From July 5th to August 16th, 1906.

H*tt? Hark Hntuer*ttn. Director: L. H. Gutick, M. D. From July 2nd to July 20th, 1906.

—Olympic Games at Athens. There will be held at Athens, under the presidency of the Crown Prince of Greece, from April 22nd to May 2nd, the most important set of Olympic Games since this classic event was revived several years ago. From an American point of view the month chosen is unfortunate, because it will be almost impossible for our college athletes to attend, on account of the date falling upon perhaps the most important period of their academic year; yet the best of American athletic ability is by no means confined to the colleges, and an effort is making by the American Committee to assure a representative American team at Athens. The Greek Committee at Athens has voted to subscribe something like $1500 to the fund the American Committee is raising. Taking all things into consideration this is the most unexpected and liberal offer on the part of the Greeks, in addition to indicating the friendly feeling between the two countries. Those who attended the first Olympic Games at Athens will recall the popularity of the American athletes, and it will be to our everlasting discredit now if, with this generous contribution from the native committee, we of this great, prosperous country fail to raise the sum necesary to cover the traveling expense of a representative team.—Caspar Whitney in “The View-Point,” in The Outing Magazine for March.

Digitized by i^ooQle
-59-

ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT JOS. B. MACCABE, DELIVERED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Held at the Grand Union Hotel, New York, November aoth, 1905.

To the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States.

Gentlemen: Of the sixteen conventions held by the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States not one exceeds in interest and general importance that which calls us together to-day; and, as an evidence of the fact, we have to-day, for the first time in our history, a full and complete representation of the nine district associations. Indeed it can be said, and modestly, too, that never before has there been so universal an interest manifested in amateur sport by all classes of people who love sport for sport’s sake.

Commensurate with this latter is the splendid spirit of competition by physical manhood now in course of progress from one end of the republic to the other. This is a significant and healthy sign of the times and inspires the sincere hope that the day is not far distant when all Americans will live in that happiness and comfort that attend and come from a healthy body and sound mind. We cannot all be athletes, but we can all indulge ourselves in some judicious form of physical exercise and thereby help create a nation of people second to oone in health, strength and happiness.

Time was when field and track sports were held only during a few months of the year, generally in the summer season. Now, however, there is no limit, for indoor sports are every bit as popular as outdoor sports and attract equally as large and enthusiastic gatherings. To assume the entire credit for this satisfactory condition of athletic sport would be hardly a just claim for the A. A. U. On the other hand it would be infinitely more unfair to say that it was not the leading factor in its crystallization, and which to-day, as in the past, it is protecting and perpetuating honestly, judiciouslv and kindly. Notwithstanding these chracteristic traits, which have ever been its cardinal principles, the A. A. U. has been and is being constantly belabored by individuals and periodicals for reasons without any foundation in fact; or, else, from pure malice. This latter may be traced invariably to the fact that in the discharge of its duty it has been compelled to discipline some violator of amateur athletic law.

membership and finance.

What may be justly regarded with pleasure by all is the substantial condition now attending the A. A. U. This is due, in a large measure, to the splendid loyality and devotion of the brave-hearted gentlemen who have so generously given their time, money and energy ever since che inception of the A. A. U. To such the influence and high rank which the A. A. U. occupies to-day in the world of manly sport must be a source of honest pride and intense satisfaction; and we of a later advent in no wise belittle ourselves when, in sincere gratitude, we say “Well done, good and faithful servants.”

During the past year the Southern Association took on a revival,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-60-

with the result that it is to-day in fairly good condition and with an exceptionally encouraging outlook. In William D. Nesbitt it has for president a fine type of Southern manhood, who brings to the position dignity, earnestness of purpose and a zeal that cannot help but place the Southern Association in the front rank of athletic activity.

The reorganization of the Pacific Northwest Association has also been consummated during the past year, thus restoring to the cycle of athletic usefulness a unification of all sections of the United States from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from the Great Lakes to the Gulf. Like its sister organization, the Southern Association, the Pacific Northwest Association's board of officers are imbued with the commendable ambition to maintain, perpetuate and elevate amateur sport to the highest possible standard.

The remaining associations, with the single exception of the Atlantic Association, have rendered the cause of amateur sport good and faithful service. The exception referred to is to be regretted and demands your immediate and earnest consideration, if not heroic treatment; and, to this end, }*ou are requested to take action before adjournment.

During the past twelve months there has been an encouraging increase of membership in the various district associations, especially the Western Association, where the membership has more than doubled, thanks to the good work of President O'Connor and his faithful board of officers. That the membership can be still further added to goes without saying. This can be accomplished by a systematic canvass and due vigilance on the part of the district officials. In this connection, it is also suggested that co-operation of the press would be simply invaluable. The American newspaper can always be depended on to render every good cause assistance, and the A. A. U.’s appeal for cooperation along the lines above suggested would not, you may rest assured, be ignored. The several vice-presidents, also, should be impressed into service and made to bear a portion of the burden incident to the canvass for increased membership. This they are quite willing to do and in view of this splendid spirit should be given an opportunity.

Perhaps it may interest you and afford you more or less pleasure to know that every athletic club of standing and active importance in the United States to-day is a member of the A. A. IJ. What we now desire is the membership of the smaller clubs; then, with practically every athletic club, great and small, in the United States a member of the A. A. U., your real work will have commenced, and the reforms you so earnestly desire can be accomplished beyond the possibility of doubt.

The club membership in the A. A. U. to date is as follows:

Metropolitan.......................................... 57

New England........................................... 14

Western............................................... 23

Central..............................................  18

South Atlantic................. *..................... 15

Pacific............................................... 12

Atlantic............................................... 9

Southern............................................    7

Pacific Northwest........................................

Digitized by tjOOQle
-61-

Registered athletes in the various associations:

Metropolitan....................................... 3,358

Y. M. C. A......................................... 2,326

New England......................................   1,967

Central...........................................  1,813

Western...........................................    600

South Atlantic....................................... 507

Pacific.............................................. 485

Atlantic............................................  369

Southern ............................................ 130

Pacific Northwest........................................

During the past year another gratifying feature has been the increased revenue, a summary of which is herewith appended:

Receipts, all sources........................   $4,786.39

Expenses.......................................  3,274.88

Yearly Profit............................... $1,511.51

Balance on hand Noy. 11, 1904................ 4,357	56

Balance on hand Noy. 14, 1905..............  $5,869.07

MUNICIPAL GYMNASIA AND PUBLIC BATHS.

Commendable progress along these lines has been exploited in many of our American municipalities during the past year, and it is gratifying to note that the inspiration in nearly every case comes from the A. A. U., or, at least, its district association. Where but a few years ago Boston was the only city in the Union that could lay claim to this broad work of humanitarianism, to-day we find the same duplicated in a score of our leading cities; while tho?e without are earnestly discussing the advisability of their immediate establishment. It is recommended that all our district associations beeome identified with this great movement to the end that the same may be carried to a successful issue. The organization of a municipal amateur association in each town and city would, it is suggested, materially aid in the great work. Why not try it?

UNITED STATES ARMY AMATEUR ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

During the past year an interesting and lengthy correspondence has been maintained with Lieutenant Drum with reference to the creation of an amateur athletic association in the regular establishment. It is hoped that power will be delegated the president and secretary toward the establishment of an amateur athletic association similar to that now in vogue in the British army. This means considerable to the boys in blue, and the association, if created, cannot help but be productive of benefit and pleasure to a gallant and worthy element in the patriotic life of our nation.

REDISTRICTING OF ASSOCIATIONS.

To any one who has made a study of the physical conditions of the several district associations it must be apparent that sooner or later a redistricting of the same must occur.

The Western Association should be given certain territory now under the jurisdiction of the Central Association, while a certain portion of

Digitized by v^.ooQle
the territory now held by the Western Association should be created into a new organization under the title of the Rocky Mountain Association. It is recommended that power be delegated your Committee on Legislation to make such changes as may be petitioned for by the several district associations. It is also recommended that action be taken on transfer of British Columbia clubs to the Pacific Northwest Association. This latter request comes in pursuance of an agreement entered into by your president and the founders of the new Pacific Northwest Association. Prior to last June the Pacific Northwest Association contained all the American clubs now within its membership, together with two clubs in British Columbia. The latter, by the way, cheerfully withdrew from the association, and now ask to be admitted to membership in the A. A. U., pending such time as that there may be created in the British Northwest an organization similar to the present Pacific Northwest Association.

INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC GAMES.

From the 16th until the 26th of April, 1906, will take place in Athens the International Olympic Games, organized by a Special Committee, presided over by His Royal Highness of Greece. The Committee has been constituted in virtue of a law of 1899, passed under the influence of the great success of the games, which were celebrated for the first time in 1896. The Chamber of Deputies has secured this periodical celebration, every four years, in Athens, by voting in favor of the Committee special funds.

The Panathenian Stadium, where the athletic games will take place, is that of Herodes Atticus, reconstructed in its entirety in Pendelic marble, on the ancient plan, in 1904 and 1905, at an expense of three millions of francs, thanks to the munificence of a rich Epirote, the late George Averoff. It can contain sixty thousand spectators.

The ports of Piraeus and of Phaleron will serve for the nautical contests as well as for the Venetian festival, which will be organized during the games.

The American Committee has for its honorary president United States President Theodore Roosevelt, while Mr. Caspar Whitney, as chairman, and our own Mr. Sullivan, as secretary, assure success, from the very outset, in so far as America is concerned. It is hoped, however, that the A. A. U. will exercise a profound interest in these games to the end that the American athlete may again demonstrate to the world his splendid prowess.

(To be concluded.)

itaranan«ett 2$ladiinc ttompanj) offer a unique scheme for PLAY-GROUND EQUIPMENT. To parties ordering outfits of swings, rings, ropes, ladders, etc., that are suspended from frames they will furnish free of charge plans and specifications for any style of apparatus frame, either of wood or iron, so they can be erected by local contractors at the lowest cost. They also furnish special fittings for pipe frames.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends
-63-

BOOK REVIEW.

(Ail tbe book* mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The Laws of Health. By David Nabarro, M. D., B.Sc., D.P.H. London, Edward Arnold (no date). Agents for the United States, Longmans, Green & Co., New York. 7*6X4% in., 6+184 pages.

The author states that his aim has been “to place before the reader certain rules and suggestions for regulating his mode of living, so that by carrying them out be may maintain his body and bis mind in a healthy condition. The book is intended primarily for the older pupils in Elementary Schools, but will.. be of use to pupils in Secondary Schools and possibly to adults. At the commencement of each chapter there is a very brief outline of tbe structure and working of the particular organs concerned. . . Certain subjects have been treated at some length; for example the use and abuse of alcohol, the care of the teeth, the value ol free ventilation and of exercise, the feeding of infants, the care of tbe eyes in childhood, tight clothes, smoking, diet, and the necessity for personal cleanliness; others, such as the details of cooking, are only lightfy touched upon." The summaries, covering more than twenty pages, give “in a succinct and definite form all that is necessary for practical guidance."

—Syllabus of Physical Training. Part II, Calisthbnic Exercises, Grades I—VIII. Department of Education, Cleveland Public Schools, 1905. Eight pamphlets 8*4X5% in., each 37 pages.

Bach pamplet contains a series of calisthenic exercises of the grade indicated. The eighteen lessons are divided into three groups of seven, six, and five lessons respectively for the fall, winter, and spring terms. Each lesson is to be used two weeks, and the last in each group is a rewiew. Each lesson is arranged hi a series of eight exercises or groups of exercises and tbe same type of exercise appears under the same number in all the lessons, though the number of exercises under each number varies. Theorderof arrangement is as follows: A) Preparatory Exercises, including 1) marching; B) Corrective Exercises, including those of 2) shoulder and upper back muscles (Scapular Exercises), 3) the muscles controlling tbe spinal column (“Spinal Exercises"), and 4) the thoracic muscles (“Respiratory Exercises"); C) Hygienic Exercises, affecting circulation, digestion, respiration, and secretion and including 5) thigh and leg exercises and 6) trunk bending and twisting; D) Corrective Exercises, including combinations of the preceding and also 7) balance and 8) respiratory exercises. At first each exercise is done at command, but later counts are used for rhythmical practice. The pamphlets are printed with alternate pages left blank for noting points made at grade meetings, the progress of pupils, difficulties with exercises, and sugges-tions from or for the special teacher. Part I of the syllabus, to appear later, will contain a presentation of the principles, aims, and methods of the Physical Training Course together with the nomenclature, etc.; and Part III will contain descriptions of suitable plays and games and the rules of athletic events.

—Indianapolis Public Schools, Supplement to Lessons in Physical Training (7*4X5% in., 8 pages), and Supplement No. 2 (8%X5% in., 32 pages). Prepared by William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Training, Indianapolis, Indiana, 1904.

The first supplement contains a schedule of games recommended for the various grades and a list of apparatus and other equipment for indoor and outdoor use, with cost. The second is a graded collection of “Room Exercises," including thirteen games, “to be taken by schools that have no large corridor or hall space, or where, during the winter months, local conditions make it impossible to exercise anywhere except in the rooms." Four pages of good half-tones at the end illustrate all difficult positions introduced in the upper grades.

—Athletics in the West and Far West. By James E. Sullivan. Secretary-Treasurer of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States. New York, 21 Warren Street, 4905. 6%X5 in., 109 pages.

The first twenty-five pages record the results of investigations into prevailing athletic conditions in the districts of the Amateur Union kown as the Western and Pacific Northwest Associations, and in the West and Far West in

Digitized by

Google
general, including also an account of the National Championship meeting in •connection with the Lewis and Clark Exposition at Portland, Oregon. The remainder of the booklet is devoted to athletics in the Young Men’s Christian Associations of the country; athletics in New York (“easily the greatest athletic city in the world”) during 1905; suggestions for organizing an athletic league, with a sketch of the Public Schools Athletic League of Greater New York; the Inter-Settlement Athletic Association, the Sunday Schools Athletic League, the Church Athletic League, and the Catholic Athletic League of New York; and a suggested plan for local organization.

—Massage and the Original Swedish Movements: Their Application to Diseases of the Body. By Kurre W. Ostrom, from the Royal University of Upsala, Sweden. Sixth edition, revised and enlarged, with 115 illustrations. Philadelphia, P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., 1905. 7*4X4% in., 10+184 pages.

In his preface to this new edition (the first was issued fifteen years ago) the author expresses the hope “that his manual, as it is now published, will be of value to the physician who desires to study* the principal points of mechatio-^therapeutics and the treatment indicated, while to the nurse who needs a textbook, and to the professional masseur who desires to keep abreast of the latest developments of the subject, he trusts that the additional suggestions will prove helpful.” A four-page bibliography serves as a guide to some of the best literature in English bearing on the subject.

—Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for thf. Gymnasium. By •Gertrude Williams-Lundgren. Milwaukee, Freidenker Publishing Co., 1905. Price fifty cents. 9X6 in., 31 pages.

Sixty-nine marching steps, 109 steps in fancy dancing, and 38 marching and dumbbell exercises combined. The collection will prove suggestive, though there •is a general lack of clearness in description and many of the exercises given are more ingenious than artistic or otherwise valuable.

—Charts A—H, Arranged by H. Shindle Wingert, M. D., Physical Director, •Central Branch, Y. M. C. A., St. Louis, Mo. Eight cards 6X3*4 in.

Each of seven cards contains a short series of exercises suitable for one of the following: Neck, flat chest and stooped shoulders, weak waist and abdominal muscles, constipation, flat foot, normal development of the chest, and uneven shoulders. One card contains rules for diet in the treatment of obesity.

—A New Form of Pantograph for TraciNG the Outlines of the Human Body. By W. P. Bowen, M. S. Reprinted from the American Physical Education Review, September, 1905. Three pages.

This instrument, described at the meeting of the American Society for Research in Physical Education in New York last April (1905), is the one used in alj regular physical examinations at the Michigan State Normal College in Ypsilanti

—Gymnasium Director’s Pocket Book, Containing Information of Daily Use to Physical Directors and All Interested in Gymnastics. 1906. Compiled by W. L. Coop. Published by the Narragansett Machine Co., Providence, R. I. 5%X2% in., 64 pages.

—Students’ Manual of Physical Training, West Virginia University Gymnasium. Arranged by Anthony W.Chez,Director. 1905. 7%X5% in.,62 pages

—The Athletic Alumnus. College sport will never be reformed by the “athletic alumnus,” who must be classed with the professional coach as a menace to the integrity and wholesome conduct of campus athletics. Ask the head masters and principals of the leading preparatory schools, East and West, who has most bedeviled and upset their boys with arguments and inducements and flatteries, and they will tell you “the athletic graduate.” The pernicious activity of these persons will hardly find it worth while to persuade boys to enter a particular college in which they are barred from prominence in athletics through Freshman year. And we will hear less about the “prep school star” who passes his entrance examinations for one college and changes his mind and his destination over night.—Ralph D. Paine in “The School and College World,” Tin The Outing Magazine for April.

Digitized by t^.ooQle