MIND AND BODY

Vol. 23.	DECEMBER,	1916	No.	254

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah-EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Genhantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota

Entered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

THE EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY OF THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHER.

Commencement Address Sargent School for Physical Education.

May, 1916. Prof. C. E. Johnson, Harvard.

I am convinced that the physical training teacher has the greatest responsibility and the greatest opportunity in elementary education. I am also convinced that this opportunity lies not in the so-called physical aspects of her work, but in the extra-physical, the moral, social, and spiritual aspects. Physical Education, to a serious degree, is a misnomer; the term is a stumbling block to the advancement of physical education in popular appreciation, and not infrequently to the physical training teacher herself. This is not a new thought to you, but it is one that should put you on your guard when you go out into the educational field to work. You will be classified, regarded, and called “physical training teachers”, whereas if you work in the spirit of the, great man who founded this school, you will be just as truly, I think more truly, mental, moral, and social training teachers. I wish you were to be called just “teachers”.

Our educational stock phrases are much confused. We speak of physical education, mental education, moral education, social

Digitized by t^ooQle
338

education, even vocational education, when we have in mind similar, if not identical, things in the use of each. Recently there was sent to me, in manuscript, the report of an investigation of the relation of physical training to scholarship. The study was entitled “Is Mental Training Misnamed Physical?” The inference of the author, who was a physical training .teacher, was that physical training is mental training; the proof offered was that, in the school in which the investigation was carried on, the students who did the best work in physical training stood highest in scholarship in other subjects of study as well. I am not sure but that the author, with equal logic, might not have deduced the inference that physical training is misnamed mental, since those who did the best in book work were also ablest in the physical exercises.

Does this not suggest the confusion that exists as to what physical training is, what mental training is, what, in short, education is? Of course physical training is mental training. Being massaged is the only kind of physical training that I could conceive of that would not be also mental training. To learn to vault a bar involves mental action as truly as it does to conjugate a Latin verb; no one can say which of the two involves the mind the more, nor which in any given case would conform more to the needs of that individual in later life. When you acquire skill with the right hand, in certain movements, you call the process physical training. But the left hand thereby develops in skill although it has not been trained or exercised at all. It is through the central nervous system, or the mind, that the left hand receives its added skill. Then that must be due to mental training and mental training therefore duplicates to an extent the results of physical training. You cannot separate physical from mental training.

But to say that physical training, that excellence in physical exercises, will make one capable in other subjects of study, in Geometry or English, for example, is quite a different matter. We have no reason at all to believe it. One’s physical vigor, digestion, resistance of fatigue, may be improved by physical training, but we may not claim that the mind is at all directly benefitted as regards other special subjects of study. So far as general education goes, we have no sufficient reason to claim that there is any transference of power acquired from physical training to ability in other subjects. As a matter of education, you simply must decide whether you wish to vault a bar or conjugate a verb. So far as we can judge, one will not help the other.

It seems to me to be of great importance that the physical training teacher be sound in her psychology with respect to the educational aspects of her work. To be sure, physical training would be greatly worth while, if it only improved the physiological functions of the body, affected heart, lungs, digestion, circulation, but these are not what we mean by educational. What are these extra-physical ends of your instruction that are truly educational and of such importance that they could suggest to anyone that

Digitized by LjOoq le
339

the educational opportunities of the physical training teacher surpass those of other teachers? I can mention but a few.

One of these is the training of emotions. Psychologists in their discussion of human conduct, are placing more and more emphasis upon the original nature and tendencies of man. The instincts and the emotions which, in the last analysis, are the generative forces back of all behavior, are but slightly appealed to directly in the ordinary school subjects. So far as conventional instruction goes the emotions are but little more an object of concern in education than they were in a state of primitive society. Where in book instruction, at least, shall we find exercise and direction of the deep seated passions that control human conduct, - love, hate, desire, fear, anger, disgust, elation; or for the instinctive expression of rivalry; risk, sense of fairness, self-assertion, cooperation, sacrifice, loyalty. Effectual expression of these lies in motor activity, and the shorter the circuit between emotion or instinct, and the action, the more intense is the educational experience. Theatre going may arouse the emotions, it may suggest ideals with relation to emotions, but it can not train the emotions. Elementary education is perhaps weakest in this matter of training the emotions. Physical training, so far as it includes activities involving the instinctive and emotional elements I have mentioned is almost our only hope of systematized training of the emotions; it offers almost the only field in school instruction where, with reference to the deep emotional elements of character, pupils may become doers of the word and not hearers only. For example, anger, when properly trained, is a most desirable human feeling. A good and strong man said to me, pathetically, “I can hardly get angry any more.” He realized that a man without capacity for righteous wrath lacked a fundamental element of a strong character. He realized also that anger without control and rational direction was a source of weakness and not of strength. But he had so repressed the feeling of anger that it no longer responded to injustice. He had denied himself a motor outlet for anger and his emotional strength had abated.

Now it is in the plays and games of children and youth that these deep emotional states are aroused under conditions approximating those of their more primitive expression in uncivilized man. It is here that we find opportunity to train and direct these emotions under stress with reference to social needs and ideals. It is here that the war dogs of a man's character are both trained and chained ; it is here the child and the youth achieves both strength and control. All great men have been fighters. Without the fighting plays, the fighting instinct atrophies. Aroused, controlled, directed, under stress, with reference to ideals, it applies in higher and higher forms, until it becomes the consecrated champion of social needs and social justice. The teacher of the three r’s has no opportunity comparable to that of the physical training teacher in this respect.

Or take the emotion of fear. Fear of the right sort, has played an important part in the development of character. In the earlier

Digitized by v^ooQle
340

religious training of this country it was conspicuously appealed to. The conviction and eloquence of Cotton Mather seemed to lift his hearers bodily and hold them sizzling over the flames of unquenchable fire. “Without fear of God or man”, has been the consummate phrase to indicate the completely anti-social character. Rationalized fear is a corner stone in. the emotional foundation of character. All hardly competitive games tend to arouse in contestants a kind of physical dread or fear, entirely wholesome. It is noticed in the nervousness of players before a game. The jaw is set, the hands clenched, the face an ashen grey. They are “scared blue”. But this emotion gives opportunity for and stimulates to heroic action. It is by no means an ignoble fear; it is rather an exaltation of the moral sense. It is not fear of defeat, of pain of bodily injury; it is rather fear of not rising to the occasion, of not doing one's test., of failing one's school, of being weighed in the balance and found wanting. It is largely in competitive contests that the teacher may utilize fear and turn it to the exaltation of virtue.

Grief is another emotion that may be mentioned here. That grief may be experienced and expressed in competitive play, no one can doubt. Children are readily peeved at defeat in games, and mature football players sometimes manifest all the physical symptoms of grief in defeat, are “bowed down” with grief, and weep on the field. Some of this may be due to nervousness, no doubt, but the mental suffering is poignant. An eye witness tells us that after the first modern Olympic Games, in Athens, the Greeks who had set their hearts on winning the Marathon, were so cast down by losing this particular race, that they went about the streets of the city, wringing their hands and saying, not “W7e have lost”, but “We are lost”. Until recently it was often asserted that girls did not show good sportsmanship in defeat, that they were poor losers, that they could not bear up under the disappointment, that they could not control hard feelings. Dr. Sargent, however, with some justice, claims that with proper training girls become better sports in this respect than boys. This is certainly a compliment to you and may be a social contribution of your school of more moment than you have realized. I do not wish to make over-much of this rather unusual claim of the opportunity and responsibility of the physical training teacher in the field of the emotions; but I am convinced that the training of the emotions under great and primitive-like stress, with reference to standards and ideals of character and conduct is of gravest importance. Otherwise where will our children and youth be made ready for emotional crises of life, greater and smaller? How otherwise shall we explain the headlong plunge of countless men from civilization to savagery under the awful emotional stress of war? Or the ever Recurring tragedies in civil life of those whom anger, fear, or grief have seized and found untrained to meet the stress. It is but a few commencements ago that a disappointed young man met upon the college campus the young woman he desired to marry and shot and killed her and himself. There is nothing better than training in being

Digitized by GjOOQ le
341

good losers to prevent such tragedies. In the field of the emotions, then, the opportunity and the responsibility of the physical education teacher seem many fold greater than the teachers of most of the other subjects of the school.

This will appear the more clearly to you, if you will stop for a moment to consider that the subjects taught in the schools have developed out of the accumulated knowledge of the long centuries of human experience. It is a kind of bottled wisdom, but in a form that has slight instinctive appeal^to children. On the other hand, the active plays and games of children and youth are prompted by the very organic structure, and by the nature and needs of children and youth. They have an instinctive appeal, they involve the emotions, the very foundations of temper and character, such as arithmetic, geography, and grammar cannot stir. The very nature, tradition, and organization of the conventional school require a kind of inverted method of instruction so far as it concerns life; to you is given the opportunity to hold true to the natural order and development of children and youth.

If there is any truth in what I have said to you thus far, and I have mentioned but a tithe of the ways in which your instruction may affect the emotional nature of your* pupils, it must have suggested to you the opportunity of the physical training teacher in the matter of moral training. If there were time, it would, I am confident, be possible to show how nearly every positive virtue may be most naturally and effectively developed through play. For the several basic virtues of man, such as courage, sense of fairness, sympathy, loyalty, and others, are in their first beginnings instinctive and are naturally expressed in the plays and games with which you deal. Here again you have great advantage over other teachers. One does not grow’ courageous, for example, by reading about courage, or by talking about courage, but rather by practicing courage. It is in your field that one may practice courage. There are plays and games you teach that require the practice of courage, and there is a time in the lives of your pupils when they instinctively love those plays and games and instinctively admire and long for courage. A friend of mine placed upon the bulletin board of a settlement house this notice: Wanted:	Boys	for	a	Boys' Scout

Patrol. They must be twelve years old or over, and CHUCK FULL OF GRIT. When next he passed the bulletin board, he found a lad reading it. “What do you think of that, Tim?" he asked. “I don't like it much," said Tim. “I don't think they ought to have to be twelve years old. I'm not twelve years old, but I tell ye', I'm chuck full of grit." There is a time in a boy's life, perhaps in a girl’s too, when his very nature longs for activity that tries his hardihood and his pluck. The danger with boys at a certain age is not that they will not be courageous, if given the opportunity to practice courage, but rather that they will be foolhardy. But you can't teach physical courage through books, it is in your field it must be done, or training in courage must remain largely a matter of haphazard and chance.

So as to many another virtue. In a way, you are like the old-

Digitized by CjOOQle
342

teachers of Greece, who were pre-eminently physical training teachers. But they must have realized that they were moral teachers as well. For when a Greek youth came up for his final examination at the end of his schooling, so far as we can learn, he was not examined in subjects, but in manhood, and if he passed, they conferred upon him a degree, and that degree was equivalent to our word, hero.

It would require a book to speak adequately of many other aspects of your work which also are social. I can only remind you again that these far outweigh in importance the physiological aspects of your work, important as they may be; and I urge upon you, when outlining your courses and your lessons and in teaching your pupils that you remember you are mental, moral, and social training teachers first and most of all.

In the few minutes remaining, I desire to return to the intellectual side of your profession. There seems to be a wide spread idea that physical training teachers are not scholarly. I will not be so ungracious as to say that I have the least idea that this is true. However, I must warn you to look well to your intellectual interests. “Much study is a weariness of the flesh” and with your keen active interests you are in special danger of not studying and thinking deeply enough. If any teacher needs to think hard and study hard, you do. Loyalty to your profession requires it; the importance of your work demands it; the subtle difficulties of your teaching problems necessitate it. The great leaders of your profession to-day, men and women, are scholarly. Without their long, hard, patient study, physical training would not hold even the place it does to-day, a place not yet nearly as honorable in public recognition or in paths of learning as it deserves. Before the public generally, wherever you go to teach, you will stand for your profession; upon you largely will depend the respect and regard of the community for the profession you represent. Here is a great appeal to that loyalty you have practiced here. See to it, that you fail not in the intellectual and the scholarly. In your field of education particularly are waiting to be solved many problems of research, of organization, of social betterment that will require the closest scholarship. What are you going to contribute to their solution?

One thing more. I have been impressed, as I have passed this building day after day, with the atmosphere of joyousness contained therein. It has pressed out through the windows and caught my attention as I passed. In a peculiar way, you are the teachers of joyousness. The activities through which joyousness is expressed lie properly in your field of work. Communities have awakened to the fact that when they wish to offer opportunities for increased enjoyment of life to jaded workers of a commercial and industrial world, they must offer them in large measure through your own field. Your own work has seemed to teach you joyousness of spirit. Teach it to the world, to this work-a-day world, whose mood is wonderfully like that pictured by Browning in Saul. Saul has lost all joy in living. He stands in his tent the incarnation of

Digitized by LjOOQie
343

inactivity, of hopelessness and gloom. David appeals to him in a wonderful song to win him back to hope and joy, a song in which he recalls the simple pleasures of an active life. It is thus he sings:

“Oh! the wild joys of living!

The leaping from rock to rock;

The strong rending of boughs from the fir-tree,

The cool silver shock Of the plunge in the pool's living water,

The hunt of the bear,

And the sultriness showing the lion Is couched in his lair.

And the meal, the rich dates yellowed over With gold dust divine,

And the locust flesh steeped in the pitcher,

The full draught of wine,

And the sleep in the dried river channel Where the bullrushes tell That the water was wont to go warbling So softly and well.

How good is man's life, the mere living,

How fit to employ All the heart and the soul and the senses Forever in joy!"

Especially is it your privilege to help keep alive in children and youth through self-activity the simple, wholesome joys of life; and to help bring them back to a jaded world standing like Saul in darkness of spirit and gloom. To you more than to other teachers, it seems to me, come the opportunity and privilege of helping the world onward to the time when universally man may say:

How good is man's life, the mere living,

How fit to employ,

All the heart and the soul and the senses,

P\>rever in joy!

STATEWIDE PHYSICAL TRAINING IN NEW YORK.

Clinton P. McCord, M. D.,

President, New York State Association of Medical Inspectors and Physical Educators; Health Director of Public Schools, City of Albany, N. Y.

In accordance with the Welsh-Slater law, passed at the last session of the legislature, creating the State Military Training Commission and directing it to recommend to the Regents of the University of the State of New York a program of physical training for the elementary and secondary schools, as provided in an amendment to the Education Law, the most comprehensive health education and physical training program ever set in operation by any state was submitted to the Board of Regents and approved by them at a meeting held in Syracuse, September fourteenth.

The commission is composed of John F. O'Ryan, Major General

Digitized by CjOOQle
344

of the National Guard; John H. Finley, President of the University of the State of New York and Commissioner of Education; George J. Fisher, M. D., Secretary Physical Department International Committee, Young Men's Christian Association. Early in the life of the commission Dr. Thomas A. Storey, Professor of Hygiene in the College of the City of New York, was appointed physical training inspector for the state. Dr. Storey is widely known as an authority on educational hygiene, and his special knowledge is reflected in the scope and detail of the program submitted by the commission to the Board of Regents. Some confusion still exists in the minds of persons not familiar' with the exact provisions of the law and unacquainted with the features of well organized systems of physical training as they exist in the schools of our larger cities. In the first weeks following the enactment of the law, particularly in the case of the so-called "pacifists”, this confusion was acute. Perhaps the.title of the commission was a factor in producing this state of mind. Many people declared that our schools were to be turned into barracks and our playgrounds into rifle-ranges. This sentiment doubtless in some measure will be found even now in the extra-urban districts, and will vanish only when it becomes a matter of common knowledge in the various communities that the second duty of the commission, namely, that of prescribing a program of military training, has not as yet been performed, and, that when such program is formulated, its operations will, in accordance with the law, fall out-side the schools. The new program will touch every boy and girl more than eight years old in the public and private schools of the state, but its provisions are neither new nor radical. Every mu-, nicipality that has operated a system of medical inspection of school children or has maintained a supervisor of physical training has profited by as many of the health activities therein outlined as the progressiveness of the executives in charge of the work demand and the liberality of the municipality made possible. Trained school hygienists in many cities and states have directed some of these health activities as features of well-organized school systems and have no doubt recommended many of the others for adoption year after year in their reports. Now for the first time such provisions have been organized into one program, backed by law and statewide in application. Let us be very clear upon the point, that, actual preparation for military service in the technical sense is not incorporated in the program that will be put into effect in the schools this autumn; it is not a military training program, but a physical training program. We cannot improve upon Dr. Finley's characterization of it as "a program for basic physical training, health education and patriotic discipline, a program for strengthening the physical foundations in which our higher intellectual and spiritual curriculums are to find support. The general purpose is the health education of the school children of the state and the promotion of health habits to the end of developing more efficient and vigorous men and women, ready for such civic obligations as may come.”
345

Briefly, the program includes medical inspection, instruction in hygiene, and physical exercise as a health habit.

Medical inspection is interpreted in its broad sense, including not only the frequent health examination of pupils, the correction of defects, cooperation with parents, physicians, dentists, dispensaries and other health agencies, but also embracing the careful supervision and intensive study of certain special groups of children. The examination of all pupils before admission to school for the first time is scheduled.

The teacher is also to be enlisted as a supplementary agent to the medical inspector and school nurse. She is to make certain inspections, and detailed instructions for her to follow in these activities are to be supplied by the Regents.

The need for further organization of the state medical inspection service is indicated in the program. With a mandatory medical inspection law now three years on the statute books it has been a source of much discouragement to school hygienists in this state to see the detailed organization of this work not yet effected because of lack of adequate appropriations. It is to be hoped that the approval of the physical training program by the Regents, carrying with it this recommendation for further organization of medical inspection, may hasten the day when the full provisions and purposes of our admirable medical inspection law will be appreciated and energized.

The part of the program that deals with the teaching of hygiene is particularly well-timed. This instruction is to be given by the teacher; it is to be co-ordinated with the instruction already given in hygiene, and definite tests for promotion are to be given the pupil covering this instruction; two periods of ten or fifteen minutes each are to be devoted weekly during every school term to his instruction; and the present syllabus on physiology is to be revised to include such subjects as the following: hygiene of the teacher, hygiene of the janitor, sanitation of the schoolroom and playground, the use of pupils as “health officers” or “sanitary inspectors”, cleanliness, care of various organs of the body, laws of health, cause of poor health, carriers of disease, personal, domestic and community hygiene, and cheerfulness. A syllabus, covering this work for elementary grades and for secondary schools, is contemplated. This revised syllabus is to become operative, in September, 1917.

The physical exercise feature of the program is construed to include gymnastic, elementary marching, and organized, supervised play, recreation and athletics. Equivalent activities in the home or community life of the child may be accepted as substitutes for part of the school requirement. Certain requirements of the program go into effect this autumn, and additional recreational requirements are to be met not later than September 1917. There is a schedule for the physical training in elementary schools and one for the work in secondary schools. In the elementary chools the program includes setting up exercises or drills of two minutes' duration at the beginning of each class hour each day,

Digitized by t^ooQle
346

a minimum of forty minutes a week; gymnastic drills, a minimum of sixty minutes a week; supervised recreation, a minimum of sixty minutes a week. The supervised recreation may take the place of the gymnastic drills.

After September, 1917, three additional hours of supervised recreation will be required, either as a part of the school program or by equivalents accepted from sources outside the school, but in all schools in which there is adequate space and equipment a minimum of sixty minutes in gymnastic drills and four hours a week in supervised recreation will be required. Three of the four hours of recreation may be satisfied by the substitution of equivalent recreational activities in home or community.

In the secondary schools the setting up drills have the same minimum time requirement as in the elementary schools as have also the gymnastic drills and the supervised recreation. The same substitution is permitted. Organized supervised athletics are added to the program, with organization of clubs and associations, medical examination of pupils at the beginning of each athletic season, careful regulation of training, etc. Other equivalents for supervised recreation are also permitted within limitations. Additional recreational requirements, identical with those for elementary schools, to go into effect not later than September, 1917, are included in the program for secondary schools.

The program further contains requirements as to the instruction of the class teacher by the special teacher of physical training, the training of pupils as leaders of squads or groups in the various activities, the appointment of supervisors of physical training in the various school districts, the appointment of deputy state inspectors and the adjustment of the new course of study in physical training to the courses already in operation in certain cities of the state. A special syllabus, to be provided by the Board of Regents, is contemplated for each of the following features of . both elementary and secondary school programs: setting up exercises, gymnastic drills, and supervised recreation. Presumably these courses of study are at this writing in an advanced stage of preparation.

What are some of the results that we may expect from the initiation of such a program as a part of the great educational system of New York State?

1.	In due time and under the stimulus of the concrete institution of the requirements of this comprehensive health program, teachers will develop a real interest in the physical child and will come to interpret their work in the light of modern knowledge of the great socio-health-education complex; they will develop a real teacher’s responsibility in connection with school health matters and will lay aside forever the attitude that seeks to disclaim any duty in this direction and to dismiss all such demands with a jerk of the thumb in the direction of medical inspector, physical supervisor or school nurse; they will come to appreciate the all-present and all-pervading character of the health problem, and to realize that no sharp division of duty and shifting of re-
347

sponsibility in the matter of their pupils' development and welfare are possible, and that dirty hands and “running” noses are challenges to the teacher's health sense just as the impoliteness and crudity of these same pupils at times are appeals to the school nurse in her capacity as a teacher.

2.	This program will hasten the institution of suitable and ample gymnasiums, playgrounds and necessary equipment for physical, corrective and recreational work in connection with our schools, and should secure to all districts adequate medical inspection and school nursing services.

3.	The disgraceful condition of the rural school from a sanitary standpoint as demonstrated in several notable surveys, covering the entire United States, and also the fact that rural school children are inferior to city school children from the health standpoint, would suggest many problems that invite the application of such a comprehensive school health program.

4.	The new program should aid greatly in the socialization of the rural • schools; it will encourage a general appreciation of the value of one of the five absolute requisites for life - - namely, exercise; and systematic indulgence in this one will render enjoyment of the other four doubly keen, and such enjoyment furnishes the best basis for happiness.

5.	Correlation of school life with the work of the various social organizations of the community that have at heart the physical and civic well-being of the individual will be fostered and the whole will be seen to constitute one interlocking system whereby each agency may do its share toward the all-around improvement of the growing child.

6.	The program will rationalize the teaching of hygiene in the schools of the state; it will direct attention to the physical well-being of the child as the first and most serious consideration of any system of school training that deserves to endure.

7.	The new requirements will make for a more professional

spirit amongst teachers — a more scientific manner of approaching their work; it should give them a new ideal — health first, all else will follow. A health worker of vision who is also an educator has said:	“What	shall	it profit a child if he gain the whole curri-

culum and lose his health?” These words under the new system of health education may take on new meaning t6 the teacher.

Thus it appears, the requirements of the new program spell “preparedness” in the fundamental sense — the only real “preparedness” being that which is based upon a clean, healthy, vigorous body. This is the “preparedness” that physical educators have been preaching for the last decade; it is now given a great instrument for its effective realization — a mandatory law operating through the institution that holds in its keeping these future men and women for so great a portion of their waking time.

The work of physical training is so well recognized as a vital feature of school life in progressive centers, that its absence from the schools of any district should be a subject for as severe comment as would be the withdrawal of music, history or drawing from the
348

curriculum. Lord Beaconsfield said:	“The	public health is the

foundation on which reposes the happiness of the people and the power of the country.” There is no larger stone in such a foundation than the health of the twenty million school children in this country, nearly two million of whom will profit by the provisions of the health program that is now a part of the educational machinery of the great state of New York.

UP-TO-DATE FLOATING BATHS.

AUGUST P. WINDOLPH, New York City.

When the City Fathers of New York in 1889 decided to expend funds for floating baths, and did spend the sum of $12,000. apiece approximately for each of the 15 floating baths then constructed, it marked a movement forward to meet conditions and requirements that prevailed in New York City, at that time. Long hot summers, a large and increasing child mortality from weather causes and diseases, as well as the increasing mortality from drowning from bathing at our piers along the river fronts, concentrated sentiment in favor of the floating bath as an institution, and from that day to this it has existed.

Launched at the top crest of its public favor, new in paint and appointments, each floating bath became the object of great Alder-manic maneuvring, and it was generally conceded in that day that he was a good Alderman who could boast “1 have a floating bath in my district”, and with this boasting usually followed the patronage of employment in the bath, which amounted to approximately 39 people at the basin, and in the aggregate provided very little to do for a large number of people.

Then came the increasing disfavor of river bathing. Sewerage Commissions decided that the water at our piers was unfit for bathing and Health Commissioners, by analyses, proved that it was unhealthy, and then began the decline of floating bath bathing in New York waters. Upon notice from the Board of Health, the bath at one pier would be abandoned, or withdrawn, on account of the condition of the water - then at another pier - until finally, of all the 15 floating baths in the greater City of New York, but 6 were employed, and they in turn were threatened by the Board of Health on account of the condition of the water despite efforts of purification and the addition of chemicals. Truly, at this period, floating baths may be said to have reached their lowest ebb, and even in public print, their strongest supporters had to admit that their days seemed to be numbered, and that there appeared to be a great possibility that floating baths would soon be a thing of the past, a memory of boyhood days of the present generation.

Propositions were made looking toward the construction of metal sliding tanks, of pumping plants, of disinfecting and filtration appliances to endeavor to continue the floating bath proposition for the Borough of Manhattan. The Boroughs of The Bronx and Brooklyn abandoned the floating baths without further consideration just as soon as objections were made in strong enough force to

Digitized by v^ooQle
349

warrant the same. All suggestions made concerning the floating baths were bound round about with very expensive changes or alterations. The baths would have to be entirely rebuilt, boiler shop made wells would have to be constructed, and the whole consideration would be a very expensive proposition, too expensive to be considered at a time when everybody was presenting the need of economy, and the careful expenditure of every cent of City funds. Added to this, there existed a tendency in the appropriation body of the city Government to object to the expenditure of any funds, in any amount, for any consideration in the matter of repairs, alterations, remodeling or reconstruction of the City baths, and the prospects for floating baths for the future certainly looked very gloomy. Public sentiment, however, had not diminished one iota in its desire for the public bath. At meetings of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, the public gathered in large numbers, representative in character of all classes of people, particularly those who had enjoyed the benefits of the floating baths, and who would appreciate the loss of them: and after a wonderful campaigm lasting four months, the Borough President of Manhattan was permitted to go ahead and expend out of savings in his own budgetary allowance, the amount of money that was necessary to make the changes required in these floating baths. The changes made in consequence of the amount of money available had to be of the very simplest kind to meet, in an efficient manner, the conditions that were required by the Department of Health. Water-tight wells were constructed in the wells of the baths to the height of the highest water mark. Water pipes were installed for the supplying of the water from the outside. Sea gates were installed and check valves all around the wells were supplied to provide for the overflow of the interior well without permitting any of the sea water returning to the well itself. With these arrangements completed, six of the floating baths now provided with showers for the first time, newly painted and with water-tight interior wells, were placed in commission for the year 1915.

The baths had become a yearly institution at the foot of certain streets, and it was deemed wise on account of some dock building conditions to change one of the baths from the west side in the North River to the east side in the Harlem River; the change was beneficial. Though the baths were late in being placed in position, something over three weeks, still the patronage for 1915 amounted to 1,318,341 as against the season of 1914 of 1,044,288, an increase of over 260,000 bathers. Added to that came the increased enthusiasm of the people who again had enjoyed the floating bath, the satisfactory endorsement of the Board of Health as to the conditions which were worked out under their supervision, and the possibilities of the floating bath in the future loomed up bright, so much so that the Borough President's office engaged at once in the preparation of the plans for the building of watertight wells in two of the remaining fleet of floating baths, and so for the year 1916, at this time, we are engaged in the preparation for the use of the public by the same six baths they enjoyed last

Digitized by
350

year, and an addition of two others. This is not an inexpensive proposition, and the cost will amount to something like $13>000. No additional funds have been provided, and we are endeavoring to pay for these in the same manner that we paid for their repairs last year.

The floating baths up-to-date, which, for the first time, the Borough of Manhattan has enjoyed, that is satisfactory to the Board of Health is one with an interior well lined with boarding, the joints caulked until it represents somewhat the interior of a scow, and is supplied with Croton water the same as the inhabitants of New York City drink, with the same degree qf purity, from the same pipes. It is refilled each day. It is kept purified by the addition of lime alum and soda, and experiments have been tried in the introduction of chlorine gas and electroside, and along these lines the experiment has not been entirely completed.

A sketch of the plan of the floating bath which is built surrounding the well shows the arrangement of the dressing rooms: the abundant shower bath facilities which are provided; indeed, it is impossible to reach the pool without passing under the showers. I trust that it will not be long before we will be able to, at least so far as the male sex is concerned, discard bathing apparel and make these baths what they should be - to meet the requir-ments of cleanliness, and not have them considered as places of recreation. To those who may consider it recreation, a plunge in the bath soon convinces them that it is certainly an unsatisfactory form of recreation, and the chill that ensues is more effective for the quick use of the bath than any night watchman's stick or any punitive measures could effect. To the youngsters, they still enjoy swimming in the river and a bath in the bath-house, and to the public at large, who need, who use and appreciate the floating bath in its true purpose and intention, it is now, and I believe will continue to be one of the things applicable particularly to the hot weather period alone.

New York City in its Borough of Manhattan, at least has given the public a boon and benefit which is thoroughly appreciated as the attest of the number visiting and participating in the same would surely indicate. Truly, an enterprise that was enjoyed in a little over three months by 1,300,000 people is an indication that it would be little short of criminal to prevent these people from enjoying what they evidently appreciate so much.

In conclusion, in speaking of the floating bath, it seems impossible in view of this history of the rise, decline and resurrection of the floating baths that any city with a water-froftt and a water supply should be without this generous and very economical provision for the hot weather season. It is more economical than the temporary bath because the plumbing facilities, sewerage and drainage are very much more economical. It will accommodate larger numbers than either tent or portable bath-houses, and at a great deal less expense, and then it provides the plunge bath not always considered by all people sanitary, but by most all, and very much more sought for than any other branch of bathing now existing.
351

It is particularly interesting perhaps in closing to say that the action of the city has inspired a great many bath owners along the shores to construct and reconstruct baths of this type and character, some of them very elaborate, and it does appear that now, even in the city of New York where things swing like a pendulum from one extreme to another, it does seem that the pendulum is now swinging back to a rehabituation of the former periods when through its floating baths it was able and did succeed in bathing over 2,000,000 people a season, and it is to this end that the Borough of Manhattan, through floating baths, permanent baths, and any other means that may come within its control provides for the cleanliness of the great public, who in the year 1915 to the number of 8,703,837 enjoyed its benefits. Truly, floating baths must be up-to-date; they have a great mission, and there is a great field for them, and for them there is a great need.

INHERITANCE FROM DEVELOPED ANCESTORS.

CASPER L. REDFIELD, Chicago, 111.

Some one once said that no matter how much the blacksmith might swing his hammer, his son would not thereby have more powerful muscles. A certain class of scientists have accepted this statement as authority and have used it as part of their stock in trade in denying the inheritance of acquirements. They have repeated it over and over until the public has come to believe it because it is heard so often.

Who tested this matter of the blacksmith’s muscles? How were the measurements made by which this alleged fact was determined? Was the hammer weighed and the strokes counted or estimated? How long had the blacksmith been swinging his hammer before the son was conceived? In what way was the power in the son’s muscles tested, and how was that test compared with the inheritance of the father from the grandfather?

The fact is that the matter never was tested. The statement was manufactured out of whole cloth and has not a word of truth in it. It is an example of the kind of “evidence” presented by those men who deny the inheritance of acquirements — men who make positive statements about things they never investigated and of which they know absolutely nothing.

There is abundant evidence on the development of muscular strength by exercise, and the inheritance of that development by offspring conceived after the development occurred. It is not easily traced in man because we do not have records, but we have an abundance of records in the case of the trotting horse, and we can investigate it there. We have the mile track, the stop watch and large money prizes to bring out the utmost existing power capabilities. We also have records for various dates to show the progress of extreme speed, and we can compare an animal with its grandparents or great-grandparents. By these records we can determine the extent to which different animals developed their muscular strength by exercise up to the time of reproducing.

Digitized by
,352

and we can compare such determinations with what is found in the progeny as determined by the stop watch.

As a preliminary it is to be noted that the average trotting sire is about ten years old when the average foal is born, and, until a quite recent date, the average sire did comparatively little trotting before that age. Breeding horses were not used much for work or racing, and horses used for work or racing were not used extensively for breeding. This gives us a standard for sires, with which standard we can compare any particular sire for the purpose of determinng whether he developed his trotting muscles more or less than the average, and how much more or less.

The same is true for dams. The average dam does not do much trotting work, and is about eight years of age when the average foal is bom. That gives us a standard for dams.

Let us take the case of Crescens. He was the champion trotter of his day, and the only stallion in horse history which ever was the champion trotter. He had more trotting power on tap than any horse in the world, and more than any horse prior to his time: Where did he get that power? Was he some special creation, or the result of some advantageous variation by which something came out of nothing by itself? Or did his sire develop his trotting muscles first and then transmit his acquired development to his son? Let us examine his pedigree and see.

b.	1859 (12) Major Edsal

b.	1860 (11) Nancy Whitman

b.	1858 (22) Mamb. Howard

b.	1876 (4) Contention.

the son of Robert McGregor, bom in 1871. The sire was twenty-three years of age when the son was born, and we place (23) between sire and son to show this difference. This is more than twice the average age of sires. Robert McGregor was not a breeding stallion in the ordinary sense. He was a race horse used for racing purposes for many long years, and was seldom bred. This particular '‘blacksmith'’ swung his hammer long and lustily before his son was conceived.

Major Edsal, the sire of Robert McGregor, was also used for racing because the breeders did not consider him valuable for breeding "purposes. He also swung his “hammer” lustily for years before his son, Robert McGregor, was conceived. And he con-

b. 1894. Crescens. 2:02 1-4-

b. 1871 (23) Robt. McGregor

b. 1880 (14) Mabel

Crescens was born in 1894, and was

Digitized by LjOOQie
363

tinued that swinging for two years beyond the average age at which sons are produced.

The other grandsire, Mambrino Howard, was neither a race' horse nor a breeding stallion. He was a road horse, occasionally used for breeding farm horses but not used for breeding trotters until after he was twenty years of age. His hammer was swung continuously and long, tho not quite so lustily as in the cases of the other two horses. He was more than double the average age of sires as he appears in this pedigree.

Have the persons who deny the inheritance of acquirements ever measured up actual cases in this way, or in any other way, for the purpose of determining the truth of their statements? They have not. They make statements without any foundation whatever, and then want the public to consider them as scientists!

The case of Crescens is only one of hundreds of cases which have been examined and measured with care, and the results published. Each and every one tells the same story. In no case is there improvement in the trotting powers of horses unless there has been an unusual amount of development of trotting muscles in the immediately preceding ancestors. The evidence in support of this statement is a matter of public record published for years, yet these pretended scientists say that there is no record. They are simply ignorant.

These examples in horses are not mere instances as some superficial reviewers have thought. They represent measurements of work performed before reproducing and the comparison of such measurements with the measured qualities of the final product. Those measurements establish a general fact which may be illustrated as follows. If an animal shows a superiority in powers of 2^ over the average of his ancestors four or five generations previously, then an examination of the intervening animals shows that, before reproducing they performed an extra amount of work represented by 2ax, in which a, is a coefficient dependent partly upon the number^? animals involved, and partly upon other factors not explainable in a short space. If the superiority is 3*, then the intervening extra work is 3a*; if the superiority is 4*, the intervening extra work is 4ax, ana so on. The amount of improvement is dependent directly upon the amount of extra work performed by progenitors before reproducing. In no case does improvement in powers come in any other way.

The same thing is true of mental development in man. Not only should a man’s education begin with his grandfather, but it should begin as far back as possible, and should include all intermediate ancestors. A man’s inherited mental endowment is not some special creation. It is an accurate representation of the extent to which ancestors were educated before reproducing. Just as there is a normal-mindedness for a five-year-old, and a normalmindedness for a ten-year-old, so there is a normal-mindedness for the average parents when the average child is conceived. If the parent is below this standard for parents, either by reason of youthfulness or by reason of lack of mental application in the production of mental development, the child will suffer correspondingly in his inheritance.

Digitized by v^ooQle
354

....	    ""	     1	11	O

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYQNOUND

O—'     — ”	 - .   “	—	"■	I * ■ ■■■    I11 1 1 ■■■ ' O

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

THE PLACE OF TACTICS IN PUBLIC SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

I. NORMAN ZARFOS, Director, American College of Physical Education.

The subject of tactics is one of the oldest in Physical Education. One who presents a paper on it can hardly expect to say anything very new. Even though tactics has been given consideration by most teachers of Physical Education in the past, it deserves special attention at the present and is of vital interest, not only because of the general discussion of the topic of Preparedness and Physical Education as the main theme of this conven-vention, but also because a number of teachers seem to exclude tactics, entirely from the day's program in the gymnastic lesson.

At the present time quite a number of teachers are being drawn away with one of the several hobbies like dancing, games, intra mural sports, corrective exercises, etc. While we >vould not contend that tactics is the only thing of value in the gymnastic lesson, it seems as much of a mistake to omit tactics as it would be to omit entirely games and dancing and other free exercises.

The original idea of tactics was of drilling troops so as to be able to execute military evolutions with swiftness and exactness so that in the presence of the enemy or on the battlefield, movements could be performed quickly in an orderly manner. Tactics have to do with moving groups of men efficiently. Without doubt the great generals of Greece and Rome had their troops well trained in tactics, but the Middle Ages thought only of individual action. During this period, the period of Feudalism, we have reason to believe that this subject was seldom taught.

The early modern teachers of gymnastics sometimes emphasized it, and sometimes did not. It is very doubtful if Guts Muths in his teaching at Salzmann's School used much of any marching tactics. While Jahn may have used a few movements in tactics to handle his classes, he laid no stress on the subject in particular; but took more to the idea of gymnastics as “work in the garb of youthful play." Spiess paid considerable attention to tactics; and Ling doubtless employed much tactics in his teaching, partly because of his idea of the educational value of such exercises, and also because of the fact that the Royal Central Gymnastic Institute was particularly a government institution which paid more attention to subjects pertaining to military training.

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association April 1916, Cincinnati, 0.

Digitized by LjOoq le
355

Most of us at the present time think of two distinct branches of marching tactics, viz: Military Tactics and Gymnastic Tactics. In Military Tactics the number of movements is limited. They have in view the special purpose of enabling troops to move in an orderly fashion. The “Manual of Arms” with the rifle and bayonet is also accepted by the popular mind as military tactics.

The question arises, what place does this branch of tactics have in the grammar and high school gymnastic lesson. In the grammar school the boy would not become acquainted with all of the movements used in the Infantry Drill Regulations; but he should be made familiar with the methods of drill, and the nature of some of the commands. In the class-room he should be taught the facing and marching orders in the “school of the soldier”, except flanking. If the class had the occasional use of a cleared assembly room, or a large corridor, they might be taught the marching formations in the “school of the squad”. It would give sufficient training so that in a military camp, in a very short time, he could become efficient in all of the marching movements. In the high school the regular formations can be taught. At the end of the course the graduate should, with a little special training, be able to execute with ease most of the marching orders regularly performed by the Infantry Company. If the class is large enough, the double rank formation may be used. This will familiarize the students with the regular company formation.

The great pioneer teachers of school gymnastics were intensely patriotic, but they were not narrow in their practice. They devoted the best part of their lives to training the youth of their beloved country in general gymnastics. It is quite clear that they considered military training proper, a separate and distinct subject aside from physical training. They taught tactics, but taught it principally to secure good discipline, quick response to command, better carriage; and also to make the pupil feel that he is one unit of a group and must act in harmony and unison with his classmates in order to secure Success. Their knowledge of relative values of the different kinds of gymnastic and athletic exercises led them to believe in all around physical, education.

In Gymnastic Tactics we usually consider the facings and most of the different marching movements in the school of the soldier, squad, and of the company in single rank formation as taught in Military Tactics; and in addition fancy or figure marching, maze running, etc. In Gymnastic tactics an endless variety of combinations can be used which call for continual new co-ordinations, constant attention, and greatly increased interest on the part of the pupil.

One reason advanced for the use of some tactics in the school gymnasium is that it enables the teacher to arrange a class for exercising more quickly and with better order. This is one of the least considerations, as in the school-room a certain method of taking position for exercise may be taught and the same method followed regularly which would necesisitate little if any tactics training. In the high school the students might be given

Digitized by LjOOQle
356

numbered spots, or in some other way by very simple methods of opening order could be arranged on the floor for the exercise.

The logical place in the lesson program for tactics might be considered to be at the beginning where we would have the order movements as in the regular Day’s Order Plan. But, some teachers would contend that the place for tactics should be toward the end of the lesson where the running and jumping exercises would naturally come. In the usual high school program, we find it to advantage to have tactics in the beginning of the lesson as it helps to get the class in the right mood for the rest of the work which is to follow; and also comes at the time when they are less tired and can more readily profit by the exercises in developing attention. In the grammar school, Gymnastic tactics comes toward the end of the program. Baron Posse and Carl Betz both put marching towards the end of the lesson. This may be because of the fact that, tactics usually are noisier than the other exercises, that they help to sustain attention; and they are very often made to be of much interest when short enough so that they are recreative. They also act as more or less of an order movement toward the end, bringing back the class into the frame of mind necessary to go on with the rest of the school work, especially if the lesson is given in the regular class-room. Of course, we take it for granted that the floors will be clean so that marching will not raise an undue amount of dust.

According to this then, in the grammar school tactics will be towards the end of the lesson, and in high school at the beginning of the lesson.

How much time should be alloted to tactics? Young teachers very often in their enthusiasm to secure quick response and clock work precision often take too much time for tactics. In the grammar school lesson of from ten to fifteen minutes, about two minutes should be devoted to tactics exercise. In the high school out of the usual forty or fifty minutes program, from five to ten minutes is sufficient. Ten minutes the first month Or so and later, when good discipline is secured, five to eight minutes.

It would be of value and interest if the teacher could take the class occasionally for a hike over roads and across the fields and then use the tactics evolutions. Of course, this is not to be thought of now because of the extremely limited amount of time devoted to physical education.

Let us hope that the day is not far distant when every Grammar School as well as every High School will have a gymnasium and swimming pool in its own building with an athletic field adjoining and at least have three forty-five minute periods each week devoted to physical education work.

This plan of two minutes in grammar school, and five to ten minutes in high school may seem to give very little time; -but if every second is filled with concise, snappy work more real good from the standpoint of the tactics aim will be obtained than by letting tactics drag on into the other part of the day's lesson.

A further matter of importance is the naming of com-

1

Digitized by Google
357

mands. There is a great deal of difference in the Nomenclature used by different teachers in this subject as well as in teaching free exercises. It is a lamentable fact that there is as yet no general standard of gymnastic nomenclature. It is one of our problems to be solved. I believe it would be a good plan for the U.

S.	army officers who edit the Drill Manuals for the different arms of the service to meet in conference with a committee of our leading teachers of gymnastic tactics and simplify the commands and arrive at a uniform nomenclature.

While I believe in our so-called Gymnastic Nomenclature in teaching movements not in the Blue Book, at the same time it should be of decided advantage to the boy to know the regular Military Nomenclature. Even though it may be an inconvenience to the teacher to learn the terms used by the army drill masters, it would be advisable to use the “regulation” terminology wherever possible while teaching tactics in the public schools, so that if the boy enters military service after his school years are over, he will know the commands regularly used in the army. Hence it seems best to follow the “Blue Book” as it is the terminology considered standard in all parts of the U. S.

In tactics as in some other branches of gymnastics, the use of music may cover a multitude of sins in poor teaching. Although we believe that tactics loses much of its educational value when executed to music, it is conceded that a good march tune will add greatly to the interest and recreative value; besides helping to develop a sense of rhythm; including a light buoyant step; and inspiring an optimistic spirit. Younger children greatly enjoy singing march songs during their tactics exercises.

As in most other forms of gymnastics, it is poor pedagogy to teach set marching drills, except for very occasional exhibitions. In this connection we would advocate the practice of tactics in a fire drill so as to enable the pupils to march out of a burning school building in order and with safety. These drills should be taught without music.

In teaching tactics do not neglect the girls. Do not forget that the girl also needs increased power of attention, quick response to command, improved carriage, and ability to keep step with her neighbors; and that tactics exercises are just as beneficial and necessary a part of the training of girls as of boys.

I would not for a moment have you think that I believe tactics to be of great importance from an exercise standpoint. The amount of exercise which the pupil may receive during the time which it is wise to devote to tactics is exceedingly small. We must, of course, not forget that we are giving Physical Education to the pupils mainly for exercise; to help them preserve and promote their health, and to serve as a recreation and rest from their study periods. At the same time we must not lose sight of- the fact that Physical Training gives also something more than merely exercise. Tactics is of great value in stimulating the pupil to have good carriage. It is one of the best concrete methods of enabling a youth to acquire the faculty of attentiveness and exactness. It engenders to a great extent, team spirit and class co-

Digitized by

Google
358

i

operation. All these are very valuable personal qualitites.

Let us, then, keep in view the great value of Tactics as an educational factor in helping us “to obey and carry out the will of the supreme master, mind”. Let us not be carried away on any popular wave of hypertrophied marching tactics. Tactics must not be allowed to crowd out the other materia gymnastica. Not even the mighty Hercules could be a great oarsman in a rotten boat; nor can the well disciplined mind and co-ordinated eye alone carry one through to success. We must also have good health, strength, courage, and endurance. This can come only through well balanced, all around physical education.

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.

(Continued)

SECOND YEAR’S WORK

A.	General Tactics.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding year.

2.	Review the marching movements at a run.

3.	In single ranks: Forming and transforming in the ranks (from front to flank and vice versa).

B.	Special Tactics.

School of the Squad.

A squad consists of 8 pupils formed in double rank.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding year.

2.	Facing, steps, marching like in the school of the soldier.

3.	Form squads. Count Off.

4.	Right (left), Dress. Front.

5.	When marching: Guide right (left).

6.	At a halt.

(a)	Take interval, To the right (left), March. Squad Halt.

(b)	Assemble to the light (left), March.

7.	When at a halt and having counted off:

(a)	Take distance, March. Squad, Halt.

(b)	Assemble, March.

Marching.

8.	Right (left) oblique, March. Forward, March (or Halt).

9.	To turn on a moving pivot:

(a)	Right (left) turn, March.

(b)	Right (left) half turn, March.

10,	To turn on a fixed pivot:	(a)	Squad	right	(left),	March.

11.	Being in line, to turn about and march: Squad right (left) about, March.

II.	Free' Exercises.

The essential exercises are the same as indicated for the first year.

Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the co-ordinations of the first year. '

(b)	Four-movement sequences of one body-part.

(c)	Four-movement sequences of two parts of thfe body, the movements first in the same direction and later in opposite directions.
359

(d)	Club-swinging.

1.	Arm circles with one and with both arms forward and backward, on the opposite side of the body.

2.	Arm and hand circles outward and inward, the hand circles low in front and rear of thighs, later in front and rear of arms raised upward.

3.	Arm and hand circles forward with one and with both arms, the arm circle at the opposite, side of the body, the hand circle at the shoulder.

4.	Groups of easy exercises, to be swung to music.

NOTE.—Where appropriate, combine the club exercises witb

trunk bending, lunging, knee-bending, etc.

III.	Rhythmic Steps.

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Marching in common time and in fast time.

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a movement on the first of four (two) steps.

B.	Dancing Steps.

(1)	Review the steps of the preceding grade in the four principal rhythms, i. e., (a) Polka rhythm, (b) Mazurka rhythm, (c) Schottische rhythm, (d) Waltz rhythm.

(2)	Alternate marching steps with dancing steps.

(3)	Combine two steps of like rhythm.

C.	Appropriate Character and Folk Dances.

D.	Aesthetic Dancing.

Review the arm, foot, and leg positions of the preceding grade.

Exercises of the arms, legs, and trunk in two and four-count combinations.

Leap (jete), balance-hop (arabesque). Leap rocking-step (pas de basque) sideward, Pirouette.

IV.	Games. Track And Field Work. Miscellaneous

Activities.

A.	Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the preceding grades.

B.	Tra,ck and Field Events.

(a)	Review previous events: work for correct form.

(b)	Endurance runs for 3 minutes. Review races, short and

medium distance—50,75 and 100 yards.

(c)	Low hurdles for form.

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1.	Read the remarks under this heading in the first year's work. Make it your business to find out something definite about every girl's outdoor life. Where necessary, speak to the girls who need to form the habit of sane outdoor recreative activity.

V.	Apparatus Work.

Review the apparatus work of the first grade.

Side Horse.

Support:—Free support; also free support with leg exercises, e. g., raising heels; knees, cross and side straddle.

Digitized by Google
360

Mounts and Dismounts:—Rear-vault mount and dismount. Front- and rear-vault mounts and dismounts with quarter turns. Knee-jump (courage-jump) forward.

Change seats:—By means of leg-swings. Scissors backward. Vaults:—Squat-, flank-, and rear-vault with quarter turns. Swinging Rings.

Jump-high:—Leg and trunk exercises. Raise knees chest high. Short swing to half turn-over with bent knees. Pendulum \ swing, raise knees at the end of back swing, lower at fore-swung.

Head-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercises. Jump to bent-arm-hang; then short swung and raise knees to a half turnover; then pendulum swung, raising knees at the end of back-swung.

Run forward, swung, and execute a half turn left. Repeat right.

Chest-high:—Arm, leg and trunk exercise. Hang-stand frontways, release one hand (with a quarter tym) and regain hold. Change from frontways to rearways by jumping. Change from frontways to rearways by bending and straightening arms.

Poles and Ropes.

See work and notes for preceding grade.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Jump-high:—Cross-hang and side-hang. Arm, trunk and leg exercises. Side-hang, travel sideward with swinging sideward; also travel forward; also travel with quarter- and half-turns; with turns.

Waist and Knee-high:—Arm, trunk and leg exercises in the lying-support frontways. Cross-seat with trunk and arm exercises.

Trunk exercises in sitting on the ladder.

Vertical Ladder.

On Ladder and Floor:—Stand front-, rear-, and sideways.

Arm, trunk, and leg exercises.

On Ladder:—Hang-stand rearways. Arm, trunk, and leg exercises. Hang rearways with leg exercises. Walking up and dowui the ladder front- and rearways.

Oblique Ladder.

See work of preceding grade.

Balance Beam.

Low Beam:—Walking, steps, hopping, and turning. Walking sideward. Walking forward with half turns. Gallop forward. Change-step. .

Chest-high:—Easy vaults. Flank vault. Front vault with turns.

Giant Stride.

Running and flying, run with leg exercises, tiptoe flying with long strides (giant strides).

Traveling Rings.

See work of preceding grade.

Digitized by Google
Digitized by

OAKLAND SCHOOL DEPARTMENT. - DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Massdrill Exercises, arranged by G. H. Pfund, Physical Director MARCHING THROUGH GEORGIA.

Representing the Waving of the Living Flag.

All pupils in the “Red Lanes” and the corresponding lanes of the blue field:—	Right Face!

All Pupils in the “White Lanes” and the corresponding lanes of the blue field:— Left--Face!

Meas.	count	words	Description of movements.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8	8 8 * 8 8	Bring  Sing  Sing  While	At the command: Forward — March!  All march forward (left foot) in the direction now facing: 7 steps, at 8 right about face.  yy yy tt yy tt yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
Chorus 9 10 11 12	8  8	-rah  -rah	yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
13 14 15 16	8  8	So  While	At the 9th measure: Swing flag of right hand upward twice, at-rah-rah.  1 2  At the 10th measure: Three times: Bring ju-lee.  12 3
			Same marching as in the beginning. (No hand movements.)

The movements of this drill are well adapted to the “Battle Cry of Freedom.” May be used for alternation of music.
AMERICA.

Flagdrill for public demonstration. Pupils dressed in colors so as to represent the flag.

The bands will play a’strain of music indicating “America” befor6 starting.	_______________

Meas.	counts	words	
1	i	My	Place left foot backward, raise arms sideways, slowly.
2	2,3 4, 5,6	country tis of thee	Slowly kneel on left knee (next to right heel), arms sideways.  Slowly bend body forward, cross arms in front of chest. Head down.
3	1, 2,3	Sweet land	Slowly stretch body and bend backward, move arms sideways horizontally. Chest
4	4, 5,6	of liberty	well out. Head back.
5	L 2,3	of thee I	Slowly move arms forward and obliquely upward. Palms up. Head up.  ji. . 			• .	i:	 			• •			i	i
6	4, 5.6	sing	

During all these movements the “Stars” in the blue field, remain standing, slowly raising arms overhead, arms rounded, finger tips touching. Select tallest girls to represent the stars.__________

7	L 2,3	Land where	I Quickly rise and place left foot sideways, weight on it. Keep left arm in same
		my	position but lower the right.
8	4, 5,6	fathers died	Slowly turn body to left and rear; left arm following this movement far to the rear. Chest well out.
9	1,2,3	Land of the pilgrims	Move right arm inward (front of body) until both hands come close together, (obliquely upward.) Then slowly lower left arm and move the right in the same
10	4, 5,6	pride	manner horizontally to the right and far to the rear, turning the body and placing the weight on the right foot. Chest well out!
11	1, 2,3	From every mountain	Move left arm inward (in front of body) until both hands comexlose together, (obliquely upward). Then slowly lower right arm and march around in place, one
12	4, 5,6	side	complete turn in 5 steps, beginning with left foot. (Keep left arm obliquely up). Finish with weight on left foot and left arm sideways obliquely upward.
13	1, 2,3	Let free- I dom	Move right arm inward (in front of body) lower left arm until both hands come together obliquely down. Then vigorous movement of right arm obliquely upward
14	4, 5, 6	ring ;	and to the right. Both arms in a straight line. Weight on right foot. Chest well out! Head well up! Keep stilljin this position.

The bands will play a strain of music before repeating. Pupils will lower their arms and assume position when the leader does.

It may add to the attractiveness of this drill if the hand flags are placed in front of the feet (on the floor if indoors, or stuck in the ground if outdoors) during the first verses. During the last verse, pick up these flags at :“Sweet Land of Liberty.” Children should sing. The audience as well, if conditions permit.



O

CJ

>,

-Q

-o

N

'O)

b
Digitized by
Massdrill Exercises, arranged by G. H. Pfund, Phys. Director, Jan. 1915. BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC.

Meas.	count	words	Description of Movements Notes by the teacher
i	4	eyes	Raise arms to left, horizontally, turn head to left. At 4 lower arms, turn head forward.
2	4	com-	Raise arms outward overhead, face upward.
3	4	tramp-	Circle arms to left (3-4 cir., to horizontal pos.), turn head to right, same dir. as arms.
4	4	grapes	Move both arms slowly overhead (1-4 of a circle).
5	4	loosed	Bend knees and lower arms outward (to horizontal position.)
6	4	ter—	Stretch knees and lower arms (to sides)
n	4	truth	3 steps forward. At count 4 feet together. Always begin with left foot.
* 8	4	on	3 steps backward. At count 4 feet together. Always begin with left foot.
eo 9	1,2	glory	Raise arms outward (horizontal position).
	3	glory	Place hands on shoulders.
	4	Halle-	Stretch arms outward.
10	5	-lu—	Place hands on shoulders.
	6,7,8		Pause (keeping hands on shoulders).
11 & 12		Glory	Repeat same movements, but stretching arms upward.
13 & 14		Glory	Repeat same movements, but stretching arms outward again. At 7 lower arms to sides.
15	4	truth	3 steps forward. At count 4 feet together.
16	4	on	3 steps backward. At count 3 face to left and at 4 feet together.

U

.O

■a

o)

b

Repeat 4 more times, and face to the left at the end of each verse.

By this means everybody in the audience will have an opportunity to see the movements the children facing toward them.

The marching in four directions, represents a cross.
o>

365

O'

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYQIBNB

■	""	"	-......  ■■■........."—O’

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

Cleveland High School, Newark, N. J.

MORE OR LESS RANDOM NOTES ON EXERCISE.

By GEORGE VAN NESS DEAREORN, Ph. D., M. D., of Cambridge, Mass., Sargent Normal School, Cambridge.

One of the things of considerable importance forgotten by mankind during that colossal halt of civilization we still call the Middle Ages, was a just appreciation of bodily vigor and fullness of bodily powers. Aristotle and his master taught its philosophy and all the Greeks practised its benefits, but only now, twenty centuries and more later, is mankind beginning to think regretfully of their heritage which might have been. The ignorance of the Dark Age shows itself in no place deeper than in its contention that the soul could be independent of the body, and the one exalted while the other suffered neglect and harm. We have outlived such doctrine and to-day whether or not we think of the body as the mere servant of the mind, we begin to realize that health and strength and accomplishment and real life are interdependent conditions based all on a two-phased vigor of body and mind. To develop adequately the mind there is a very elaborate and costly system of institutions, but only relatively few of the mass of men feel to any useful depth the necessity of physical education also. But it will come!

Physical education does not mean muscular exercise wholly,— as it will be the aim of the following few pages to point out. Were the body made up of independent tissues and organs, physical exercise would stand for relatively small benefit to the psychophysical organism, but, as we have so often insisted, the organism's unification, on the other hand, is almost complete, one part being in truth only a part, one tissue but one sort of protoplasm, evolved for the common good.

We may systematically divide the influences exerted by ideal physical exercise in a broad sense under at least six heads. Benefit is derived because of an increased development of the blood-lymph circulation; of respiration; of digestion; of nervous control; of the musculature; and lastly through the variety afforded both mind and' body. A discussion of these briefly is not only hygiene, but, as will appear, thorough-going physiology. It is not intended that the physical exercise meant in this discussion shall be that cut-and-dried, indoor sort that is mechanically performed with dumb-bells, Indian-clubs, wands, and pulley-weight machines, but rather the all-round activity of the person who loves the open air and nature in all its moods and phases as well as the games of men played outdoors or in. In technical terms, physical exercise is meant and not mere calisthenics, the field of the latter being physiologically but small.

Digitized by

Google
366

The Circulation, including the lymph-flow, is benefited by physical activity by reason of it function as carrier and distributor of the body's metabolic supply and waste. The heart has to work harder to supply more material and to remove more waste from the muscles concerned and from the other body-parts secondarily stimulated. If the exercise is general, as it should be, no small fraction of the body-mass will be directly concerned in this feeding and cleansing, the muscles being half the body. This increased activity of the heart strengthens it in every way,—makes its nutrition better, its mass greater, its coordination more exact, its nerve-control more perfect. The muscle-tissue of the arteries is also stimulated so that they are more elastic, more prompt to perform their function. In many persons, if not in all, after fifty there is a tendency to deposit calcareous matter in the arteries producing the notorious arterial sclerosis, the prime _ use of apoplexy and of the consequent paralysis. To prevent this condition alone, if for no other reason, the development of the habit of abundant physical exercise is vitally important, thus, perhaps, prolonging life.

Vasomotion is a function of far-reaching importance in the organism, having much to do with the control of the various parts' activities. By invigorating the musculature of the arteries this function is made better and more vigorous. Sleep, for example, is a condition partly of cerebral or at least of cortical anemia, and in normal conditions when the cortex is congested sleep is impossible. Widespread muscular activity tends to stimulate and strengthen the vasomotor function, and in particular to supply more blood to the fatigued muscles, thus making the brain physiologically anemic, which predisposes to healthful sleep.

Hough has pointed out that no small part of the benefits of physical exercise come from the more active flow of lymph which it occasions. Reference to the causes of the lymph-flow will quickly show how this is true. In short, howe/er, we may say that the increased metabolism in the tissues causes a more rapid and thorough feeding and cleansing of the cells of the body, especially of the muscles which are everywhere. The amount of ‘lymph' produced, that is passed into the subclavian veins, may be taken as a rough index of the activity of the general metabolism; and ‘general metabolism' best stands for life itself.

The respiratory Junction profits in the same way from abundant physical exercise as does the circulation. We have recently seen that muscular katabolism makes proportional demand for oxygen and produces a proportional amount of carbon dioxide (as well as some other excreta more indirectly). The relation between exercise and breathing is often surprisingly delicate even in normal and trained persons,—walking fast a hundred yards or going upstairs rapidly makes us ‘breathe hard'—not only more rapidly but far more deeply. As we have seen, the breath-rate is higher while we are sitting than while reclining and higher yet while standing, and only because the organism's muscles are more active while supporting the body in a sitting or standing posture than while it is lying flat.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
367

This ncreased activity develops both the mechanism and the habit of abundant breathing of good air. It develops the diaphragm, the intercostal muscles and the other muscles of respiration. More easily to accommodate the increased function the whole thorax grows larger, the lungs partaking in the enlargement and becoming doubtless more elastic, better supplied with blood, more vigorous in every way. The vital capacity increases fifty or a hundred per cent, or more, and (more important than one might suppose) alone for fresh, i. e., outdoors, air is developed which makes inadequate ventilation, winter or summer, almost painful, and outdoor life in almost any weather a delight. It need not be pointed out how much such a condition, physical and mental, means in saving life formerly taken freely by ‘the great white plague', the scourge of humanity, phthisis. Aside from this the development of the lung-area assures an abundant supply of oxygen to the body and so makes more bright and active the vital metabolism.

Digestion is furthered by generous physical activity in almost obvious ways. Just as an increased metabolism demands more oxygen, so too, it demands more of other kinds of food to maintain it. Typical of this is one’s appetite after an active day in the woods or about the beaches, mineralizing perhaps, climbing about on the cliffs of our Northern coasts. This is the normal appetite, the proper zest for food which a normal amount of outdoor exercise would regularly bring while we are well. The continual movement of the trunk stimulates the molar movements of the alimentary canal if not its secretory movements. Continued and made habitual, the musculature of the stomach and gut develops with the skeletal muscles, and becomes permanently a more powerful digestive mechanism than before, use developing this apparatus like all the rest. It is the persons of sedentary habits and occupations who suffer from the manifold forms of indigestion and dyspepsia, and distinctly not those who largely use their muscles especially if the activity be of the whole body such as one experiences out of doors. A strong digestion being the securest basis of a long life, this effect alone of much muscular activity is worth its cost in effort and attention.

The influence for good of abundant muscular activity over nervous control has been already briefly discussed above in part. Exercise which results in the development of the whole body-musculature (as always it should do) brings about not only that control which develops skill and cleverness (shown by gracefulness), but develops also a mental control. These two are indeed often inseparable, the physical and the psychical being to some extent aspects of one organism. Thus the modem theory of the feelings and of the emotions in particular demonstrate how inseparable are feelings as parts of consciousness from the bodily movements formerly said to ‘express’ them. These bodily movements then are part of psychophysical events we call feelings. If they be under perfect voluntary control in all their details so too all the better are the feelings proper which accompany them, and all the more com-

Digitized by LjOOQie
368

pletely is the individual master of himself and relatively speaking master also of his feelings. These two aspects cannot be separated save artificially, for analysis and description. The individual who is most completely and in most detail controller of his body’s muscles is, other things equal, also most completely in possession of his mental faculties, sanest, cleverest, most competent, most alive. The reason for this lies partly, doubtless, in the unification of the muscular and neural systems in every portion of the body. It lies in part also in an important basal principle of bodily action not yet clear in all its details, but intimately concerned not only with the theory of muscular exercise but with the entire doctrine of neuromuscular control. We know too little as yet about the nervous system’s mode of action to state this matter very clearly, but it is obvious that inhibition reciprocal with actuation plays an imporant part in the control of our muscles, at least, our skeletal muscles. In less technical terms, when one group of muscles is innervated (i. e., put in action whether potentially or kinetically), its functional antagonist is inhibited. Thus there is a sort of automatic balance in the activity of the muscles not too different in some respects from the principle by which the steam is automatically let into the two ends alternately of the cylinder of an engine. When the steam enters at one end it is shut out from the other end, the piston working back and forth to correspond, and so doing its work. In the body, of course, there is no such rhythmical alternation.

Explanation of this matter is further complicated by researches into the relative activity of muscles at different contractile lengths. It will be recalled that a muscle may be metafcolically active, respiring and furnishing much heat, when it shows externally no signs of shortening at all. Thus Ranvier described these four muscular states, extended and at rest, extended and in action, shortened and at rest, and shortened and contracting. Richer describes the states, somewhat differently, as first, relaxation; second, distention, either passive or active; and, third, contraction either with shortening or with lengthening. This lengthening appears to be more easily observed in smooth muscle than in the cross-striated sort,—for example, smart stimulation of a string of rings out of the frog’s stomach not infrequently causes what is apparently an active relaxation or stretching of the muscle. It is certain then that at the present time inhibition has not been discriminated sharply enough from these various conditions of relaxation and active distention, and until it is better understood, little can be done toward unraveling the intricacies of the nerves in their coordination of the muscles, especially as concerns the reciprocating movements of flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, pronation and supination, etc. How complex the problem really is if exact details for separate nerves are demanded (this may be wrong!) may be seen by reference to what was said in describing the distribution of the anterior spinal roots—every muscle, in short, is represented by many roots and segments of the cord, and every root represents many muscles, perhaps many muscle-groups. If one is to think of the nervous system as made up of separate paths like electric

Digitized by v^ooQie
369

wires, all these facts are inexplainable, but they seem somewhat simpler when all the muscles and all the nerves are viewed as one intricate tissue made up of fibrils.

However devious the theory of muscular control in its details, one corollary of it is important for physical education. This principle is that emphasized by Dudley Sargent as well as by less scientific trainers of men—namely, the importance in physical exercise of voluntary movement, this inevitably leading to a development of the reciprocal antagonism between flexors and extensors, abductors and adductors, and the rest. In attentive, voluntary movements the mind takes part, the whole nervous system more or less is actuated, the whole neighboring musculature is innervated, and in these ways the value and benefits of exercising are multiplied over what would accrue in a mere automatic local shuffling of the contraction waves here and there mechanically over the body.

Muscular development itself follows from much muscular exercise on the universal biologic principle that use develops protoplasm. However well a person eat meanwhile, if he stay in bed a month, when he gets about again he finds himself ‘weak', and 'shaky/ that is, his muscles have lost their tone and hardness and part of their weight,—they have 'degenerated'. The blood flowing through them might well enough have been of vigorous composition, but because the muscular metabolism was low the muscles degenerated. There was no wear-and-tear, no active demand on either part for food-supply or for waste-removal, and so they began life on a lower plane of vigor and efficiency. On the other hand continual use develops muscles to a great degree. An expert finds it not difficult to tell a stranger much about himself from what appears to be' a casual look or two at his 'palm' or his face, but which really resolves itself into a skilful scrutiny of the body's development so far as may be. The muscles bear in their shapes and habits of movements the record not only of occupation, but of mental habits and modes of thought and feeling. The long and weak and flabby hands and fingers of the descendant of generations who have not labored with their hands are not unreasonably evidences of the fact. It requires two or three generations on the average to waste the hereditary, muscular strength of the sound country lad after he goes to seek his ‘fortune' in the town. But then dyspepsia appears, the kidneys degenerate, the circulatory mechanism weakens, and we soon find the generation of individuals living fifty years instead of eighty, having one or two children ins-stead of ten, and finally in a few generations failing and dying out. A generous habit of general outdoor muscular exercise year after year through life would make this story a very different one, that more surely than anything else could.

Just how muscular growth in size and vigor occurs is not in all its details known as yet, but something of the matter has been made out. The degeneration of muscle when not used is the usual one of gradual shrinkage, and absorption, perhaps preceded or accompanied by a metamorphosis partly into fat.

The invigoration of a muscular part of the body by its exercise,

Digitized by	Le
370

consists in an actual increase in the fibre-cells and in their number and tone; in a corresponding development of the sensory and motor nerve-mechanism related to them, in the brain most likely as well as in and near the muscles; and in a development of the vascular organs supplying these muscles. Secondarily, as we have seen, many other parts have to develop to serve these primarily developed tissues. The circulatoiy, respiratory, digestive and nervous system all are stimulated to a more active life by .the new growth and vigor of the muscle tissue throughout the body.

Variety and change are afforded both mind and body when the proper range of physical exercise is part of the daily program, and that not only for the body as a whole but practically for all its parts. Movements and change are essential elements of life molecularly and in every other way. In the mental sphere complete sameness means unconsciousness; in the bodily sphere it amounts to a defect. There is an ennui of the bodily organs and tissues and cells as well as of the mind. The tissues need change, need stimulating occasionally, work better when supplied with a certain variety of occupation, thus keeping them from too great specialization. The irritability of protoplasm is in a measure dependent on stimuli coming to it from without. No means are at hand for affording to the whole organism this necessary variety and stimulation except muscular exercise of a proper intensity and as universal in bodily range as possible. In this direction lies one of the theoretic values of athletic games as opposed to mere routine calisthenics, exercises, or 'systems' however many muscles they may involve. Games by their essential competitive nature incite to hard exercise and offer endless variety within each game, while calisthenics, etc., by their lack of this incitement tend by repetition to become mechanical and finally bore one by their sameness. As one often sees (football, rowing, basket-ball), some games tend to excessive exercise, but much more often the activity is too little or else too violent and too short. More benefit would be expected from a half-mile of brisk walking than from two miles of walking slowly, for the latter might not at all stimulate the circulation or the respiration or set the thermolytic apparatus of the body in action with its manifold activities of the skin, etc. etc. The muscles concerned immediately in the bodily movements would reap a benefit, but as we have seen this is only a minor part of the benefits of physical exercise.

Another aspect of the change-benefit, so to say, is the general one that attention to games or to outdoor natural activities takes one's mind away from its routine and makes life worth while. The restfulness of most vacations lies mainly in the change it affotds. The advantage of changes into periods abounding in physical exercise is that in this case oftentimes both body and mind partake in the change, whereas else only the mind does so, the body suffering its routine ennui.

From such considerations the physiology of physical exercise becomes apparent,—it brightens up the metabolic fires of the whole organism as nothing else whatever can. Something like the fore-

Digitized by v^ooQle
371

going are some of the general principles underlying a person’s best mode of exercise:—it must be of such a nature as most to benefit these parts of the bodily and mental life. Hard it is sometimes to remember that sawing wood and haying and shoveling snow and tending the furnace and washing and sweeping and dusting even are quite as good forms of exercise physiologically and much more useful than the artificial modes of exercise the leisure clasps employ. The only requirements are that a large number of muscles in every part of the body shall be actively employed in the right degree,—the more muscles the better, and the more nearly the degree is right for each individual at the particular time the better also.	1

How then can we best adjust the sort of exercise and its intensity and duration to the periods of life and to sex and to the common conditions of health and disease? Adaption is so essential in these respects that we may well consider some of them in order.

In childhood, say up to the twelfth year, physical exercise needs only guidance and normally no incentive at all. The incentive is furnished instinctively by the irritability of the nervous system making it unnatural and in practice impossible for a normal child to keep his body still more than a very few minutes at a time save during sleep. The reason for this has been brought out in considering the neuromuscular mechanism and its kinesthetic nervous apparatus:—only by this incessant trying and practising of every possible movement of the muscles can the complex mechanism of nerve and muscle be normally developed into activity. A striking example of this principle was seen early in the last century when in the streets of Nuremberg suddenly appeared a youth of about seventeen who for at least fourteen years had been kept in a sitting posture strapped to a post in a perfectly dark and very low dungeon, being removed only at intervals of a week or two, drugged with opium to be washed, etc. This famous victim of man’s inhumanity, Casper Hauser by name, was doubtless normal when confined, but when abandoned in the city’s streets fourteen or fifteen years later had no coordinated control over his muscles, and though of normal size and physical development, could scarcely walk or feed himself or talk, or do any other act which requires the experienced action of the neuro-muscular apparatus. He had the muscles, the chief nerves, the end-organs doubtless, but reflex activity in childhood had had no chance to develop these tdols into a working and useful mechanism. The incessant movements of the child have then this indispensable function of automatically developing the means by which voluntary control of the body is acquired. If this tendency is absent, it must be encouraged but never repressed, save for some special reason or when it has gone beyond normal limits into nervous restlessness or chorea.

In childhood, partly because the bones are so plastic, care must be taken that strains do not occur. There is little danger of a general excess of activity, this matter regulating itself by the early fatigue which stops the movements before harm could come. Local strains, however, are not uncommon, and these must be carefully

Digitized by v^ooQle
372

avoided lest some vital organ be permanently injured, especially the heart. It is the physician’s business, too, to see that a child develops symmetrically, by being sure that games are played which will give every skeletal muscle, if no others, its share of exercise. Frequent rest and still more frequent change are essential in the bodily activities of children. Plenty of pure, simple food and country air will do the rest in raising a vigorous race.

In old age the conditions are abviously very different. Nbw exercise is become irksome oftentimes and the occupations, such as harbor the failing strength, more natural. But at this time, above all, muscular activity is important, so as to stimulate the respiration and the blood-vessels and to help especially the alimentary canal to perform its daily indispensable part in the maintenance of life. The invasion of lime into the supporting and contractile organs, the bones, and muscles furnishes the key to the direction of bodily exercise late in life. The bones are becoming more and more brittle and the ^contractile parts of the muscles shorter as the tendons invade them. The arteries are bee )ming hard and less elastic, and this is especially important in the brain. The nervous system reacts less promptly and the senses often are less acute. Thus an old man’s or old woman’s exercise should be of the gentle sort wholly lacking in quick, forceful movements. It should be continued only to the very commencement of fatigue or even not so long; and more monotony may enter into it, as into the rest of the average aged person’s life. Walking and gentle bicycle-riding are ideal forms of exercise at this period, the danger in these being that they will be too small in amount rather than too great, and too slow rather than too fast. The important thing is to have the man or woman of forty-five or fifty acquire the exercise-habit so that it will be in practice when most needed, ten or fifteen years later.

Sexual differences are much less marked than those which age requires. The chief principles here underlying are the comparative weakness of the female and her partial disability for a few days every month and during pregnancy.

During childhood the physiology of the girl is practically that of the boy—they differ more mentally and anatomically than physiologically. No valid reason is to be found, therefore, why girls up to eleven or twelve should not play the same games that boys of like age play and in the same way, and with the same intensity if they be so inclined. The more general and vigorous a girl's muscular exercise up to twelve, then the better especially if out of doors. Only by this means can a foundation of muscular vigor be laid which will last in an average degree through the usually more sedentary life of womanhood.

At the time of puberty and during menstruation afterwards a very different view of bodily exercise should be taken. It is then that the relative muscular weakness of woman shows itself, a weakness which is natural and normal and which demands adaptation at all times. This adaptation would seem to be satisfied in merely reducing the vigor and duration of physical exertion.

Digitized by LjOOQle
373

In a thoroughly healthy woman, except just before and during menstruation, the ordinary modes of exercise appear to do no harm to the reproductive organs, but rather to strengthen them. During menstruation when the ovaries, uterus and breasts are congested, physical exercise if at all violent is apt in obvious ways to do harm by putting upon them and the pelvic and abdominal organs generally more violent movements than they and their fastenings will safely bear. Thus the congestions, instead of being lessened, are increased abnormally, often with perhaps permanent injury and derangement of the sexual and reproductive life.

During pregnancy, at least after its third month, when the ovum begins to gather mass, bodily exercise should be, like that of an old person, gentle but general and practised regularly. Digestion is thus kept at its maximum perfection, and vigor and an appetite for plenty of plain but strong food cherished. The gentle movements of the abdomen produced by mild exercise can hardly fail to stimulate the child growing in the womb and thus to call out reactions which lead to the early and normal growth of the motor mechanism. During lactation still more muscular activity cannot fail, normally, to benefit all concerned.

After the menopause the woman, so far as physical exercise is concerned, returns to the parity with the male, which existed in childhood. Quite as much as man, the woman of fifty needs an abundance of the right sort of exercise for the well-nigh omnipresent muscles of her body.

The diseased conditions, which require special adaption of physical exercise, we need not stop to discuss in this relation. It is obvious that the various medical and surgical specialists do very much nowadays in the way of training their patients to overcome defects by the use of their muscles. These means range from the application of prismatic lenses to the eyes, to exercise the appropriate eye-muscles into normal action, to the carefully regulated hill-climbing which often benefits heart disease.

Digitized by LjOOQle
374

FURTHER STUDIES IN THE LONGEVITY OF YALE

ATHLETES-

WM. G. ANDER30N, M. D., Dr. P. H., Dir. and Prof. Yale Gymnasium

To one who has followed at all closely the proceedings of the "Athletic Doctors” now making splendid efforts to purify collegiate sports it must be apparent that "fair-play,” "strict amateurism,” and "clean sport” have had the most important places on the programs, and have held the attention of those who have close at heart the bettering of athletic conditions in our higher seats of learning. It must also be obvious that the health of the men, the competitors themselves has not received the serious consideration it demands.

No doubt that in the near future the physical welfare of the athletes will be more thoughtfully discussed.

The opinion prevails and recent articles in the medical and lay magazines have intensified the belief that athletes are now being pushed beyond the threshold of safety, that "winning points” is of more importance than sport for sport's sake.

An impressive method to adopt in throwing some light on the mooted question is to ascertain, if possible, whether the death rate among athletes is increasing to an alarming extent or is as serious as we are lead to believe.

Very important data has been collected for Yale University by a trained and careful statistician, Mr. George Eldred of Schenectady, N. Y., who for several years devoted all his time to a study of such subjects.

He secured from Dr. Anson Phelps Stokes, the Secretary of the University, and from the files of the college publications, obituary reports which enabled us to deduct information which if not convincing is at least suggestive.

A condensed table showing the number of deaths (58) among the Yale athletes who won the "Y” or its equivalent (808) with a distribution of these deaths among the football men, crew, etc. The period covered is fifty years, from 1855 to 1905, with the expected deaths and the ratio of actual to expected deaths based upon the tables prepared by insurance companies.

Qt

W

w at

fa * c8 Q

1855

1872

1868

1865

			jl	<2 2.2	>>  X*  qJ  |:s	i rrt i  3 ®*S  -u (D  °
			6		ciS c_i a> “	» % rS
	C  0)  a	GO  ciS  0>	xpected D Actuarial Select Tab	atio per ce tual to Deaths -bj ial Society Table.	Q a  CIS  $ g S 6	atio per ce tual to Deaths b; can Table
		Q	W	PS	w	PS
Crew				171	18	40.2	45	44.0	41
Football			213	16	27.7	58	30.9	52
Track				276	13	21.1	62	24.8	52
Baseball			148	11	23.6	47	26.2	42
Total			808	58	112.6	52	125..9	46

Digitized by

Google
375

Yale Athletes.

Cause of Death of 58 Men.

Consumption .............................. 12

Pneumonia..................................   6

Typhoid ...................................   5

Typhoid Pneumonia .........................   2

Drowned....................................    4

Heart Failure..............................    4

Unknown ....................................  5

Among the remaining twenty we find one death each from the long list of such causes.

Deaths from heart disease in the Yale list of 58 men were four at the ages of 35, 57, 68 and 70. The average is very low. Pneumonia carried off 6, typhoid 5 and typhoid pneumonia 2. Those who wish to push their argument that high athletics are bad for the lungs and heart might find some ground for that argument in the fact that 24 of the 58 deaths were caused by lung trouble of various kinds, and heart failure. The table of deaths further shows that 9 of the 58 athletes met violent deaths, of which 2 were suicides.

After an examination of all material collected I present among other conclusions:

The Yale athlete does not die young, nor is heart disease a leading cause of death.

Lung trouble is the cause of the greatest number of deaths, but the percentage of men dying from these causes is not greater than the expected deaths among non-athletes from similar causes.

A comparison of the causes of death among the athletes and those insured in the Mutual below 45 years does not develop any irregularities in the distribution of deaths.

The proportion of deaths among the athletes from tuberculosis was 22 per cent; among the Mutual’s insured below 45 years was 45 per cent.

Neither the paper of Gaines and Hunter nor my own show that the athletes were long lived because they were athletes, but because, perhaps, they were selected men from applicants who were above the average; their longevity may have been due to training or it may not. To get a better test we should secure records of men of equal physical ability who did not take part in athletics, but this is impossible.

Had these selected men been injured while in athletics we might have proved something against it, but it does not follow that competitive sports were the cause of longevity; they may have actually harmed the men.

My conclusions showed that the athlete is not short lived, but do not state that he owed his longevity to athletics.

The report of 1912 showed the greatest number of deaths among the crew men, but we must bear in mind that their training began in 1885.

The men with the crews work harder and longer than other

Digitized by LjOOQle
376

athletics. They begin their activities at the opening of the college year and with a short rest after the fall regatta keep them up until the middle of the following June.

It is my intention to make a brief study of the longevity of crew men only, reserving the examination of the rest of the data for a later period.

Since publishing the report in 1912, Mr. Eldred has been able to secure more complete returns for the first fifty years; so we find that instead of 171 men there should be 241, and the death rate changes from 18 to 27. Since 1904, 97 crew men have won their “Y’s” and the number of deaths is 31. In other wQrds, during the first’fifty years of the sport at Yale there were .54 deaths per year out of 241 men, and in the decade from 1904 to 1915 there were 3.1 deaths per year; or to put this differently, in the half century preceding 1904 there was one death every two years, in the decade following there were three deaths each year. Before deducing any alarming conclusions, let us further examine the figures, causes of death, and as nearly as possible reach a judicial opinion.

From 1852 to 1915, 338 crew men won their “Y’s”, of which number 277 took part in rowing only, 52 won the letter in two sports, 8 in three events, and among all the Yale men only one has ever been awarded the insignia in four major sports. The year of death, age, and cause of death among the 52 men is here given.

Died.	Age.	Cause of death.

1911	31	Diabetes

1906	50	Pneumonia

1909	26	Operation

1885	33	Suicide

1893	29	Typhoid

Among the 8 who won their “Y’s” in three sports we find 2 deaths:

Died.	Age.	Cause of death.

1911	56	Paralysis

1878	23	Drowned

The man who won the letter in four sports is living and in apparently good health.

For the sake of easier comparison we will eliminate these 61 men, and study the longevity reports of the 58 deaths among the remaining 277 oarsmen.

There were 15 cases of death by heart disease; 4 each of tuberculosis, pneumonia, and drowning; 3 each of typhoid, killed, accidents, and kidney disease; 2 each of paralysis, old age, pulmonary troubles; and 1 each of paresis, arteriosclerosis, apoplexy, suicide, liver trouble, operation, brain abscess and blood clot. In 5 cases the cause of death was unknown. The average age at death was 52.3 years. Among these 58 men were 6 coxswains who never rowed, eleven met death by violence, and 5 died from unknown causes. Heart disease claimed the greatest number, the deaths occurring at the ages of 47, 48, 54, 58, 60, 61, 61,64, 67, 67, 68, 69, 69, 74, 76. The average is 62.1 years.

Digitized by Google
377

A comparison of deaths during the first fifty, and the second ten years follows:

FIRST FIFTY YEARS. Under 20 years

19	drowned 20 to 30 years

23 drowned

23	killed

24	tuberculosis

25	killed 28 typhoid

30 to 40 years

33	suicide

34	killed

40 to 50 years 40 tuberculosis 45 not known

48	tuberculosis lung

49	pneumonia 50 to 60 years

52 liver trouble 52 accident 56 accident

56	tuberculosis

57	lung trouble 57 not known

60 to 70 years 60 pneumonia 60 heart trouble 62 paresis

66	pneumonia

67	heart trouble

68	heart trouble

69	heart trouble 70 to 80 years

70	not known 73 heart trouble

Number of men, 27. Average age, 48.7 years.

SECOND TEN YEARS. 20 to 30 years

23	drowned

24	typhoid 26 diabetes

29	operation 30 to 40 years

30	Bright's disease 34 tuberculosis

34 drowned 36 accident

36	not known

37	not known 40 to 50 years

47	heart failure comp.

48	brain abscess . 4 heart disease

50	to 60 years 50 pneumonia 54 heart disease 58 heart disease 60 to 70 years 61 heart disease 67 heart disease comp. 61 heart disease 64 heart disease 70 to 80 years 77 not known

72	arterio sclerosis

73	kidney trouble

74	heart disease 70 paralysis

73 kidney trouble 73 paralysis 73 Old age infirmities 76 heart disease

75	apoplexy 75 diabetes

80 or over

82 apoplexy Number of men, 31.

Average age, 54.4 years.

The reports from the Life Extension Institute of New York show "a gain in vitality in the younger groups, athletes not considered, but this gain has served to mask a loss in vitality at the older age periods." In the United States registration area the mortality from diseases of the heart, blood vessels, and kidneys increased

Digitized by CjOOQle
378

41 per cent during the period 1890-1910. The charts prepared by this company show a sharp upward trend in the mortality from organic diseases among males in gainful occupations. (How to Live, page 284 et seq., Fisher and Fisk.)

The impressions that come to me after examining this data are that there is not a greater death rate among athletes than among the non-athletes, that heart disease seems to be on the increase, but the deaths are among elderly men, and do not exceed the expected deaths among non-athletes at these ages.

The change from one death every two years during the first half century to over three annually during the second decade may be partly accounted for by old age infirmities.

We do not know that athletics caused these deaths, and the antagonist of athletics should take into consideration other possible causes of demise, such as over-eating and drinking, over-work, worry and haste. Again, the protagonist of . sports must withhold a final verdict until he has more facts before him regarding the value of competitive sports in making the body efficient as a working machine during the later years of life.

We request the opposing forces to gather actual records before they condemn, and inasmuch as we have material which is quite accurate, and so long as like information against games seems to be lacking, let us keep in mind the words “festina lente.” If I were asked to give an opinion, not based on statistics but on observation, as to the danger which is now present or threatened, I have no hesitation in saying that they are too strenuous, the athlete is pushed beyond the limits of safety, he is sacrificed to win games, and the influence of such over-activity has reached the boys in the preparatory schools where it continues to develop harm.

I can not close my article without a few words of praise for the special committees at Yale which have recently been so instrumental in having passed and put into operation rules demanding that every athlete shall be examined annually or as many times as the authorities deem it necessary; that any man found to be in the danger zone shall at once be removed from the team. Already several competitors have been dropped.

While we are far from ideal conditions, we at least know it, and are striving to arouse greater interest in the physical wellbeing of the mass of students, and to safeguard them, and we are making progress. Perhaps the reader will pardon me if I reiterate what was said when my longevity reports were given some years ago.

“I am particularly interested in anything that will be for the good of the Yale man. If athletics cause harm, then I hope to be found among the first to change them. If competitive sports coupled with the modern methods of training men cause heart disease, I want to know it, but I feel sure that the comparatively positive information that comes from an examination of these and similar statistics is of greater worth than the isolated and rather heated statements that often come from sources where exceptional conclusions are drawn from limited data.”

Digitized by AjOOQle
379

o———————— ~	—

ATHLETIC NOTES

'O

■o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

FAVOR NEW STOP WATCH.

Another agitation in favor of the adoption by American athletic timers of a stop watch divided into tenths of seconds, instead of fifths, has been started here, following reports that the former is in successful use throughout Europe. The swiss athletic authorities are the latest to put their stamp of approval on the tenth second watch, but only after careful study by a special commission appointed to test the various watches. All the times of races in which the American team now touring the Scandinavian countries that have been forwarded here indicate that the tenth second timepiece is in use there. The watch was in use throughout the Continent before the war.

It is contended that the tenth second watch will more definitely express the ability of an athlete than one which is divided into fifths. In sprint races especially the use of tenths of seconds would be received with approval by American followers of athletics, for it would then be possible to draw the line between sprinters credited with ten seconds, but who are frequently unable to get within a yard of these figures in spite of the watches, and men who really are capable of doing even time.

In England professional dockers use what is termed a dog watch, which is divided into sixteenths, and they never fail in gauging accurately the real ability of a sprinter through the medium of this timepiece.

ATHLETIC REFORMS AMONG COLLEGES.

Athletics in Pennsylvania colleges are likely to be overhauled as the result of action being taken by a committee of the Pennsylvania College President's Association. The committee outlined a clean-up, which includes the offering of financial inducements to high school athletes in return for their services on the college athletic teams. Rigid enforcement of the one year resident rule, sometimes called the college migratory rule, was recommended.

Helping the star athlete through college by giving him room and board was frowned upon as the equivalent of paying him money or professionalism. It was voted that steps should be taken at once to stop this practice.

Sidney Hatch, the veteran Marathoner, is truly the iron man of present day athletics. The other day, after seventeen years of weary plodding, Hatch ran from Milwaukee to Chicago, a distance fo 95.7 miles, in 14 hours, 50 minutes, and 30 seconds.

Digitized by v^ooQle
380

Long-distance running seems to have passed out of vogue in recent years. Fifteen or twenty years ago the full-chested boys used to romp hundreds of miles for pastime. Take George Littlewood, the Englishman, who was over in this country in the early ’80s. This man never tired. Here are a few of his records, both walking and running, which have never been beaten:

WALKING.

48 Hours—219 miles 812 yards, Sheffield, England, March 6, 1882.

72 Hours—308 miles 1,083 yards.

96 Hours—396 miles 271 yards.

120 Hours—470 miles 1,354 yards.

144 Hours—531 miles 135 yards, Sheffield, England, March 7 to 11,1882; actual walking time, 138 hours 48 minutes 30 seconds.

RUNNING.

600 Miles>—135 hours, New York City, week Nov. 26 to Dec. 1, 1888.

623 Miles—142 hours (six-day race, go-as-you-please.)

Here are a few other endurance records that will cause you tojmarvel at man:

5,100 Miles, Go-as-You-Please, 51 Miles Per Day for 100 Days, Track 44 Laps to Mile—George D. Noremac, Midlothian Hall, New York, Nov. 3, 1884, to Feb. 26, 1885.

4.000	Quarter Miles in 4,000 Periods of 10 Minutes (walking a quarter mile at the commencement of and within each consecutive 10 minutes)—Performed twice by William Gales, viz.: at the Canton Hotel grounds, Cardiff, June 28 to July 25, 1877, and at the Agricultural Hall, London, England, Oct. 21. to Nov. 17, 1877.

1.000	Miles in 1,000 Consecutive Hours, Walking 1 Mile Each Hour—Made by Charles F. Morse at Jackson, Mich., starting 1 P. M., Jan. 11, 1897, and ending at 4 A. M., Feb. 22, 1897. Track 39 laps to mile.

1.000	Miles in 1,000 Hours, Walking 1 Mile Beginning of Each Hour—Made by Dan O’Leary; started Sept. 3, 1907, at 4 P. M., ending Sunday, Oct. 20, at 7 A. M., at Nowood Inn Park, Cincinnati, Ohio. Track 9 laps to mile, outdoors, dry weather; track 25 laps to mile, indoors, wet weather.

1.000	Miles in 1,000 Hours, Running 1 Mile Each Hour— Made by Eugene Estoppey, starting Nov. 20, 1910, finished Jan. 1, 1911, on 12-lap track, Los Angeles, Cal,

Greatest Distance Walked Without a Rest—121 miles 385 yards, by C. A. Harriman, at Truckee, Cal., April 6 and 7, 1883.

CHINESE IN INTERCOLLEGIATES.

Chinese-Americans at Stanford and the University of Cali-tornia have formed teams made up entirely of Chinese students at the two universities, which will compete in soccer, tennis, and basketball. There are thirty eligibles at the University of California and ten at Leland Stanford, Jr., University.

Digitized by LjOOQle
/

381

O —I ■	II 11.1 I— — —111—	^	,Q

NOTES AND OOBONEINTS

Something about another charge in the size of type used in “Mind and Body”. In order to increase the amount of reading matter in a publication, a publisher either must increase the number of pages or decrease the size of type. Increasing the number of pages with the present paper prices is an impossibility for a technical magazine selling for $1.00 per year. Our experiment of decreasing the size of the type so as to present mere reading matter met. with so many protests from cur subscribers, who stated that they did all their reading at night, that we are forced to discontinue the use of the smaller sized type and again use the old size. We hope that a return to normal prices of paper will allow us to increase the number of our pages as often as the mass of material in our hands warrants such an increase.

The Wisconsin Physical Education Society held its annual meeting at the German English Academy, Milwaukee, on November 2nd. Attendance about 150. The meeting was opened with a paper “Physical Education for High School Girls” by Nellie Havens followed by a practical demonstration by High School girls under the leadership of Edith Dunham. Both the paper and the demonstration were comprehensive and highly educational. Edwin Hoppe read a paper “Physical Education for High School Boys” and Hans Goetz gave the practical demonstration. Both showed that the High School boy can become very proficient in this work; also that the boys take a lively interest in the proper execution of the work when properly presented.

“What is Wisconsin doing for Physical Education?” was handled by Clark Hetherington representing the University, and Leonora Thompson representing the State Normal School of Physical Education at La Crosse. Both papers depicted a progressive tendency which cannot but carry the work to higher standards in the schools and societies of the state.

The election of Officers was as follows:

President—Carl B. Sputh (La Crosse)

Vice-Pres.—Nellie Havens (Milwaukee)

Secy.-Treas.—G. H. Heinemann (La Crosse)

National Delegate—Geo. Ehler (Madison)

Executive Committee—Edith Dunham (Milwaukee), Bajemel Nespor (Manitowoc).

Enclosed also please find a copy of a resolution almost unanimously adopted by the Wisconsin Teachers Association.

Yours very truly,

G. Heineman

Secy.-Treas-

Digitized by CjOOQle
382

To the Wisconsin Teachers’ Assn.,

Ladies and Gentlemen:

In view of the prevailing sentiment among educators of the United States in favor of substituting so-called military training in place of rational physical education, we consider it our sacred duty to present to you, as educators of the young, the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the peace, happiness and prosperity of a nation depends largely upon the physical condition of her citizens, and,

WHEREAS, the introduction of military training for physical training in other countries as well as in the United States, and the views of , eminent physiologists have proven that the physiological effects of military training are one-sided, and,

WHEREAS, the militaristic frame of mind propagated by this form of training does not tend to foster the wholesome ideals of civilization, be it

RESOLVED, that the Physical Education section of the Wisconsin Teachers’ Ass’n. petition all educators to endorse, rational physical education, which will develop in our American youth, general health, functional vigor, coordination, self-reliance, courage, and will prepare the body physically to withstand the hardships ol adult life.

Respectfully submitted,

Geo. Wittich Emma Bjornstad G. H. Heineman

(Committee).

Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. The school year has had a most auspicious opening. The Seniors came back sixty strong to meet a large Junior class. The students come from all parts of the country — from Texas and Montana, from Connecticut and New Jersey, from Minnesota and Massachusetts, representing forty-seven 'cities.

The College participated in the Indiana Centennial celebration during the first week of October. On the Athletic day a number of the men did good work in the contests, and the Seniors gave an exhibition of club swinging. On Educational day the whole school helped to celebrate. There were eight floats in the educational parade illustrating all branches of physical education as taught at the Normal College, followed by eight automobiles with the members of the faculty, the board of trustees, and the matrons. At the fair grounds the class gave an exhibition of club swinging and aesthetic dancing.

Swimming enthusiasts are numerous this year. Field and track work is also very popular because of the pleasure of outdoor activities, and because of the personal benefits derived therefrom. The weather has been favorable since the opening of school, and the mornings at Willard Park always seemed too short. A course in military tactics has been introduced this year.

The annual visit of the non-resident members of the Board

Digitized by LjOOQle
383

of Trustees occurred on Friday and Saturday, December 1st and 2nd. These members are Mr. Henry Suder of Chicago, Mr. W.

A.	Stecher of Philadelphia, Dr. A. A. Knoch, of Cincinnati, and Mr. A. E. Kindervater of St. Louis.

The social side of the College life has not been neglected this year. Soon after school opened the Seniors gave a welcoming dance to the new students. This was followed by the annual Farmer's dance just before Halloween. The Juniors have arranged for a dance November 18th. In addition the fraternity as well as the sorority have had several social affairs. The Social Turnverein has welcomed the students by arranging lessons for the Actives and the men students as well as for the ladies of the society and the women students. The “work-out” was much enjoyed.

Nelle C. Fuller, ’17.

BOOK REVIEW.

“HOW to Learn Easily” by George Van Ness Dearborn, Ph. D.

, 227 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. Price $1.00.

Parents, teachers, everyone concerned with education, should be interested in this exposition of time-saving and effort-saving methods of acquiring knowledge. Though modern normal schools lay much stress on economy in study, the literature of the subject is meagre and insufficient. This book is essentially a manual of directions (with the reasons for such directions) for performing economically and efficiently the most important phases of the learning process. It should serve the teacher as a starting-point for better instruction and practice, and it should guide the parent 'and prevent the making of many of the usual mistakes of home training and discipline. Stress is laid on observation as a physiol-logical process, sense training, development of motor skill, the use and training of imagination, intuition, the importance of words in relation to thought, teaching how to think, and the significance and importance of interest. The book is warmly recommended. “The Social Survey” by Carol Avonovici, Ph. D. 255 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by the Harper Press, 1012 Chancellor St., Philadelphia, Pa. Price $1.25.

“The Social Survey” represents the synthesis of the author's ten years experience in the Social Survey field as director of more than two score Surveys, in the capacity of University teacher, lecturer, and writer on this subject.

In the fifteen chapters contained in the book the author has dealt comprehensively with the meaning, scope, method, character, and sources of information to be considered in every one of the fields into which the Social Survey should extend.

The book is designed to give the men and women interested in their own towns a conception of the ways and means of applying a community efficiency test.

Digitized by VjOOQle
384

Sex “Education” by Maurice A. Bigelow, M. D. 251 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.25.

The book is a series of lectures delivered at Columbia University and other places concerning the knowledge of sex in its relation to human life. It is heartily recommended to teachers and parents as a most sane presentation of a subject that still is misunderstood by many persons.

“A Manual of Physical Training and Preparatory Military Instruction'' by Frederick A. Kuenzli and Henry Panzer. 298 pages, 4 by 6 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.25.

In this book Mr. Kuenzli, assistant appraiser of the port of New York, a graduate of Teachers College of Wattingen, Switzerland, and Mr. Henry Panzer a graduate of several European normal schools, and at present a wellknown teacher of physical training in the city of New York, have outlined a system of physical training for the schools of the United States based upon the system used in Switzerland.

Digitized by

Google