MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	JANUARY, 1926 No.	345

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

tLditorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ms second-class matter October 14, /Q/6, at the postoffice at Neve Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March 3. 1870.

♦---------------------------------+

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦---------------------------------1

CORRECTIVE PHYSICAL EXERCISES

As Given In the New York Diet Kitchen Association

Harriet Wilde, Director, Corrective Physical Exercise, New York Diet Kitchen Association.

In January, 1922, an experiment in health care for preschool children was started at the Villard Center of the New York Diet Kitchen Association. Good as the results of the weekly conference for children from two to six years old had been in the past, Dr. Josephine Kenyon, the attending physician at the conference, felt that still better progress would be made if these children could have the advantage of additional methods which she had employed in private practice.

In spite of good medical advice and instruction in the homes by the organization’s nurses and dietitian, many of the children were still constipated. Dr. Kenyon therefore asked me to come and give exercises for the relief of this condition. With

♦Reprinted by permission from “Mother and Child".

Digitized by * ^.ooQle
818

a good dietary the correction of constipation by exercise is a simple matter, but the exercises must be done daily. As the conference met only once a week, giving exercises to tie children then obviously would not suffice, so the following plan was evolved and carried out with such success that Villard Station now has practically no constipated pre-school age children.

Two or three exercises were given to the child, while at the same time the mother was taught to do them, and was in-
819

structed to have the child practice them three times a day—before each meal—and then return to the conference the following week to rehearse her performance and report progress. The exercises chosen were very simple ones and always a definite number of times to do them was dictated. On the next conference day, when the mother gave the exercises to the child to demonstrate to me how she had done them at home, mistakes, if she made any, were corrected, and if there were none, a new exercise was added and she was told to continue and report again the following week. Frequently at the end of the second week the child was having a daily bowel movement without laxative or enema. Occasionally results were obtained in one week. Instructions were given to discontinue the exercise gradually; that is, to omit the mid-day group first, then after several days, the evening ones and finally those done in the morning.

Results varied, of course. The careless mothers did not, and some of those mothers who go out of their homes to work, could not keep the work up consistently. On the other hand, the more intelligent, careful mothers, who were at home followed directions to the letter and gained their end. These co-operative mothers were very enthusiastic, feeling that even tho it took time and patience exercise was *fso much better than medicine.”

Seeing such good effects resulting from our home work with constipation, we were emboldened to try the same method in correcting poor posture and flat feet. Of the children who came to Dr. Kenyon's table for her routine examination, seventy-five per cent were found to have faulty posture. They sat habitually with back round, scapulae prominent, head, neck and shoulders forward, chest narrow and depressed, in many cases with a marked Harrison’s groove, and abdomen relaxed and bulging. In standing, the condition was a little less pronounced, but the knees were knocked and hyper-extended, feet turned out, relaxed, pronated and-flat, and in children no more than two years old, little toes were already beginning to show the effects of crowding in short shoes or stockings. Always the leg development was greater than that of arms and trunk, following naturally from the runabouts’ constant activity, trotting to and fro and using his leg muscles more than any other. Remember that these were ordinarily “well children,” not orthopaedic cases and not “sick”; but certainly children using their body mechanism at constant strain and disadvantage, thereby producing a definite potential for future trouble.

Exercise treatment for posture training usually implies an equipped gymnasium or treatment room and a staff of trained workers. This, of course, was out of the question here, and the giving of routine treatments not in accord with a teaching center, so instruction had to play a large part in the work. The mothers were shown how the children should and could stand and sit in contrast to the way they habitually did, and then taught how to help correct the faults of each child, while being warned against “pulling the shoulders back,”

Digitized by
820

We first taught the mother to smooth out the child’s environment; we demanded beds without pillows and a chair adjusted to the' size of the child by the use oi cushions and a foot stool, that he might eat his meals sitting in good posture, as he could not be expected to do in a chair too low and too deep for him, with his feet dangling uncomfortably in the air. A chair was arranged by the nurses at the Center with cushions of gay colors to show the mothers how easily an ordinary adult sized kitchen chair could be made over into a pre-school age table chair. The mid-day rest, so often discontinued after babyhood, was insisted upon.

Foot tracings were taken of all the children, partly to determine the condition of their arches and partly to compare with the shoes worn to see if they were long enough. When the knees were knocked, the feet pronated and flat, it was recommended that the shoes be raised an eighth of an inch on the inner border.

The exercises chosen for both foot and posture corrections were, as in the case of the constipation exercises, the simplest ones that could be found, and only two or three of them were taught to the mothers at one time. Results, of course, were slow, but they were definite and very worth while, many children, we are sure, being saved from marked defects later. The exercises were continued over a much longer period than was necessary for correcting constipation, and given only once a day. The child reported weekly at first, then every four or five weeks for observation and change in, or addition to, the exercises.

Equipment, the usual bugbear in such work, bothered us not at all. We wanted no special condition that could not be duplicated in the home. We began with one ordinary kitchen table with a pad on the top, a chair for the mother, a little stool on the low wide window sill which happened to be in the comer of the room used, and half a dozen marbles in a pasteboard box. The exercises were given on the table. The children sat on the stool when foot tracings were taken and when they did the marble exercises with their feet. A,4ong seam in the

Digitized by Vi O CK^ IC
821

linoleum floor covering answered for a straight line to teach the children to walk toeing forward and "gripping." An ordinary screen served to make this the “exercise comer” or "posture department," a large name for a simple, but effective side show.

A record was kept for each child on which his sitting posture and his standing position were each rated as good, fair or poor. Under “sitting position” the following points were listed for comment: back, scapulae, shoulders, neck, head, chest, abdomen, arms; under “standing position” the following points: thoracic displacement, scapulae, shoulders, head, spine (deviation and rotation). Points to be noted on the foot conditions of the child were:	dorsal flexion, toes, eversion, pronation,

legs, knees and arches.

During the second winter Teachers’ College students in Physical Education assisted in the work, so a second table was used and more children seen each day. In addition, during several months in the spring of 1923, the same work was carried on in the Anne Barbara Center by Miss May Katherine Parks, one of the students who had assisted at Villard.

The experiment has proven a success and the question now is:—if postural defects are so pronounced at two years old, why wait so long to tackle the problem? Why not begin with the infant, and by guidance and instruction keep the child straight from the beginning? To answer this the New York Diet Kitchen Association is planning to start “a posture experiment” in one of its baby conferences next fall.

EDUCATIONAL ATHLETICS*

By Major John L. Griffith, Commissioner of Athletics, Intercollegiate Conference, Chicago.

I am not sure I can decide just what the objective of inter-collegiate and inter-scholastic athletics should be, until we reach an agreement as to what is the objective of education. I remember not long ago they told us the purpose of an education was to acquire information. A little later they told us we' went to college to get culture, and we then passed through a vocational training! Then some said the sole purpose of the college was to develop scholars, that is, intgllfictualiam. I have a notion we are coming to accept Dr. Burdick’s conception of education tiiat^^£^ugi2^_^:^MffityaJs^^giK-fgLi:£itizen-ship or train T6f me. it we add r/> that tTie innuence idea arid IM behaVior scale of psychology that the function of education is to improve human nature, then physical education and athletics have a most important place in the objective scheme. I do not mean we shall all agree on the value of athletics and

'Condensed repprt of address delivered at Cedar Point, Ohio, meeting in June.

Digitized by Google
822

the amount of time that should be given to them. I remember not long ago in a classical college, a great many of the faculty thought that science was not academic. I remember there were those that said engineering was not academic, and agriculture and business and commerce and all the other activities, but one after the other has been accepted as academic, and possibly some of us will live to see the day when physical education is a part of the academic. Certainly we will have come to the belief if it improves human nature that it improves behavior, which is one of the objectives of education, and we believe it is the duty of the educator to improve human nature.

Athletics have grown so rapidly that possibly that is another reason why we are not agreeing regarding these things. It is no doubt because of some of the things we have had to do with the growth of our athletics that make people say it is not the business of educational institutions to conduct athletics, that all this should be relegated to other people; but I am fearful as to the result, if your own BoaVd of Directors and other educators throughout the country were not to accept the responsibility of developing this human activity along the lines in which it has been developed, because I am satisfied the great percentage of amateur athletics have been developed in schools and colleges. They have been administered to believe in the educational, while town athletics have been promoted by the sporting element, the poolroom crowd, the men who believe in furnishing amusement for the crowd to gamble and bet on the result. If properly administered, as athletics are today in most high schools and colleges, certain traits of character are developed by means of the games. What are some of the qualities stressed by athletic coaches and directors? I have a notion in the games our boys develop initiative. They tell us the German army lacked this quality and when an officer was killed the privates fled, but when our boys lost an officer, someone stepped out and led them on just about as well as the commissioned officer would have done if he had remained.

I believe that in our games we develop the fighting instinct in a way worth while. We suggest he fight with all his ability but according to the code.. There is another thought that seems worth while. We teach a boy not to make excuses when he does not beat, which in athletics is called “furnishing an alibi.” In athletics it is one of the unwritten laws that no one shall “alibi” his defeats. I believe, after all, the biggest thing we gain is what might be called a social value. Some one has said the athletic nations are the ones that have gone farthest in self-government, the nations that have learned to play the game according to the rule.

A friend of mine suggested he was not worried about athletics but wondered if the great Republic experiment was going to succeed. Perhaps that depends largely on two things: First, can we make sensible laws, and after we have made them,

Digitized by

Google
823

can we play the game according to the rules we have laid down for our conduct. I believe our government will fare better if we play the game according to the rules of citizenship. We have a higher standard for the boy out in the field with respect to rules of the game than for ourselves with respect to the rules on our statute books. Possibly some day we shall play the game of life as we play it on the field.

Someone has said athletics have given us the highest social code of the age and I am not sure that is an extravagant statement when we analyze it.

Another has pointed out that if educational institutions had never given anything else than the idea of fair play, they would be worth all the money they have cost.

As regards the philosophy that the boys should play the game less strenuously and strive less hard to win, I am not sure that would be a good one to introduce in athletics. Character is not developed by the weak. If it is worth while for the boy to play the game, it is worth while for him to play it to the limit. In the Good Book we read about a man who fought a good fight, and finished the course. He never said to go half way and then turn back. I am not ready to subscribe to a system that always lets the other fellow win. Business has not been developed along that line, but what our business needs to learn today is,‘1Do the best you can, so long as you play the game according to the code.”

We hear a good deal about codes of ethics. Business men and professional men have codes of ethics, but we have a code of ethics that goes back to the Greek games where everybody stood up and swore he would so. compete as not to bring dishonor to himself, his father or his gods. We have a code of ethics that says that a boy shall treat his opponent with courtesy, that he shall play fairly, and that he shall not ask for any advantage that he would not give to the other fellow. I have a notion that some day we will get that code into our social life and business, for after all it is just the Golden Rule.

I like the way college boys lose their races. They congratulate the man that beats them. I like that spirit that makes it possible for the boy to receive the award, if he deserved the award, rather than waste time in sympathy over the one who is not willing to pay the price of victory.

THE PREVENTION OF RICKETS

Henry C. Shermann, Ph. D. Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, New York City.

Park has recently written: “Personally, I believe that if pregnant women received ample well-balanced diets, in which green vegetables were abundantly supplied and cows’ milk was regularly taken, and kept a sufficient part of their time in the

•Reprint Child Health Bulletin.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
824

open air and sun, and if their infants were placed in the direct rays of the sun for a part of each day and were fed cod-liver oil for the first two or three years of life, more could be accomplished in regard to the eradication of caries of the teeth than in all other ways put together, and that rickets would be abolished from the earth”.—(Dental Cosmos for February, 1923)

This declaration of the practicability of complete abolition of rickets is all the more impressive in that it comes from one of the most careful, critical and conservative students of the disease, who deals with it not only under experimental conditions subject to laboratory control, but also clinically under the complexities of actual human experience and whose definition of rickets is notably broad and inclusive. It would be well if this statement by Park could be given at least as wide a circulation as has been given of late to the suggestion that rickets is caused by the eating of cereals.

That too exclusive a dependence upon cereals in the feeding of infants and young children may increase the danger of rickets is undoubtedly true. Whether the cereal in any case has directly injurious action such as to justify the belief that it is “rickets-producing” in any other sense than that it tends to make the diet one-sided and induce a greater gain in size than in bone development is not so clear. Mellanby’s experiments with puppies, from which he draws the conclusion that cereals are “rickets-producing” and oatmeal especially so, are of distinct scientific interest and may perhaps prove to be of practical importance for some parts of the British Isles where cereals and especially oatmeal bulk largely in the diet of a majority of the population and where sunshine is a blessing which Nature but rarely bestows.*

Fortunately most of our readers and their patients or clients have access to sufficient amounts of sunshine if they can but be taught to use it; and they also live within reach (both geographically and economically) of food supplies of such adequacy and variety that there need be no hesitation in giving to cereals the place in the diet which their wholesomeness, cheapness and

•We are all familiar with the expression “a fresh day” as applied to a day of refreshing and exceptional coolness in summer time; in Scotland (according to the Century Dictionary) a sunshiny day is a “fresh day”.

**We here emphasize the yolk of the egg rather than the egg as a whole because we believe that whatever there may be of danger in the feeding of eggs to young children resides in the white of the egg (which seems responsible for such anaphalatic phenomena as has been adequately described) and that the yolk contains much the greater part of all the nutrients in the egg which are important to the child—the iron, calcium and phosphorus, the vitamins and proteins which furnish the nutritionally essential amino acids for conversion in proteins of muscle, blood and bone. Since the child is not growing feathers, it cannot make the same good use as does the chick of the extra protein contained in the white of the egg.

Digitized by

Google
826

relatively high food value suggest, so long as proper emphasis is also given to the foods which are now well known to be of special value as sources of those nutritive essentials which in the cereals are either lacking or not sufficiently abundant. Fruits and vegetables for mineral elements and for vitamins B and C; milk and the yolk** of egg for mineral elements, vitamins A, B and D*** and the nutritionally important amino acids— these foods, with cod-liver oil as additional insurance as to abundance of vitamins A and D, make us practically independent (at least in regions receiving moderate amounts of sunshine) of any such fear of the cereals as some people seem to have derived from the perhaps excessive publicity which has been given to Mellanbys’ preliminary results. It is unfortunate that the newspapers have given so much greater prominence to the merely preliminary indications of a rickets-producing substance in oatmeal than to the evidence which his work affords, in confirmation of much evidence differently amved at in this country but of similar import, of the positive value of whole milk and fresh vegetables in the prevention of rickets, probably because they contain both a favorable mineral content and significant (though variable) amounts of the antirachitic vitamin.

For the dominant and practically important aspect of rickets is certainly not a matter of a direct food toxicity; it is a nutritional deficiency or perversion which affects particularly the skeletal tissues. As Park has defined it, rickets is a disturbance of mineral factors in nutrition which results in a retarded deposition of calcium phosphate in the developing bone.

That the fault is not so much in the bone tissue itself as in the serum which bathes and feeds it, is clearly shown by Shipley's demonstration that rachitic bones will calcify normally when removed from the body and placed in a suitable serum.

Analysis shows that in rickets the blood serum is deficient in its content of calcium or of phosphorus or both. Such mineral deficiencies in the blood serum may be due to corresponding deficiencies in the food, or to losses of calcium, phosphorus, or both, as calcium phosphate in the digestive tract, or to a failure of the body for some-other reason to mobilize calcium and phosphorus to the best advantage of the developing bone.

The antirachitic vitamin of cod-liver oil, egg yolk, whole milk and fresh vegetables probably acts by aiding, in some way not yet fully understood, the mobilization of these mineral elements in the body.

Sunlight (or its equivalent in ultra-violet rays from other sources) probably acts by forming antirachitic vitamin from the cholesterol always present in the skin.

The view that rickets is essentially a matter of nutritional deficiency or defect which shows itself in a diminution of cal-

***For convenience, we here follow the growing custom of using letter D for occasional brief designation of the antirachitic vitamin.

the

Digitized by

Google
826'

cium or phosphorus or both in the blood serum, and can be prevented by maintenance of the normal calcium and phosphorus content of the serum whether this be accomplished by direct attention to the metabolism of calcium and phosphorus as such, or their more advantageous mobilization through the aid of antirachitic vitamin or ultra-violet rays, or best through attention to all three of these phases as recommended by Park in the statement which we have quoted as the opening paragraph of this paper, is so well established and of such well-proven adequacy that attention should not be diverted from it by over-emphasis upon subsidiary phases of the rickets problem.

The decrees of fashion are mysterious, and the motives for changes cannot always be fathomed. One suspects in some cases that dressmakers and designers, milliners, shoemakers, hairdressers, and many others interested in the decoration of the human body are the instigators of new fashions; but, on the other hand, were it not for human vanity and desire for change, even the interested persons first mentioned would find barren soil for their suggestions. Many of these changes are comparatively harmless, such as bobbed and shingled hair, or may even be healthful, such as blouses, dresses, and coats open at the neck and chest, allowing the breezes to play direct upon the unclothed skin; but there are other fashions which are the reverse of harmless, and pre-eminent among these is the wearing of rubber corsets. The reasons for wearing these atrocities— for no other name will describe them from the medical point of view—is apparently to give a slim, boyish figure round the hips, which fashion now decrees is de riguer. It is no doubt flattering to the vanity of the youth of the male sex to find their sisters so anxious to possess the slim figures of their brothers and sweethearts, but it is extremely doubtful whether they raise themselves in the estimation of the stronger sex by submitting to such a form of martyrdom for the sake of vanity.

Now, the first point which any anatomist will tell you is that no pressure, unless the bones of the pelvis are soft from disease, or plastic because they are not fully developed, can seriously alter the contour of that part of the trunk below the waistline, or reduce its circumference. The framework of the pelvis is rigid and powerful, as it must act as a basis for the spinal column on the one hand, and as a fulcrum for the lower

Reprint from Journal of the Institute of	Eng'—J	May, 1925.

RUBBER CORSETS

By R. King Brown, B. A., M. D., D. P. H.

Digitized by
827

limbs on the other hand; in other words, it bears the whole weight of the upper part of the body, and must, therefore, be specially strongly made. As any sculptor or artist will tell you there is between women and men a most marked difference in the shape and size of the pelvis, so much so, that if the bones alone of this part of the body are examined there is no difficulty in detecting immediately the sex of the person to whom they belonged. In women the pelvis is much broader and more capacious than in men in proportion to their height and size generally and this difference is, of course, connected with the child-bearing function. It is, therefore, impossible for women to reduce themselves down to similar proportions about the hips to men if they are healthy and wish to remain so. The only method of appearing slim about the hips is to develop a natural-sized waist, as the old and unhealthy fashion of squeezing in the waist only emphazised the difference between this and the hips. The modem corset which permits the free expansion of the lower ribs and abdomen to their natural proportions is, therefore, to be commended.

As to the soft tissues which cover the pelvis bones, they may possibly be reduced slightly in circumference, while the pressure is being exerted, but once this is removed the natural elasticity of the tissues comes into play, and they at once regain their natural size.

But there are far more serious objections to the rubber corset, and by this I am not referring to the ordinary linen or cotton corset supported by flexible ribs and a few elastic bands, but to the all-rubber corset made of Para rubber, and drawn tightly over the lower part of the abdomen and the hips, and usually worn next the skin. When in place it covers roughly one quarter of the skin of the body, and as there is practically no space between jt and the skin, and the rubber itself is waterproof, it is quite obvious that it must interfere seriously with the functions of the skin.

The skin is one of the most important organs of the body, and. if we would be healthy its function must be as carefully attended to as those of the lungs, stomach, kidneys, and liver, for it is not less important than these. Now what are its functions? In the first place it protects us from invasion of the body by deadly microbes. It is only when it is broken that we get erysipelas, anthrax, tetanus, and blood poisoning. It must be pierced by insects to get sleeping sickness, typhus fever, malaria, and many other diseases, so one can see the wisdom of keeping a ‘'‘whole skin.” In the next place the heat of our bodies is regulated by the skin. In hot weather the skin gets flushed; in other words, the blood comes to the surface to get cooled, and this it can do most effectively when the skin is covered with sweat. This brings us to its function as an excretory organ. When the body temperature gets too high by exercise, illness, or a hot climate, the skin immediately extracts water from the body and keeps itself moist, thereby facilitating the

Digitized by VjOOQ 1C
828

removal of beat from the body. If this function be interfered with, and the perspiration cannot be rapidly removed by evap-oration, the body becomes overheated and hyperpyrexia may result with fatal consequences.	This often happens to

Europeans in tropical countries. Even when we are not actually sweating our skins are constantly sending out moisture, known as insensible perspiration, and any interference with this is most prejudicial to health.

As an excretory organ, that is, one which removes waste products from the body, the skin is so important that in certain forms of kidney disease, when these organs are not acting sufficiently, the skin can come to their assistance and remove not only water, but small quantities of urea and other constituents usually found in the urine. In order to keep the skin soft and pliant, nature has also provided it with small glands which exude an oily substance, and should the ducts of these small glands be blocked up by disease, lack of cleanliness, or anything which prevents the free escape of the “sebum,” as the oily substance is called, the skin becomes diseased and eczematous.

By means of the skin we also perceive heat and cold, and it is an important organ of touch. Were it not for the great sensitiveness of the skin our lives would be in daily and hourly danger from bums or scalds, and the buffetings to which we are constantly exposed.

The last cutaneous function I will mention is that the skin is a receiver of the innumerable waves of light and electricity which are playing on it night and day, and as Vignard (quoted by Rollier) says: “the skin becomes a vast keyboard on which the light strikes awakening deep resonances throughout the body.” Rubber being more or less impervious to both light and electricity must, therefore, if worn, seriously interfere with this function.

Having now shown of what paramount importance a proper care of the skin is, the next consideration is how its functions are to be maintained at a high working level.

In the first place, no skin can be healthy on which light and air cannot freely play. This is one of the great benefits of a seaside holiday, especially when accompanied by bathing. The restoration of the functions of the skin by free exposure to sun and air is the secret of the dramatic cures effected by Doctors Bernhard and Rollier in the Alps. They do away with all heavy and superfluous splints and bandages on broken and diseased limbs, so that the sun and air can get to the skin and effect the cures. And if such measures are necessary to cure disease, they are equally important in its prevention. It is on this principle that all modem fabrics for clothing are designed. The more open the mesh of a fabric is the better it is, provided that in a cold and damp climate like ours, due provision is made for retaining the heat of. the body. The air should go freely through all cotton and w

Digitized by

oolen garments, and

Google
829

there should be no layer of stagnant and moist air between our undergarments and the skin. No greater number of garments should be worn than is necessary to keep the body comfortably warm; and any extra heat should be got by suitable food and exercise, and not by piling on clothes. Light will penetrate clothes even to the skin, for no fabric should be so closely woven as to keep out light. Those of you who do photography know how difficult it is to keep out light, and our clothes should be made of materials which are loose and not light or airtight.

How far, then, do rubber garments comply with these principles? In the first place, if in the form of corsets, they must covter at least one quarter of the skin of the body. They keep it damp, no evaporation can take place, and there is an accumulation next to the skin of waste products such as water, urea, and salts, which instead of going away may possibly become reabsorbed to the detriment of the health. This will lead to a soaking bf the skin and a liability to skin diseases of all kinds as well as bodily disease. Light and electricity, which are forms of energy, have their influence on the body, but they cannot pierce rubber. Besides interfering with the physiological functions of the skin, rubber corsets must be very unpleasant from the point of view of cleanliness. Everyone knows how unpleasant ordinaiy rubber raincoats and waterproofs can be, especially if tight fitting, and in warm weather, and it takes very little imagination to conceive the unpleasant results of rubber worn next the skin.

To sum up, rubber corsets transgress every principle of modem clothing, interfere seriously with the functions of the skin, which must be kept at a hign level if we are to be healthy and last, but not least, are most uncleanly. It is to be hoped therefore, that the wearing of such garments is only a passing craze, and that those of our women folk who have been induced to wear them will reconsider the position in the interests of their health and beauty.

EXTRA CURRICULA ACTIVITIES

Carl L. Schrader, Boston,

Much has been written and much has been said on this problem which in recent years has taken on dimensions that need attention. Not all that has been said or written has been favorable. Inasmuch as our particular phase of education i. e. physical education, furnishes a large portion of opportunity for after school activities, it is but a natural consequence that a large share of such comment has been aimed at those particular activities that lie within our field. It is singular that both sides, those negative of mind, who consider any time spent on recreation as wasted, and those affirming, who blindly permit that the extra curricula activities predominate, have

Digitized by

Google
830

failed to recognize one factor of value, which surely is an es-ential requisite in teaching how to live efficiently.

The budgeting of time is an economic factor as well as a civic one and must be acquired as a habit in order to prove a life asset. No citizen worthy of the name can escape the shouldering of at least some extra burdens which he or she must carry in addition to, but not in place of his chief vocation. It may be the city or town, the church, the club, either social or professional, that asks service from us, which then becomes a sort of extra curricula service. In school or college also there is the one main purpose which falls into the regular hours of the day.

The process of learning life situations, however extends beyond the prescribed course of hours. To offer opportunity for an urge the carrying of extra burdens along with the regular load, it would seem is a function of the school. To devote time to a hobby or talent, be it dramatic, musica], athletic or what not, without jeopardizing the main issue, is indeed a valuable lesson to learn and a profitable habit to possess.

That such participation on the part of students requires mature and sympathetic guidance goes without saying. It behooves us to see in the recreation after school hours one of the chief agencies for behavior education, that instead of portraying the tendency of expecting the faculty to make the school’s task lighter, we make it clear to those participating in our field of activities, that we expect 100 per cent fulfillment of their main contract first. We know from our past and personal experience as participants that more hours were wasted in talking over the game at all hours of the night, than in the actual practice for and playing of the game. It is for us to realize that budgeting of time must be injected into our promoting of these extra curricula activities in order to create a healthy frame of mind on the part of the students toward the relationship of work and play.

I am convinced that many in our ranks are guilty of the offense of giving the young lad the wrong slant on life, because of their own, many times wrong conception of relative values. We need at all times be guarded; to be found on the crest of the wave in all matters pertaining to education, and I can see an opportunity for us to point the way in this particular thought of time budgeting.

Physical education, and particularly the after school part of it, is being carefully watched by educational and economic experts. They will be with us and for us insofar as we succeed in giving to the youth the right viewpoint relative to these extra curricula functions. Together with our urging larger numbers to participate, must go the suggestion that they understand this to be an additional and voluntary burden which they must carry at their own expense of time, fulfilling all of their school obligations unflinchingly. Instead of students finding sympathy with their teachers of physical education for
831

their weakness of wanting to shirk their main responsibilities toward the school, they should find them in accord with the general school policy, an attitude which I feel is none too prevalent on the part of our staff at the present time.

One needs but to fully understand the purpose of education in a democracy to be willing to stand shoulder to shoulder with those who aim to shape school life purposeful. This thought has been very definitely expressed by our beloved and great American, Theodore Roosevelt, in a letter to his son, Kermit, written at the White House, October 2, 1903:

“I was very glad to get your letter. Am glad you are playing football. I should be very sorry to see either you or Ted devoting most of your attention to athletics and I haven’t got any special ambition to see you shine overmuch in athletics at college, at least (if you go there) because I think it tends to take up too much time; but I do like to feel that you are manly and able to hold your own in rough, hardy sports. I would rather have a boy of mine stand high in his studies than high in athletics, but I would a great deal rather have him show true manliness of character than show either intellectual or physical prowess; and I believe you and Ted both bid fair to develop just such a character.”

THE USE OF OZONE IN RESIDENCE HEATING

What has been done in ridding the world of the diseases carried by water and impure food has not been done for the air that we breathe, although the importance of the last is greater than that of either water or food, The respiratory function is the critical one of our lives. We may live perhaps four weeks without food; about four days without water and possibly four minutes without air or oxygen.

It is of utmost importance to the public to know that there is no such thing in large cities as fresh air or pure air outside of buildings.

The open-air school and the open sleeping porch in the midst of the city are the result of completely mistaken notions of the air conditions. The attempt to get better air conditions in the city is a most commendable move, but up to the present time there has been a very meager provision for supplying that want in the homes.

The basic thought in the development of better ventilation has been to secure the most perfect natural air condition that can be found anywhere in the great “outdoors,” and reproduce it in our buildings.

The day has passed when simply a uniform temperature is sufficient or satisfactory. We have reached the point where we now actually reproduce the characteristics of the mountain air. The plain duty of the heating and ventilating engineer is to reproduce in the simplest and surest manner the air conditions of

Digitized by

Google
882

outdoor nature. These are briefly:	Controlled	temperature;

air motion without drafts, humidity at 40 per cent to 60 per cent saturation; dust removal, and ozone for removal of odors and the production of the normal outdoor tonic.

The discovery of practical means of using ozone in ventilation has been a great forward step when considerations of health and comfort are controlling factors. Much of the story of the use of ozone in the St. Louis schools has been written but the greatest and best part of it can never be adequately told. About seventy thousand children in St. Louis are daily enjoying the benefits of ozone.

After six years of continuous use of ozone in the O’Fallon School, the first with which it was tried, the principal and teachers are as enthusiastic as ever. They all agree that ozone prevents fatigue and produces a great improvement in the health and attendance in the pupils. It was early noticed that ozone increased the weight of both pupils and teachers.

Regarding ozone in the residence—a strange notion seems to prevail-that ozone is for purifying crowded, and bad smelling places only. That is not true. Ozone is necessary for all ventilation, and our homes are the most important places to be ventilated.

In St. Louis, in all the new schools built within the past five years ozone has been a part of the regular equipment and at this time about 70 large schools have been so equipped, so that more than seventy thousand persons are enjoying the benefits of ozone. Dr. Starkloff of the City Health Department has reported that in the past five years the deaths from tuberculosis have been reduced to less than half of the former number. Just recently he reports that the past year was the first in the history of St. Louis when the number of cases of all the serious diseases has been reduced. There has been no important health measure in the city except the use of ozone in the schools and some industrial ventilation with ozone that could have an effect upon vital statistics.

A sample experience with the Pestalozzi School will help to appreciate the fact that the improved health of the school children has affected the totals and averages of the whole population. Three years ago ozone was installed in the Pestalozzi School which is a down town old school crowded to the limit. Mr. Steu-ber the principal, asked the Hygiene Department to weigh the children monthly and these weights compared with average normal weights of the respective ages. At the beginning this school had more than 30 per cent of pupils under normal weight and after four months the test showed that this subnormal weight affected but 14 per cent. No other change had been made.

It is up to us now to make the proper application to the residence. Of the five important functions of heating a residence, regulated temperature is first and ozone second. It is impossible to write into a paper an adequate idea of the comfort that attends an ozonized home.

Digitized by

Google
833

The installation of ozone should not be left until all the heating conditions are ideal for it is very simply installed in the recirculating duct or in any portion that carries air to all the house. Provision is now made in the apparatus for control which should run up into the house for convenience. Ozone in ventilation should not produce an odor. It is best regulated so as to be just below the ozone odor which is something less than one part of ozone in a million of air. At this concentration the air has a feeling of freshness and exhilaration not produced by any other means. The relief from cold and coughs is very pronounced. The increase in appetite and weight is very general.

The need of today is for a simple air conditioning heating plant in the basement that shall operate automatically and reliably and deliver this conditioned air to the house. There is no doubt going to be a demand for gravity circulated and recirculated warm air heaters which will have air washers or filters and ozone, and for a complete fan heater which shall be positive and perfect. The small cost of the fan and the electric power to operate it are easily within the limits of house heating for modest homes.

It is hoped that the methods used in handling and treating air in large quantities may be utilized and adopted for the home; that architects of residences may recognize their responsibility in house plans for the new type of heating and ventilation, and that the humble home may enjoy purified and healing air as restored by the use of artificial ozone. Heating & Ventilating Magazine.

PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AS AN ASSET TO MENTAL ACTIVITY

Hubert E. Coyer, B. P. E. Director Trinity Parish House, New Haven, Conn.

In tracing the development of physical activity in its relation to mental activity we learn that physiologically the body was made first and then the mind developed. Along with the development of the mind we have the development of the central nervous system and all its branches that reach the four hundred muscles of the body, but their connections are not established until there is some form of activity that builds up certain reflexes. These reflexes are built only by repeated action that establishes itself either in the brain or the cord. This repeated action is usually brought about by muscular movement. It is this sense of muscular movement that perhaps is the most fundamental of all in the building up of the mind because we know that baby’s first notions of form, size, distance, and direction come through this medium. Hence there is definite knowledge that the body fo the medium through which the mind receives all its expressions is the external universe.

The first activity that perhaps would affect mental action is the play of little children. Here we have Nature's way of giv-

Digitized by Google
834

ing expression to its aptitudes and neuro-muscular activity, for when a child plays it gets control of its body, which also gets control of his mind. Then too the spontaneity of children’s play is the transfering of energy into conscious action that is a stimulus to mental action. This perhaps is best thought of according to Jean Paul Richter, who says, “the cause for cheerfulness of children is their activity.” He also adds, “play is man’s first poetry,” and to quote Professor Burnham, “healthful, mental and moral fiber is built up by a child’s own effort, not by the activity of adults.” As the child grows older he receives in modem physical education that normal and ordered stimulation of brain centers which results in the growth and development of the mind itself. In the child’s early athletics we have that quick response to action. The hitting of a base ball, the recovery of a bounding ball, the catching and passing of a basket ball are all highly co-ordinated neuro-muscular movements that call for mental thought as well as good muscular control. Often in athletics there is a quick change of the center of gravity in relation to its base of support, or where there is no base of support at all, but where the body has to be co-ordinated while off the ground. Can anyone deny that there is no relation between the training of the nervous system and the muscular system when such finely co-ordinated movements that produce this sense of equilibrium and power of adjustment is developed? Are not the powers of judgment with the ability to manage and control his own momentum the result of proper structural relations between the mind and the body? Certainly all movements at first, as in athletic activity, may be stiff, jerky and awkward. This is due, of course, to the response to nerve stimuli]' to the muscles that produce the movements. Whenever there is any action there is a wave of impulses going to the accessory and antagonistic groups of muscles. One group may respond with ease and the other will act as brakes to steady the movement. The control of these wave-like impulses and the ease with which the antagonists act as brakes is the fine co-ordinated neuromuscular control that is the result of repeated effort that comes from conscious thought of the action such as athletic activity produces. It is safe then to say that no mental process takes place independently of any bodily process. Hence every thought that passes through the mind may be said to have a bodily aspect corresponding to this feeling. This does not mean that we do our thinking with our muscles and not with our brains. It does mean though that the conscious side is represented by brain processes; but the adjustment side is bodily, and largely muscular, and there is no thinking about it. It is largely by means of this bodily factor, this motor factor, that we control the course of our thought. We get control of a movement by getting the feel of the movement. In thinking of the movement we think of the feel of the movement. This means the beginning of the movement itself, and the movement is made.

In recognizing the value of handwork in training the intellect Dr. Ferdinand A. Schmidt, the noted physiologist of Bonn,

Digitized by Google
835

Germany says, “we should not overlook the fact that, as a rule, the muscular movements involved in this type of work are those of the finders, the hand and the arm. Mentally the§e movements affect only a small area of the corticle of the brain.” He also says, ‘ what is needed is that these exercises of skill be supplemented by movements demanding a co-ordination of muscle-groups lying far apart because increased bodily activity and a gradual increasing complexity of co-ordinations will lead to an increasing intellectual life.”

We can appreciate the studies made by this noted scientist when we recognize the fact that fully seventy-five per cent of the energies of the nation goes out along lines of industrial muscular activity. Yet in this age of short cuts and inventions to minimize labor the impulse of good muscular skill should be capitalized for the welfare of the nation. The deterioration of industrial muscular activity may mean the deterioration of the race. Were not the Greek and Roman Empires laid in a spirit of physical action? Then when the spirit of slavery entered the expression died out and the race began to decay. How important it is then that we do not neglect this most fundamental of all human impulses, the instinct to activity. In this regard we cannot help but agree with Kant who says, “that the development of the will has been largely dependent upon the development of the muscles, because without them, its autonomy would remain unknown.” Have you ever considered how fundamental the sense of good muscular activity is to the sense in building up the mind? How the senses of hearing, sight, touch, and the sense of muscular activity are the senses that minister chiefly to our mental life? But most of all how the sense of muscular movement is important at the beginning of life. How it is of vast importance in all the arts, and crafts; in the skilled craftsman, the painter, the sculptor, and the musician. What a wonderfully full intellectual life you have where the muscular sense and the sense of touch are trained and the delicate discrimination of muscle is brought to the highest pitch.

Plato early recognized the value of physical activity to train the whole man—mind, body and character and this significant characteristic of physical training is what men like G. Stanley Hall and others have always emphasized as the bridge between “knowing” and “doing”. This may mean a newer conception of physical activity and its importance, but never-the-less we may note that the modern study of psychology and mental hygiene has put tremendous emphasis on the significance of the various forms of motor activity, and especially upon physical exercises. Its aims today are essentially educational and give the fundamental basis for psychophysical development from which special form of motor skill can be differentiated with permanent interests that will carry over into life.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
836

PHILADELPHIA’S ATHLETIC ABILITY TEST

Wm. A. Stecher

The age aims spoken of below are those requirements in running, jumping, throwing and a modified form of climbing that must be met by all pupils in order to pass in their physical education work.

The athletic ability tests are revised from time to time so as to meet the increasing efficiency; of the pupils. The standards presented are in many cases higher than formerly.

Events and Standards for Athletic Ability Tests

Purpose: To stimulate interest and further participation in athletics.

Eligibility: To be eligible for the tests a pupil must:

1.	Be under 14 years of age for Test I and under 17 years of age for Tests II and III.

2.	Have nearly or completely attained the standards of the test to be taken.

3.	Have passed the age aims.

TEST I

(15-year standards)

Boys

1	Standing Broad Jump....5ft. 10 in.

2	Ball Throw, Overhead......33 ft.

3	50 Yard Dash........7 3-5 sec.

4	Ball Throw Free Style....45 ft.

Girls

1	Standing Broad Jump..4 ft. 10 in.

2	Ball Throw, overhead.....28 ft.

3	50 Yard Dash.........8	2-5	sec.

4	Ball Throw, Free Style___35 ft.

TEST II

(17-year standards)

1	Standing Broad Jump..6ft. 6 in.

2	Ball Throw, overhead....39 ft.

3	75 Yard Dash......10 2-5 sec.

4	Ball Throw, Free Style. .60 ft.

5	Chinning ............._.6	times

1	Standing Broad Jump..5 ft. 2 in.

2	Ball throw, overhead...-.30 ft.

3	50 yard Dash ............8	sec.

4	Ball throw, Free Style...45 ft.

6	Chinning ...............1	time

TEST III

(19-year standards)

1	Standing Broad Jump. .7 ft. 2 in.

2	Ball Throw, overhead ___42	ft.

3	100 Yard Dash .........13	sec.

4	Ball Throw, Baseball (100 ft.)

...................2 times

5	Chinning ..............8 times

6	Swimming, Free Style ...220 yds.

1

2

3

4

5 6.

Standing Broad Jump........6 ft.

Ball Throw, overhead......33 ft.

75 Yard Dash..............11	sec.

Ball Throw, Free Style.-...50 ft.

Chinning ................2	times

Swimming, Free Style..220 yds.

Digitized by

Google
887

Rules Governing The Tests.

1. Two trials will be allowed in the jump, ball throw overhead, and ball throw free style.

2. The ball throw free style is construed to mean any single arm throw. To be a fair throw the contestant must not go beyond the scratch line.

3.	In the baseball throw for accuracy, the contestant must hit a circular target 6 feet in diameter, suspended so that the lowest point is 6 inches from the ground, at least twice out of 5 trials. The contestant must not go beyond the scratch line.

4.	Only one test shall be given to a contestant in one day (Swimming may be given on another day.)

5.	On failure to pass any one event, the contestant shall be eliminated from the test for that day.

6.	Official tests will be conducted by the Division of Physical Education as follows:

Test I—At convenience of the Supervisor.

Test II—At convenience of the Supervisor.

Test III—In June.

Awards

The Division of Physical Education will award the winners

of:

Test I—A bronze Seal Certificate.

Test II—A red Seal Certificate.

Test III—A blue Seal Certificate.

Upon the successful completion of Test III, the contestant is privileged to buy an especially designed gold pin, attesting the fact of his athletic efficiency.

Note. It should be understood by all readers of Mind and Body that these tests, with their months of preparation, are an integral part of the physical education program of Philadelphia. The lower tests are given at the convenience of the physical education teachers in the respective schools, and checked up by the supervisors. The third test is given in June by the supervisors at convenient playgrounds in different parts of the city. The last tests were tried by 29009 boys and girls, 10490 of whom passed.

HEIGHT QUALIFICATION FOR JUNIOR HIGH INTERSCHOOL COMPETITION PHILADELPHIA

By Samuel J. Judelsohn

Inter-school competition must be controlled by certain specified limitations or rules of eligibility, thus ensuring fairer competition and allowing for classifications or groupings. These qualifications may include scholarship, conduct, age, height, weight, etc., either singly or in combinations.

For the past fifteen or more years in Philadelphia interschool competition in certain athletic activities has been divided

Digitized by VjOO^lC
888

into senior and junior groups (based upon height). This allows the smaller boys and girls to receive the benefits which are derived from well-regulated competition.

To determine the dividing line between juniors and seniors in the Junior High inter-school competition, a study was made of the heights of 4330 boys and 4334 girls—all junior high school pupils. The heights were measured by the teachers of physical education and were recorded on the captain sheets along with age, weight, and other factors required during the regular physical education period. The records were then grouped according to the age and sex of the pupils, and the heights were charted (see tables on the next two pages).

The median of each age group was found; then the median of the entire group of boys and of girls was found, resulting in the median for boys at 61 inches and the median for

Heights of Junior High School Pupils. Table I Boys.

AGES (YEARS)

Height

(ins)	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17 Totals	
50		1	5	4	2				12
51		3	5	1	2				11
52			6	4	3	1			14
53		6	22	9	6	1			44
54		17	41	23	5	5			91
55	1	17	50	37	12	2			119
56		34	92	63	26	5	1	1	222
57	1	34	90	99	27	5			256
58	1	19	131	141	69	9	1		371
59	1	10	101	133	86	14	1		346
60		9	85	169	103	29	1	1	397
61		12	63	166	127	32	7	1	408
62		3	36	138	156	76	6	1	416
63		3	31	115	145	84	5	2	385
64		2	22	82	128	93	10	2	339
65			10	58	95	77	16	1	257
66			4	36	85	98	20	-	243
67			3	22	45	64	14		148
68				9	43	50	19	1	122
69			1	10	12	23	13	1	60
70				2	11	23	8	1	45
71				1	2	2	7		12
72				1	2	2	2		7
73					2	1			3
74									2
Totals	4	170	798	1323	1194	696	133	12	4330
Medians (ins.) 59			58	60	62	64	66	63	51
889

girls at 60 inches. As most of the pupils selected for interschool competition are from 13 to 16 years of age, the median of the groups—eliminating all the other ages—was found, and the results were just a small fraction of an inch higher than the median for the entire group.

As a result of this investigation the height classification for juniors and seniors in Junior High inter-school competition in Philadelphia is as follows:

Junior Boys—under 62 inches Junior Girls—under 61 inches Senior Boys—62 inches and over Senior Girls—61 inches and over.

Heights of Junior High School Pupils Table II Girls

Height

AGES (YEARS)

(ms.)	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	Totals
49		1							1
50		3	4	1	1				9
51		3	3	5	2				13
52		5	9	3	5	1			23
53	2	16	16	8	2				44
54		13	33	15	5				66
55	4	20	39	25	4	1			93
56	2	32	72	56	22	2			186
57	1	34	104	77	37	11	1	1	266
58	1	32	127	118	66	28	3		375
59	1	19	124	183	123	28	4		482
60		13	121	206	184	64	10	1	599
61		7	121	226	210	92	13	1	670
62		4	77	193	198	100	13		585
63		4	33	113	160	62	11		383
64		2	18	59	137	50	10	3	279
65			10	38	69	39	8		164
66		1	3	5	30	21	3		63
67			1	5	13	8			27
68				2	6	3			11
69				1	3				4
Totals	11	209	915	1339	1277	510	76	6	4343
Medians 55		57	59	60	61	62	62	61	60

(ins)
840

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS CELEBRATE THE TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST ORGANIZED PUBLIC SCHOOL ATHLETIC LEAGUE IN UNITED STATES

18,147 games played during “Athletic Week” as a part of a mammoth City Wide Color Contest.

Historical

During the week October 5 to 9, the Philadelphia Public Schools celebrated the Silver Jubilee of the founding of the Philadelphia Grammar School Athletic League, the first organization of its kind in the United States.

Similar organizations were started in New York City in 1906, Baltimore in 1908, and Chicago in 1912.

While it is true that athletic competition was held in the Philadelphia High Schools in the early eighties, and that the first physical education teacher was appointed in 1847, nevertheless it is just a quarter of a century since organized athletics got under way in the Elementary Schools.

The activities of the G. S. A. L. were at first controlled by volunteer workers. In 1907 the Division of Physical Education was created, which co-operated in fostering athletics. In 1912 the Supervisory Committee in Athletics, with the Director of Physical Education as chairman, was created and the work of the volunteer organization absorbed by the new governing body. In 1920, two supervisors of athletics, one for boys and one for girls, were assigned to administer the activities of the Public Schools Athletic League as a part of the Division of Physical Education.

Thus the activities of this pioneer league have increased from volunteer workers in 10 to 12 schools to city wide activities, including all schools, supervised by the Division of Physical Education.

“Athletic Week” Color Contest

The Philadelphia Public Schools commemorated the occasion by a week devoted entirely to athletic contests and games. The week October 5 to 9 was designated “Athletic Week” by the Superintendent of Schools and instructions were sent out by the Director of Physical Education directing the Elementary and Junior High Schools to suspend the regular physical education program, and in its place substitute organized team competition in the form of a city wide color contest.

The entire pupilage of the 210 Elementary and Junior High Schools is divided ordinarily into two color teams for carrying out the regular physical education program. Thus one-half the boys and girls in each school owe their allegiance to either one of the two local school color teams (e. g., the “Black" or “Orange”).

Digitized by Google
841

During “Athletic Week” local school colors were supplanted by the city colors “Blue” and “Gold” since the contest was to be a city wide affair. The team organization of the local color teams remained intact, but merely assumed a new color name for the week. Thus the 150,000 boys and girls in the city were divided into two teams of 75,000 children each, representing approximately 12,500 teams, distributed among 210 schools.

Team games and contests such as captainball, endball, dodgeball, volleyball, track and field events, etc., were played as intra-class and interclass competition during the regular daily physical education periods, and before and after school on the playgrounds. Any type of game or any number of games could be played, provided each game played was of at least 10 minutes duration. Otherwise it was not scored.

The winning team in each contest was credited with 1 point and the losing team with 0 points. The points were totaled daily for the class, school, school district, and city on score sheets furnished by the Division of Physical Education, and arranged as follows:

COLOR CONTEST SCORE SHEET—OCTOBER 5 to 9, 1925

DIRECTIONS: Insert score by rooms daily. Before school, after school, and recess games are to be scored under “Miscellaneous”. Regular after school playground scores are to be scored under “Playground”. Mail school score daily on postal card.

The local school score was mailed daily to the Director of Physical Education on one of 5 postal cards furnished for this purpose. This school report gave the name, location, and dis-
842

trict of the school with the score for “Blues” and “Golds”.

The scores for “Blues” and “Golds” were tabulated and published daily in the newspapers, arranged by schools, school districts, and the city as a whole. Additional publicity was given through the editorial and pictorial pages of the newspapers and the news reels of the moving picture theaters.

The competition was closely and keenly contested, some of the daily scores for schools and districts differing by only a point or two. The weather on the opening day of “Athletic Week” was fair. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday were clear, while on Friday it stormed all day.

The “Blues” outscored the “Golds” every day during the week, winning by a margin of 1103 points, the total points scored by the “Blues” being 9625 points against the 8522 points scored by the “Golds”. Since only the winning team in each game scored 1 point, a total of the “Blue” and “Gold” points equals the number of games or contests held, thus 18,147 games were played during the week.

The interest in the celebration ran high throughout the city and as a result a new stimulus was given to athletic competition. Principals and teachers were pleased as it involved no change in the school program nor worked any hardship on any group of teachers. The event provided subject matter for creating assembly interest and furnished an opportunity to bring the value of organized play before the public.

Has Organized Athletic Competition Paid?

The efforts of twenty-five years of organized athletic competition in Philadelphia have not been in vain for it is with a sense of joy and satisfaction that this pioneer organization has actually progressed. It has grown not only in the number of schools and pupils competing, but also in the number of activities contested and the individual performances and team achievements.

The training received as a part of the physical education program in the schools in the fundamental activities of standing broad jump, basketball farthrow, and 100 yard dash has been indeed worth while.

The average performances listed below and representing thousands of boys and girls in the Elementary Schools of Philadelphia speak for themselves.

	Senior Boys	Junior Boys			Senior Girls		Junior Girls	
	JUMP THROW DASH	JUMP	THROW	DASH	JUMP THROW	DASH	JUMP THROW	DASH
	FT. FT. SEC.	FT.	FT.	SEC.	PT. FT.	8 EC.	FT- FT.	SEC.
1910	6.4 29.3 13.8	5.95	23.5	14.8	5.5 24.8	16.2	5.75 16.7	16.5
1915	7.33 36. 13.2	6.5	30.89	14.2	6.16 30.4	15.7	5.86 27.2	16.1
1920	7.93 42.1 12.4	7.3	37.4	13.8	6.45 35.5	14.8	6.49 32.9	14.8
1925	8.16 46. 12.2	7.36	39.4	13.2	7.11 38.3	14.2	6.48 34.3	14.5

Carl A. Hummel,

Supervisor of Boys’ Athletics.

Janet B. Walter,

Supervisor of Girls’ Athletics.

Digitized by

Google
843

♦	  o

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

. i----------------------------- —	<>

MODEL EXERCISES.

EXERCISES WITH SUPPORT BELLS FOR MEN OF THE NEW YORK TURNVEREIN

Christ Wuest, New York, City.

Music: "Through Combat to Victory” March by F. von Blon. Each strain is played once, no repeats. Each exercise has 32 measures or 64 counts.

The introduction is played for each exercise, and each exercise is to be executed twice to the same side.

Exercise I

1.	Counts.

Swing left leg sideward and swing arms foreupward..........	1

Step left sideward and to a straddle stand, lower arms

sideward palms upward.................................. 2

Pause ............................................... 3-4

2.

4-	4 Arm circle outward, arms sideward palms upward.......	1

place left leg back inward bend right leg.............. 2

Pause ..................................................   3-4

3.

5-	4 double arm circle inward and close left leg to right. • 1

bend knees deep and swing arms forward................. 2

Pause .................................................... 3-4

4.

With placing bells on floor...........................

Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways Pause .................................................

5.

Swing left arm sideward....................................

1-4 turn left to support lying sideways look at left hand .... Pause ......................................................

6.

1-4 turn right as in position 5............................

Placing left support bell on floor.........................

Pause .....................................................

7.

Return to knee bend, bells on floor.........................

Lunge left sideward and swing left arms oblique sideupward

right arm oblique side downward.........................

Pause ......................................................

Digitized by VjOOQlC

1

2

3-4

1

2

3-4

1

2

3-4

1

2

3-4
844

8.

1-2 turn left and swing right leg and right arm sideward

upward (arms upward)...................................... 1

Swing arms forward downward and close right leg to standing

position ................................................. 2

Pause .....................................................   3-4

1-8

Repeat exercise left again.................................. 1-64

Exercise II

1................................................................

5-4 double arm circle right and swing right leg sideward....	1

Step right sideward to a straddle stand, arms right sideward	2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

2................................................................

4-4 double arm circle right.................................... 1

Lunge left sideward bend trunk left sideward and 1-2

arm circle left (left hand support	on floor).............. 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

3.

1-4 turn left straighten trunk swing left arm upward.......	1

Lunge left forward arms oblique	foreupward..................... 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

4.

4-4 double arm circle forward	downward......................... 1

Place left foot backward bend right knee and placing

support bells on floor.................................... 2

Pause .....................................................   3-4

5.

Straighten right leg backward to support lying frontward.... 1

squat to a support lying rearways......................... 2

Pause ......................................................  3-4

6.

1-4 turn right to support lying sideways and swing left

arm upward ............................................... 1

1-4 turn right to support lying front ways..................... 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

7.

Jump to a squat stand.......................................... 1

Lunge right forward and swing right arm oblique fore upward left arm oblique backward........................... 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

8.

Swing left leg backward and swing left arm foreupward........ 1

Close left leg and swing arms fore downward to standing

position ................................'................ 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

Repeat exercise right again together.........................1-62

Exercise III

1.

Place left foot backward swing arms forward.................... 1

Digitized by Cj ooQle
845

Swing arms upward.................................... 2

Pause ............................................. 3-4

2.

Swing left leg forward	lower	arms	forward.................... 1

Lay out left forward lower trunk forward and swing

arms backward	(trunk	and	arms	in	line)....... 2

Pause ...................................................   3-4

3.

Straighten trunk, swing right leg forward and swing arms

foreupward................................................... 1

Lunge right forward, kneel left and lower arms sideward.... 2 Pause ...................................................... 3-4

4.

Straighten legs and close right leg to left, swing arms side

upward ................................................   1

Lower trunk forward, swing arms forward downward placing support bells on floor.............................. 2

Pause ..................................................... 3-4

5.

Raise left leg backward and bend right leg to balance stand

(bells remain on floor, movement	in 4 counts)	1,2,3,4

6.

Jump on left leg swing right leg backward change position.... 1 Pause .....................................................2,3,4	•

7.

Straighten trunk, lunge right forward and swing arms oblique

foreward upward.......................................... 1

1-2 turn left, bend trunk backward, lower arms sideward. ..	2

Pause ..................................................... 3-4

8.

Swing right leg backward, swing	arms	sideward upward.. l

Close right leg, swing arms forward down to standing position ................................................. 2

Pause ..................................................... 3-4

1-8 Repeat exercises left again	together..................1-64

Exercise IV

1.

1-4 turn right, lunge right forward and swing arms oblique forward upward............................................... 1

1-2 turn left change knee-bend and bend trunk backward and swing arms sideward...................................... 2

Pause .......................................................... 3-4

2.

Straighten trunk, swing right leg and arms forward................ l

Bend left knee placing bells on floor (right leg remaining in forward position)........................................ 2,3,4

3,

Straighten left knee, raise arms forward (slowly) right leg remaining in forward position.............................. 1,2,3,4

Digitized by vjjOOQIC
846

Lower trunk forward, raise right leg backward (slowly)

to a balance stand on left leg, arms sideward ...... 1,2,3,4

Straighten trunk, swing right leg forward and swing arms

forward	upward........................................ 1

1-2 turn left place right leg backward bending left knee and placing support bells on floor (lay out right backward) ................................................ 2

Pause ................................................... 3-4

6.

Raise body straighten left leg swing arms forward.............. 1

1-4 turn right, swing right arm sideward....................... 2

Pause ....................................................... 3-4

7.

Raise right leg sideward, lower trunk left sideways to a balance and sideways on left leg and lay right arm

on right side of body................................. 1,2,3,4

8.

Raise trunk,	swing	arms	sideward,	upward......................  1

Close right leg and swing arms forward down to standing

position	................................................ 2

Pause ......................................................... 3-4

1-8

Repeat exercises	right	again	together.......................  1-64

Exercise V

1.

1-4 turn left, swing left leg forward and swing arms forward, 1 lay out left forward and bend arms (left arm on back

right arm in front of face)............................. 2

Pause ..................................................... 3-4

2.

Straighten right leg, straighten left arm backward, right

arm forward............................................. 1

4-4 double arm circle (right arm forward down left arm

backward upward) and lunge right........................ 2

Raise right arm oblique forward upward left arm oblique

backward downward....................................... 3

Pause ....................................................... 4

3.

4-4 double arm circle as before.............................. 1

Lay out right backward, arms oblique forward. and backward .........................................*........ 2

Pause .........................................-........... 3-4

4.

1-4 turn right, straighten left leg, swing right arm downward and (without stop)............................~... 1

Swing arms oblique sideward up and sideward down and place

left foot backward inward............................... 2

Pause ...................................................   3-4

Digitized by v^ooele
847

5.

Double arm circle inward..................................... 1

1-2 turn left lower trunk forward bending right leg (to lay out left sideward) arms obliquely left sideward (arms

and left leg in line) head turned to the left............ 2

Pause ..................................................... 3-4

6.

Raise trunk, 3-4 turn, swing left leg and lay out left backward ................................................... 1

Swing left arm oblique forward upward right arm oblique

backward downward........................................ 2

Pause ...................................................   3-4

7.

Straighten right leg backward and placing support bells on

floor to support lying frontways......................... 1

Squat to support lying rearways.............................. 2

1-2 turn right to support lying frontways.................... 3

Jump to a straddle stand....................................  4

8.

1-4 turn left, swing arms backward and bend right leg....	1

Swing arms forward and jump forward, bend knees.............. 2

Straighten knees and swing arms forward down to standing

position ................................................ 3

Pause .....................................................   4

1-8

Repeat exercise again..................................... 1-64

Mens Class Lawrence Turnverein, Lawrence, Mass.

By Fritz Knorr.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Apparatus: Two parallel bars The line up: 12 men.

Part One Exercise 1.

From a cross stand frontways; jump to support. Straddle seat.

Upper arm stand.

Roll forward to straddle seat.

Front vault to cross stand.

Exercise 2.

Jump to support. Straddle seat.

Upper arm stand.

Roll forward to straddle seat.

Swing right leg backward between bars 1-2 turn right to

straddle seat.

Leg swing over opposite bar and dismount with 1-2 turn.

Digitized by Google
848 Exercise 3.

1.	Jump to support.

2.	Swing and dip swing forward to straddle seat.

3.	Upper arm stand..

4.	Straight roll forward.

5.	Kipp with leg swing over opposite bar 1-4 turn to leaning rest.

6.	Front vault to cross stand.

Exericse 4.

1.	Hand hang kipp.

2.	Dip swing forward.

3.	Upper arm stand.

4.	Straight roll forward.

5.	Straight roll backward.

6.	Kipp with leg swing over opposite bar 1-4 turn to leaning rest.

7.	Squat vault to side stand rearways.

Exercise 5.

1.	Hand hang kipp.

2.	Dip swing hand jump forward to straddle seat.

3.	Handstand.

4.	Upper arm stand.

5.	Straight roll forward.

6.	Glide kipp.

7.	Drop to inverted upper arm hand and kipp.

8.	High back swing and front vault.

Exercise 6

2.	Hand hang kipp.

2.	Dip swing and hand jump forward.

3.	Upper arm stand.

4.	Straight roll forward.

5.	Swing rise.

6.	Dip swing and scissors forward.

7.	Hand stand.

8.	1-2 turn dismount to cross stand.

Part Two

Exercise 1.

1.	Running start, jump to upper arm hang swing.

2.	Raise legs to inverted hang

3.	Kipp to straddle seat

4.	Change hand to front, swing and straddle jump forward to cross stand rearways

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Exercise 2 Upper arm hang swing Swing rise on backward swing Upper arm stand Straight roll forward Kipp to straddle seat Swing and straddle jump forward

Digitized by

Google
849

Exercise 3

1.	Upper arm hang swing

2.	Kipp to upper arm stand

3.	Straight roll backward.

4.	Kipp to straddle seat.

5.	Swing and straight roll forward to cross stand rearways.

Exercise 4.

1.	Upper arm hang swing.

2.	Swing rise at forward swing.

3.	Upper arm stand

4.	Straight roll backward.

5.	Kipp to upper arm stand.

6.	Roll to straddle seat.

7.	Swing to hand stand

8.	Jump off with 1-4 turn to sidestand.

Exercise 5.

1.	Upper arm hang swing.

2.	Swing rise at forward swing.

3.	Handstand.

4.	Upper arm stand.

5.	Straight roll forward.

6.	Straight roll backward to support and straddle seat.

7.	Hand in front of right leg; 4-4 turn right, (right leg circles backward)

8.	Swing to hand stand.

9.	Straddle jump to cross stand.

Exercise 6

1.	Upper arm hang swing.

2.	Swing rise at forward swing.

3.	Hand stand

4.	Upper arm stand.

5.	Straight roll backward.

6.	Kipp and straight roll forward.

7.	Swing rise and scissors backward.

8.	Swing right leg backward between bars to 1-2 turn and straddle seat.

9.	Swing to handstand.

10.	Straddle jump to crosstand rearways.

HEALTH FOR THE SWIMMER

No one can deny that swimming is among the most healthful of exercises, but swimming pools and bathing beaches are not always healthful places. Both the swimmer and the swimming pool operator must take certain precautions if the pool is to be made a safe place for swimmers.

A committee of the American Medical Association has made a study of swimming hygiene and has recently issued a number of recommendations.

Digitized by VjOOQIC
850

Swimmers are warned to stay out of pools if they have colds, head infections or catarrh, since swimming and diving tend to force infection into the sinuses or ears, resulting in serious and sometimes fatal consequences.

In-breathing when the head is more or less submerged, diving feet first with nostrils open, blowing the nose, coughing or hawking into the tank are all forbidden under the committee’s rules.	'

A time limit for each bather of from forty-five minutes to an hour on the use of the pool is advised so that (1) the number of bathers at any given time may be reduced, and (2) the loss of body heat due to chilling may be minimized. Sitting around in wet bathing suits is especially warned against by the committee.

The following rules for bathers should be posted in conspicuous places about all swimming pools, according to the committee’s suggestion:

Rules For Bathers

In order to maintain proper standards and protect the health of patrons it is necessary to insist upon observance of the following rules, which are approved and their strict enforcement required by the State Board of Health.

• Warning: Persons with colds, head infections, “running nose or ears,” and catarrh are warned that swimming and diving tend to force the infection into sinuses or ears and to result in serious if not fatal complications.

Safety Limit. Bathers must not stay in this pool longer than one hour.

1.	All bathers shall use shower baths, including soap if necessary, before entering the plunge. (The plunge is not intended as a bath tub.)

2.	Bathers who have been outside the bath house or plunge enclosure shall not reenter without passing through a foot bath and using a shower.

3.	Bathers shall be forbidden to wear private bathing suits that are not properly laundered. Light colored or undyed wool is suggested.

4.	Women shall wear caps while in the plunge.

5.	Persons not dressed for bathing shall not be allowed on walks surrounding the plunge, and bathers shall not be allowed in the places provided for spectators.

6. No person suffering from a fever, cold, cough, or inflamed eyes shall be allowed the use of the plunge. (These disorders may be transmitted to others.)

7.	No person with sores or other evidence of skin disease or who is wearing a bandage of any kind, shall be allowed the use of the plunge. (A bandage may conceal a source of infection.)

8. Spitting in or in any other way contaminating the plunge, and spitting on floors, runway, aisles or dressing rooms shall be prohibited.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
851

9.	Public combs or brushes shall not be furnished and such articles left by bathers shall be permanently removed.

10.	Eating within the plunge enclosure shall be prohibited.

11.	Bringing or throwing into the plunge any objects that may in any way carry contamination, endanger safety of bathers, or produce unsightliness shall be prohibited.

The majority of our patrons will observe these rules of their own accord and will render us a great service by reporting any infractions to the attendants. Any person failing to comply with the above rules will be immediately expelled and denied the future privileges of the bath house.

Hygeia.

• ■■ ■■	«>

News, notes and comments

■k——	 <l»

In the Sierra Educational News we read of this rather risky performance undertaken in the name of Health. The notice is by Mr. Orson Ryan, superintendent of schools, Logan, Utah.

Health Education in Logan, Utah, occupies first place not only in theory, song, and story, but in actual doing. Within recent months all the children of the Logan schools participated in a unique Cross-Country Run. The rules and conditions of the run are as follows:

Rules and Regulations for Scout-Pace Rttce

This is to be a contest between schools of the city. The school averaging the most miles per pupil enrolled for the week will be the winner. A child can not count more than one mile per day.

The object of the race is to improve the children’s health.

All records must be made before breakfast.

Scout Pace

Run 50 steps, walk 50 steps—repeat.

The aim	is	for each child	and each	teacher to run	one

mile per day	if	his health will	permit.

One mile	is	interpreted as	being two	times around a	city

block. Each	child who rounds	a block twice will record	one

mile for his school. Those rounding a block once will record 1-2 mile for their school. Those children capable of doing two sides of a block will record 1-4 mile for their school. Children with deformities, ill health, etc., may be taken the distance for a record, by a fellow pupil or teacher, in a wheelbarrow, wagon, or on a bicycle.

Digitized by LaOOQle
852

A 5,000-Mile Run

The results of this novel health-activity race, as shown by the following tabulation, are both gratifying and startling:

School	Enrollment	Total	Average

miles run distance each child ran during

tli© week

Benson School ................247	1331	5.196	miles

Ellis School ................. 95	483	4.944	miles

Whittier School.............. 249	1167	4.686	miles

Webster School............... 120	496	1-2	4.134	miles

Woodruff School.............. 547	1917	3.504	miles

Total	 1258	5396	4.493	miles

The fact that 1258 children ran a total distance of 5396 miles during the week is a record. This novel run met with such hearty approval of teachers, children and parents that it has been made an annual event.

The fourth annual all-students track meet under the auspices of the Massachusetts state department of physical education was carried out by the physical education department of 14 high schools. Competition was restricted to the boys and girls of the two upper classes. For boys, the events were the 100 yard dash, the high jump and the broad jump; for girls, the 50-yard dash, the high jump and the basketball throw.

Certificates were awarded by the state department to 25 pupils making the highest individual scores.

It was demonstrated that the average schoolboy cannot run 100-yards under 11 seconds or broadjump 15 feet. Average performances for boys and girls in the schools that made the tests follow:

Average Performances

Class A

Brockton ................369

N. Adams.................102

Watertown ...............103

Milton .................  67

Natick .................  83

Norwood ................. 73

Chicopee ...............  65

Waltham .................120

Needham ................. 52

No. Easton .............. 35

Wellesley .............   43

Essex ..................  16

Westford ................. 5

Total ................1133

100	Broad	High
Yds	ft. in.	ft. in.
12.8	14 3	4 3
12.5	14 10	4 4
12.8	15 2	4 2
12.9	14 4	4 3
12.8	14 8	3 11
12.9	13 11	4 1
13.4	13 0	3 10
13.4	13 5	3 10
12.8	14 2	4 2
. 13.0	14 5	4 2
13.4	12 2	3 10
12.6	14 5	3 6
12.3	16 1	4 8

Digitized by LjOOQie
868

Class A		50  Yds.	High Jump ft. in.	Basket Ball ft. in.
Brockton 			412	7.7	3 1	38 1
No. Adams			155	7.9	3 5	45 0
Norwood 			104	7.6	3 3	38 0
Natick 			 86	8.2	3 2	35 2
Chicopee 			 96	9.0	3 3	40 10
Watertown 			100	8.9	3 0	31 0
Waltham 			102	8.0	3 0	44 0
Fairhaven 			 68	7.8	3 2	45 0
No. Easton 			 54	7.8	3 2	35 0
Wellesley 			 57	8.0	2 8	35 0
Needham 					 54	8.0	3 1	35 6
Essex 			 20	9.5	2 7	29 7
Fairhaven 	  Total 			 91  	1399	8.0	3 0	41 9

Washington, D. C. appears to be experimenting along lines that are questionable. In the “Star” we read as follows: Supt. of Schools Frank W. Ballou will submit to the Board of Education, at its next meeting, October 7, an outline of the proposed combined physical and military training course for the boys in the junior high schools.

The course has been drafted by a special committee of school military officials and physical training officers, headed by First Assistant Supt. Stephen E. Kramer, and if approved by the board, probably will be put into effect immediately.

Physical rather than the military phase of the training will be stressed in the new course, although the boys will be given sufficient foot and squad movements to entitle them to one year’s credit for military work when they enter the senior high schools. Guns will not be used by the junior high schools.

Groups similar to the cadet companies in the senior high schools will be organized in junior institutions for the military training. The committee gave considerable thought to the question of uniforming the junior high school boys, but failed to reach a definite decision. The school board probably will be asked to decide this matter.

The failure of the last Missouri legislature to apportion money for the physical education program that it had endorsed means that sufficient funds must be raised by private subscription. In the Springfield, Mo. Leader we read that eight or nine thousand dollars in addition to about that amount already pledged or secured will be necessary to carry on the physical education program of Missouri public schools until April, 1927.

Digitized by v^ooQie
854

Dr. George W. Orton, director of sports for the Sesqui-Centennial Celebration of the independence of the U. S. has iust issued a little pamphlet of the games and sports to be held at Philadelphia next summer. The exposition opens June 1st and closes December 1st. All interested persons should write for the program,—addressing P. 0. Box 1527, Philadelphia.

According to the Detroit News—The women’s physical education department of the University of Michigan has added four new instructors to its staff. They are Miss Laurie Campbell, who will have charge of the interclass hockey tournament. Miss Ruth Figge, a Minnesota graduate and late of the Margery Webster school of physical education; Miss Pauline Hodgson, who is to organize the teams at the women’s houses, and Miss Annis Hall, who will organize elective rifle practice for women.

Recently the Playground Association of America sent out a bulletin to recreation executives and officials asking for an expression of opinion on the following statement: “I believe that the giving of cash or merchandise prizes for the promotion of play and recreation activities should be discouraged.”

In answer to this states Bulletin No. 1182, one hundred workers voted “Yes”, three “No”, while eight stated they were in favor of merchandize prizes.

A number of interesting comments were made by those, sending in votes. One recreation executive stated that his department was operating one hundrd and two teams, and in no case is a team or individual given any prize. In one or two instances a perpetual cup is loaned for a year to a winning team, but this cup does not become the property of the team. A second executive writes, “In our city we have kept away from the giving of any sort of prizes whatever in our playground and athletic activities. Our first experience was last summer and we enjoyed a very successful season of competitive athletics without the giving of any prizes.”

While the great majority of workers stated they were in favor of the use of banners, medals, placques and ribbons as substitutes for cash and merchandise prizes, a few suggested that there were certain occasions when the giving of merchandise prizes was not undesirable. These exceptions relate in the main to such events as club and community picnics, Hallowe’en celebrations, special activities such as doll shows, pet shows, music and dramatic contests. It was the feeling of those who felt merchandise prizes were permissible in rare instances that such prizes should be inexpensive.

One executive stated it as his belief that prizes are necessary for the following reasons: Children will not choose the games, sports and activities that will produce the most good. They will try the first thing at hand or the first suggestion of the gang leader, and very often these activities are most

Digitized by VjOO^IC
855

undesirable. For this reason the recreation worker who would guide the greatest number of children into games and activities productive of the greatest good must use the incentive which will make these forms of play the most popular. Prizes help in bringing this about.

On the whole, the answers received showed a strong reaction against cash prizes and a desire to substitute for merchandise prizes, wherever possible, trophies, ribbons, badges and similar awards.

HEALTH’S GOLDEN AGE

Three former British Prime Ministers, Asquith, Balfour and MacDonald have joined with prominent physicians and hygienists to bring about what they describe as “a golden age of health.” They announce their belief that “a new race can be created by a new way of life.” In December a new society will be launched under their leadership, which will start at once on a nation-wide campaign of propaganda to promote the undertaking.

The three elderly Britishers may be fulfilling Joel’s prophecy of the time when old men shall dteam dreams and young men shall see visions. In any event, it is a good dream. There is no telling what might come of a skillful and energetic campaign for universal good health. For one thing, it could not possibly encounter any of the resentments, reluctances, antipathies or enmities that overwhelm so many other great under- * takings. There isn’t much chance for a racial, political or national issue in good health, for every one wants it and no one objects to any one else having it.

It may be that the wily statesmen have hit upon precisely the" cause that has some competency as a universal social solvent. If the entire human race could forget all other questions for the time being and unite to bring good health to abound everywhere in the earth, we might find presently that most of our so-called problems had disappeared. There is good ground for the supposition in the opinion recently published by a prominent physician that all our really great and grievous problems are due to sickness. Men go to war because they are suffering from dyspepsia. They hate each other because of bile or jaundice or hardening of the arteries and the like. The pathology of crime is well understood by the pathologist and yet we go about punishing the crime instead of curing the disease. Juvenile crime has been traced very accurately to all sorts of malnutritions, suppressions, inhibitions and poverties. “The New Health Society” may be just what all the world is waiting for.—	Public Ledger,	Philadelphia.

,New York, Oct. 30. At a special meeting of the Committee on Women’s Athletics at A. A. U.- headquarters held in New York City on October 30th it was voted to increase

Digitized by ^ ^■oogle
856

the maximum distance for girl athletes from 110 yards to 220.

When the Amateur Athletic Union decided three years ago to take supervision of women’s athletics they decided at the same time that 110 yards was all any girl athlete was capable of running without jeopardizing her health.

• “After a careful study of the situation,” says the report, "we have come to the conclusion that there is no reason why girls should not be able to run the 220”

It was brought out that in European countries girl athletes frequently run 1000 meters, and that many of them compete in cross-country runs. But for the time being it was decided by the Committee of Women’s Athletics to let it go at 220 yards.

The Sub-Commission of the Italian Ministry of War charged with the examination of pre-military education among Italians has recommended obligatory physical education throughout Italy. The commission urges establishment of chairs of physical education in various universities which will work toward development of a class of competent instructors.

A central unit, working in conjunction with the ministries interested, would organize the country-wide sporting federations as the essential branch in imparting the physical and pre-military education.

The report is extensive and covers examinations made in various parts of Italy by the army in the admission of recruits coming under the compulsory military service act. Physical deficiencies must not only be corrected but prevented by early physical education the report says.

Wisconsin has a new law requiring that pupils attending the public schools must spend two and one-half hours each week in physical education; this besides time given to recesses.

The law provides for supervision of instruction in physical education from the office of the state superintendent of public instruction.

Normal schools and teachers’ colleges must prepare their students for directing playground work and games with special reference to physical education.

HEALTH EDUCATION

In 1911 the American Medical Association initiated a movement in which the great national associations of physicians (American Medical Association) and of teachers (National Education Association') are cooperating in an effort to bring about a betterment of tne health conditions of schools and pupils, and also a more effective training and education of children in health. The movement has been conducted by a joint committee on Health Problems in Education consisting of nineteen educators and five physicians. Reports have been issued

Digitized by

Google
857

by this committee from year to year on various phases of school health.

The most recent, elaborate and important of these was presented to the National Education Association at its meeting held in Washington early in July of this year and was adopted by that association. The report is entitled “Health Education —A Program for Public Schools and Teacher Training Institutions.” It was drafted by a group of twenty-seven technical experts appointed by the joint committee, and was then carefully reviewed by the joint committee before formal approval. The technical group, carefully selected, consisted of nine educators and three representatives from each of the following fields of activity: educational psychology, physical education, medicine, dentistry, nutrition, biology and public health.

The report is not a set of health exercises, not a formal curriculum or course of study in health, nor is it a textbook on health education. It is a broad, comprehensive discussion of the fundamental principles which must serve as the basis of a school health program. The general purpose and character of the report may be inferred from the brief introduction which sets forth the “Aims of Health Education” as follows:

1. “To instruct children and youth so that they may conserve and improve their own health.

2.	“To establish in them the habits and principles of living, which, throughout their school life and in later years, will assure that abundant vigor and vitality which provide the basis for the greatest possible happiness and service in personal, family and community life.

3. “To influence parents and other adults, through the health education program for children, to better habits and attitudes, so that the school may become an effective agency for the promotion of the social aspects of health education in the family and community as well as in the school itself.

4.	“To improve the irydividual and community life of the future; to insure a better second generation, and a still better third generation; a healthier and fitter nation and race.”

The great possibilities of modem hygiene and sanitation are becoming known to the general public. The practical benefits of this new knowledge will be fully realized only when the habits of individuals and the customs of communities as a whole are made to conform to this scientific knowledge.

DRILLS, DRILLS.

In the eyes of some of our medical friends drills seem to have a greater value than some of the other work that is being emphasized by teacher-physicians. The following letter sent to one of the teachers of physical education in the Philadelphia high schools is such a frank assumption on the part

Google
868

of the writer that a physician knows so much more about exercise than does a mere physical training teacher, that we asked for permission to publish it, omitting the names. The various physical education normal schools also might get a valuable pointer or two from the letter. Editor, M. &. B.

Philadelphia, Oct. 13, 1925.

My dear Miss:

It is my earnest	desire	that Meta	Cox,	11 A, be	taken

out	of the '“dancing”	class.	It is true	that	she sprained her

ankle on the playground last year, and had to keep it bandaged with adhesive plaster for many weeks, and that it is not yet	strong. It is also	true that, if she	were	to turn it	again

and	lose time from school, it	would be a serious matter.	This

is her great dread. But it is not my chief reason.

For some years I was physician to the city Y. W. C. A. gymnasium. During this time I watched the work of the girls, and joined in such of the exercises as were not familiar to me from my college experience. And I found that the dances, especially those that involved skipping, were harder on the heart than any other parts of the work with the possible exception of the heavy jumping in apparatus work. And in apparatus work the girls jumped and then rested while the others took their turns, while in the dancing the work was continuous. My general direction to the girls always was, to drop out of any exercise as soon as they felt that they needed to open their lips to get enough air, and this seemed to occur oftenest in dancing. The other night Meta was showing us the dance she is now practicing, and as she dropped into her chair, her mother exclaimed—‘‘Why, you are all out of breath!” I said nothing for I knew it was to be expected. (By the way, Meta says she gets out of breath when about half way up the ropes, and can go no higher. That is an indication that that, also is an exercise she should not take, though she would be loath to give it up.)

Now, what the average school girl needs is drills—drills, drills, drills. If the dance teaches co-ordination, so, in greater degree, do the drills—dumb bell, Indian club, Indian wand, and best of all, the regular “setting-up” drills. I realize that your equipment is not sufficient for the number of girls you have, and it is hard to arrange these things when not all the work can be done in the gymnasium. But a very good substitute for dumb bells is to clench the fist while exercising, and light broom handles will do very well for Indian wands. Indian clubs are hard to substitute, but the setting-up exercises require no equipment and it would be an advantage, rather than a disadvantage, if the girls had these exercises every day of their gymnasium life.

Meta is growing round-shouldered, but nothing seems to be done that is corrective for that. One of my friends, whose little girl is, I think, in 9B, was asking me the other day what Meta was doing in gymnasium. He said he had looked for-
859

ward to it hopefully for his daughter who needed it, but, so far, she had had no work that was calculated to do her good.

I do not mean that your gymnasium work is any worse than others. The prevailing tendency nowadays is towards showy work rather than towards really corrective exercises. One of my medical friends was just telling me that she had had to remove a number of her patients from various gymnasiums. I am hoping not to be obliged to do this for Meta. She does not have a weak heart now but I do not want to run any risk of having it weakened, that I .can avoid.

One reason for the prevailing tendency in gymnasium work seems to me to be due to the lack of thorough training in physiology in the schools for physical culture. As each new director came into the Y. W. C. A. I asked her if she knew how to listen to hearts, and what to listen for. I used to have them come in when I was examining the girls, and listen to any peculiarities, but especially to the type we had oftenest—weak muscles, due to a general lack of tone in the musculature of the body. Also, I would get a beef’s heart from the market, have them come to my office, and dissect it for them. I think only one had ever seen the valves, or had their action explained. But I understand you have had work in our College up-town, so you have probably had this work. If not, I will do it for you if you wish.

We all want to work together for the very best results for all our girls, I know.

MAKE IT A GAME—NOT A WAR

Editorial in Philadelphia Public Ledger, Dec. 6, 1925.

It has been evident for several autumns that such another storm. as hit the game some twenty years ago was gathering about the head of college football. Increasing public interest in the sport was causing uneasiness to responsible heads of the greater colleges and universities. The cry of “commercialism in football” was taking the place of the charge of “professionalism” that rang so loudly on the eve of football’s first ‘'reform.”

As the 1925 season closed it was clear that storm was threatening to break. Public interest had increased. Record-breaking crowds everywhere were usual. New stadiums built for the public must be paid for, and it was plain that many teams had played schedules arranged to “get the money.” Football “heroes” and teams had been carefully “built up” with a seeming eye to gate receipts. Expenses of football, with its coaching staffs, “scouts” and its financial machinery, had increased.

With all this came an undue emphasis on football, felt by the players as well as the colleges. There was a time when only the Old “Grad” broke his heart over defeats or exulted

Digitized by

Google
860

over victory. Now the public makes its interest felt. The players have beome helmeted gladiators in modem public stadiums. A winning touchdown may make a national “hero” of a 20-year-old sophomore, but a dropped punt or an error in a quarterback’s judgment may mark another youngster for life.

Intensive training as severe as that demanded of raw troops in wartime has become vital. Savage demands are made upon the physical stamina of players. Recently spring training has been the custom in many squads. Pre-season practice is often started in late summer. As one former Harvard player puts it, the fun has gone out of football. A weary grind has taken its place. Football was once a game. It has become a war.

The universities that make their football teams a means of advertising themselves to the world have created their own Frankenstein monsters. They have caused the over-emphasis on football now deplored in many colleges and which many educators realize must be lessened. This has unquestionably led to such incidents as Grange, of Illinois, walking out of that university in his senior year and selling his playing skill to the highest bidder. While such changes from an amateur to a professional status may in time cure a part of the evil by swinging the interest from college to professional games, their present effect is deplorable. Outside the world of sports it will hardly be denied that Grange, of Illinois, has dealt football its hardest blow in years.

The over-emphasis recognized for years by some universities and partly corrected by them has extended into most schools where the game is played. It is manifest in the little as well as bigger colleges, in preparatory schools and public high schools. According to their means and opportunities, they are copying the great schools, overpaying their coaches, “discovering” players, “scouting” opposing teams, permitting pre-season training and demanding much of young muscles and boyhood’s stamina.

The colleges are the fathers of this, one of the greatest games ever played. They made it what it is and reformed it when reform was needed. It is their game, even now, despite all the professional leagues. Their alumni, themselves and the public have permitted it to overshadow at times other and more enduring activities of education. It is for them in the final analysis to say what shall be done.

They are alive to the dangers of the game. During the last year a minor college here and there has dropped football from its authorized sports. These were the storm signals that preceded football’s first reformation. These, with the debates in the Harvard Union, the clashing exchanges of opinion in the Yale, Harvard and Princeton student dailies and the frequent protests from faculty members, reveal the growing revolt against the evil influences on a great sport.

Enemies of football and advocates of its abolition are few and negligible. Undoubtedly it will continue, as it deserves

Digitized by

Google
861

to continue, the~great college game. It is the friends of football who are concerned about it now. They hope to see it stripped of its unhealthy intensity, its taint of commercialism and again to find in it more of sportsmanship and a little less of war.

ATHLETICS AND LIFE

An Editorial in “Liberty”

Are the professors right who deplore the prominence of athletics in college life?

We do not think they are. Of course,, any good thing can be overdone, but college athletics are not overdone nor is our interest in them exaggerated or unwholesome. It is complained that the alumni are responsible for the undue attention given to athletics and encourage a deplorable emphasis upon the college victories. It is hinted that there must be something wrong with American life and even with American education when grown men take such interest in the games of youth.

We think the alumni are more mature than their critics and that the source of their interest in athletics is experience of life. They have gone out from the schoolroom to struggle and to meet the resistance of things. The often quoted saying of Lord Wellington, that Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton, was the wisest saying of that great leader of men and it explains why the alumnus who has had to fight his own battle for success instinctively approves athletics.

For the lads who carry the honor of their school on the football field or the diamond or the track must have qualities which count in their after-life. They may fail for one reason or another. College stars seldom shine in later careers as they did in sport, we are told. But an athlete must practice real human virtues to hold his own. He must have self control and energy and some patience and willingness to take punishment, and we refuse to believe he can put on these qualities with his trunks or playing togs and not find them when he needs them in later life. Wellington knew what he was talking about. We would wager college athletes average well for character and real accomplishment, and our admiration for their boyish skill and pluck is good for us all, young and old.

The especial popularity of football is based on our natural and very valuable admiration for qualities which are useful in life, though, of course, we do not think out why we admire a daring play, a smashing offensive, or a dogged defense. But when Americans no longer thrill to the war cries of the packed stadium, and to the manly matching of brain and brawn on the playing field, we shall no longer be a great people and our sun will have set. A nation is made by what it admires and it is good for America to admire the beauty, the swiftness, and clean strength of athletic youth, its valor and its devotion.

Digitized by CjOOQLC
862

The alumni coming back to Alma Mater with many a bruise from fate and perhaps some hard-won rewards, may be conscious only of some very primitive emotions fired by human rivalry and sentiment, but they have learned that it is good to hit the line hard, to keep a clear head when things go wrong, and a brave heart.

Our hero worship of the athlete is not so foolish as it seems. It is as old as human intelligence. It has marked the highest civilizations. It is the instinctive recognition of the great law of life, which is struggle.

REPORT OF KINDERGARTEN CONVENTION

The strength and progress of the Kindergarten movement were evidenced during the Thirty-second Annual Convention of The International Kindergarten Union, held in Los Angeles, California, July 8th to 11th. At this meeting were gathered representatives from all parts of the United States and from seventeen foreign lands. This gathering of the nations in the cause of little children was especially emphasized on Delegates Day, July 10th, when, on the beautiful grounds of the University of California, Southern Branch, were massed hundreds of women educators, the native costumes of the foreign delegates contrasting vividly with the insignia and emblems of the various groups representing our own country. Those who witnessed this great pageant in its progress to Millspaugh Hall, where the reports of delegates were given, will never forget the beauty of the scene, the outbursts of applause over some new and unique feature, the sense of satisfaction that those great numbers of representative educators were asembled to report progress in the intelligent furthering of the cause of childhood.

The meetings, both general and special, emphasized the central theme of the Convention—"Evidences of the Effect of Training in Early Childhood.” Prominent speakers on the subject of Pre-School Child were Dr. Arnold Gesell of Yale University and Dr. Sheppard I. Franz of the University of California. A meeting dealing with the physical needs of the child and remedial measures was ad dressed by a group of physicians and was open to parents as well as to teachers. Conferences were also held dealing with special problems of training teachers, of Supervisors, and of Kindergarten and Primary Classroom teachers, while, at a symposium conducted by Dr. Mary Dabuey Davis, there were presented some of the actual results of studies of Kindergarten procedure in different parts of the country.

With the proverbial hospitality of California, the hosts provided for the comfort and enjoyment of their guests. The wonderful setting of sunshine and flowers and the romantic traditions of the Pacific Coast served to intensify all that was provided of a social character, including drives, receptions, state reunions, and the visit to San Pedro with the sail around

Google
863

Los Angeles Harbor, followed by a delightful open-air luncheon served by the Parent-Teacher Associations of that locality. Two social events of especial interest to the visitors were the courtesy luncheon on Delegates Day and the Symposium supper the final evening of the convention. The luncheon, served on the University grounds under gay awnings and to the strains of delightful melody, brought to all who were privileged to attend a very real sense of the satisfaction which comes to a guest when Nature and man join forces as hosts. The Symposium supper held in the ballroom of the Biltmore Hotel and attended by nearly eight hundred persons, furnished a fitting close to the week’s gatherings. Miss Boyce, President of the International Kindergarten Union, presided at this function and introduced as speakers notable guests from various parts of the country. A unique feature was provided by a group of Spanish Entertainers in native dress, who appeared at intervals during the evening and charmed all with song and Spanish dances.

The International Kindergarten Union with Headquarters in Washington, D. C., has 170 branches in this country and abroad aind is affiliated with the National Educational Association, The General Federation of Women’s Clubs, The National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations, and the National Council of Primary Education. The Official Journal of. this organization, Childhood Education, is a dignified publication devoted to a scientific study of the best interests of childhood.

Louise C. Sutherland.

HARNESSING ATHLETICS TO THE EDUCATIONAL WAGON

Herbert E. Hawes, Dean, Columbia College of Columbia University.

I have often emphasized in one form or other the conviction that Columbia College should educate the whole man; the physical, the social, the esthetic, the religious, the intellectual aspects, each in its appropriate manner. This does not mean that the College should attempt to segregate these traits from each other, but rather that in the entire scheme of education provided by the College each of them should have its place, and each should be approached in a manner in keeping with the main business of a liberal arts college. It would be easy enough to organize a number of units in each of which one of these aspects should receive exclusive attention. It is not so easy to keep them all harnessed in a team that pulls evenly and always in the direction of an orderly development of the entire personality.

Whethe- it is possible permanently to keep the athletic interests of a large and vigorous college harnessed to the educational wagon some are inclined to doubt. One fact, however, is certain. Unless the athletics of an institution are conducted on a high level of sportsmanship, by men of character who realize that

Digitized by Google
864

athletics are a vital though secondary element in an educational institution, they may well do more harm than good. An athletic policy which brings about in both the faculty and the athletic people a feeling that they are pulling in opposite directions is all too common in our colleges. It is, of course, inevitable that there will be a few members of any faculty who have a blind spot for athletics, just as some otherwise educated people have a blind spot for religion, or for art. But unless the athletic management also has a blind spot for studies, good character and sportsmanship, no controversy can arise.

There is a difference of opinion as to whether even the most desirable and successful athletic policy brings to a college the kind of students that the college most desires. Of course athletics attract athletes, but a college of athletes who are not primarily students is a damage instead of a blessing. In fact, I am inclined to think that among the elements that go to make the solid reputation of a college, athletic supremacy comes far down on the list in the minds of those, both young and old, whose judgment really counts. This means that the cultivation of athletics in the college should be in the interest of the part that it plays in the education both of players and of spectators. Unless athletics can take its place in the picture, in its proper perspective, and in cooperative relations with the rest of the college, trouble is certain to arise.

The sine qua non of the athletic program is a staff of coaches and managers who know a college when they see one, and who regard themselves and are regarded by all as a part of the teaching force of the institution, contributing through the medium of their subject the stimulus toward a healthy development of mind and character which athletics is best adapted to contribute. This we are fortunate enough to possess at Columbia. It is also necessary that there should be frequent conference between the athletic people and the more distinctly academic officers in order that both may continually understand each other.

From the Report to the President of Columbia University.

A laboratory has recently been established at the University of Pennsylvania, under the direction of Dr. Fernald, head of the Towne Scientific School of the university, where equipment for burning small-sized anthracite is being carefully tested and unbiased reports prepared for the benefit of the public generally. As a result of the tests conducted to date the laboratory has gone on record as recommending the magazine type of heater for burning buckwheat coal. This heater, it is stated, provides for obtaining the requisite draft without mechanical aid by the maintenance of a relatively thin fuel bed which reduces the resistance to the flow of air through the fuel. The magazine feature, it is added, serves to maintain the thin fuel bed.