MIND

Vol. 39

AND BODY

JANUARY, 1933	No.	409

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

“To be or not to be” is still a controversial question with regard to fundamental and conditioning exercises. Dean Emil Rath makes a strong and convincing argument in favor of such exercises in his article “Core Activities” which appears in this issue of Mind and Body. His belief that conditioning exercises not only best meet the physical needs of the body, but that they are essential for most people in preparation for the development or proficiency and consequent greater enjoyment in the more recreational types of activity, is convincing.

We believe Dean Rath’s article might with profit to all of us be taken as the starting point for a friendly educational discussion on both sides of the question. Mind and Body would be pleased to sponsor such a discussion and accordingly invites its readers to make comment. A topic of such vital importance to us all should stimulate some response.

Numerous and continued questions by teachers with regard to the use of visual aids in health education [hygiene] has suggested the value of a series of articles on that subject. Accordingly, the first article of such a series appears in this issue, dealing with blackboard illustrations and teaching devices. The article in the February issue will discuss the use and values of films, charts, and posters, while in March the uses of microscopic and gross specimens and class excursions will be considered.

The author of the three articles has enjoyed a successful and wide experience as classroom teacher, supervisor in elementary and higher schools,

Digitized by Google
274

and as instructor in a teacher training institution. We are happy to be able to present to our readers this material from his pen. Further, we are glad to report that he will be pleased to answer any questions on the topic which may be raised.

A reader, commenting on the editorial dealing with teacher training in the December issue, voiced the fear that if teacher training institutions should seriously consider and put into effect the preparation of teachers to teach two minors in addition to the special field of physical education, it would result in too superficial preparation to teach physical education. Unfortunately, that probably would occur in some institutions: as a matter of fact it has been going on in places for years. But such a condition need not be!

In connection with this subject we would like to reiterate a recommendation, which certainly is not original with us, that schools preparing teachers of physical education should set up more rigid entrance requirements so far as ability in practical activities is concerned. Students should already have developed many skills before admission.

We hope that with the great and continued increase in number of teacher training departments the competition for students will not become [or remain] so keen that unfit students will be admitted and allowed to graduate.

We wish Dean Sanford, University of Georgia, success in his effort to obtain a new definition of amateur.. Readers of Mind and Body are too familiar with our stand concerning the hypocrisy and unsound reasoning surrounding amateurism to make any lengthy comment by us necessary at this time. Dean Sanford urges the adoption of the Rhodes Scholarship rule by American colleges. He points out that Rhodes scholars, chosen for a combination of athletic and scholastic ability as well as leadership, go to England to study and are accepted in that country as true amateurs “despite the fact that their scholarship frankly comes in part from their athletic ability.” “If we adopt the rule governing the selection of Rhodes scholars as our definition of an amateur”, said the Dean, “a new day will dawn in college relations. Hypocrisy will disappear”.

Progress and Problems in Physical Education

By James Edward Rogers, National Physical Education Service.

For the past ten years no subject in the school curriculum has made more rapid progress than that of health and physical education. This was largely due to the army draft statistics which demonstrated that approximately one-third of our young manhood between the ages of eighteen and thirty-one had physical defects which made them unfit to go into uniform. This was a startling revelation of national physical illiteracy. Schools are now charged with the responsibility of providing for physical literacy as well as mental literacy.

In 1918 there were only eleven states with physical education laws and four states with state directors on the staff of state

Digitized by <^.ooQle
275

superintendents or commissioners of education. Today there are thirty-seven states with laws, representing ninety percent of the national population; thirty-two states with state syllabi and state programs, representing eighty percent of the population; and twenty-one states with laws, programs and state directors, representing seventy percent of the population. This rapid development has been largely due to the National Physical Education Service. Ten years ago there were approximately ten thousand physical educators in our universities, colleges, public and private schools; today there are approximately twenty thousand. In one state in the past ten years there has been over two hundred percent increase in the number of physical education teachers. There have been many other items of progress such as better training of teachers, increase in certification standards, better programs, etc.

Since 1920 the main job has been to put physical education into education. Much has yet to be done in this direction." At the-start7 superintendents and principals are most important physical education administrators because they can make physical education an integral fundamental part of the curriculum. It is they, also, who can give us the facilities and means with which to do a decent educational job. There are five essential criteria for the development of a physical education program in our public schools: [1] adequate indoor and outdoor facilities, [2] ample time allotment, [3] trained teachers, [4] ciedit for physical education, and [5] recognition as an integral part of the curriculum.

Space prohibits a discussion of each one of these items and the progress which has been made. For instance, there has been a remarkable development in facilities. Practically every modem junior and senior high school built within recent years has been equipped with adequate gymnasiums and playing fields. Many elementary schools have excellent indoor and outdoor facilities. We could give instances at length from many states and many cities such as Detroit, Trenton, Buffalo, Wilmington, Des Moines, Wichita. For instance, there are twenty-three swimming pools in the schools of Pittsburgh and twenty-two in Detroit. The average time allotment in senior high schools throughout the country is three periods a week; in junior high schools four periods a week and a daily thirty minute period in elementary. Many junior high schools have a daily sixty minute period making three hundred minutes for the w7eek. This was the recommendation in the Sixth Yearbook of the Department of Superintendence. Classroom teachers are being trained as physical education teachers in our state teachers’ colleges. So one could enumerate at great length the progress that has been made in the above five standards.

For the past ten years we have made progress in the job of putting physical education into education The job for the coming ten years is to put education into physical education. This task presents five criteria: [1] the need for organized worth

Digitized by v^ooQle
276

while programs, [2] the need for graded programs, [3] the need for programs based on individual needs, [4] programs based on educational procedures and with educational content, and [5] definite achievements and tabulation of results. These present the five problems facing the physical educator. Space again prohibits a detailed discussion of each. There has been fine improvement all along the line. We have many modem programs that carry out these five challenges, yet there are many places that as yet have no graded programs or programs based upon individual needs.

To summarize: there are two great outstanding problems to put physical education into education and to put education into physical education. For the past ten years progress has been made in both directions. However, we must do much more in the future.

WESTERN RANCH DANCE.

Dance by Littlefield Adapted by Martha Gable.

In the April issue we began the publication of a series of selected numbers from the Demonstration Program of the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

One of the outstanding parts of the program consisted of a group of six “Dances Representing Several Periods In American History”. The first and second dances in this group, the Indian Dance and the Colonial Dance respectively, appeared in the November and December issues. The Western Ranch Dance is the third in the group. The other three dances consisting of the Early Twentieth Century Dance, Syncopation Dance, and Modern Dance will appear in that order in subsequent issues. EDITOR.

Music—“Pony Boy”

Formation—Four flank ranks of 18 girls each, forming a cross. The girls in the alternate ranks are dressed in costume of cowboys and “cowgirls”.

Entering Steps	Counts

1.	Trotting forward in flank rank formation, one trot to each count. Each rank enters from its respective comer

[See Diagram I] toward the center ..................... 1-24

2.	Whole turn right in four falling steps on the right foot

[spinning step] .....................................25	-	28

3.	Three quarter turn left in three falling steps, and jump

with feet together on last count ....................29	-	32

Total Counts ..................................... 32

PART I	Counts

1.	Balance hop left with half turn left................. 1-2

2.	Step hop right with half turn left ................   3-4

3.	Step left rear of right .......................... 5

4.	Step right sideward -.............................and

Digitized by L^OOQle
277

5.	Step left front of right........................ 6

6. Step right sideward ............................and

7.	Step left rear of right ........................ 7

8. Step right sideward ............................and

9.	Step left front of right........................ 8

Note: This series of steps [5 - 8] is similar to the

"grapevine” executed twice to the same side.

10.	Balance hop right with half turn right ......... 9	-

11.	Swing hop left with half turn right ........... 11	-

12.	Repeat 5-6-7-8of above to opposite side ........13	-

13.	Repeat all. [Weight is on right foot across in front

of left] .......................................

Total Counts ...............................

10

12

16

i

16

32



PART II.

1. Step left, raise right knee, well turned out and pull toward right on left foot. Body is inclined toward left

[1 and]...............................................

2.	Step right, left knee raised, pull toward left [2 and] _

3.	Repeat [3 and 4 and] ...................................

4.	Two glides left sideward [5 - 6] .....................

5.	Step left sideward ...................................

6.	Raise right leg diagonally forward, hop on left foot,

bend body left diagonally backward and pull arms in as though on reins ......................................

7.	Repeat to opposite side ..............................

8.	Repeat all left and right ............................

[Finish with weight on right foot, left foot raised] Total Counts .......................................

1

2

3-4 v 5-6 7

8

9-16 17 - 32

32

Digitized by C^ooQle
278 PART III

1. Step left forward, bend left knee slightly, raise right

foot in rear of knee ................................. 1

2.	Step right backward.................................   2

3. Step left backward  ............................—.	and

4.	Repeat 1-3 above, beginning right .................. 3-4

5.	Step forward left [5], forward right [6], left [7], leap on

left foot and step right in quick succession and-8— 5-8

6.	Glide swing hop backward on left foot ............. 9-10

7.	Repeat right .....................................11	-	12

8.	Repeat left and right ............................13	-	16

9.	Repeat all........................................17	-	32

[Finish with weight on right foot, left foot raised forward] Total Counts....................................   32

PART IV

1. Hop on left foot, raise right leg in rear .................. 1

2. Hop on right foot, raise left leg in rear ................   2

3.	Repeat on left foot ............................... —	3

4.	Hop on left foot with half turn right on left foot with

bending right knee and straighten forward .................. 4

5.	Hop on left foot, bend right knee ........................ 5.

6.	Hop on left foot straighten right knee _................... 6

Repeat counts 5 and 6 .....................................7-8

7.	Repeat opposite ........................................ 9-16

8.	Repeat all........................................    17	-	32

Total Counts .................................   32

EXIT

1.	Hop on left foot, touch right foot to floor • ........ 1

2.	Hop on left foot, raise right knee forward ........... 2

3.	Repeat 1 and 2 beginning right ..................... 3-4

4.	Four glides, left sideward ......................... 5-8

>jag ram an

audience

Digitized by

Google
279

The leader of each line at the center turns left [counter turn] and leads line off as indicated in Diagram II.

5. Repeat three times ................................... 9-32

Total Counts .....................................   32

Change to flank rank formation and continue off floor with trotting step as [1] in the description of the Entering Steps.

PONY BOY

? * 1 - i^[ i i

mmwfm



p

+ 9 -W- z:

m

m



iBl

~9—W





m

m

w 9-

fTTJJ /Ji /J J Jljj^

r r

T

■y*-

uF ™

COSTUMES FOR WESTERN RANCH DANCE

Half of group are dressed as boys and half as girls.

Boys’ Costume

Pull length khaki trousers.

Checked gingham shirts with open neck and long sleeves. [One third use black and white checked gingham; one third use red and white checked gingham; and the other third use blue and white checked gingham]

Red bandanna kerchief tied in back.

Brown oilcloth belt 3 inches wide.

Brown oilcloth gauntlet 6 inches deep.

Brown khaki-cloth cowboy hat.

Digitized by Tooele
280

Girls’ Costume

Circular skirts of khaki, 17 inches from the floor.

Checked gingham shirts with open neck and long sleeves. [One third use black and white checked gingham; one third use red and white checked gingham; and the other third use blue and white checked gingham.]

Red bandanna kerchief tied in back Brown oilcloth belt 3 inches wide Brown oilcloth gauntlet 6 inches deep.

Brown oilcloth boots 18 inches deep and shaped like a loose legging.

Red Ribbon band on hair.

The State of the Public Health in England—From the returns published in the annual reoort of Sir George Newman, the Chief Medical Officer of the Ministry of Health, for 1931, it does not appear that the financial crisis and the trade depression have had any very marked effect upon mortality and morbidity rates in England and Wales.	^

Vital Statistics for Germany 1931—According to a report from the federal bureau of health, the live births in Germany for the year 1931 show a decrease of about 96,UUl> over 1930. This decrease is significant particularly in view of the steady decline in births which has been going on in recent years.	4

The number of deaths in 1931 showed an increase of 15,000 notwithstanding the fact that the reduction in births led one to anticipate a decrease of about 8,650 deaths. The infant mortality for 1931 was o.l below that of 1930.

FOREIGN NOTES
281

Health Education Notes.

Free Dispensary Service—The president of the New York County Medical Society two years ago estimated the dispensary service rendered free by. the doctors in this country to exceed one million dollars a day.

Health of the Country During the Depression—Dr. Louis I. Dublin, in discussing in the American Journal of Public Health, the continued low level of morbidity and mortality states: “I have speculated as to what underlies the satisfactory health picture, and will consider briefly some of the factors which are probably involved in the situation. There is first the favorable meteorological conditions which have prevailed. The weather was propitious both last winter and this summer, and as a result many people were able to lead an active outdoor life. In addition, there were no serious epidemics of disease. Influenza was less widespread this year than it has been recently; the cases that occurred were much less virulent and resulted in fewer attacks of pneumonia and other fatal complications. I would mention also changes in the mode of life which have been forced on many people during the depression and which probably contributed to better health habits. There has undoubtedly been less over-drinking and over-feeding. People have been less exposed to the hazards of machinery. Unemployment, much against their will, has brought them rest and leisure, more sunshine, and opportunities for outdoor exercise, all of which play a part in keeping people well.

“But I am inclined to believe that the most important factor in the situation is the continued and effective functioning of the health departments, the medical profession, and the social service agencies. These deserve our highest praise. They have all carried their heavy burdens cheerfully and have performed their tasks in a highly efficient manner. Especially valuable has been the educational work they have conducted for many years prior to the depression and which is now serving as a reservoir of knowledge upon which the public continues to draw.”

Nudism—We are expected to believe that ultraviolet hunger, so to speak, is the chief excuse for nudism. Obviously, there are other reasons for this cult, which is attaining considerable vogue in various parts of the world.

A subjective factor in would-be nudists inhibiting any great spread of this cult, more compelling than the conventional objections, is the inferiority complex that rules so much human behaviorism. In this case physical defects of all kinds, not discernible in the ordinary garments of civilization, put an effectual damper upon exposure in most instances; concealment is imperative.

Next in inhibiting order is the observer’s esthetic sense.

Digitized by U^ooQle
282

While the inferiority complex is not operative in all physically' defective persons, the esthetic sense generally says nay to a display, outside of the clinic, of pendulous breasts and abdomens, old sinuses, hirsuties, varicose legs, neoplasms, bizarre cysts, sprouting moles, ulcers, the thoracic ravages of empyema, spinal curvatures, bow legs, knock knees, rachitic sternums, the "heraldry” of chronic skin disease, hernias and indispensable orthopedic appliances and buttocks of weird design.

It is the very physical wrecks, conceded to need ultra violet benefits most, and constituting the great majority of those "sold” on nudism, who will be estopped from exposure by the two considerations just offered.

Normal people are not, as a class, susceptible to obsessions having to do with the maintenance of their health—certainly not the Anglo Saxon wing of the race.

Upon the whole, there is no need of excitement over this new cult. The best policy to pursue would be to let down all bars in order to kill a show the awfulness of which would prove its own nullification.

Were physical beauty a more common attribute nowadays we should be inclined to take a Grecian view of the matter to advise that we take off our shirts along with the nudists, and to page Mr. Praxiteles.—Lony Island Med. 7.

Complemental Feeding in Newborn—A comparison of the weight progress of breast-fed infants and those on carefully controlled complemental feedings shows that the latter usually regain their birth weight more rapidly than those exclusively breast fed.

Thirty-two per cent of breast-fed infants and 67 per cent of babies given breast milk with complemental feedipgs regain their birth weight on or before the tenth day of life.

When the amount of complemental food is carefully regulated by measuring the intake of breast milk and if it is not given when the breast supply becomes sufficient and never until the breast supply is exhausted, this practice apparently has no adverse influence on the ultimate breast flow. When complemental feedings are given freely or before the baby has emptied the breasts, the breast supply is endangered, and this results in early weaning.— J. A. M. A.

The Committee on the Costs of Medical Care figured the Nation’s "medical dollar” is distributed as follows:

Physicians in private practice, 29.8 cents.

Hospitals, 23.4 cents.

Dentists, 12.2 cents.

Medicines, 18.2 cents.

Public Health, 3.3 cents.

Nurses, 5.5 cents.

Cultists, 3.4 cents.

All others, 4.2 cents.

Digitized by LjOOQle
283

It made the following comparison between the number of United States soldiers killed during the World War and those who lost their lives in this country in 1930 “through largely preventable causes:

Killed in war, 50,285.

Killed by tuberculosis, 88,088.

Killed by cancer, 119,818.

Infant deaths, 135,845.—[APJ

Mortality of Acute Appendicitis.—The hospital mortality of acute appendicitis in Philadelphia, before the prophylactic campaign was instituted in 1929, was 5.97 per cent; 5,121 patients were operated upon in 1928-1929 in 27 hospitals. Since the campaign, the mortality has declined: in 1930, 4.81 per cent.—3,095 cases in 28 hospitals; in 1931, 4.39 per cent.—3,142 cases in 28 hospitals. A reduction of over 1 per cent, which meant the saving of 34 lives in 1930, can be attributed to earlier hospitalization—12.8 hours over 1928-1929; a diminution in the percentage of peritonitis cases admitted, 7.3 per cent.; and a decrease in the mortality of spreading peritonitis, 7.78 per cent—Phila. Dept. Public Health.

Nutrition Value	Of Fish.—The Bureau of	Home Econom-

ics, Department of Agriculture stated recently that fish offer a low-cost food high in nutritional value and should be considered in the low-cost diet. The salt water product has a high iodine content and is especially valuable in the “goiter belt”, since iodine acts as a goiter preventive. It is also worthy of note that canned salmon will prevent pellagra.

Like other animal foods, fish flesh is rich in protein. It is also rich in minerals, especially in phosphorus. According to nutritionists of the United States Bureau of Fisheries, some kinds of fish, notably cod, salmon, haddock and sea herring, have been found to be good sources of vitamins A and D. The full vitamin value of canned salmon will be retained and the salmon flavor will be increased if the oil in the can is used in sauce for creamed or scalloped salmon, or in salad dressing.—	amd	Health

News.

Chewsticks.—Among the peoples of Asia and Africa the “chewstick” is the popular device for keeping the teeth clean. The chewstick is a stick of the arak tree, one end of which has been beaten by a hammer into the form of a "brush”. Often the chewstick is made by “chewing” the end of the stick of wood, or tapping it against a stone, till the end is a mass of separated fibres. The Moslem peoples use the chewstick, calling it the “miswak”. They use it as a religious duty, Mohammed having laid down the rules for its use. —Prophylactic Brush Co.

An examination of the values for iron and copper of the oyster, in comparison with the extended study of 120 different

Digitized by (^.ooQle
284

foods by Hodges and Peterson and of 110 different vegetables and fruits by Stiebeling shows that no other commonly used food except liver surpasses the oyster in the amounts of iron and copper which it furnishes to the diet by an average serving. We may therefore conclude that as a source of these two metals of blood building potency, the oyster is comparable only with liver. —American Journal of Public Health.

As regards heart disease, the statement of the Registrar-General of England made in 1928 is repeated that the “semblance of increase" in heart disease mortality is largely fictitious, being due to the increasing age of the population and the change in the practice of death certification which makes much more frequent record of degenerative changes in the heart muscle than was customary a few years ago. In the younger age groups in which rheumatism is a main factor, mortality from heart disease shows a considerable reduction.—American Journal of Public Health.

Humidification of Air in Rooms.—Wolf in ‘‘Hygiene and Bacteriology", Munich, first refers to an article by Bargers and Fleischer, who, after testing a large number of humidifiers, came to the conclusion that with the commonly recommended humidifiers it is impossible to increase the moisture content of the air in a room. He himself had tested several humidifiers at the Dresden Hygienic Institute. By means of hygrometers and psychrometers it was never possible to detect an increase in the moisture content of the air. He was induced to resume his tests by testimony given for a new humidifier by a scientist who claimed that his apparatus would increase the moisture by about 39 per cent. The efficacy of the humidifier was tested during the different seasons and always in the same room, which had a south exposure. During the winter there was steam heat. The author gives tables showing the results of his observations and he reaches the conclusion that persons who live in rooms with humidifiers have not the slightest benefit therefrom. The good effect that they think they derive from the humidifier is purely suggestive. For healthy persons the use of humidifiers is unnecessary. If for special reasons, such as for certain collections, a room has to be kept moist, a different method is necessary. Humidifiers on heat radiators are, with rare exceptions, ineffective.

In a newly issued leaflet entitled “Good Food for Little Money,” the American Child Health Association again reminds us that the less money a family has to spend, the more necessary it is to spend that money to the best advantage. Children must have proper food during their growing years. To satisfy hunger is not enough. If children do not get essentials for normal growth and development at this time, there is grave danger that they will suffer physically in later years.

Digitized by t^ooQle
285

A NEW INTERPRETATION OF THE FUNCTION OF VITAMINS A AND D

In view of the immense amount of advertising calling attention to vitamins [especially Vitamin D] and to light therapy [lamp and sunlight treatment] it should be noted that the last word has not been said with regard to the factors involved. An article appearing in the April, 1931 issue of the American Journal oj the Medical Sciences points out that certain functions and properties have probably been “too hastily ascribed to [some ofj the elusive vitamins.” The relation of the vitamins A and D in cod liver oil to bone growth and rickets is given a new interpretation.

For the benefit of those who do not have access to the article mentioned the following abstract of some of its main points has been prepared. A reading of the original is recommended.

The author, R. A. Harris, D. Sc., research worker in the Institute of Anatomy, University College Hospital, University of London, reviews the history of the therapeutic uses of cod liver oil with special reference to rickets and questions our “misplaced optimism in regard to vitamin therapy and the present state of knowledge of the chemistry of bone.”

The remedial properties of cod liver oil, he points out, enjoyed a wide reputation among the laity in various parts of the world for countless years before scientists recognized its value. Be claims that fat-soluble Vitamin A can not be “growth-promoting” since clinically a non-growing animal or child can not acquire rickets. The water soluble Vitamin B, he believes, is the factor controlling growth while the true purpose of Vitamin A is to “control differentiation of all tissues [including bone] for adequate function.” The small amount of Vitamin A in plants is attributed to their small need for masses of protoplasm having numerous functions. The cod fish, on the other hand, requires maximum concentration because of its enormous supply of eggs needing this material for their own multiformity of parts for diversity of function.

Another fallacy attacked by the author is that Vitamin A evolves through a vegetable cycle from the sun, i. e., from the sun to marine plants, to the fish living on the plants. It is shown that the cycle of Vitamin A is really carnivorous since fish do not live exclusively on vegetables, but prey on each other and on newly hatched and very young fish.

Sun worship, the craze for ultra violet lamps and window glass, and Vitamin D as an addition to foods are said to be ‘full of danger both to the community and to sound thinking.” A wholesome variety of good fresh animal and vegetable foods requires no addition of synthetic vitamins, he says, except as a “temporary palliative in case of those too poor to buy fresh food, too ignorant to know fresh food, too mean to pay the price for fresh food.”

Digitized by kjOOQle
286

The dangers of overdosage of Vitamin D are emphasized as promoting senescence, old age, and calcification in cartilage, ligaments, tendons, and arterial walls. Clinically life insurance companies recognize that residence in the tropics with exposure to undue sunshine leads to premature senescence in the white man. In the normal growing animal calcification of cartilage and nothing more than calcification is controlled by Vitamin D, sunshine, ultra violet light or ergosterol.

Three distinct processes are shown to be involved in the problem of growing bone:

1	Growth of cartilage—a relatively simple undifferentiated tissue—depending upon a supply of Vitamin B for its growth.

2	Calcification of cartilage caused by the cessation of growth of cartilage. The process of senescence is speeded up by Vitamin D, ultra violet light and ergosterol.

3.	True bone formation which can only take place in the presence of an adequate supply of blood-borne fat soluble Vitamin A. If the supply is diminished or limited osteoid tissue is laid down instead of true bone.

Rickets as a disease involves all three of these processes; the growth of cartilage is excessive, the calcification of cartilage is defective and the differentiation of true bone is imperfect. The processes are in part controlled by Vitamins B, D and A respectively. Cod liver oil alone gives a consistently cheap, adequate and balanced supply of both D and A vitamins. “Exposure to sunshine is not necessarily the only or the most important element involved in the prevention of rickets.”—This therapeutic agent of real value — will be able to exert its full influence, unhampered by abnormal conditions of body fluids due to faulty diet. Recently observations have been made on two tribes in Africa, living under conditions favorable for study. The diet of one tribe consisted chiefly of cereals and was deficient in calcium and vitamins A and D. The diet of the other tribe consisted of meat, milk, and raw blood. In the tribe on the cereal diet pulmonary conditions, bronchitis and pneumonia, accounted for 31 per cent of all cases of sickness, tropical ulcers 36 per cent, and phthisis 6 per cent, compared with a percentage of 4, 3 and 1, respectively, in the tribe on the meat, milk, and raw blood diet. A recent survey in Scotland showed that in a large proportion of families the diet did not supply enough minerals to maintain the maximum rate of growth. The position was worse in the case of iron. We need more information dealing with tne amounts of different nutrients required for optimum growth in children and as to the amounts required in dietaries in common use. It has been suggested that diseases such as gastric ulcer, constipation and its sequelae, rheumatism, anemias, high blood pressure, and cardiac and nephritic disorders, may originate in dietetic errors. Here comprehensive studies are required.—British Medical Journal.

Digitized by
287

News, Notes and Comments.

AN ANNIVERSARY

The Journal of Physical Education and School Hygiene, England, may feel a pardonable pride in this its twenty-fifth anniversary. For twenty-one years, until 1929, Miss E. Adair Roberts [Mrs. E. Adair Impey] served as editor during which she developed an excellent periodical. This traditional excellence has served and without doubt will continue to serve as a stimulating guide to the new editors. Congratulations.

The arches of the foot may be strengthened by flexion of the toes, which is best accomplished by picking up small objects, such as marbles, with the toes.

Arch supports should be looked on as temporary supports during the time that proper measures are carried out for the restoration and strengthening of the arch. The use of arch supports alone, without accompanying restorative measures, tends to weaken the arches.

A foot imprint will indicate whether or not the arch is flat, but weakness of an arch may be present even when the imprint is normal. A strong, fleshy foot may produce an imprint suggesting a flat foot.

Callosities on the inner border of the heel may indicate that the foot is not planted squarely on the ground but that the inner border of the heel bears more weight than its normal share. The longitudinal arch, in such cases, is usually, but not necessarily, weak. The same holds true for the anterior arch.

Tap dancing may be harmful if the arches of the feet are already weak. In such cases the demands incidental to tap dancing are too great and they tend to promote weakening results.

While no absolute rule can be given, a heel of moderate height, about 1 1-2 inches, suitably tilted and broad enough to give good stability, usually meets the requirements.—Hygeia— September ’32.

History shows that the number of remedies believed to be useful in treating disease grow rapidly; and some of them proved to be of real value. An Egyptian papyrus dated 1550 B.C. listed 700 different drugs, of which at least 18 are standard today, including castor oil, peppermint and turpentine. With the development of medical science the use of drugs has come more and more to be recognized as only a part of the healing art. For many illnesses personal hygiene is the only prescription which the doctor offers nowadays.—Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.

WEAK ARCHES
288

Safety—With the object of inculating ideas of safety in the public schools, particularly continuation and vocational schools, the Department of Labor has prepared and distributed a Safety Inventory Form among all vocational schools in the State. In addition each teacher of a vocational subject is instructed to inspect his equipment and see whether it is satisfactory from a safety point of view.

New discoveries are constantly forcing modifications in health teaching as in other fields. Dr. J. Mace Andress, editor of the school department in Hygeia, calls attention to a significant and important change now in progress.

When the new health education got under way after the World War, great effort was made to have children reach an average height and weight. Many children who had tried hard failed to reach these arbitrary points and thus were loaded with a sense of failure. It became apparent that the height-weight tables failed to identify many undernourished children, while some children who were well nourished did not reach the prescribed weight.

Critical evaluation of this procedure after several years has brought out several points that have influenced changes in nutritional work with children. It is now recognized as unscientific and unfair to regard average weight as a goal for all children or for an individual child.

Contests.—We view with disfavor the tendency toward the multiplication of district, sectional, state, and national contests. —A resolution by the Dept, of Superintendence, A.

A recent survey of the health habits of 600 teachers in a widely distributed area showed that nearly 63% of them took no daily exercise other than that involved in getting to their classrooms.—[Baltimore Bulletin].

Stomach Trouble. Dr. Walter C. Alvarez of the Mayo Clinic reports that the most frequent single cause for stomach trouble was disease of the gallbladder. Actual disease of the stomach could be demonstrated in only 12 out of 500 consecutive cases.

Rowing as a sport for women is gaining rapidly in Germany. Recent reports show that the women’s rowing clubs have won 6000 active participants.

The new high school in Greensboro, N. C., has 130 acres.

College Entrance Credit. The colleges of Alabama accept one unit of health and physical education for entrance.

“Athletics—The National Education Association believes that every child is entitled to an all round physical education. It deplores any commercialization of school and college athletics.”