MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	SEPTEMBER,	1917	No.	261

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMII. RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

O '■	   ""	..........—— ■■■ — Q

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF GRACE,*

The application of Kinesthesia (muscle-joint sense) and Empathy to the Fine Arts of Physical Self-Expression, and their Relations to Educational Psychology.

Motor-Reactions and Behavior. The Testimony of the most expert Dancers, Skaters, and Swimmers in the World.

By GEORGE H. BROWNE, A. M.,

The Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

An International Judge, Member of the Cambridge Skating Club, The Skating Club of Boston, The International Skating Club, Davos, Switzerland, etc.

Grace is one of the easiest elements of beauty to recognize, but one of the hardest to analyze and define. Not the least of the trials of our judges of artistic skating, waltzing, and diving competitions (without any formulated standards) is the accurate and discriminating differentiation, according to regulations, of the “grace” of several contestants; and by no means the least of the problems of enthusiastic devotees of these arts is to know when they are graceful; or, when they are told that they are not graceful, to know how to train themselves into grace. Some are naturally graceful without training; some with most persistent training can never be perfectly easy and graceful; but all can im-

* Printed in part in the Boston Transcript May 12, 1917.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
198

prove, if they will only think it worth while to take advantage of some of the rapidly accumulating experience and information available on this subject.

Whether, with XVIII century writers on esthetics like Spence, we deem the prime quality of grace to be “propriety” (i. e., appropriateness); or, with XIX century authorities like Schopenhauer, believe it to be the “perfectly adequate expression of a moving person's intention or act of will, in his movements and positions,” or like Herbert Spencer, conclude that “an action is most gracefully achieved when achieved with the least expenditure of force,”—of two things we may be assured: There can be no grace without motion (or the idea of motion), and no graceful movement with much self-consciousness. “In other words,” says Spencer, “grace as applied to motion, describes motion that is effected with an economy of muscular power; grace, as applied to animal forms, describes forms capable of this economy; grace, as applied to postures, describes postures that may be maintained with this economy; and grace as applied to inanimate objects, describes such as exhibit certain analogies to these attitudes and forms. The stiff branch of an oak tree standing out at right angles to the trunk, gives us a vague notion of great force expended to keep it in that position; and we call it graceful, under the same feeling that we call holding out an arm at right angles to the body ungraceful. Conversely, the lax drooping boughs of a weeping-willow are vaguely associated with limbs in easy attitudes—attitudes requiring little effort to maintain them; and the term graceful, by which we describe these, we apply by metaphor, to the willow.”*

* This transfer of feeling is more than a figure of speech. XX century psychological-esthetics has analyzed it scientifically and given it a new name, further explained in this article; namely, Empathy, “a newly discovered element in our perception, to which,” it is said, “we probably owe the bulk of whatever satisfaction we connect with the word ‘beautiful* ”. What we are transferring from ourselves to the willow, owing to the universal tendency to “merge the activities of the perceiving subject with the qualities of the perceived object/’ is not merely the thought of “limbs drooping in easy attitudes” (which at the moment is really being done by our own muscles, and is therefore no “vague notion”), but also the thought of “drcoping in easy attitudes” in general, which has been accumulating in our minds long before we ever came into the presence of any particular willow7. This complex process, then, by which we (unsuspectingly) invest a particular willow with the s to red-up modes of our own (kinesthetic) activity; this process by which we make the willow “weep”; this animating the abject of our feeling and perception into the subject of a verb expressing a human, personal function (though we are no more aware of doing anything with our muscles then we are aware of doing our digestion or circulation); this “putting i the cart before the horse and attributing to the cart only what the horse can be doing” (like inverting “I measure this line by extending my eye from A to B’’ into “this line extends from A. to B,” or “I appreciate the way she dances, or skates, or swims,” into “it looks easy, she is graceful,” etc.), - it is this psychological process of association and “in-feeling” (far less “vague” than Herbert Spencer

Digitized by Google
199

“This connection between gracefulness and economy of force, will be most vividly recognized by those who skate. The requisite confidence and due command of the feet having been obtained, those twistings of the trunk and gyrations of the arms previously used to maintain the balance, are found needless; the body is allowed to follow without control the impulse given to it; the arms to swing where they will; and it is clearly felt that the graceful way of performing any evolution is the way that costs least effort.” This statement, made sixty years ago, before there was any organized figure-skating in this country, and when English combined skating, which aimed at maximum of speed with minimum of effort, impressed the spectator with its extraordinary difficulty, but with stiff poker-like lack of grace, is still true in part, and true in part of the other physical arts as well. Although the subsequent evolution of the art of skating has prescribed certain positions and movements as requisite to graceful form, and although modem rules allow neither the body “to follow without control the impulses given to it,” nor the arms “to swing where they will,” these prescribed positions, requiring indefatigable persistence in practice, always have a specific object, and are the positions which long experience has proved to be the easiest and most conducive to correct balance and efficient execution. This so-called “school” skating is duplicated in the other arts. What the discipline of the Russian national ballet exacts for many laborious years, we know only too well from the exposition of Pav-lowa and Nijinski; and what school-skating and ballet-practice do to prepare for grace in skating and dancing, practice on the fundamental swimming ' strokes, (breast, side, over-arm, and trudgen) must do to prepare for finish and grace in artistic swimming. A swimmer like Annette Kellermann, who is making her swimming less athletic and more artistic every year (she looks back with repulsion, but not with ingratitude, to her earlier days of long distance and endurance competitions), has to do as much training as an athlete to keep her figure to the right proportions and her muscles hard but supple. With expert instructors, she does ballet-practice an hour arid a half to two hours, and skates and hour or more, every day, and takes singing lessons besides! “In my work on the stage and for the screen,” she says, “I depend on no one part of the body, but on all parts relatively to the whole. The beauty of movement depends on the success of its muscular economy. In diving, grace of movement lasts from beginning to end, when, e. g., the line formed by the body completes itself in the air and the body enters the water without a splash-then it is a finished performance. And finish is the test of swimming as an art.”

thought) which constitutes Empathy, the “sense” by which we appreciate beauty and grace, and by which we realize that all grace is beautiful, but not all beauty graceful. Cf. Vernon Lee, “Beauty and Ugliness” 1912, “The Beautiful” 1913, Theodor Lipps, “Zur Einfuehlung” 1913, E. B. Titchener, “Psychology of Thought Processes” 1909, etc. Also. H. S. Langfeld, “Mind and Muscle in Golf,” Century Mag., Dec., 1913.

Digitized by Google
FINISH IS THE TEST OF SWIMMING AS AN ART.
201

Thanks to the Hippodrome management, an unusual opportunity was offered, during the recent visit of Boston skaters to New York, to discuss these questions with the greatest experts in the world. On the mornings of the competition days, on the huge stage which all the early season had presented Pavlowa’s dance-drama of “The Sleeping Beauty,” there were gathered some of the best amateur skaters in the United States, several of the best professional skaters in the world, including Bror Meyer, of St. Moritz, the unique Charlotte, and Annette Kellermann “herself;” and they all talked freely of their art. Before considering, however, just how these experts know when they are graceful,— and it has generally been found that those who have the best control of their muscles can give the least adequate account of how they succeed — let me briefly describe Miss Kellermann’s extraordinary aquatic performance.

Through a high rocky gorge, a boisterous cascade tumbles into a line of big glass tanks, in which mermaids are playing, diving, and swimming through coral rings, etc. One can hardly doubt that

comes down at Lodore,” incredulity reveals to him pie on the water, the back-wires on which a half airy swoops across

fly in

‘This way the water until his sophisticated the motion-picture rip-stage gurgle, and the dozen winged fairies the stage. Suddenly, the “Queen of the Mermaids” slides off the cliff into the deepest tank, turns whirling somersaults forward and backward, her lithe body curved backward almost into a complete hoop, and then sways to and fro in most fascinating undulations and oscillations,—all under water. “It is a curious and most interesting fact,” says Miss Kellermann, “that swimming is the only exercise in the world in which the human body is perfectly and completely suspended in a foreign element. There is no weight for the legs to lift or the arms to sustain.” In a recent New York Art Magazine (The Soil, March 1917) appeared this pretended advertisement:

“EXHIBITION of The Freedom of Movement in Light and Space. Aquarium,

Battery Park, etc.”

But here you have a more beautiful exhibition of the same thing, because intelligent and therefore even more graceful.

“Perhaps,” remarked Miss Kellermann, “this suspension of the body in water may account for the fact that swimming produces the smoothest and least knotted muscles known to the world of athletics.

Digitized by

Google

203

Sometimes I have thought that we who swim a great deal may take on some of the graceful rounded lines of all the other creatures that swim well, from trout to tarpon.” The freedom of movement in swimming is as much greater than in skating, as the freedom of movement on long glides and spirals in skating is freer than in dancing. “The straight dive from great heights,” said Miss Kellermann after one of the skating competitions, “is almost equaled by the long poised dive forward on skates. In fact, the latter has some spectacular advantages. It lasts longer and is in some respects more difficult. The Greek runner or the Russian dancer, poised for a second, is not a more beautiful picture than Miss Weld poised on a great swooping inside edge spiral with upraised hands and extended fingers.”

The perfect suspension of the body allows very slow and deliberate motions. Since grace forbids visible (ugly) kicking of the legs, and since there is here no opportunity for the trudgen stroke (brought from So. Africa by J. Trudgen, 1873) or the crawl stroke (from Australia by R. Cavill, 1902), Miss Kellermann1, for artistic purposes has restored the breast-stroke, which, perhaps, has been justly discredited for speed purposes, to a higher position than it

ever has had. 90 per cent of Australians swim. To a bom Australian like Miss Kellermann, taught by such masters of perfect strokes as Fred Lane and Percy Cavill, it therefore seems strange that there are so few good swimmers among American girls. Only four, out of the best sixty which she picked for the screen from three hundred, proved, when they got to Jamaica, to have had any sound training in the fundamental strokes; and it took her eight weeks to teach those “mermaids” to swim without the use of their legs! But the training was a good diaphragm and breast developer — so essential for In this kind of swimming, kicks, except to rise from the push of one foot. Her due to the development of ing.

feature of Miss Kellermann’s form and finish, is her quick underwater evolution. Most divers

BACK DIVE

under-water swimming. Miss Kellermann seldom bottom with a gentle unique control is largely her abdominal breath-The most noticeable diving, after its perfect perform

recovery to perform some have to come up to the surface immediately; her mermaids, to stey down, all have to wear lead belts; but her control of her breathing is so complete, that she can stay at the bottom, or stop half-way up, or at any glass panel, at will, simply by exhaling air. “I could stay under water twenty-four hours and be perfectly comfortable—

Digitized by

Google
204

if I had breath. The experience of complete relaxation, of being

perfectly sustained in a soft, yielding, pleasant element like water, has a psychological effect that may account for the acknowledged great physical benefits of swimming.”

Miss Kellermann's selection of eight or ten dives from her big repertory is made not because they are most spectacular, but because they lend themselves best to recovery for underwater movements, can be executed with the utmost finish, and therefore are not likely to put extra strain upon the glass by any possible splash, etc. There are only 6 feet 10 inches of water in a 9x15 foot tank, and her last dive is 18 feet high! These dives, however, are not “stunts.” “I hate the spectacular,” she says; “finish of performance is what gives elegance to any feat of this nature.”

Between dives come the most original and fascinating features of the demonstration. The side whirl or .“rolling log,” the horizontal coil or flat somersault (impossible in the air), the reversed pendulum (head down and feet up), and other unique underwater movements, which ordinarily never could be seen in natural waters, even if

attempted, display a body trained to perfect submission to the will,—which is the essence of grace. When asked how she could open her mouth under water and apparently converse with the flirting clown without choking, she replied, “With my

great aid on the putting green; and that the keenness of eye and calculation required to master delicate billiard shots is of great assistance in gauging approach shots. The Jap professional, Yama-da, believes that golf, in turn, helps billiards.

There are other details of Miss Kellermann’s exhibition of the

hands tied behind my back, I never could have got out of the swirling waters in Jamaica alive, if it hadn’t been for my life-long ballet-practice; and now my singing lessons enable me to lock my throat, so that I don't even take any water into my mouth. Everything helps!”

BACK-FRONT DIVE

and skill, intellectual non-transfer able it is significant also Symes, who has just championship of Fry, a former runner-golf-champio n s h i p, Malden, Mass., the billiard champion,

In these days, when so much is being made of the theory that all knowledge or physical, is special and from one subject to another, to note that J. Graham won the Amateur billiard Great Britain over Sidney up in the British amateur agrees with Nathan Hall, of new United States amateur that the billiard “touch” is of

Digitized by

Google
205

subjection of the moving human body to the will that I might dwell upon, if my vocabulary were adequate even to my imperfect memory. As we follow with equal admiration the equally remarkable physical demonstration of Charlotte and her skating-companions in the ice-ballet which succeeds, and reflect that this more than robust, vigorous, and shapely girl was a sickly child, who took up skating for her health; and that Annette Kellermann was a cripple, terribly afraid of the water, until forced to take up swimming as a last resort— “It was not until I was thirteen years old that my legs were perfectly straight,” she says. “I was compelled to wear high shoes until I was eighteen, and to this I attribute my small ankles”—when we reflect on these paradoxes, we have an increased respect for such physical arts as doers as well as beautifiers, even though “beauty is its own excuse for being.”

“The things I do seem to come naturally,” says Miss Kellermann, “as a result of my health and vigor; probably, too, as a result of my build. I know I have been called a perfect woman as to shape,” she added,

“and compared to the Venus de Milo! It is ridiculous, because they judge from a pose. The nude seems always to be a question of posed attitudes, with all their suggestiveness. I appear practically nude on the screen, yet in this respect I think my work is natural and healthy. I should not have attempted it otherwise. I hate to pose. You can take a hundred or two hundred women of the

same or nearly the same measurements,	j	forearm

and pose them all at once in the same at-	A1 f dive

titude, and they might all look alike; but ask them to do the same thing, and the differences will suddenly appear very marked—one will be a deeper breather, another will have a firmer step, another a clumsier carriage, etc. I don’t like the legs of Greek Venuses—they are beef down to the heels. The modern woman is developed along slimmer lines, her legs taper down to the ankles. The charm of Greek women lay in their expression of repose, of calm—whether they were more beautiful than we, is, of course, another question— but the body of today is more aggressive; it is slender; its beauty lies in shape that expresses motion, that can do things.”

Here she speaks like an up-to-date educational psychologist. In fact, without knowing it, both in theory and in practice, she is

Digitized by L^ooQle
206

in harmony with the latest psychology, which interprets the reactions from all the situations of life’s experience in terms of “behaviour,” i. e., in motor-reactions; and the curriculum in schools is being readjusted on this basis of motor-activity and sense-training—from the Montessori and play-schools, through industrial and trade schools, to such socializing experiments as are beginning this fall in the General Education Board’s big new school at Teachers’ College, N. Y. (Flexner), inspired by theory, and the little new school at Dayton, Ohio (Morgan), inspired by fruitful experience. The solution of our question of grace, therefore, is more likely to come from the experimental psychologists than from the authorities on old-fashioned esthetics.

When I first asked Miss Kellermann if she always knew when her movements were graceful, she replied, “Cf course.” “Where do you know it?” “In my head, I suppose, where I know other things.” Later, in explaining how she could modify her pace and levitation under water, rising or stopping at will, she said she knew perfectly just where she was going to stop, but didn’t know how or where she knew. Unconsciously she let the secret out in explaining her diving: “Poise is the thing I most strive for in diving, or indeed in any part of my work. By poise I mean not only the general carriage of the body, but- its particular movement in carrying out the act. When I dive, e.g.

I always look up in the air, my arms out and my head up, and I always know at which moment I

am poised just right, at which given point I get the right equilibrium to let myself drop successfully; the rest is done with my ankles and feet.”

In other words, her ankles and feet “think” for her. Her sense of perfect poise and equilibrium comes (1) from nerve inpulses from her internal organs, of which she is wholly unaware; (2) from similar kinesthetic (muscle-joint-sense) impulses from her joint and trunk muscles, of which she is sub-conscious; and (3) from conscious sensations from her skin, especially from the soles of her bare feet, where the highly differentiated nerve-endings are sense-organs of the most refined active touch. Of what fine kinesthetic adjustments the human body is capable, no other illustration is more significant than the miraculous skill of an Ole Bull, or a Helen Keller, or any of the less famous congenitally blind.

FRONT SOMERSAULT

Digitized by U^ooQle
207

Observe her use of vision. When Herr Meyer says that the

Erosperity of most of his figures on the ice depends upon the way e is looking, I suspect he is confounding two things: vision for orientation, and his inherent kinesthetic control. “It is an established psychological fact that a strong tendency to movement accompanies every mental act,” says Prof. Langfeld of Harvard, writing on “Mind and Muscle in Golf.” “To think of turning to the right, e. g., is involuntarily to start the muscles in that direction.” The turning of the eyes in a skating figure, however, may produce a co-operative movement of head and shoulders which will facilitate a continuous skating movement, but spoil a golf-stroke. As a matter of fact, after Meyer has got the “feel”, he can do the mere figure as well without vision, if not better. Numerous researches in the psychological laboratories of the United States have shown that animals can execute complete movements without vision, hearing, smell, or feelers (vibrissae) just as well as with them; in some cases, even better—by kinesthesia alone. Why can’t men? “It is not that the intellectual man brings too much mind into the game,” says the Harvard psychologist, “but rather too little muscle.” Herr Meyer seems to make two mistakes: (1) in not acknowledging, as Miss Kellermann does, the muscular tonus of the whole adjustment and the kinesthetic impulses from particular receptors; and (2) in believing that kinesthesia is an inferior sense to vision, and depends upon mental or visual images. If Vision is the Queen of the senses, Kinesthesia (the sense of movement, posture, weight, shape, adjustment, and pressure) is the King of them all, underlying all in the adaptation of the sense organs to that which they perceive. In these later days, no greater progress is making in any subject of human knowledge—not excepting locomotion	__

on land, in the air, on, in, or under water, wireless electricity, operative surgery, or preventive medicine, than in our knowledge of these kinesthetic sense-organs and the integration and adjustment of their impulses by the central nervous system. Instead of five senses, we have nearer twenty-five described in the latest text-books on neurology; and a new popular series of ten volumes, “Our Senses and What they Mean to us,” each by a specialist, is announced, under the general editorship of Dr. George

V.	N. Dearborn, who writes the volume on“Kinesthesia.” Our senses certainly mean everything to us in this discussion concerning grace.

BACK SOMERSAULT

Digitized by

Google
208

The problem, then, reduces itself to a recognition and adaptation of kinesthetic impulses from these innumerable, omnipresent, microscopic sensory end-organs, which are stimulated to activity by the normal contraction of the muscles, stretching of the tendons, and bending of the joints, and which report to the central nervous-system the exact degree of pressure, tension, flexion, etc. The upper layer of the cortex of the brain acts as a kind of “central” at a switch-board of ten billion wires (neurones) in a miracle of integration and adjustment, combining, by a continuous stream of inhibitory control, these kinesthetic impulses and those from the organs of tactile sensibility in the skin (which give us sensations-of heat, cold, pleasure, pain, etc.,) into one co-operative motion-unit. For example, while sitting engrossed in talking, you feel a draught on the back of your neck; you wonder if the window is-open behind you; still talking, you turn round to look. You do not simply turn your head on your neck as a pivot; but instantly almost every muscle in your body contributes to a slight movement of the whole body from top to toe.

So, in learning to be graceful in any of these physical arts, we must strive to co-ordinate the movements of the separate members into one co-operative unit. Vision and memory will be necessary at first. We have to begin by imitating a model or following directions consciously. Now, if we can substitute for a mental moving-picture of “ourselves as others see us,” an actual pattern, or path, or pose, manipulated perhaps by a kindly hand behind our back; and gradually learn to know, without assistance, just when the position or movement is right, by the “feel” and by the result, as Miss Kellermann does—then we are on a scientific and sure road to grace. A mirror’s or a critic’s assurance is of great assistance; but the practice should be concentrated as soon as possible on acquiring the “feel.” Natural dancers, skaters, or swimmers are those endowed with a high degree of muscular coordination; and these can and do dispense with the purely mental and visual factors unisually early; but dispense with them everyone must, before he can be graceful.

Grace, according to Spencer’s theory, might be attributed to any perfectly ordered machine. Economy of effort, however, is. not the only law of grace. To be artistic, not merely mechanical, there must be given an impression of reserve force, even of prodigality, of freedom and variety of movement and rhythm. To give the impression of physical ease, movements must be made in conformity with the individual’s natural habits, and without any visible effort, (hence the white faces of clowns and mimes) or audible noise; also with the appearance of lightness, stability, and the least possible resistance. A performer may really erfert great force, or may be acting under physical pain or mental anguish, and yet give the impression of enjoyment, charm, and grace. The spectator, however, must have sufficient experience with the technique of the art to be able to “feel himself in” all the movements, so as to be able to judge of the difficulties overcome if he would, judge fairly. As a matter of fact, he cannot escape from his own

Digitized by kjOOQle
209

parallel kinesthetic reactions. According to the new psychological esthetics, when he says a person is graceful, he is really “merging his own kinesthetic activities in the qualities of the object,” meaning thereby that, if he wfere performing himself, such and such movements would be easy and satisfying and therefore graceful, or vice versa. To this irresistible “in-feeling” (Einfuehlung, Lipps, 1897), Prof. Titchener (1909) has given the new name Empathy—not a projection of self into the object, because you are thinking, not of yourself, but of the object; and not sympathy, because, though analogous, it is not a mere inner mimicry (Innere Nachahmung, Gross, 1902), but an objectifying of that mimicry (Miterleben). Sympathy is subjective—you make the feelings of the other your own; the ease, reserve, and harmony, however, which you ascribe to a dancer or a skater or a swimmer, are really the “empathe ic” ease and harmony in your own muscles, though the •dancer or skater or. swimmer may actually have very different kinesthetic reactions. “If Empathy is so recently discovered, this may be due to its being part and parcel of our thinking; so that we are surprised to learn of its existence, as Moliere’s good man was to learn that he talked prose,” or Newton that the acorn fell according to a law of gravitation.

To be truly graceful, then, as Souriau hinted thirty years ago, we must watch our kinesthetic impulses, if not to compel positively .graceful movements, at least to avoid awkward and affected ones; for grace, Schiller said, is a beauty not bestowed by nature, but produced by the subject himself. Undoubtedly this presupposes some natural gifts: a body supple, agile, vigorous; a figure not unattractive; an instinctive sentiment for rhythm and harmony, etc. All the rest is our work, the product of our own activity. Yet the effort, the training, the preliminary discipline, must be eliminated from the graceful act. The natural is the essential condition of grace; the more we seek grace, the faster it flies; and the less we concern ourselves consciously with our movements, the more real, spontaneous grace they will have.

When we contemplate what the Russian Ballet might be as a fine art of physical self-expression if it would only select less gross and sensual emotions to express; and what the Berlin ice-ballet might be in the hands of skaters like Herr and Fraulein Mueller with a company of skilled amateurs like the best of the Skating Club of Boston, in elaborations of their tentative Ice-Idyls, with all the accessories of scenery, lights, and music of the Russian Ballet,— we realize that these fine arts of physical self-expression are even •yet only in their infancy. The physical limitations of the size and strength of plate glass, and the physical necessity of rising to the surface at least once a minute for breath, handicap artistic swimmers in vying with artistic skaters or dancers in the development of this ocular opera, and force them to resort to the screen. If the photo-play is, as the poet Vachel Lindsay would have us believe, sculpture-in-motion, painting-in-motion, and architecture-in-motion; if, according to the late Prof. Muensterberg, the ideal photo-play is a new art form, then perhaps Miss Keller-

Digitized by i^ooQle
210

mann may find in the waters of the ocean and in the photo-play of the future, a field worthy of her artistic ability. A school-boy in a theme on “The Movies” wrote the other day, “To long films, like “The Daughter of the Gods,” some go to find grace, others for different reasons.” The commercial management cater to those “reasons”, and abuse the art accordingly. That is no reason, however, why an author of genius, who is familiar with the resources of the motion-picture and is able to express “those things which are deepest and highest in the modem mind and which at the same time are capable of emerging in picture-writing form,” might not produce a water-drama which, in Miss Kellermann’s hands would be a thing of beauty and a joy forever. As it is, however, the graceful evolutions of “herself” alone in the tank, though less of a drama, are more of a fine art than the films.

NOTE—

In addition to the dives illustrated in this article (from her forthcoming book* “How I Swim”, thanks to Miss Kellermann), she executes the “Neck Dive,” something like the. “Fore-arm”, only she lies on her back, swings her feet up, and “takes off” from the back of her neck; the “Dolphin,” a side dive with a twist in the air; the “Wooden Soldier,” a stiff topple forward, with the hands at her side; the “Front Back,” reverse of the “Back PYont”; the “Standing-Sitting,” in which she drops from standing to sitting position and dives from the rebound; and the “Standing-Sitting-Standing,” in which she drops from standing, bounds up from the sitting position and, without hitting the springboard (no easy feat), lands on top of it, and takes off, as always, from both feet.

For the photographs, we are indebted to the kindness of Mr. Mark A. Luesch-er, of the N. Y. Hippodrome.

NOTE TO SUBSCRIBERS

This September number of Mind and Body is the first issued since June as there are no midsummer numbers. This announcement is made here to save subscribers the trouble of writing to us for their July and August copies.

We are still in need of several copies of the May 1916, October 1916, and January 1916 numbers of Mind and Body and any one having a copy of these numbers to spare will be doing the publishers and other subscribers a favoi by notifying us. These copies will be paid for and any one who does not care to preserve Mind and Body in volumes can secure credit on subscriptions by letting us have the numbers we need.

Should this copy of Mind and Body be delivered to anyone who does not subscribe for the magazine or who does not want it, the publishers would be very grateful if the recipient would notify us of the facts by postal card. We do not wish to send the magazine to anyone who does not care to receive it or has not ordered it and if there are any such names on our list we are more than, anxious to have them removed. Notify

Mind and Body Publishing Co., New Ulm,' Minn.,, concerning any of the above matters.

One more word: The price of Mind and Body is now $1.60 per year, $1.75 for foreign subscriptions. Renewals mu$t be paid at this rate. None will be accepted at the old rate after the September number is in the hands of subscribers-

Digitized by AjOOQle
211

CONSERVATION OF MEN OF MATURE YEARS.

Mr. Speaker, the net result of all the legislation we have been called into extra session to enact is to lay heavy burdens upon the people. The Army-increase bill places the burden of fighting the war upon the younger men. The $7,000,000,000 bond bill properly places upon posterity a portion of the burden of paying for the * war. The $2,000,000,000 revenue bill now being considered levies upon those now living tax burdens that are grievous to be borne. The poor who are not affected directly by the imposition of taxes or are not of the sex or age to become soldiers nevertheless are burdened by the increase in the cost of living caused by the war. The burden of everyone has grown heavier, and the end is not yet.

In order to sustain the weight of the burdens thus imposed it es necessary to carefully conserve every possible resource. The most important of all our resources is man power. The young men are needed for the battle line. The older men are just as necessary to provide money, food, and material. Too little attention has been given to conserving the power of these older men.

It is a well-known fact that the most efficient and productive years of the life of a business or professional man are after he passes 45. To lose unnecessarily a single year of a life of ripened efficiency is an economic crime. One has only to look at the death .notices of a newspaper to have brought home to him the distressing fact that too many men are dropping out between 45 and 65. It ought not to be so. A man who reaches 45 in a fair degree of bodily health should be good foi: 25 years more at least, barring accident, if he takes only reasonable care of himself.

It was thinking along this line in connection with the great demand being made upon the manhood of the country on account of the war that brought the great football authority, Walter Camp, to a consideration of this subject. As is well known, Walter Camp is not only the father and one of the natural guardians of football, but he is also a man of large business affairs, with a wide knowledge of business men. By reason of his close relationship to Yale University athletics he has observed at close range the physical development and perfection of youthful manhood. He has seen the same men grow older, many of them slowly or rapidly neutralizing or reversing the process of their development. In his association with other business or professional men of approximately his own age he has had abundant opportunity to observe their physical condition and too often premature decay.

As the war in Europe progressed and it became more and more apparent that there was grave danger of our becoming involved in it, Mr. Camp came to the conclusion that it would be a work well worth while to set about the task of attempting to lengthen and strengthen the effective years of mature men. All his life he had made a study of physical training and the handling qf men. He believed the time would come when the physical condition of our more mature manhood would call for the.introduction in government and civil life of a definite plan for meeting this problem. As

Digitized by Google
212

his initial contribution to the working out of the problem he established in my home city, New Haven, an experimental school, giving it the name of the Senior Service Corps. It is based upon a number of fundamental propositions. Here are a few of them:

This country can ill afford to lose any of its most effective executives, either in the Government or among the manufacturing, ' transportation, and commercial interests, who are now, from a sense of public duty, offering their services to the Government in this emergency.

A large proportion of our most valuable men “behind the lines” at this time are 45 years of age or older. This is the climacteric with men ms with women. These men upon whom the Government depends should be made fit and kept at the maximum of their efficiency.

It is unscientific and economically wasteful to treat men of 45 and over in the same way as men of military age. That is the reason why so many of the various attempts at misplaced enthusiasm are breaking down. There is a still more serious side to it. In many places men of 45 to 65 have been sent out on wild “hikes” of 10 miles or so with men of 25 to 35. Some of these older men have dropped out permanently injured.

Men of 45 and over are loyal and eager to be of service, whether they be men of large affairs or not.

A scientific conservation of this energy and a definite plan to bring it up and keep it at the highest point of efficiency is as necessary in this emergency as the development and training of troops, the production of food supplies, or the manufacture of ships and munitions, and should be carried along at the same time.

Upon the physical condition and fitness of such men depends the efficiency of every department of our Government, as well as the net value, over a continued period of time of those leaders in civil life who have so generously. placed themselves and their energies in the service of the Government.

If some of these men sacrifice what has been their sole salvation against the health inroads of the last two. years of commercial strain by still further giving up their relaxation and physical exercise, they will last scarcely six months.

The human machine is like any other machine, except that with the man physical exercise and relaxation is the lubricant.

If we run a machine faster or more hours, we must give it more oil; and if we make added calls upon the man, we surely can not expect to give him less physical exercise and relaxation if he is to last.

For this reason the Government should be deeply concerned in bringing about some method of conserving the energies and health of men over 45. The time was ripe for an experiment of this kind, and Mr. Camp’s senior service corps was a success from the beginning. Over 100 men have been handled through a carefully prepared and considered course of training, which has in no way interfered with their business or professional pursuits. A list of the men upon whom this experiment has been tried demonstrates

Digitized by v^ooQle
213

conclusively its scope, for in this squad of over 100 subjects the ages varied from 45 to 73, heights from 5 feet 4 inches to 6 feet 4 inches, and the weights from 116 pounds to 265 pounds. Without exception the men have become what the trainer calls “fit”; in other words, added to their physical well being, have performed all their tasks more easily, have reduced their waist measurements while increasing their chest measurements, are so much more erect in their bearing that their families and friends comment freely upon it, and, finally, while they are signed up for 90 days they now say they will keep it up indefinitely, even should peace be declared to-morrow.

Among those who have engaged and are now trying out this interesting experiment are such prominent leaders of New Haven as ex-President Taft; Col. I. M. Ullman, president chamber of commerce; Prof. Henry W. Famam, of Yale University; Dean Frederick S. Jones, of Yale University; Henry B. Sargent, president of Sargent & Co.; ex-Mayor Fred B. Farnsworth; ex-Judge Livingston W. Cleaveland, and others. Secretary of War Baker has given it his unqualified approval as a means of putting in physical condition men past the military age. The General Electric Co. has applied for 100 of the books of instruction to start a squad there, and there are many other applications. It is being daily brought home to many communities that there must be some distinction between men under and over military age as to the method of training and drill, and this has been thoroughly recognized by the war departments of every country.

Mr. Camp contributes the result of a method already thoroughly tested and recommends that our Government take up this matter and correlate the many efforts, some well directed and others partially wasted, along one definite and tried-out line, upon, which, as in a laboratory, a scientific test has been applied. The detail of this method is herewith appended:

First. The name. (For upon this depends the cumulative effect of united work throughout the country and the general recognition of a system, as such.)

The Senior Service Corps describes the organization as composed of men:

1.	Above military age.

2.	Who wish to be of service and will give time.

3.	Who will act as a body not merely as individuals.

Second. The qualification.

1.	Over 45 years of age.

2.	Citizenship in United States of America.

3.	Simple physical examination.

4.	Willingness to devote an hour a day three days a week.

Third. The organization.

Must include among other officers:

1.	A surgeon or physician to watch the condition of men.

2.	A leader to direct the work.

Fourth. The detail of the work.

1.	Ten to fifteen minutes’ setting up drill or gymnastic work.

2.	Forty-five to fifty minutes’ outdoor work.

Digitized by UjOOQle
214

Of the former no part is severe, the results being accomplished by bringing gradually into play the forgotten or partially atrophied muscles, the strengthening of the muscles that produce an erect carriage, the increase of the resistive forces of the body, the opening up and deepening of the chest, the strengthening of the heart’s action, the overcoming of the dropping of the abdominal viscera and the renewal of the response of the whole muscular system to will control.

The outdoor work is especially designed to supplement all this by giving plenty of fresh air for the increased lung capacity and the toning up of the heart action through walking, and the relief of the work of the kidneys by inducing moderate action of the skin. As the time is limited it is not possible to increase very materially the distance to be covered in a walk or march. The work can be increased through two satisfactory means, namely, a moderate amount of hill climbing and the carrying of weights. The latter is very simply arranged for and at slight expense. This is accomplished by giving each man in the later stages of the work a 3-foot long, 1 inch in diameter, iron bar to carry. Such a bar weighs 8 pounds—a little less than a service rifle. Perspiration is easily induced by means of this hill climbing and carrying of weights; and, if desired, a man of 45 in good condition can carry two of these bars all the way, while a man of greater age or in poorer condition can carry one bar only part way and then transfer it to another man of the same grade.

Fifth. The mental attitude.

This is of very vital importance, and has been made a distinct part of the system through the distribution to every man of the corps of cards.

It was found that the men came back for more of these cards whenever they were distributed, as other members of their families wished them in order to follow out the same regimen.

Summary.

In summing up it should be said that this work is group patriotism of the highest kind, and is found far more effective than that of the individual. It is true that any one man could go through all these exercises and marching and carrying of weights. But it is a matter of common knowledge that, no matter how determined a single individual might be to keep it up, no man ever does by himself. The more groups there are carrying on such work the more the enthusiasm and high spirit of service increases. Finally, the force of the example of mature men following determinedly such a course of training is of incalculable value in developing the patriotism of the entire community, old and young alike, until the spirit of service and loyalty reaches an ideal height.

General Instructions for Training.

Clothing: All wear what you would ordinarily wear for walking. No tight collars, however.

Shoes and stockings: Wear those you are accustomed to. Do not put on extra thick ones just because you are going to train.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
215

With the moderate amount of walking in the first week or so there is no call for any change in footwear.

Smoking: Don’t smoke anything till after your morning’s walk.

Water: Drink all you like half an hour before breakfast but no drinking with meals. Drink half an hour before any meal or two hours after.

Eating: Eat as you are accustomed to, but gradually cut down on rich foods.

Alcohol in any form: Preferably none, but at any rate cut out all cocktails.

Rub down: If convenient, a shower and rub down, but this is not necessary. If a man goes direct to work after walking, he should keep a dry undershirt at the office and a rough bath towel. Rub down on return and put on the dry undershirt. This will not occupy more than four or five minutes.

Keep a pair of dry socks and an extra pair of shoes at the office and put on the dry socks and shoes when you come in.

Blister:	If	you	should get a blister, put a corn plaster or bunion

plaster over it with the opening over the blister and fasten it firmly with two strips of surgeon’s plaster over the ends but not covering the opening.

Special Suggestions on How To Be Fit.

Drink without eating and eat without drinking.

Five glasses of water a day, none with meals, will make you free of the doctors.

Warm feet and a cool head need no physician.

A bath, cold if you please, hot if you must, with a good rub, starts the day right.

If you will save your smoke till after luncheon, you’ll never have smoker’s heart.

Wearing the same weight underclothing the year around will save you a lot of colds.

Dress cool when you walk and warm when you ride.

Your nose, not your mouth, was given you to breathe through.

Clean skin, clean socks, clean underwear every day.

Don’t sit still with wet feet. Walk until you have a chance to change.

Never let a day pass without covering 4 miles on foot.

See how high you can hold your head and how deeply you can breathe whenever you are out of doors.

Hot water quick is the best thing for a sprain.

Short shoes and shoes that don’t fit cost a lot in the long run.

Getting mad makes black marks on the health.

Envy, jealousy, and wrath will ruin any digestion.

When you rob the trolley company of a nickel by walking you add a dime to your deposit of health.

You’ll never get the gout from walking.

Sleep woos the physically tired man; she flouts the mentally exhausted.

The best record in golf is the record she has made of restored health to the middle aged.

Digitized by Google
216

Tennis up to the thirties, but golf after forty.

Nature never punished a man for getting his legs tired. She has punished many for getting their nerves exhausted.

Two hours of outdoor exercise by the master never yet made him overcritical of the cook.

Don’t ask the heart to pump extra blood to the brain all day and then to an overloaded stomach a’l night.

Tight shoes have sent many a man to bed with a cold.

Leg weariness never yet produced brain fag.

Loose clothes, loose gloves, easy shoes spell comfort and health.

No wise athlete stands still after exercise without putting something over him.

Open windows don’t make half as many colds as closed ones do.

Too many drinks at the nineteenth hole undo all the good of the other eighteen.

The best way to use the Sunday supplement is to stick it under your vest while you walk an hour against the wind and then come home and read it.

Blood pressure does not come to the men who walk a lot out of doors; instead it looks for those who sit and eat a lot indoors.

Many a man finds too late that his motor car has cost him more in health and legs than it has in tires and gasoline.

A four or five mile walk daily makes your credit at the bank of health mount up steadily.

Nature won’t stand for overdrafts any more than your bank.

The men who chase the golf ball don’t have to pursue the doctor.

You never saw a dog fill his mouth with food and then take a drink to wash it down.

Practical Suggestions.

Ten corps dont’s: Don’t shirk, don’t talk, don’t worry, don’t explain, don't knock, don’t kick, don’t quit, don’t loaf, don’t lag, and don’t rush.

You can be: Prompt, alert, quiet, determined, steady, helpful, unselfish, considerate, gracious, observant, brave and clean.

You can own: A clean body, a clean mind, fresh air, and good water.

You can’t be taxed on: Cleanliness, perspiration, walking, and deep breathing.

You can do without: Profanity, obscenity, anger, and envy.

You don’t need money to be: Happy, healthy, hopeful, and hearty.

You can be master of: Self-control, self-respect, self-belief, and self-restraint.

Helpful Suggestions.

Vacillation and doubt are poison to the nerves.

Two men in an eight-oared shell may be able to go faster than the other six, but they never win the race that way.

Don’t disgrace the uniform.

“Eyes in the boat’’ is as good a maxim at drill as in a shell.

Success comes from service.

Digitized by Google
217

The leader may be no better man than you, but some one must give the orders and set the pace.

Don’t make excuses. Make good.

Stand straight, think straight, march straight, and the rest will take care of itself.

Worry makes cowards.

If you feel tired, remember so does the other man.

Fear is the forerunner of illness.

Coordination in the individual means cooperation in the squad.

Happiness comes from health, not from money.

In a squad it is the job of each individual to make himself fit, for it is his example that helps the rest.

After a hearty meal stand up straight for 15 minutes.

Cooperation with others is the life of a squad.

When drinking a glass of water stand erect and take a full breath first, then drink with chest out and hips back and head up.

Your squad is only as good as the poorer ones. Don’t be one of those.

Whenever you walk, stand up with chin in, hips back, and chest out, and think how tall you are.

The success of any drill depends upon the concentration of each man of the squad.

If you have a stake in life it is worth playing the game for all there is in it.

Drill is a mental as well as a physical discipline.

Courage and concentration will conquer most obstacles.

The man who gets things is the one who pulls up his belt a hole tighter and goes out after them.

Work will take your mind off most of your ills.

The hurry of half a squad never brought the whole troop home.

Two things are essential to a clean skin; one is bathing and a rub down, but the other is still more important, and that is perspiration.

Washing out the impurities from within through the pores of the skin takes the undue load of work off the kidneys.

An army must have legs and a good stomach quite as much as arms and ammunition.

Preparedness is nine-tenths physical strength and endurance.

Food, water, and oxygen are the fuel for running the human machine.

Obesity comes from overloading the stomach and underworking the body.

Nature said, “You must earn your living by the sweat of your brow,” and if you earn that living in some other way you must get the sweat or she will make you pay.

If you take more food than the digestion can handle you not only tire the stomach but the whole system.

Nine-tenths of “the blues” come from a bad liver and lack of outdoor exercise.

Full, deep breathing, drinking plenty of water, and keeping the skin active will keep most people out of the doctors’ hands.
218

PREPAREDNESS IN EDUCATION.

“This new word preparedness, that has lately come into our educational vocabulary, is not so very unlike another that has held a time honored place. Preparedness is only a light variation of the word preparation, which has for so long ruled our schools.

“Preparation, however, has been understood to mean that demand of a higher institution upon a lower that the latter should get ready its students in a manner and to a degree acceptable to the former. It is based on the notion that there are certain ultimate results of a higher education that cannot be satisfactorily achieved unless the process is begun early by the use of certain accepted instruments. Slowly we have been coming to see that the human mind is not so narrow in its workings, or in its possibilities of development, as to be reached and nurtured only by a selected group of traditional school subjects. We are no longer defining an educated man alone as one who has had the advantage of institutional training. We know that men may become greater in power through the influence of many and varied agencies, and that as they become thus greater in their development, more fully grown, so to speak, they become in reality educated.

“So we are coming every day to believe that a school which is happy when it is called a preparatory school is getting its satisfaction out of a pretty narrow task, and we are believing that the institution which takes chief regard as to what it is doing to help the boy to grow and to develop to the fulness of his powers, using all its influences to that end, is the one that will finally render a good account of itself. Preparation, then, as a narrow aim of education, which by no means passed out of our school policies, is passing over the line.

“Preparedness, this new term, means much that the old one has meant—but with certain specific applications and extensions. It means first that the schools should help to prepare the Nation for defence. I do not want to labor you with my already declared views on this point. But may I return to the aim of education which I propose and say this: That it is certainly the business of education as much to help a child grow and develop physically as in any other way. If the present agitation for military drill shall take us away from this foolish process of present day physical training that gives nine or eleven boys muscular development on the field, while it gives to a thousand lung development only from the bleachers, something good will certainly have come from it. Military preparedness, however, has no more place as a direct aim to physical education than college preparedness has as a direct aim of a Grammar School course—or, for that matter, of a High School course.

“Again, preparedness will be given a vocational application. That has already been made. And here, again, as an advocate and not as an opponent of vocational education, I would declare that education in America or in any other democratic country must not too early attempt to direct youth into channels predestined by any other force or influence than that furnished chiefly from

Digitized by kjOOQle
219

within themselves. If ever we should commit the folly of permitting school teachers, or school superintendents, or industrial managers to determine too early the vocations of our youth, then look for a different social order, one founded not on the liberty of the individual to find his own place and work out his own destiny, but for one that shall lodge in bureaucracy the determination of his future and his fortunes. Let once there be lost from American life that element of flux through which one may order and reorder again his plans, make moves, new moves and, if you please, many mistakes, and you will have lost more than the genius of a democratic social and industrial life. You will have Prussianized human conduct in the one Country that above all others has proclaimed as a guiding motive the word “opportunity.”

“Still again civic preparedness is a thing you will be asked to accomplish. I have more than once stood among you to say that the largest justification of a system of public education is in what it produces in terms of higher and better and more serviceable social results. Good citizens and good citizenship are among the reasonable expectations laid upon us. Even here, however, I must emphasize the importance that we understand that teaching and repeating the principles that should guide citizens in their civic conduct, committing to memory the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States, analyzing the events of American history, putting the community under the searchlight of student study—all these and more of the same kind will not insure a result of excellent citizenship. A man may have all this knowledge and be a worse and more dangerous citizen as the result of it. Action comes fiom sources deeper than knowledge itself; it comes from the heart and from the very life habits of the individual.

“The ultimate success of an educational program for a community will be determined by the efficiency with which it creates an effective social unit. The large results which we all hope to attain through education, such as cleaner and more enlightened citizenship, finer sense of equity in community relationships, and all the other virtues that we desire to find in the social organism, will be found there at last only as these qualities are developed in individuals ana put in practice by them.

“The reason why so many of our various movements, organizations and revivals of one sort or another disappoint their promoters is that they overlook the fundamental fact that we must have a right-thinking and a right-acting individual in every place, whether high or humble, before the ideal at which we aim can be accomplished We can interminably preach from the teacher's desk or the preacher’s pulpit all the doctrines of civic righteousness and political life that our highest philosophy may approve, but unless there shall be cultivated the will and power to achieve the desired results then emptiness and failure will be the end of the road.

“Are we not, in our endeavor for specific achievement, prone to overlook the important element of habit in education? The cleanliness of the government of any community or any state 20 years hence will not depend upon what facts the youth are now

Digitized by
'220

learning about government so much as it will depend upon whether or not they are at this moment, in their school, play, street and home associations, acquiring the habits of rightfully standing upon their own just ground, equitably treating their mates and associates, and using in their present relationships such principles as will constitute safe guides of conduct in any field of activity.

“I believe you will not misunderstand me. I have advocated too long among you the use of such educational material as lies in the environment of the child for you to believe for an instant that I am arguing against teaching children all they can understand in reference to these things. Indeed, what I am trying to say to you means that you will increasingly use the experiences of the child to cultivate in him the habits that, going with him through life, will determine his conduct in such a way that he will be a useful, and not useless or even harmful, servant of his fellow-men. No greater mistake can be made, however, just now than for the nation to sink into our National consciousness that teaching military tactics, or the elements of a trade or the craft of statesmanship, or the profession of the lawyer or the physician, or any other specific goal of preparedness you may mention, will of itself accomplish the big social aim which is above, and beneath, and around, the great enterprise of public education. These things, though important, are incidental. Right thinking, right living, right doing are fundamental to the development of traits not necessarily implied in the shooting of a gun or the casting of a vote, or the making of a house, or the arguing of a case.

“What I am constantly striving to do for myself is to sift all the various school programs and policies and reforms, by applying those tests which will determine whether the new proposals will lead to a greater efficiency in promoting human growth. It is not always easy to determine—but we may at least bear in mind the goal we seek.

“Of this first thing I am persuaded that no educational method will succeed unless it be based on the laws of nature that govern human growth and development. Do you not get impatient with the attempts that are made to shorten the educational process? Does any one of us believe that school organization alone, or social methods alone, or any claptrap of a learn-quick scheme will of itself alter at once, or in many generations, the nature of human kind? The fact is, we misjudge by externals. What we call civilization may be merely progress in invention and discovery. Neither invention nor discovery—as we have lately learned to our honor— determines that man has progressed to a higher standard of human conduct. So the paraphernalia of education must not be made the measure of our product in education. I have long since ceased to measure the efficiency of any school in the terms of brick and mortar, or text books, or scientific method. Unless there be permeating the whole a spirit which exalts and transfigures, then education may mean but a poor and paltry thing.”

(Abstract from part of address on “Preparedness in Education,” given by Dr. Payson Smith, Massachusetts Commissioner of Education, before the Maine Teachers’ Association, Oct. 26, 1916. Selected by Dr. Smith for publication in “Educational Standards.”) Editor.

Digitized by v^ooQle
221

'O

................ "	I I	■

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O	I ■	—	"-O

INTER-ROOM ATHLETIC CONTESTS.

Desiring a method of scoring in an inter-room athletic contest, that would be fair to all rooms, irrespective of the number, size age or sex of the pupils in a room, the following plan was tried and proved satisfactory two consecutive years at the Washburn Public Elementary School, Cincinnati, O.

The boys, as well as the girls, were divided according to age and weight into the following groups:

70 lbs. Jr. those under 13 yrs. of age and under 70 lbs. in weight

13	yrs. of age and under 70 lbs. in weight 13 yrs. of age and bet. 70 and 80 lbs in wt. 13 yrs. of age and bet.

13 yrs. of age and bet.

13 yrs. of age and bet.

13 yrs. of age and bet.

13 yrs. of age and bet.

Unlimited Jr. those under 13 yrs. of age and over 115 lbs. in weight Unlimited Sr. those over 13 yrs. of age and over 115 lbs. in weight

70 lbs. Sr 80 lbs. Jr. 80 lbs. Sr. 95 lbs. Jr. 95 lbs. Sr.

those over those under those over those under those over 115 lbs. Jr. those under 115 lbs. Sr. those over

70 & 80 lbs. in wt. 80 & 95 lbs. in wt. 80 & 95 lbs. in wt. 95 & 115 lbs. in wt. 95 & 115 lbs. in wt.

Taking the average of all records made in an event in a group as a basis, a scale of points was established, those pupils falling below the average receiving less than ten points in an event, those doing better than the average receiving more than ten. The standing of a room was then ascertained by averaging the total number of points made by the boys of the room and those made by the girls and averaging these two figures again.

The events were: for the boys, three consecutive standing jumps, basket ball throw (from a stand with both arms from overhead) and dash, 60 yds. for the Juniors and 75 yds. for the Seniors; for the girls, standing broad jump, basket ball throw and potato race (3 potatoes, first one to be placed in a one foot circle, 5 yds. from the starting line, the second one 10 yds. and the third 15 yds. and finishing over the starting line, an aggregate of 60 yds. Potatoes are two inch wooden cubes).

The pupils were advised to practise the events as much as possible, but no extra time was devoted by the teacher to this practice, beyond that incidental to the practicing of these events in the regular course of instruction. In the throwing and jumping events, three trials were allowed at the time of taking the records, a foul counting as a trial and the best mark of the three recorded. In the running events, only one trial was allowed.

All pupils of the fifth to eighth grades inclusive, excepting those excused from physical training on account of physical disability, took part.

Digitized by l^OOQle
222 .

The results attained in the various groups were as follows:

	BOYS
	Average Records.
Group Juniors 60 yds.	Three Standing Number
Seniors 75 yds.	Basket Ball Throw Jumps Participating

1915 1916	1915	1916	1915 1916			1915	1916
70 lbs. Jr. 10 sec. 9-3-5 sec.	21ft.	21ft.	16’	6” 16’	6”	51	61
70 lbs. Sr. 11-3-5 sec. 11-1-5 sec.	25 ft.	22 ft.	18’	3” 18’	6”	7	4
80 lbs.Jr. 9-4-5 sec. 9-1-5 sec.	24 ft.	25 ft.	17’	2” 17’ 10”		30	41
80 lbs. Sr. 11-3-5 sec. 11-1-5 sec.	25 ft.	26 ft.	18’	2” 17’ 10”		16	15
95 lbs. Jr. 9-3-5 sec. 9-1-5 sec.	26 ft.	27 ft.	18’	18’		26	32
95 lbs. Sr. 11-2-5 sec. 10-3-5 sec.	28 ft.	31ft.	18’	8” 19’	1”	36	20
115 lbs. Jr. 9 sec. 9 sec.	30 ft.	32 ft.	19’	8” 18’	1”	7	5
115 lbs. Sr 11-1-5 sec. 10-1-5 sec.	30 1-2 ft. 32 ft.		19’	4” 19’	2”	30	30
Unlimit. Jr. 8-5-10 sec. 9 ssc.	36 ft.	28 ft.	20’	11” 17*		2	2
Unlimit. Sr. 10 sec. 10 sec.	37 ft.	37 ft.	21’	9” 20’	7”	5	7

GIRLS.	
Group Potato Race 60 yds. Basketball Throw	Standing Number Broad Jump Participating

	1915 1916	1915	1916	1915		1916		1915	1916
70 lbs. Jr.	19-1-5 sec. 18-3-5 sec.	18 ft.	18 ft.	4’	8”	4’	11”	54	54
70 lbs. Sr.	20 sec. 18-1-5 sec.	18 1-2 ft. 21 ft.		4’	5”	5’	5”	2	5
80 lbs. Jr.	20 sec. 17-4-5 sec.	20 ft.	20 ft.	5’	3”	5’	2”	37	35
80 lbs. Sr.	19-2-5 sec. 18 sec.	24 ft.	21ft.	5’	9”	6’	2”	8	12
95 lbs. Jr.	19-2-5 sec. 18-1-5 sec.	22 ft.	22 1-2 ft.	5’	2”	5’	3”	31	42
95 lbs. Sr.	19-1-5 sec. 17-2-5 sec.	24 ft.	25 ft.	5’	6”	5’	8”	30	34
115 lbs. Jr.	19 sec. 18-4-5 sec.	22 1-2 ft. 23 ft.		5’	1”	5’	2”	13	9
1151bs.Sr. 19-2-5 sec. 17-4-5 sec.		27 ft.	26 ft.	5’	6”	5’	6”	29	29
Unlimit Jr 22-2-5 sec. 19-1-5 sec.		21ft.	23 ft.	4’	6”	4’	8”	3	5
Unlim. Sr.	19 sec. 17-3-5 sec.	28 ft.	29 ft.	5’	2”	5’	3”	14	4

The object of this contest was primarily to get all the pupils, and especially the weaker and underdeveloped ones interested, and to induce them to practice these events. However the data obtained, while not conclusive, is of some value towards establishing efficiency standards for these events and also a classification of pupils for athletic contests based upon their age and stage of bodily development.

The matter of properly classifying contestants is important, for a person cannot be expected to be an enthusiastic competitor, in fact will not be willing to take part at all, if he teels and knows that he is handicapped. In children, where a difference of a year or two in age, ten pounds in weight 01 a few inches in height, is

Digitized by kaOOQle
223

an appreciable factor in their physical ability a proper classification becomes imperative. A critical study of all average records above will show that a classification based only on weight or age is not comprehensive enough, lor the Seniors do better in all events than the Juniors and there is also a gradual increase in ability in the weight classes from the 70 lbs. class upward, with the exception of the girls in running and jumping where the maximum efficiency is reached in the 80 and 95 lbs. classes. Both age and weight must be considered in the classification. Height may be added as a third factor, but, if for practical purposes only two factors are to be taken into consideration, it seems that weight is a more reliable criterion of bodily development than height.

The question now presents itself, “How many divisions shall there be and where shall the lines be drawn?” Taking the number in each weight class as used in above mentioned contest as a criterion, the division seems to be about right with the exception of the unlimited class which is disproportionately small. The 115 lb. class is also smaller than the others. But this is without doubt due to the fact that a large per cent of the children of this school are underfed, poorly clad and are not the fortunate heirs of sound, well developed bodies. (The weight classification with the exception of the 70 lb. class, and the age division as here mentioned is customary here in Cincinnati in the Public School athletics, altho only one or the other is generally used, and in the districts where the more fortunately situated people live a greater number of pupils are found in the two heavy weight classes).

The division in age at 13 years, the maximum being about 16 yrs. and the minimum about 10 yrs. (officially in the Cincinnati Public School Athletic League the limitation is 11 to 16 yrs.) divides the total number of pupils about equally, but when each weight class is divided in that manner, the groups, with the exception of the 95 lb. class, become disproportionate in number. Yet the division is necessary, for if not made, those comprising the smaller number would in one case be seriously handicapped and in the other seriously handicap the others. In fact it would be well to make still more divisions, say every year or at least two years comprising a separate group in each weight class. So many groups may seem unwieldy for practical use, but in a contest or meet it would mean more participants, and, isn’t that after all what we want?

As already mentioned, the figures submitted are not conclusive and can not serve as a standard for every school, first because of the small number of pupils contributing to the results, and secondly, on account of the type of children involved; but they may aid a little in solving the two problems of establishing a classification and physical efficiency standards for school children. It would be interesting to learn what has been and is being done along these lines in other places.

Digitized by kjOOQle
224

SOME MORE MOTHER GOOSE.

KATE ®. STEICHMANN, Indianapolis.

It is with the hope that the following nursery-thyme adaptations will bring as much pleasure to the littlest boys and girls of other cities as they have brought to ours here, that I send these out. They are all tried and they “work”.

There are as many tunes as there are interpretations of the rhymes. The pantomimic interpretations should be of as few movements as possible the first time and a new movement should be added when the rhythm and the big moves in the game have been learned.

In "Baby Bunting” the “cradle motion” would be enough the first day and in some schools for several days. Then follows the development of the “wrapping” or turning under, “wringing the dishrag” we used to call it. The complete turn-under need not be attempted for some time; raising the joined hands to form an arch and going through that arch and back again is sufficient until the impetus is there to carry the majority on and through.

Miss Olive Knorr’s interpretations of “Little Miss Muffet” And “Little Jack Homer” have been printed in pamphlet form with some other rhymes and may be had for 10 cents and postage l>y ordering from her directly. (3100 Glendora ave., Cincinnati, Ohio.) She has worked them out in circle formation and full description with music is given.

By low, Baby Bunting,

Papa's gone a-hunting,

To fetch a little rabbit skin,

To wrap our Baby Bunting in.

Children are in two’s, facing each other, hands grasped, building “a cradle”. Throughout the song the cradle is rocked; on the last word “in”, they turn in under their arms. Later they may 4um several times as the last line is recited or chanted.

Digitized by
To be recited:

225

1

This is the house

That Jack built.

2

This is the malt That lay in the house That Jack built.

3

This is the rat That ate the malt That lay in the house

That Jack built.

4

This is the cat That caught the rat That ate the malt That lay in the house

That Jack built.

5

This is the dog That worried the cat That caught the rat That ate the malt That lay in the house

That Jack built.

Formation: couples facing each other, forming a straight line or a circle.

1.	Hands of partners are raised toward each other, head high, to “build the house”. (Joining hards would not allow for a wide enough lane.) Lower hands on “built.”

2.	End couple skip as far as they can go while the lines pertaining to “the malt” are recited. If they do not succeed in getting into line and opposite each other by the time the last word “built” is sung, the roof is made again, i. e., hands are raised and the lazy “malt” has to walk to the head of the line (where they will have to wait? longest for another chance to skip.) While the children repeat the lines and clap their hands in rhythm; the next couple tries to do better.

3.	Same as 2. Each succeeding verse allows for greater distance to be covered in skipping.

The play may be carried out to the very last of this beloved rhyme to “This is the cock that crew on the morn”, etc., to which the hands might be placed on shoulders and the wings clapped instead of the clapping of hands. Other pantomimic motions may be added from time to time.

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
226

The following three rhymes may be recited. We used the music of Miss Knorr’s adaptation in singing them.

Those of us who have to wo*k in rooms can often weave the furniture into the activity of the game. Following are several such experiments for the teacher who may have felt there was no use in trying to have games in a room filled up with desks fastened to the floor.

1

Little Miss Muffet 2

Sat on a tuffet

3

Eating of curds and of whev,

4

When along came a spider.

5

And sat down beside her

6

And frightened Miss Muffet away.

Have children stand facing the back of the room.

1.	Let them climb up into their seats and sit on their desks. (They love to climb and it helps to wear out the nasty old immovable furniture.)

2.	Left hand (the spider) is hidden behind the child’s back and they settle down to a “comfy” position on their “tuffet”.

3.	They eat.

4.	Spider comes creeping steadily to the foreground.

5.	Spider likewise “settles”.

6.	Miss Muffet rises to feet with horrified expression, climbs off the “tuffet”, turns about and sits down where she belongs.

1

Little Jack Horner 2

Sat in his comer

3

Eating his Christmas pie,

4

When he stuck in his thumb

5	•

And pulled out a plum

6

And said: “What a great boy am I”.

1.	Children stand facing front.

2.	They turn and sit in their comers with feet in the aisle.

3.	They eat.

4.	They hold the thumb poised in the air for a moment before plunging it into the pie.

Digitized by v^ooQle
227

5.	They pull hard and long and rise to their feet brandishing the beauty aloft while facing about.

6.	They climb into the seat and raise arms fore-upward— they “grow up”, as it were, in an instant.

Hickory, dickory, dock, tic, toe,

6	7	8	9	10

The mouse ran up the clock, tic, toe,

11	12

The clock struck one, the mouse ran down,

13	14	15	16	17

Hickory, dickory, dock, tic, toe.

Children stand in the aisle, arms raised upward.

1.	Bend trunk left.

2.	Bend trunk right.

3.	Straighten.

4.	Lower one arm.

5.	Lower the other arm. (Don’t spoil the fun by being too particular about the left and right arm.)

6.	Child turns to his own chair and braces himself, one hand . on the desk and one on the back of his chair, ready to vault; at the same time he curls up his back and makes himself as “mousy” as possible.

7.	He vaults quietly like a mouse into standing position on his chair, thereby imitating the quiet and speed of the mouse mounting the clock.

8.	He points to the clock hanging on the wall.

9.	10. Holds the position.

11.	Clap hands once and bend quickly, grasping desk and chairback as before, ready for jumping off the chair backward.

12.	Child jumps quietly like a mouse. (If they are not good mice the first time, don’t be discouraged. Pick out the noisy ones and let the cat get them. Pause long enough after this before going on to “face forward, arms upward”, and be able to hear the clock tick.)

13.	14, 15. The pendulum swings again, and

16, 17. The arms are lowered, first one, then the other.

Another nice variation of this fascinating old goose rhyme is to let the children remain in their seats—this is, of course, not so good from the physiological standpoint, but it has a stronger aesthetic element and works like a charm to calm them down after the foregoing rousing interpretation.

The hands lie passive in the lap to start with.

1,	2, 3. The head nods left, then right, is raised.

4,	5. The left fist lightly taps the desk, the right follows suit.

6,	7, 8. The little fingers creep up the desk with a cunning little mouse-like pitter-patter.

9,	10. The clock booms out its terrible sound again; that is, one fist comes down and then the other.

1

9

3	4	5

Digitized by
228

11,	12. Mouse pitter-patters down again into the lap of its creator.

13,	14, 15. The children nod again.

16, 17. The clock booms again.

Finale: They wake up and fold their hands. What a funny dream they’ve had! They’d giggle and talk about it for hours— but there’s so much else to do than talk about dreams.

1

Little Boy Blue

2	3	4

Come, blow your horn. (Toooo.)

5

The sheep are in the meadow,

6

The cows are in the corn.

7	8

Where’s the little boy

9	10

That takes care of the sheep?

11

Why, he’s under the hay cock

Fast asleep!

Will you wake him?

No, not I,

For if I do

He’ll be sure to cry.

The teacher, or a leader, recites these lines facing the class.

1.	The children stand as proudly as the little boy who has a man’s work to do.

2.	They stoop and pick up the horn and rise again.

3.	Place horn to lips.

4.	One long blast. (Leader should blow her imaginary horn first to give the pitch.)

5.	Straighten left arm. sideward and turn head left to visualize the sheep grazing there yonder.

6.	Straighten right arm sideward and turn head right to indicate and see the cows in the corn.

7.	8. Here the leader (the one reciting the lines) shades the eyes and looks intently into the meadow for the vanished child. The children kneel, place arms in chairs and heads down on the arms—they go to sleep in the hay.

9,	10. The children sleep, the leader turns and looks into the corn.

11. The children sleep; the leader is now facing the hay cock and recites the rest of the lines.

Finale: The leader tip-toes over to the nearest haystack, (sleeper), stoops, takes up the horn and blows a blast into the meadow. The little heads bob up—Boy Blue is awakened. Another « blast in the horn—Boy Blue gets up; he’s in the hay, he’s barefooted.

Digitized by

Google
229

he gets up quietly. Another blast and he rubs his eyes and defies anybody to say that he’s been asleep on his job.

To be chanted or to the tune of Yankee Doodle.

1

Jack and Jill went up the hill

To fetch a pail of water.

2

Jack fell down and broke his crown

3

And Jill came tumbling after.

4	5

Then up got Jack and said to Jill

6

As in his arms he caught her,

7

You’re not hurt, brush off the dirt

And then we’ll get the water.

8

So Jack and Jill went up the hill

This time they got the water,

9

And brought it home to Mother dear,

10	11

Who thanked her son and daughter.

Start with the hands lying prone on the desk. Here a brief talk on clean hands is very fitting. The right hand is Jack, strong, sturdy little fellow. The left hand is his sister Jill. They are clean little children; they are busy little children. This is what happened to them one day:

1.	The children climb up the hill—one hand goes up a little in advance of the other, then the other outsteps the first and so on. The space in front of the child is the imaginary hill.

2.	The right fist lands rather heavily on the desk, (Jack has fallen) followed

3.	by the left. (So has Jill).

4.	The right hand is raised, poised in the air again.

5.	The right hand takes its place beside the left (the right assists the left.)

6.	The left hand is placed into the right—sister Jill is in brother Jack’s arms.

7.	Jack brushes the dust off Jill.

8.	They start the climb again and go to the very summit of the hill this time.

9.	They descend to level ground again, thumbs locked to represent the bucket of water they are carrying between them.

10.	The right hand is held out to the right side and receives a gracious nod.

11.	The daughter is likewise singled out for a generous nod of approval.

Digitized by floosie
230

-)	1	H			J					
y yji	j	y	J	y	ht-b	i—	•	1	
							*		r cj
KJ . 0  t					TL.G					\—1

Who put her in? Little Tommy Tin.

14	15	16

Who’ll take her out? Little Tommy Trout.

17

What a naughty boy was that

18

To drown our little pussy cat.

In olden times there used to be a bell in the middle of the town. Often times there was also a nice deep well there. The horses would be watered there. The people would gather there to talk. If there was a fire or any other trouble the bell was rung and the people would run out of their houses into the streets to see what was the matter. One time the bell rang out very loud and clear—“Ding, Dong, Bell”, it said. “Everybody come! Something terrible has happened this time.” When the people ran out into the streets they commenced to wonder where their children were. They were just about to call for John and Mary and Kate and Ann and all the other children, when they saw a wonderful sight. All the children were pulling at the bell rope—Ding, Dong, Bell. They were very excited; they ran and looked into the well, they bent way over and got their hands wet; they pounded their fists against the rock coping around the well; they shook their fingers as they talked to anybody who would listen; when they

Digitized by LaOOQle
231

saw the little boy who was known to be the kindest boy to dumb-animals they held out their arms to him. But he had come too* late, the little pussy cat was drowned. The children wept. How would you like to have a moving picture show and we be the actors showing all this? Stay in your chairs. Take hold of hands across the aisles—that’s the way—we want the rope on the bell to be long and strong. Raise the hands high without leaving go of the rope.

*1“Pull down.’ - f f

2.	Let the rope go up (raise arms again.)

3,	4. Pull down and up.

5,	6, 7, 8. Same as 1, 2, 3, 4.

9.	Shade eyes with both hands.

10.	Bend over and peer into the left aisle (the well.)

11.	Pound desk with one hand.

12.	Then with the other.

13.	Then with the first again.

14.	Bend over and reach down into “the well”, try to get the-pussy and get hands wet.

15.	Shake the water off the hands (into right aisle.)

16.	Hold out the arms to welcome Tommy Trout.

17.	Face neighbor (alternate aisles face each other) and shake finger in angry scolding fashion.

18.	Turn away (face front) and nod head, hands to eyes— weep; like the actors in the ‘moving picture shows’ do—they bob-their heads and shake their shoulders so.

This interpretation can be used with the children standing in the aisles. Their own chair then is “the well” into which they peer and later dip their hands; the fist pounding on the coping around the well is shown by hitting the right fist into the palm of the left, hand.

Ride a cock horse to Banbury Cross

To see the old lady upon a white horse,

With rings on her fingers and bells on her toes

She will have music wherever she goes.

To market, to market, to buy a fat pig.

Home again, home again, jig-a-jig-jig.

To market, to market, to buy a fat hog.

Home again, home again, jig-ajog-jog.

Chant the rhymes rather than recite or sing them. Chanting: is elemental music and strikes a live chord in the young ones.

These jingles will do for any form of galloping. We usually start by having the children face in the aisle, grasp hands and then gallop sideward. Then comes the forward gallop where either left or right foot leads continuously. Then the changing of the foot while in action. This is a jolly trick when you use these rollicking rhymes. Tell the children, for instance, that the left foot will be the leader until it gets “to see”, when the rider goes a little higher in the air and during the rest of the race the right foot has. the. lead.

Digitized by CjOOQle
232

Be sure and get the swing of the gallop fast enough, remembering the child's rhythm is faster than our own and most of us must .speed up if we would prevent retarding him.

12	3

One, two, three, four, five,

4	5	6

Once I caught a fish alive;

7	8	9

Six, seven, eight, nine, ten,

7	8	9

"Then I let him go again.

12	3

What made you leave him go?

4	5	6

Because he bit my finger so!

‘7	8	9

Which finger did he bite?

7	8	9

The little finger on my right.

1.	Place left heel forward.

"2. Place right foot backward.

3.	Change step left.

4,5,6. Repeat to the right.

7.	Stamp left.

8.	Stamp right.

"9. Clap hands three times.

1	2	3

Fishy, fishy in the brook,

Daddy catch him with a hook,

Mother fry him in a pan,

Baby eat him, all he can.	*

Pupils sotting in their seats, alternate rows facing ^each 'other, knees almost touching.

1.	Clap own knees.

2.	Clap own hands.

3.	Clap partner’s hands three times.

Same motions for each succeeding line.

Digitized by LjOOQle
233

FLAG DRILL.

The drill was executed by 5000 pupils at the Cincinnati, O.-Public Schools Field Day May 25, 1917.

The exercises were arranged by Dr. Robert Nohr, Sr., assisted) by Miss Hazel C. Orr and Mr. Aug. Eckel, Jr.

Each pupil carried two American Flags. Size 8”xl4”, staffs 22” long. Formation of Pupils in rear of field.

Nineteen columns in ranks of fours standing in open order-(full distance of both arms and flags sideward) before marching forward.

Girls and boys of the sixth, seventh and eighth grades in alternate rows, the girl standing on the right side of the boy. While marching forward the flag staffs to be crossed over chest pointing obliquely upward outward at an angle of about 45 degrees. See-illustration (Fig. 1.)

The girl on the right of each column to march along the white line marking the column on the field, all guiding right, until the-head of the columns reach the assigned position at the front of the field.

Music: “Under the Flag of Victory March” By Franz vom Blon. _

Signals: Signals were given by an electric bell sounded from; . the director’s platform.

Signal 1—Mark time.

Signal 2—Forward March—Guide right. Each rank to follow at intervals of four (4) paces.

Signal 3—Halt, when the head of the columns reach the position at the front of the field.

Signal 4—Face right—Raise arms and flags sideward and. prove distance from first to last in rows.

Signal 5—Face Front—Place hands on hips, flags in vertical position resting against shoulders on respective side (starting position). See Fig. 2. .

PART I.

Music: “Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.” 4-4 Time.

Introduction: Play the last four measures.

1.	a) Begin on the second syllable of word “Columbia”.

Stride obliquely forward left and straighten arms

obliquely forward upward to the left (Fig. 3)___ 1

Hold position.................................   2

b)	Bend left knee, the left arm remains in position, circle right arm forward then continue to obliquely

backward downward (not behind the body Fig. 4)___3

Hold.............................................4

c) Return in reverse order...........................5— 8.

d) Repeat a, b, c, to right..............................9—16.

e) Repeat all left and right.........................17—32

Total......................................    8	measures.

Digitized by CjOOQle
:2. a)

234

b)

c)

d)

e)

.3. a)

b)

c)

d)

e

f)

Begin with “man”-(9th measure), Stride backward left, raise arms obliquely forward upward to a circle

cross flag staffs (Fig. 5)...................... 1

Hold.............................................2

Bend left knee, separate arms to width of shoulders, circle forward downward, then move outward to oblique position, flags horizontally height of hips (note

dotted lines (Fig. 6)............................

Hold.............................................

Return in reverse order..........................

Repeat a, b, c, to right.........................

Repeat all left and right........................

3 . 4

5— 8 9—16 17—32

Total

8 measures

Begin with “borne by the” (17th measure), Stride sideward left and 3-4 double arm circle inward to

sideward shoulder high (Fig. 7)...................

Hold..............................................

Face left on heels, bend left knee, 3-8 double arm circle inward (note dotted lines) and cross flag staffs

on chest (Fig. 8).................................

Hold..............................................

1

2

3

4

Face front on heels, double arm circle inward to side-

ward shoulder high................................. 5

Hold............................................... 6

Starting position.................................. 7—	8

Repeat a, b, c, d, to right....................... 9—16

Repeat all left and right...........................17—32

Total

8 measures

PART II

Without the usual rest between parts, immediately begin with the first measure of the music of Part I.'

Measures

1. Same a3 Part I, but files No. 1 and 3 (girls) begin left as before, simultaneously files No. 2 and 4 (boys) now

begin right etc. (Fig. 9 and 10). Total Measures. 8

:2. Same a3 exercise 2, Part II, but with the change as follows:

a)	Files No. 1 and 3 (girls)) begin backward left as in Part I, but files No. 2 and 4 (boys) begin with a lunge backward right, double arm circle inward to obliquely sideward downward, flag staffs horizontally height of

hips (Fig. 11).................................... 1

Hold..............................................2

b)	Both change position	to	opposite, boys transfer

weight on left foot, right foot on toes (note dotted

lines for arm movements	Fig.	12)................. 3

Hold.............................................. 4

«)	Return in reverse order...........................5— 8

Digitized by AjOOQle
9—16

17—32

d)	Repeat a, b, c, but girls begin right and boys left

e)	Repeat a, b, c, d,.	  ...............

Total measures..................................    8

3. Same as exercise 3, Part I, but files No. 1 and 3 (girls) begin left as before, and files No. 2 and 4 (boys) begin right etc. (Fig. 13 and 14.) Total Measures_____________ 8

Note:	Avoid	striking	neighbors'	flags.

PART III

Marching Series.

Music: Dixie’s Land. 2-4 Time.

Introduction: Play the last eight measures of the chorus. March in form of a cross. Fig. 15.

Digitized by Google
236

a)	March four steps forward, straighten arms obliquely sideward upward on first count, hold position (Fig.

16.)...............................................  1-4

b)	March four steps backward to original place, cross flag staffs on chest on fifth count at an angle of about

45 degrees (Fig. 17)............................ 5— 8

c)	Face left on the ninth count and repeat a and b, in

that direction and return....................... 9—16

d)	Repeat in the same manner on the remaining two

sides to original starting point...................17—32

e)	Repeat a, b, c, d, to chorus of the music and finish

facing front with lowering arms, i. e. double arm circle inward, to position of obliquely sideward downward on the last count in preparation for Part IV (Fig. 18) .........................................33—64

Total......................................  32	measures

PART IV

Music: Star Spangled Banner. 3-4 Time.

Introduction: Play the last four measures.

Starting position: Arms obliquely sideward downward (Fig. 18)

Note: The flags should not touch the ground.

1.	a) Begin on “say”—Slowly raise arms sideward upward so that they are shoulder high at end of first

measure........................................ 1— 3

Continue to upward position by the end of the second measure (Fig. 19).............................. 4— 6

b)	Lower arms slowly in the same manner to obliquely

sideward downward.............................. 7—12

c)	Repeat a and b.................................13—24

Total.......:................................  8	measures

. 2. a) Begin on “stripes”—Stride forward left and from the position obliquely sideward downward, 11-8 double arm circle inward to sideward shoulder high (Fig. 20).. 1— 3

b)	Kneel on right knee (or nearly to kneeling), raise

arms upward to a circle and cross flag staffs overhead (Fig. 21).................................. 4— 6

c)	Straighten knees, 3-4 double arm circle inward to

sideward shoulder high (Fig. 20)................ 7— 9

d) Close left foot to right and place hands on hips......10—12

c)	Repeat a, b, c, d, to right, but from position of hands

on hips this time...............................13—24

Total.................................... 8	measures

3. a) Begin with “rock”—Lunge obliquely forward left and straighten arms obliquely forward upward (Fig. 22) .......................................... 1—	3

Digitized by

Google
237

b)	Change knee bending slowly (feet remain firm), turn trunk right, slowly 3-4 double arm circle forward downward to obliquely backward upward during the

next three counts (Fig. 23).......................4 —6

c)	Change kneebending slowly and continue double arm circle in upward direction to former position

(Fig. 24)........................................ 7— 9

Note: b and c, continuous from 4th to 9th count.

d) Return to starting position..........................10—12

c)	Repeat a, b, c, d, to right........................13—24

Total....................................   8	measures

To chorus of music:

4.	a) Begin with “say”—Wave left arm (slightly above

shoulder level) to right (Fig. 25).............. 1— 3

b)	Return to left, Fig. 26, then place left hand on hip

when right arm begins........................... 4— 6

c)	Wave right arm to left and return to right (not to

place hand on hip).............................. 7—12

d)	Wave both arms inward crossing flag staffs and return to outward position (Fig. 27)....................13—18

e) Wave both arms inward once more as under d...............19—21

f)	Raise crossed flag staffs overhead on the 22nd count

and hold (Fig. 28)......................................23—24

g)	Place right hand on hip and repeat a, b, c, d, e, f ...25—48

Total........................................16 measures

h)	Quickly double arm circle inward to position obliquely sideward downward, see Fig. 18 and repeat music and exercise of Part IV, finishing with hands on

hips on the last count..................17—32 measures

After conclusion of the drill all participants closed forward and inward forming a solid body.

Both flags were placed into the left hand at left shoulder in preparation for the salute of the flag.

Upon the signal by the director on the center platform, the pupils placed their right hand at right temple and immediately straightened arm obliquely forward upward pointing toward one of the nearest of several large American flags in front of the whole mass and recited the following pledge:

“I pledge allegiance to my flag and the republic for which it stands; one nation indivisible, with liberty and justice to all.”

“America” was sung immediately after the salute. The pupils were dismissed by marching forward beginning with the four center columns, then separating to two columns at center and then marching toward the right and left sides respectively where they dispersed. The other columns followed in the same manner in successive order.

Digitized by U^ooQLe
238

NOTES ON RECREATION AND PLAY COURSES DURING ' THE SUMMER. 1917.

HENRY S. CURTIS.

This is not an attempt to give an account of what is being done in the way of recreation in the summer schools of the United States as a whole, but merely a few brief notes on courses and recreation as I have observed them at a number of summer schools.

The first thing that can be said about recreation and play during the summer of 1917 as contrasted with that of previous years is that very much more attention is being given to recreation for summer students than ever before. It has found its way into the summer catalogs of a good share of the schools, and in nearly everyone there is some attempt at least to organize and stimulate the outdoor activities among the summer students.

Equally noticeable is the fact that now in practically every summer school of any size there is a course in plays and games at least, and often one definitely known as a playground course, and that these courses are increasing in attendance rapidly from year to year.

My first engagement this summer was with the Normal School at Tahlequah, Oldahoma, and there I found a playground class of about thirty students in charge of Mr. Philip Heusel. Tahlequah is the old capital of the Five Nations, or the Five Civilized Tribes as they were once known, and the Normal School was preparing to give at the end of the summer a pageant of the coming of the Five Nations to Indian Territory.

My next engagement was with the Normal School at Durant, Oklahoma. At this school there was apparently no playground course, but there were two developments of interest to the recreation movement. One was that the Normal School was maintaining a menagerie which consisted of several large turtles, four or five wolves, several coons, and various other animals. It also had several good sized pens of chickens. This is suggestive because it suggests two lines of developments which seem desirable both in connection with our playgrounds and our schools; that is, there should be a small menagerie in connection with every playground and every school, and the children should be taught to care for them.

The other development of interest was in the line of community singing. The Normal School is situated on the outer edge of the town fully a mile from the village, so that it was a considerable walk for students to return there at night. But they had arranged a search-light on the top of the building so it could be turned down upon the lawn, and with this for lighting they had one evening a week which was devoted to general singing and which was attended the week I was there by two hundred to two hundred fifty students, this despite the fact that the weather was then threatening and there seemed every probability of rain.

At the Normal School at Huntsville, Texas, there was a playground class with about seventy students in charge of Miss McKinley, and beside this a special class .in games and folk dancing,
239

and there is every prospect of this work being considerably enlarged for next year. The Normal School has already given once and is preparing to give again a pageant representing the history of Texas including its Mexican and American history. Huntsville has peculiar facilities for such a pageant as it was the residence of Sam Houston, who led the Texan forces against Mexico, was the only President of the Republic of Texas and afterwards Governor of Texas for two terms after it came into the Union.

At Gunnison, Colorado, there was a play course with fifty or sixty students in charge of Mr. Evans, Physical Director of Beloit, who next year is to have charge of physical education at Teachers College, Greeley, Colorado. Gunnison is in the center of the Rocky Mountains and has a splendid climate for all sorts of outdoor sports such as mountain climbing, hunting, fishing,, and games. The favorite form of sport seems to he a trout fry in which companies of twenty or thirty go out for an afternoon of fishing and a picnic supper. There are a number of these different group picnics and at least one in which the whole school participates.

At the Normal School at San Diego, California, there is a course in play and games under Miss Tanner and also a special course on playgrounds by Mr. Peterson, a former director in the playgrounds of Los Angeles.

The unique feature in the Normal School at San Diego is the rowing on the bay. There are some ten crews in the school who make use of barges belonging to the school. These barges are eight-oared craft which will carry fifteen to twenty people comfortably, and a good share of the girls in the school get some training at least in rowing in this way. The water is still and safe in the harbor, and there is always a great variety of battleships, cruisers, and gunboats lying about, as well as hydroplanes overhead, which makes a row there of unusual interest.

The state of Nevada is very sparsely settled and there were only about seventy-five students in the Summer School of the University this year, but of these over thirty were taking the playground course in charge of Elsie Sameth, Director of Physical Training.

The University has a fine new field which was given to it by Mr. Clarence Mackey, with a splendid field house, and the climate is well adapted to outdoor activities

At the Teachers College at Greeley, Colorado, there was a play course in charge of Dr. Abbott with about seventy students..

There were several items of interest in the recreational life of the students at Greeley which are worth mentioning. At one of the morning assemblies a delegation from the state of Illinois, about one hundred strong presented an Illinois pageant. They were headed by the Indians, followed by Father Marquette, La Salle, George Rogers Clark, and other notables. They came in, sang Illinois songs, and gave their yell. Another morning a delegation from Texas gave a similar representation of Texan notables and presented a chart showing the vastness of Texas and its resources. Nearly every evening there was story telling or singing or a play upon the lawn, and the presentation of Twelfth Night under the direction of Miss Toby was something that any summer

Digitized by

Google
240

school might well be proud of. There is a students’ social building belonging to the school with splendid facilities which adds greatly to the opportunities for recreation. There is a probability of a much larger development along recreational lines at Greeley next year.

At the University of Colorado there was a playground course of some seventy-five members in charge of Miss Bolan of the University and her assistant, Miss Gorman. There is also a class of about the same size which runs through the year and receives two hours’ credit toward the A. B. Degree.

There are many unusual opportunities for recreation at the University of Colorado, because it lies just at the edge of the Rocky Mountains. One of the commonest forms of recreation is the “beefsteak fry” where special groups from different states go out Into one of the nearby canyons for beefsteak suppers by themselves. But on Saturdays and Sundays there is probably the greatest variety of recreation at the University that can be found at almost any school in the country. There are always walking parties who go out into the mountains for climbs and to study the rocks and flowers and the nearby mines. There are parties also that go out on donkeys for mountain trips of different kinds, and also horseback parties. Every week there is an automobile trip to Estes Park or to a circle of the mines, or other points of interest, and the University maintains in the Forest Preserve a week-end camp to which any student who wishes is welcome to go. The students usually go on this trip at one o’clock on Friday and come back at five o’clock on Sunday, and it usually includes the climbing of the Arapahoe Glacier, which is the largest glacier to be found anywhere in the central Rocky Mountains. The students are charged $5.50 for the round trip where everything is furnished, or they may buy a round trip ticket for $1.50 and furnish their own meals if they prefer. Accommodations in a tent cost them twenty-five cents per night.

The Agricultural College at Fort Collins, Colorado, also has a week-end camp, and this is a suggestion which other summer .schools might well follow, as it enables the summer school to combine the advantages of a summer vacation and summer study.

While I was at the University I suggested at one of my lectures that I would be glad to take up a party to spend a night on top of the mountain if any of them wished to go. To my surprise one hundred ninety signed up for the trip.

Of the eight hundred students attending the Summer School at the University of Colorado, only a few over two hundred are from the state.

The war is making a great inroad upon men physical educators throughout the country and there is going to be a general shortage. There is a vacancy for a man at the Normal School at Tahlequah, Oklahoma; a probable vacancy at the Normal School at Huntsville, Texas; vacancies for Supervisors of Playgrounds at Dallas, Texas, and Waco, Texas; a vacancy for a Director of Physical Training at Gunnison, Colorado, and probably at San Diego, California; and a vacancy for two men Physical Directors at the Teachers College at Greeley, Colorado.

Digitized by L.ooQle
241

( I-	m	’	■	■	'	■in—i—i—,.	O

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

O	'	I	"■■■»-	■"	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Meal Hours.—I reported in my preceding letter a communication from Dr. Bergonie to the Academie des sciences on the modification of meal hours. At a recent meeting of the academy Dr. Amar declared with reference to this communication that the work ration of 3,200 calories proposed as a maximum by Bergonie is in reality insufficient, asserting that the work ration usually exceeded 4,000 calories. He remarked that the meal hours proposed by Bergonie, namely, 7:30 a. m. and 6 p. m., if accepted as the hours for the two principal meals, might serve as well for the night workers and the noctambulists. Amar concludes, however, that the custom of taking two principal meals, one at noon and the other toward 8 p. m., supplemented by a light breakfast on rising, is justified from the standpoint of experimental hygiene and the loss of human energetics. Supporting his view by a series of carefully conducted researches, he maintained that the carbohydrates are utilizable thirty minutes after their ingestion, which signifies an economy of 5 per cent, as regards expenditure of energy, whereas the nitrogenous foods are difficult to utilize for the first two hours after meals. Under these circumstances, it would be advantageous, while continuing to work and to eat at our usual hours, to consume farinaceous foods and fruits in abundance, and to devote at least ninety minutes to each of our two principal meals. —From Paris Letter to The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.

Vitality of Tubercle Bacillus Outside Body. M. B.

Soparker.—It is evident from Soparker’s experiments that there is an appreciable period after the complete drying of tuberculous sputum, during which some of the tubercle bacilli contained therein remain alive. In the case of direct sunlight the time is approximately two hours; this interval is not long, and the danger of infection from tuberculous sputum deposited in open places exposed to the sun cannot therefore be considered to be great. In the case of sputum deposited in a place exposed to diffused daylight the interval during which sputum dust may remain infective can be calculated in days. But here, too, the tubercle bacilli soon lose their virulence if the place be well lighted, the rate at which the tubercle bacilli become devitalized probably depending on the intensity of the light. The danger of spreeding infection is greatest when sputum is deposited indoors, especially in dark ill-ventilated places. In these conditions tubercle bacilli may retain their vitality and power to cause the disease as long as 309 days. From decomposing sputum living tubercle bacilli could be isolated after twenty days but not after twenty-six days. Bovine tubercle bacilli were found to be more resistant to sunlight and diffused daylight than

Digitized by v^ooQie
242

"human tubercle bacilli. When exposed to electric light the bovine bacilli were found alive for seventy-four days but dead after one liundred days. It took three to four hours in direct sunlight and three to four days in diffuse daylight for a pellet of sputum to become sufficiently dried to be capable of being reduced to dust. The adoption of suitable building by-laws to ensure the entrance of sufficient light and air in all inhabited rooms in houses will do much to combat the spread of tuberculosis.—Abstraction from “The	Journ.A. M.	A.”

Free Orthopedic Dispensary.—The New Haven Orthopedic Dispensary has been established by the New Haven Normal School -of Gymnastics. The institution is open daily and has ample equipment. The staff consists of Dr. Ernest H. Arnold, who has been in charge of the orthopedic clinic of the New Haven Dispensary for twenty-three years; Dr. James F. Rogers and Dr. Harry E. Stewart, Washington. The seniors of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics attend the daily clinics in sections, and carry out the manual and gymnastic treatment under the direction of the staff.

An Effective Pl^n of Social Hygiene.—The Massachusetts Society for Social Hygiene after five years of work has decided that its most effective efforts are educational. It confines its •efforts to teaching in quiet ways such parts of sex or social hygiene as may be expected to diminish the amount of sexual transgression and vice, and to check the spread of venereal diseases. As set forth in the Public Health Bulletin of the State Department of Health of Massachusetts, April 1917, the society’s methods of work are as follows: Two paid agents are employed, both of whom have been practicing physicians, one a man and the other a woman. They give all their time to correspondence, to talking to small groups of boys and young men, girls or young women, or fathers or mothers assembled under the auspices of schools, colleges, clubs, associations, settlements, churches, friendly societies, young men’s or young women’s Christian associations, women’s clubs, men’s clubs, and to advising the numerous inquirers who come to the office of the society. The sexes are talked to separately, for the most part. Four physicians give their services gratuitous-• ly in lectures to groups of men or occasionally to mixed groups. The field for this work is said to be wider than the society is able to cultivate. A lending library of carefully selected books on social hygiene and related subjects is maintained, which is much used at the office and by groups to whom lectures have been given. A reading list prepared by the society is distributed in thousands of copies, some of which are given out by the public health nurses. The officers of the society are Prof. Charles W. Eljot, president; David L. Edsall, M. D., vice president; Ernest B. Dane, treasurer; Irving E. Stowe, M. D., secretary. The office and library of the society are at 50 Beacon Street, Boston.

Digitized by t^ooQie
O'

<o

ATHLETIC NOTES	[

o	■ —■.———  	i	o

By E. HAIJG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

Speaking of athletics and the war, Dr. Williams, Coach of Minnesota Football team says:

“I see no better reason for discontinuing athletics than for discontinuing the university. Football is a wonderful developer of men. It will be a means of developing a class of better men for future military service.

“A great many athletes from all colleges are going to war. Most of them are going as officers. I believe that the football men will make the very best of army officers.

“The enlistment of athletes will leave vacancies on the teams. Instead of abolishing football, by all means it is better to continue it, for then men will get valuable football training who otherwise would have had absolutely no chance to get it.

“If we actually get to fighting and our men are getting killed at the front, it may be best then to drop all sports. But until that time, as long as the universities are running, it is best to continue athletics, because athletics is the best possible means of training men.”

A RECORD NOT IN DANGER.

Murphy’s Great Mile in 57 4-5 Seconds Bids Fair to Stand.

It is generally taken for granted in the world of sports that speed records, as well as other athletic marks, are fated in the normal course of events to be supplanted. In fact, a record which stands for five or six years is considered old, and one which endures for a decade is antique. There is one speed record, however, which is now nearly eighteen years old, and may never be blotted from this list. It was made in June, 1899, by Charles M. Murphy, who retired recently from active service in the police force of this city. His retirement was unostentatious, but when, astride a bicycle, he pedaled a mile in 57 4-5 seconds the feat aroused broadcast interest and amazement.

Regarding Murphy and his startling performance, Bicycle News says:

“The retirement of Charles M. Murphy, popularly known as ‘Mile-a-Minute’ Murphy, from active service on the New York police force on Jan. 29, calls to mind the performance that made him world famous, and the fact that but three men have ridden a mile on a bicycle within the minute. While on duty, and riding his motor cycle on Manhattan Bridge, on Sept. 3 last, Murphy was thrown in collision with a motor car and broke his left leg in three places. Nine weeks in the hospital has fa led to fit him for service and his transfer to the retired list followed.

“He was the first of three bicyclists who have ridden a mile in less than sixty seconds. His performance was accomplished

Digitized by Google
244

on June 30, 1899, on a specially prepared board course laid between the railroad tracks on Long Island, at Haywood, paced by a locomotive equipped with a windshield. After several preliminary attempts, he rode the 5,280 feet in 0.57 4-5—a performance that has never been equaled on a bicycle.

“The next performance was 0:58 made by George L. Kreamer, June 3, 1910, on the Lqs Angeles (Cal ) auto track, paced by an automobile. The third of the trio of bicyclists who have ridden the mile within 60 seconds is Elmer L. Collins, of Lynn, Mass., who rode in 0:58 3-5, on the beach at Daytona, Fla., March 26, 1909, paced by Ralph De Palma, driving his racing car.”

O'	■	'	i	i	■■	o

NOTES AND COMMENTS

■■■ I—IN	I. I.' ■	o

In the Heating and Ventilating Magazine we find the following: According to the present plans for the construction of the army cantonments now being built, the sleeping quarters or barracks provide for the housing of the soldiers in groups of 200. The heat supply is to be provided by stoves, with smoke flues leading through the second story. Ventilation is to be furnished by natural means through openings underneath the eaves. The prediction is now made that when cold weather comes the first thing the soldiers will do will be to close the openings admitting the cold air. But whether or not that happens, the grouping of 200 soldiers in one barrack, it is stated, is bound to have serious results on the health of the men, one authority openly predicting an epidemic of disease if this practice is followed. Both England and France, it is stated, have long since discovered the danger of thus grouping the men and today the barracks of this type are used as store-rooms and the men are sleeping outdoors in tents. It will be news to a good many that 200 men cannot be safely housed in a single sleeping quarters, but if it is true the medical profession and, incidentally, the heating profession have no time to lose to impress their views upon the proper authorities. The heating engineer’s society has already done so, but it is to be hoped the matter will not stop there.

At our Women’s Field Day DePauw University, Greencastle, Indiana, May 12th, Florence Heritage ’17, Langhome, Pennsylvania, threw the 21b Discuss, 73 feet, thereby breaking the world’s record for Women of 68 feet 6 inches, held by Howard Payne College. At our fall swimming meet, Christine Booth, T9, Greencastle, Indiana, established a record of 30 4-5 seconds for the 60 foot under water swim, and Florence Heritage Grace Whitsel Deveda Deerhake ’17, Helen Johnson Katharine Benedict, T8, Jeanette Holloway ’18, Christine Booth T9, Alfreda Jones T9, Mrs. Zaharahos, qualified or the emblem and certificate of the World’s Life Saving Alliance.

Very truly yours,

Sophia M. Steese.

Digitized by Google