MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	Sept.-Oct. 1927	No.	362

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM. MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

.. —.......... ■ ---- ■ ■ ■ <»

Qriginal articles and reprint^}

MODESTY AND ITS ORIGIN

Robert Kingman, M. D., F. A. C. P. Brooklyn, N. Y.

(Copyright 1927)

Modesty is such an indefinite and intangible affair that it defies all efforts to compress it into the limits of a definition. The modesty of the average Englishman gets all fussed up over eating in public places that are not restaurants, and he blushes with shame when caught in the act of devouring a snack on the train, in the park, or anywhere else if exposed to the vulgar gaze of the public. The modesty of a belle of a tribe of natives who live near the headwaters of the Amazon River cannot stand the shock of losing the one and only garter which comprises her entire costume; she hides in shame at the nakedness resulting from such an accident, albeit she feels no need of another stitch of clothing if only this same one garter is in its accustomed place.

It is all a question of what we are accustomed to and one can become accustomed to almost anything, or in these days, to put

Reprint by kind permission of the Long Island Medical Journal, June 1927.
194

it more correctly, to almost nothing, if necessary. From the tights of the notorious Black Crook extravaganza to the naked chorus legs of today, from the trailing skirts of twenty years ago to their present abbreviated representatives, from petticoat to nothing, and from the sex secrecy of years ago to the franker discussions of today—all these transformations are excellent examples of changes in modesty that have occurred before the very eyes of our grown-ups. And although the conventional restrictions of modesty have been thus altered, it does not appear that immodesty in thought and action is one bit more rampant today than in the days of our fathers and mothers or even of our grandfathers and grandmothers.

To the idealist it may be a bit discouraging to have to admit that the roots of the sense of modesty are deeply implanted in a reaction of fear. This has been learned from the habits of animals. For we are indebted to a study of animal behavior for a great deal of our knowledge about our real reasons for doing things. Many of our habits and moral principles have been so covered up by an accumulation of customs and traditions developed during past ages that we do not really know why we do things and think things that seem perfectly natural and impossible to be done or to be thought in any other way. Whatever animals do is done instinctively and without bias. By observing them we can interpret ourselves. Prejudice and convention play no part in their reasons for doing things. They tell no lies, they have no repressions or complexes and they are never hypocrites. What they do is done naturally and by direct action as the shortest and safest means to an end.

Eating and several other of the wants and habits of nature are functions of great importance in animal life. In carrying out these affairs their attention is distracted for the moment and they are off their guard. This is a favorable moment for enemies to attack, for they are distinctly at a disadvantage for any emergency that requires fight or flight. Even the boldest among the carnivorous animals, lions and tigers, will drag their prey to a cave or into a bush, before devouring it. Here they are protected at least partially from a surprise attack by their enemies. What we call normal modesty seems to be a survival of this fear which was ever present in the minds of primitive men and women who expected to be surprised and attacked by hostile tribes or animals during the performance of functions which left them unprotected without shields or weapons in their hands. Consequently, it became the custom to separate and partially conceal themselves as a matter of precaution during these acts.

The sense or habit of modesty in civilized races of today has been developed from such primitive beginning^. And it is interesting to note that there are marked differences of degree in its application to the habits of nutrition, elimination and reproduction among the different nations of today. The European races delight to dine in the open, are more or less “shameless” in their lovemaking, they talk freely and without unnatural ex-
195

citement on sexual topics, and when they build comfort stations they build them where they can be found and used and they do not call them comfort stations. Anglo-Saxons prefer to hide themselves while eating, they are particularly silent about the processes of reproduction, seldom indulge in public in kissing and embracing, and when they build comfort stations they hide them away and insist on calling them comfort stations.

Modesty has its uses in modern civilization although not in the same way as in the early times we have spoken of. As a general thing we feel reasonably safe from the danger of lurking foes, so that it is not from fear of being attacked by animals or enemies that we prefer to do certain things in private. The intensive life of twentieth century culture has unavoidably filled us with repressions and complexes which depend on another sort of fear. And it is fear of an outbreak of theise mental suppressions and conflicts which still makes modesty a very necessary safeguard. Without it the structure of recognized social conventions would be constantly in danger. However artificial these conventions may be, we have nothing better to substitute for them at the present time, and the hanging together of society’s fabric demands their enforcement within reasonable bounds.

To be effectual this enforcement must be voluntary and agreeable to the majority. Law-made modesty cannot be enforced. It has been said that the Puritan mothers bore greater burdens than the Puritan fathers, because they had to go thorugh all the privations and stand the Puritan fathers as well. However that may be, we know that the Puritan elders ordered the ducking-stool for Puritan mothers and daughters who were convicted of wearing ribbons and other trinkets of feminine finery. Such a procedure was the natural outcome of their hide-bound ideas on sex and morality. It was foredoomed to failure for perfectly natural reasons. Ribbons and brooches are not really immodest, however much a man might be afraid to see them for fear his sex feelings would get the better of him. Frank discussion of sex in a spirit of honest inquiry is not immodest either, nor is the human figure inherently indecent in any way. It can only be made so by the distorted mind of the observer. If the mind is full of evil thoughts the eyes will see immodesty and immorality on every side and in the most innocent things.

It might be well for some of those who are wont to dwell on the immodesty of their friends and to pride themselves on their own modesty to heed what psychoanalysis reveals on this subject. It teaches us that excessive modesty is an entirely abnormal phenomenon and in the vast majority of cases simply a mask concealing unconscious lewdness and obscenity. Mind you, we say‘‘unconscious” for the benefit of those who may not choose to put on the cap that fits, perhaps very honestly doubting if it does fit in their particular case. Like all exaggerated feelings, morbid modesty is always a counter-balance for the opposite feelings. Constantly dwelling on one’& own modesty is often
196

simply a neurotic’s means of protection against uncontrolled desires, or an expression, so to speak, of a “sour grapes” attitude toward others.

The woman who allows everyone to kiss her is aroused but little by such caresses. But the woman who never kisses anyone and pretends that she does not like petting is usually the one most in fear of losing her self-control. A woman patient who went through a serious mental crisis, afterward merging into hysterical states, gave up all interest in worldly pleasures and decided never to marry. On analysis it was found that she had bowlegs and a chronic skin trouble, and had long suffered mental agony at the thought of her deformed legs and blemished skin being revealed to anyone. She was morbidly modest and wept bitterly when a man she knew only slightly, once pressed a kiss upon her lips. But her dreams when analyzed were found to be filled with the most exaggerated love symbols of suppressed desires.

It is no mere figure of speech to say that to the pure all things are pure. A woman took her daughter to a specialist’s office for an examination. The girl, when asked to disrobe, complied without hesitation. When they left, the mother very unwisely remarked that her daughter must have been lacking in modesty to have stood the ordeal without embarrassment. But it was the mother who lacked true modesty and the daughter whose mind was pure. The girl saw only the physician who was to heal her body, while to the more highly sexed mother he was a man first and a physician afterward. The true physician under such circumstances sees only the disease that he is to seek out and cure; sex and the man are in abeyance for the moment.

The relations between artist and model should be similar. The artist should be busying himself with abstract ideal beauty and not with sex. The awakening of Trilby after Little Billee’s fit of hysterics when he learned that it was not alone for her incomparable foot that she posed, was similar to that of Adam and Eve after they had eaten of the fruit of the tree. In spite of her full form materialization before the class in the atelier, so non-sexual had been Trilby’s thoughts, that she had never aroused an idea of sex or pruriency in the minds of her audience. Natural modesty enveloped her sex as with a garment, and what the students saw was not nakedness but sheer perfection of line. Purity of mind and modesty of thought does not depend on what is seen before the eyes but on the thoughts that lie behind them.

There are people who try to proclaim their immunity to sex and obscenity by openly talking in a vulgar and indecent way, trying to show at any cost that they are not afraid to call a spade a spade or worse. They have gone to the opposite extreme from the puritanical paragons of exaggerated reticence with the same end in view of escaping from their repressed conflicts. For proclaiming too loudly our opinion on almost any subject means that we are still arguing y^l^ ,o^sdyes to prove
197

that the contrary is not, after all, true. The timidity of the one course and the boldness of the other are rooted in the same sex fears and indicate the same lack of self-confidence. Neither prohibition nor excess, but moderation, is the sign of the subcon-concious well in hand and unhampered by complexes and conflicts.

HEALTH EDUCATION THRU PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service,

New York City

A survey of health education in schools over the country shows that much of it is being functioned through the physical education departments. Health education is one of the primary objectives of physical education. The new physical education is much broader than merely building for big muscles or athletic skills. It aims to train habits and skills that shall build for health, happiness, and efficiency, now and in later life. It trains for the present and the future.

It is significant that the titles of state supervisors of physical education in state departments of education have been changed to read, “supervisor of health and physical education.” The new teachers in physical education coming from the schools and colleges are skilled in the technique of health education. Of all the teachers in the school system they have the equipment, the training, the facilities and the intimate personal contact with the students that makes it possible for them to carry on a competent school health program. Of course, the class room teacher and other departments have an important part to play. The point of this paper is that with the new physical education program, health education is a fundamental aim and over the country it constitutes a large part of the activities of the physical educators. More important than health knowledge is health practice. Undoubtedly the physical educator has the best chance to translate knowledge of health into the practice of health living.

Physical education is not merely building big muscles. It is training for bodily and mental health through periodic physical examinations, personal hygiene and a rational program of physical play and exercise. Health, cleanliness, poise, rhythm, vitality and mental alertness are all part of the true physical education program. The teachers are now being trained in the biological and physical sciences, in physical examinations, in the correction of physical defects, nutrition, kinesology, orthopedics as well as in athletic and gymnastic leadership.

One of the most interesting state wide health programs being carried on largely through a state physical education department,

•Read at the convention of the New York State Teachers Association
198

now called the department of “health and physical education” is in the state of Virginia under the auspices of Major E. V. Graves. It has achieved some reputation as the Five-Point system and the greatest state honor a school boy or girl can get is to be a “Five-Pointer.” In the first place, every boy and girl in Virginia last year had the yearly physical examination. Ninety-eight per cent of the children had a recorded examination and of these eighty per cent had all or part of their five defects corrected or improved. Besides these yearly state wide examinations there are more frequent examinations held throughout the year. Virginia is doing a thorough job in daily, weekly, monthly and yearly examinations of all kinds.

The child is examined particularly in five points, namely: Weight and Height, Throat, Vision, Hearing and Teeth. If he is 100% or has his defects corrected so that at the end of the year he is near perfect, in the five points, he is called a “Five-Pointer” and gets with ceremony a state certificate, signed personally by the state superintendent of public instruction, and the director of the state department of public health. These certificates have the stamped golden seal of the state and are sought for and highly prized. They are presented to the students at graduations, on special occasions, at celebrations and at county fairs. Fathers and mothers that once were proud of their blueribboned prize winning cows and pigs are more anxious to exhibit their hundred per cent boy and girl as a “Five-Pointer”. A perfect specimen of the human stock is now as important as the animal stock of the farm. The whole school health program has been stimulated and motivated. It has worked wonders. Excellent results have been obtained. This is but an example of many health activities physical educators are performing over the country.

The big contribution, however, that physical education can make to the health program is in the motivation of the program. The desire for the boy to make the team can be harnessed to the need for bathing, dieting and proper hours of sleep. The open shower bath has done much to actuate boys on their own resolutions to follow clean habits of living. Motivation must come from within. We learn by doing. The^girl will be thoughtful of her posture in order to do well in folk dancing. The intimate friendly contacts that the teacher of games and sports has with the students permits her to lead, suggest and get over ideas that no other teacher can do. The boy will cut out sweets and late hours dancing in order to be recognized on the class basketball squad.

The physical education program contributes directly to health education in the following counts: 1. It puts into play the big muscles which are essential to the proper development of the vital organs and necessary to growth. 2. It promotes circulatory activity. 3. It increases the respiratory activity. 4. It helps the excretory system. 5. Digestion is improved and assimilation is accelerated. 6. The. heart is hy lengthened through
199

the exercise of gymnastics and games. 7. The muscles of the body are made supple and strong. 8. It develops neuro-mus-cular control which is essential to the promotion of skills, accuracy, endurance, agility and strength.

But more important than the direct health benefits, are those potent qualities of personality which can be fostered through the physical education activities. The program of exercise, gymnastics, informal play, games, athletics, sports, folk dancing and the many other varied activities develop cooperation, courage, sportsmanship, leadership, loyalty, initiative, resourcefulness, mental alertness, enthusiasm and the control of temper. The social, mental and emotional assets of physical education are not only educational but healthful in content. Herbert S. Jennings of Johns Hopkins University states:

“One of the most striking things in the development of modern physiology is its gradual recognition of the great value of those pleasurable emotional states which may be classed together under the abused word ‘joy’ and of the harmfulness of the opposite emotional states—anxiety, sorrow, worry, fear, pain, and the like. The condition of happiness, of ‘joy’ is that in which development is unhindered and flourishing, in which the functions are proceeding harmoniously; while worry, fear, unhappiness are the marks of the reverse condition of affairs, something is blocked and is going wrong.”

The unique contributions of physical education are these:

1.	Through the physical activities the whole health program can be stimulated and motivated. Health educators tell us that health habits can not be preached or taught. The child must accept them as part of his scheme of living. They must be vital to the things he wants to do and nothing is closer to his heart than his games, athletics and sports. To achieve in these fields the boy and girl will submit to a rigid regime of health habits that really become part of their living.

2.	Next to the motivation of the program, physical educators do much by the constructive harnessing of the emotions. "Fits of temper,” “fear complexes,” and other emotional outbursts only bring failure in competition and achievement. The boys and girls learn to get a grip on themselves and to exercise emotional control which is so essential to physical well-being. Training in emotional controls is a health measure and can best be handled by the play and game leader where the outbursts usually take place.

3.	The contribution of physical education to health education which is distinct in its program of activities is that it helps to develop personality. The shy boy becomes the leader as football captain. The youngster that had an inferiority complex is able to do something and win recognition in the badge contest. The girl who was weak in her Latin can excel in interpretive dancing where she finds an outlet,,^Jier emotions. All
200

this recognizes that initiative, talent, leadership and achievement is possible in every boy and girl. Self-confidence and self-esteem are essential to health. It is the self-respecting person who places himself under a rigid health habit program.

By the motivation of the health plans of the school; by training in emotional control through getting rid of hate, anger, fear and temper and by the developing of personality which demands self-respect, physical education has a unique part to play in the general health education program.

KEEPING CLEAN HELPS TO KEEP WELL

Another important industry has joined the ranks of public welfare education. Cleanliness Institute, 45 E. 17th St., New York City, recently established by the Association of American Soap and Glycerine Producers, has added its strength to the public health workers, nurses, school teachers, social workers and others who sternly or beguilingly (depending on their technique) tell little Willie to wash his hands before eating and remind his father and mother that an example of personal and home cleanliness would not only help Willie but would advance community welfare.

Cleanliness Institute was bom to join the ranks of those who have long been struggling to teach men, women and children in all walks of life the value of personal, community and industrial hygiene. The movement was launched at a dinner on June 23rd at the Park Lane Hotel in New York City which was attended by 150 representatives of educational and health and social agencies. The Commissioner of Health of the City of New York, Dr. Louis I. Harris, was among the speakers.

“No vaster task than the protection of public health faces us today,” said Dr. Harris. “There is room for every new agency able and willing to spread the gospel of community, industrial and personal hygiene. We cannot fail to welcome such an agency with open arms. Cleanliness does have certain definite relations to health. If we could get all children to wash their hands before each meal, this alone would materially cut down their exposure to respiratory infections—and I use the term broadly to include not only pneumonia and kindred diseases but diphtheria as well.”

The staff of Cleanliness Institute has been drawn from the fields of public health education and community organization. Directing its program is Roscoe C. Edlund, for six years executive head of the Hampden County Improvement League, Spring-field, Mass., one-time assistant to the director of the Russell Sage Foundation, and before that Secretary to the President of Cornell University. Its educational consultant is Sally Lucas Jean, a pioneer in developing health literature for the school child. Dr. W. W. Peter, famous for his health work in China, has been retained as the Institute’s health consultant. Miss
201

Julia B. Tappan, formerly with the U. S. Bureau of Education, is director of the school department, and Miss C. Margaret Munson, recently of Mass. Institute of Technology, is research librarian. Offices for the Institute have been opened at 45 East 17th Street, New York City.

It is a national program that has been undertaken. It will operate for the present through three departments, research, information and education all of which have placed themselves at the disposal of the existing health and social agencies of the country as auxiliary aids. The Institute, while it is the only agency specializing solely in cleanliness as it affects health and social progress will not duplicate the work of any health and welfare agencies, but will seek only to strengthen their programs. Educational literature for use among school children is in preparation and will be ready for distribution in the Fall. Source material relating to aspects of cleanliness, particularly valuable to those who wish to present in an enticing manner facts concerning the oftener-than-Saturday-night bath or the manifold intricacies of good laundering, has been gathered and may be drawn upon to the fullest extent.

Speaking at the dinner Dr. Peter referred to the progress in cleanliness and sanitation over the centuries and the resultant increase in the span of life. “We are indeed living in a Bath Age,” he said, “but we still have a long way to go before we exhaust the possibilities of modem knowledge of the importance of cleanliness. There are still millions of people in the United States who are almost oblivious of the dangers resulting from lack of proper hygienic measures. There is a general agreement among those responsible for planning and conducting health activities that a high standard of cleanliness is an asset to them in their work because the practice of cleanliness assists directly in combating typhoid fever and other gastro-intestinal diseases whose causative organisms have in some way to enter through the mouth.”

Miss Jean spoke of the advent of industry to the realm of health education, especially as it touches that most responsive % individual the school child. “It is most gratifying” she said, “to those of us who have struggled to stimulate interest in the school child to have *big business’ join our forces. The'school child has been discovered by business and the principals realize that the find is enormous, worthy of heroic efforts. There are about 25,000,000 children in the schools today with 1,000,000 teachers. To teach this 20 per cent of the population special efforts and strong methods are necessary. The life of the child is tied up with his instructors from kindergarten through college and it is essential to reach the child through the teacher. The commercial groups can give aid and assistance to teachers which school officials are not only glad to have but welcome.”

In introducing Cleanliness Institute to the health and educational agencies Sidney M. Colgate, chairman of the Board said, “As the representatives of one of the country’s basic industries

Digitized iiL/OVlC
202

we are not insensible to the fact that in contributing to a public service we are in some measure serving ourselves. We have a vital interest in cleanliness. Yet on the other hand, to promote cleanliness is a social service, and it is from this standpoint that we seek and offer co-operation in existing movements that have for their aim the betterment of living conditions. We wish to put Cleanliness Institute upon an entirely unselfish and public service basis. We bespeak for our efforts the co-operation of every other public service organization that touches the field.

“The funds contributed for this service came from manufacturers who make approximately eighty per cent of all the soap used in the United States. In business we are rivals and competitors but in this movement we are one in a co-operative educational program. For the first year’s work our industry has subscribed approximately $500,000 and we are not seeking any financial support from other sources.”

RELIGION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

By Ernest W. Butterfield, Slate Commissioner of Education

From the beginning of time, the priest and the statesman have been in conflict. In African jungle, in Israel, in pagan Rome, and medieval Europe, in England, France, Germany, and Russia, in Puritan New England, in cavalier Virginia and in Mormon Utah, the contest has been recorded. The priest has tried to get temporal power and the statesman equally has tried to write creeds and to dictate in matters of faith.

Those leaders who gathered in Philadelphia in 1787 to write our Constitution were the first to see that in a republic union of church and state means destruction, and the cooperation of two ambitious agencies in the same field constitutes a standing menace. They separated church and state and civilization stood aghast at the rashness of the experiment. One hundred thirty-eight years have now passed and nation after nation has come to see that no people can live in peace or long endure who give politicians control over belief or priests control over state politics.

Does America fully believe in the separation of state and church, or are there groups and individuals who would turn back the pages of history?

I have but to mention the Know-Nothing movement, the effective taunt, Rum, Romanism and Rebellion, the A. P. A. organization, the Ku Klux Klan, and the Religion in Schools outcry. All of these are clumsy expressions of the dangers of every republic, the danger when religious organizations reach for political power or when politics are used to promote or to check religion.

Sectarian instruction on school time is the present-day expression of these advocates. The formula which is advocated with much publicity is entitled week-day religious instruction on

Digitized by VjOOQ 1C
203

school time. It proposes that for several hours a week children in public schools shall be dismissed to receive instruction in religion given in schools to be organized by the different churches. The plan further proposes that the public school should ascertain that the attendance in these schools, that the buildings, the programs, school equipment, and teachers meet public school standards, and that the work done be given public school recognition as a recognized part of the education prescribed by law.

It also proposes that children of parents whose sects are not able to provide these schools, or of parents who do not wish their children taught denominational tenets, must remain in the school buildings with the teachers and engage in supplementary work not required of children of theological families.

When we carelessly speak of religion in the schools, what do we mean? Do we mean the religion of behavior? This can be taught in the schools and long has been. From the begin-ing, it has been one of the aims of public education. Do we mean the religion of belief? This never can be taught in the

Eublic schools. Its teaching is the great duty of church and ome.

“Why do you not teach religion in the schools?’' asked the critic of L. P. Jacks. “We do teach it. We teach it all day long,” was the ready reply of the schoolmaster.

“We teach it in arithmetic, by accuracy.

“We teach it in language, by learning to say what we mean. “We teach it in history, by humanity.

“We teach it in geography, by breadth of mind.

“We teach it in handicraft, by thoroughness.

“We teach it in astronomy, by reverence.

“We teach it in the playground by fair play.

“We teach it by kindness to animals, by courtesy to servants, by good manners to one another, and by truthfulness in all things. We teach it by showing the children that we, their elders, are their friends and not their enemies.”

A very religious man who knows little of schools said in the Atlantic Monthly, “If religion is love of God and man, it can be taught anywhere and it ought to be taught in our schools.” That religion has been taught in the American public school for many, many years. It will continue to be taught, and better, too, as we grow in skill.

Our theologian continues, “If religion is theology, and doctrine, and creeds made over disputed definitions of God and theories of man’s destiny, it cannot be taught in our schools.” And alas, that is precisely what sectarians mean when they declare that the schools are without religion.

Here is the weakness of the whole argument of theology on school time. No amount of theology giv$n(1f<^)cbfe fourteen
204

hours per week in sacerdotal environment will produce anything but sectarian ideals and intellectual concepts. If we want theology, we must teach theology. If we want character, we must train for character. The skills are in separate psychic fields.

The advocates of this plan call for cooperation between church and state. To them cooperation means that the churches or some of them, will furnish religion and the state will furnish the children.

The plan is not only administratively impossible, it is needless. There is hardly a child in America who spends one-eighth of his time in the school room. Seven-eighths of his time, including afternoons, evenings, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, and vacation periods, are unassigned. There is abundant time for homes, churches, and ambitious organizations to teach theology. Why then does this group make its demand for school hours? There is nothing sacred about the mid-day hours on the first five days of thirty-six weeks which makes it necessary that theology be taught in them. There is but one reason for the demand and that is, that by indirection the non-separatists would obtain that which our laws forbid. By organizing the work on mid-school hours, and by the exhibition of governmental fasces and other insignia, they believe that the authority of the state will seem to cover these schools, as with a mantle. For this end they would make non-attendance irksome and a reproach. This plan is designed to make the state compel attendance at religious schools.

Formal instruction in religion does not produce character. This is not a matter of theory but of evidence. Different denominations, Lutherans, Catholics, Adventists, Mormons, and others, have maintained in America parochial schools for many years and no evidence has ever been presented to show that the graduates of these schools, with formal religious instruction, are more faithful, conscientious, industrious men and women, or more patriotic, law-abiding citizens, than the graduates of the public schools. If the child from the church supported school surpasses the child of the public school in virtue, it will be because he has been taught by teachers more worthy of his imitation and not because he has mastered denominational tenets.

A great merit of the public school is that it has constantly emphasized unity, common needs, and common aspirations. The proposed schools of theology on public school time emphasize differences in creeds and faiths and churches. The hour comes in a public school for religious training. Pupils are herded off into little groups of Baptists, Catholics, Congregationalists, Presbyterians, etc., each sect to receive in seclusion from each other sect teaching which cannot be given in one common schoolroom. This plan would share in the chief weakness of the parochial school and would further stratify society.

Digitized by vjOOvlC
205

THE 49TH NATIONAL FRENCH GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL.

This great national festival held at Whitsuntide (on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday—June 4th, 5th and 6th) in the town of Angers, France was a wonderful expression of the physical life of the nation. These festivals completely captime the populace, encouraged by the leading men of the country under the personal patronage of M. le President of France.

The cause underlying this popularity and general enthusiasm may be summarised under three heads:-

(1)	The French start with their boys and girls.

(2)	Their system of training is on sound, progressive, and pedagogical lines with the competitive element strongly in evidence.

(3)	There is a firm belief in the value of physical training and gymnastics as a means of promoting health, strength, and happiness—and, incidentally, of producing physically fit citizens for the country’s welfare.

The comprehensive character of these continental gymnastic festivals may be gathered from the brief enumeration of the various activities. There are free exercises, club swinging, and stave exercises presented in such form and facility which would amaze the many gymnasts in this country whose outlook upon gymnastics is unfortunately limited. Parallel bars, horizontal bars, rings, pommel horse, rope-climbing, wrestling, boxing, fencing, swimming, weight-throwing, weight-lifting; high, long, and pole jump; javelin and discus-throwing: and this by no means exhausts the list.

This year the variety and comprehensive character of the activities was increased by the inclusion of javelin and discus-throwing and a greater prominence given to pole-jumping—not to mention the many items of an athletic character distinct from the usual gymnastic series. All this pointed to active preparation for the Olympic Games next year.

The practical side of the festival was opened by the Children’s Display on the Saturday afternoon. The 2,000 youngsters marched round the Fete ground to the lilt of lively music. A group of tiny mites coming last caused much admiration as they passed, and there lies the root cause of the large number of enthusiastic adult participants in these gymnastic festivals—they receive early initiation into the spirit of the movement.

Then followed play—like physical exercises and games all very interesting and often amusing. The afternoon performance was then completed by the execution of free exercises by the children ensemble—a perfectly delightful performance.

A fine feature of these festivals is the display of posing, pyramids and dancing at night. Here we saw three platforms about six feet high and 25 feet square—over which were fixed four pow-

*From “Physical Education Bulletin” England Digitized by GoOglc
206

erful arc lights which were extinguished during the intervals to heighten the effect of the performances. A military band played appropriate music at each of these platforms. The gymnasts were attired in white, with white skull caps, and their faces were whitened.

Some very clever posing of ancient methods of attack and defence grouping was shown and one particular set of a dozen men who lay prone as though in cover—then a look-out—then a quick cover; a short advance—a rise—and final charge was most effectively done. Another pose to specially interest the gymnast was a group of men showing boxing, wrestling, weight-lifting, etc.

Another noteworthy item was club-swinging with fire flares at the end of each club, but the French, for the main part, are not very good at club-swinging although this special display was hardly a fair criterion of their ability in this direction.

Movements Ensemble.

The most impressive occasion of the fete was when over 5,000 gymnasts executed the free exercises en masse. They lined up in the rear of the ground, marched forward in close column, then opened out to extended order. This in itself was a fine test of good organisation. Then to the rhythmic pulse of an efficient military band the exercises were performed in excellent style; a bend here, a stretch there, a lunge here—it was simply wonderful—a vast moving picture of living, breathing humanity thrilling alike to participants and spectators.

The Army Gymnastic Staff of Paris.

While preparations were being made for the advance of the mass drill performers, displays were given by various groups of selected gymnasts. One group of instructors from Paris—rather similar to the gymnastic staff at Aldershot—gave one of the smartest displays of gymnastic ability it has been my privilege to see for many years. Their precision, style, sequence, and executive ability were simply astonishing.

The Individual Championship.

The individual gymnastic championship of France with its thirty entrants from various parts of the country, including a few from Italy and Switzerland—provided one of these rare occasions which delight the heart of the progressive gymnast. It was certainly a great opportunity, at once exhilarating and inspiring to the understanding devotee.

The gymnasts—young and old—were of excellent physique and ability. Set and voluntary exercises were the order of the day, and it was observed that the set exercises on each piece of apparatus largely included the movements already set for the next Olympic games, and these were attempted by the competitors with much success.

One competitor was a great surprise. “Is this man competing?" was the query. “Yes” was the reply. “But he is

Digitized by Google
207

getting on rather, isn’t he? He must be about forty-five. Do ask his age!” And we then found that the man was fifty-four years of age. This competitor performed the parallel bar exercise as set for the Olympic Games and only failed in the finishing movement—that is, he reached the handstand on the near bar with combined grasp and failed when he attempted to carry the right hand to the off bar in order to do the straight arm side over through to finish. It was truly an education to see these men at work giving the average gymnast a new ideal with regard to the possibilities in the art of gymnastics.

14TH NATIONAL GERMAN TURNFEST AT COLOGNE IN

1928

Abridged Program. Translation by W. A. Stecher.

Saturday, July 21. Exhibition and competition by boys of the Public Schools of Cologne.

Sunday, July 22. Exhibition by men and women of the Turner societies of the Cologne district and of circuit No. 8 B.

Monday, July 23. Exhibition and competition by boys high schools, and the universities and by technical schools.

Tuesday, July 24. Exhibition by all girls schools.

Wednesday, July 25. Meeting of the supervisors of competition. Meeting of the judges. Official reception. Opening of the festival.

Thursday July 26. 7 to 11 A. M.

2 to 6 p. m.

5	to 7 p. m. Friday July 27. 7 to 11 a. m.

1	to 7 p. m.

2	to 7 p. m.

2 to 5 p. m.

Competition (group 1)

Games (group 2)

Rehearsal for exhibitions (group 3)

Fencing

Competition (group 2)

Games (group 3)

Rehearsal (group 1) Wrestling

Special exhibition by circuit groups 1 and 3

Fencing

Competition (group 3)

Games (group 1)

Rehearsal (group 2)

Fencing

Exhibition by women from all circuits. Swimming by men Wrestling, Fencing, Semifinal games for men, Track and field events and team events for(men.)Q
208

5	to 7 p. m. Saturday, July 28. 8 to 1 p. m.

2 to 5 p. m.

5p. m.

6	to 7 p. m. Evening

Sunday July 29 Morning 4 p. m.

Special exhibitions by circuit group 2

Circuit exhibitions by men Swimming by women. Wrestling.

Semi-final games by women. Track and field events for women.

Fencing

Finals in track and field events, also in team events for men and for women. Finals in swimming for men and for women.

Finals in games for men and for women.

Exhibition by the oldest men “Als-Deutschland” Swimming in the Rhine Fencing

Special exhibitions

Torchlight procession. Illumination of the Rhine.

Festival parade with historic floats

Folk dances by women Team javelin throwing Exhibition and games by the men of circuit 8A.

Mass free exercises by men and by women.

Distribution of honors to the winners.

The competitions at Cologne will be as follows:

A.	Grouped events a) for men: 1) Twelve events, 2) Ten events, 3) Five events.

b)	for older men: 38 to 45 years 4) nine events

5) five events.

c)	for women: 6) seven events 7) four events

B.	Track and field work 1) for teams 2) for individuals

C.	Competitive games

D.	Competitive swimming

E.	Competitive fencing.

Digitized by L.ooQle
209

ITEMS OF INTEREST IN HEATING AND VENTILATING

So many new investigations are being made in the heating and ventilating field constantly and so many recent developments of heating units have come to occupy the attention of those who have under consideration the best method of heating and ventilating places of public use that the following articles on the subject should be of general interest to our readers who have problems of that nature to solve.

Nothing in recent years has so caught the imagination of the heating industry as the announcement, from several sources, of a heating unit intended to replace the time-honored cast-iron direct radiator. The picture it presents is in happy contrast to that presented in the ventilating field by the open-window advocates. Coming down from the clouds of speculation as to the relative merits of mechanical and open-window ventilation, we have here a concrete and practical proposal which easily may have a profound influence in the design and installation of steam and water heating systems.

When one comes to think of it, it is astonishing how long the standard cast-iron direct radiator has held its sway. It never was a handsome object, although its unattractive characteristics came pretty near to being neutralized, thanks to the increased attention paid in recent years to improvements and even refinements in its design. But at best it comes in the category of necessary evils and has been tolerated, rather than sought after; its usual place before the window is always the choice location for other articles of furniture.

It is now realized that there was a special significance in the recent statements, proceeding from authoritative sources, that the direct radiator, in the nature of things, could not be expected to give the best results in homes, especially in providing uniform temperatures at different levels in the room. Carefully compiled test figures were quoted to show that, under ordinary conditions, with direct radiators, the difference between the floor and ceiling temperatures was out of all proportion and that the common arrangement of direct radiators in a room represented a distinct waste of energy. As was shown conclusively, this condition is due primarily to the vertical currents of air produced by a direct radiator, whereas the desired condition is a horizontal flow of warm air out into the room.

It was at this interesting juncture that the first announcement appeared of a unit providing for a lateral air flow, whose adoption is advocated under the slogan of “No more Radiators!” The new unit, consisting of a heat cabinet with a heating surface of copper, will be recognized as a modification of the existing types of radiator cabinets, but with the vital difference as to size and control of heat emission. In addition, there is the item of weight, which is given as one-tenth that of equivalent cast-iron surface.
210

Almost at the same time came the announcement of the “invisible radiator,” which is equally unique in its use of copper and an aluminum alloy, making possible its comparatively small size. It also provides for a lateral warm-air flow. Possibly before these words are printed the industry will hear of still another type of unit for use as a substitute for the direct radiator, with the point of heat emission at the baseboard and at an angle to the vertical.

“I envy you,” said a fellow publisher to the writer, recently. “You have more new things coming up in your field in a month than we have in a year.” It is true, and the fine part of it is that the new things which are developing so fast are all contributing very definitely to our greater comfort and health.

Those who have been clamoring for some “practical” achievements on the parts of the A. S. H. & V. E. Laboratory will find something to satisfy their demands in the work the Laboratory has just completed in connection with the question of eliminating the steam-type radiator. Here is a matter which has vexed the industry for years. Many people thought the water-type radiator could be used interchangeably, but nobody seemed to know. The question was put up to the Research Laboratory, the necessary tests were made and lo, all our doubts disappear because now we know. In this connection it would be ungracious not to assign a portion of the credit for this achievement to the American Radiator Company and to the Kewanee Boiler Company, whose recent tests furnished the desired confirmation, from a commercial point of view of the Laboratory results. The net outcome is a simplification of practice and, in all probability, a corresponding reduction in costs.

HEAT CABINETS TO REPLACE DIRECT RADIATORS

Under the startling headline of “No More Radiators,” The Trane Co., La Crosse, Wis., announces the development of the Trane heat cabinet, designed to take the place qf direct radiators. It is described as an invention so revolutionary that its far-reaching effects on modern heating are beyond comprehension. It is presented as the successor to, rather than the competitor, of ordinary cast-iron radiation. Heating plants using these cabinets will be designated "Cabinet Heating Systems.”

In appearance, the Trane heat cabinet is somewhat comparable to a radiator shield. One radiator, it is stated, weighs as much as ten heat cabinets for the same heating effect. In other words, enough heat cabinets to heat an ordinary house do not weigh any more than one radiator. This is due largely to the type of heating element used, which consists of a single U-shaped qopper pipe with copper fing, extending all the way across the cabinet and back again. This construction, it is added, eliminates air binding because there are no places for air pockets to form.
211

In addition to the fact that heat cabinets occupy less space than equivalent cast-iron radiation, special emphasis is laid on the finish of these cabinets, which makes them resemble furniture. They can be furnished in a color to match any surroundings. In addition the heat cabinet can be built into the wall, so that ndfihing is visible except the heat outlet. They are adaptable to all forms of radiator heating, including hot-water systems. Temperature control is applied to each heat outlet. Another feature obtained through the use of copper as a heating element is the quick response that may be obtained after steam is turned on. This effect, it is stated, is accelerated 300% to 400% by the use of the heat cabinet.

One of the most distinctive features of the new system is the construction of the heating unit in such a way that it gives off heat readily by convection^ but does not radiate heat, that is, the amount of heat given off by this heating unit depends almost entirely upon the amount of air that is permitted to pass through it. Where there is no circulation, the interior remains practically at steam temperature on a steam system and, therefore, the heating effect is balanced. As soon as the air is allowed to circulate, the admission of heat increases accordingly.

Air passing through the cabinet attains the velocity of about 200 ft. per minute. In less than ten minutes, it is stated, the cabinet will completely change the air in a room, at the same time warming it to a comfortable temperature.

A large percentage of the economy obtained with the heat cabinet is due to the fact that the air in leaving the cabinet, is thrown out towards the front. In this way, the floor and ceiling temperatures are kept more nearly the same. As is now well-known, important economies are effected by having the floor and ceiling temperatures as nearly equal as possible.

Control of the amount of air going through the cabinet, by which is regulated the amount of heat supplied, is obtained through the use of a hand damper which extends the full length of the cabinet. By adjusting this damper, it is stated, the heat may be regulated with great accuracy. Another feature with this control is that the change in the heat supply may be made instantly.

In comparing the Trane heat cabinet with the ordinary water heating system, the point is made that the hot water system contains nearly 60% of all the water in the system, whereas a 100-sq. ft. Trane heat cabinet contains less than one quart of water. For that reason, the heating up of the system may be accelerated nearly 2 1-2 times.

The Trane heat cabinet has been found to be especially adaptable to vapor heating installations due to the absence of air-binding trouble. The steam supply coming in from the upper connection of the U-tube acts to force the air out of the tube before it can be filled with steam vapor. i(to)45his way, it
212

is stated, the U-tube gives a much more perfect relief of air on the vapor heating system.

Complete test data on these cabinets have been compiled by the Trane Co. and are available to those interested by address-ing the company.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

PROBLEMS IN AIR DISTRIBUTION*

Field Studies of Air Flow in Typical Buildings, with Comments on Present Tendencies and a Prophecy as to Future Practice

Illustrated with Leaves from an Engineer’s Sketchbook•

By Samuel R. Lewis, Consulting Engineer

Ift a large club we have a swimming pool on an upper story, the room having exposed walls on three sides. Most natatorium rooms, which have cool walls, have the finish of

♦From Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by

Google
213

the walls ruined by moisture. We lined these walls with 1 1-2 in. of cork, in an attempt to insulate against this dew, and in addition delivered the fresh air, especially heated and controlled, vertically at the floor, through slots running the full length of the outer walls, using brass inlet grilles of the pattern in cross section. This is called K-515, the pattern number.

The warm floor, due to the pipes under it, and the vertical current of warm, dry air, plus the protected wall, are to keep the dew from falling. The room, having this elaborate distribution of supply air, is vented in a very simple manner at the ceiling at one comer, the spent air, little hurt by the few occupants, being passed through controlled reheaters to the dressing rooms and on to the exhaust fans which draw through grilles placed in the dressing rooms.

This method of letting one room supply another room, tending to move large volumes of air through from end to end, I believe, is coming more and more to be appreciated.

SwUmlai fool

\

J

Air

iOJ

SECTION THROUGH NATATORIUM

The main waiting room of the new Chicago Union Station has a great volume of fresh air supply, well distributed, near the floor, particularly near the entrances, where one would expect the fresh air. The vast room, however, is entirely innocent of any vent registers. It serves as a plenum chamber to supply the exhaust fans in the subsidiary rooms. This general idea, when carved out logically, gives excellent ventilation for all concerned, in many buildings, and saves a great many tons of steel ducts.

I was told the other day of one good-sized metropolitan ventilating system in which the ducts cost the contractor who built them an average of 40 cents per pound. Quite a price for common galvanized sheet-steel! Some exousfc‘KfW,l (the grow-
214

ing tendency to use other materials than sheet-steel for air ducts!

Improving the Appearance of Heating Equipment in a

Gymnasium

The same club house which has the natatorium has a big gymnasium on the top story. It has high windows, cold walls and roof, yet is entitled to look well, without suspended radiators cluttering up the walls and making the usual grimy dust marks.

We furred out the wall up to about 8 ft., with a tile partition giving a 12-in. clear space behind it. This space becomes an air supply duct 96-in. high and 12-in, wide, standing on edge. It is open on top. Suspended in this space near the top is a big pipe coil, arranged so that it can easily be raised up out of its pocket, with a few chain hoists, when necessary for repairs or painting. The cold wall behind it is insulated with cork. The warm wall in front of it becomes direct radiation.

Many grilles at the floor allow the coil to serve as an effective encased radiator. When the supply fan is operated, delivering air at say 60 degrees, or at any temperature we may desire, we deliver cool air slowly, horizontally,—at the floor, as is presumably desirable for athletes, and deliver hot air vertically around three sides of the room, wiping the heat off the coils and delivering a good stiff breeze of hot air to take care of wall and ceiling chill. Vent grilles are at one end of the room.

Speaking of club houses, I believe that every department, within reason, of course, of a club house or kindred building where departments have intermittent occupancy, should have separate supply and exhaust fans. I^lany of them can profit-
215

ably be equipped with separate supply and return mains for the direct radiators. The new dual control, with automatic temperature regulation, finds a useful application here.

Over and over we find large club houses in cities, seldom crowded except at luncheon time, with dining rooms served by general ventilating fans, and dining rooms ventilated all day long, even though empty 80% of the time. The natatorium of a club is subject to long periods of inactivity, yet many clubs have to ventilate the natatorium as long as they ventilate anything.

The Trend Towards Intermittent Ventilation

We are entering a period during which what seems to me more rational ventilation designs will be encountered, and in which the value of intermittent ventilation will be appreciated. For instance, in a state which has very rigid compulsory ventilation requirements, we have a plant now in service which serves three alternative functions. The building is a museum and art gallery of considerable proportions, with an art school using class rooms in the ground story, with an adjacent large auditorium.

All of these rooms are heated separately without aid from the ventilating plant. The administrative offices and lobby have a continuous air supply from the main supply fan, with independent exhaust fan. The class rooms are used most heavily in the hours during which occupancy of the galleries is only casual. When a crowd visits the galleries, as for some reception or exhibition, the class rooms are likely to be vacant. The times when the auditorium and the class rooms are in service contemporaneously are very rare.
216

Therefore the supply fan is calculated to serve the auditorium bountifully, ana this volume, when not used in the auditorium, will give excellent ventilation in the class rooms, or will change the gallery air in ten minutes. The ducts and dampers, both supply and exhaust, are arranged to facilitate this switching with interlocked pneumatic dampers, operated from a switchboard in the superintendent’s office. Thus, by manipulating the two pneumatic levers, without the knowledge of any of the occupants of either class rooms or galleries, the air may be diverted, for a few moments, from one to the other, giving an air change and doing away, at trifling expense either for investment or operation, with the traditional musty smell which clings to art galleries.

An Unusual Method of Distribution

The method of distribution of the air is peculiar. In buildings of this nature the walls are very heavy and the cold surfaces are rather small. There are no windows in the galleries. The walls must be preserved for hanging exhibits. The radiators are all low enough to come below a rail 28-in. high, and are all recessed with grilles in front of them. All are under automatic control from thermostats placed on the door jambs, thus saving wall space.

Air is introduced behind the radiators, which are usually at one end of each room, and is exhausted through grilles which which present the same appearance as the supply grilles, at the other end of each room from the supply grilles, thus giving a positive wiping-out effect from one end to the other.

Since the air enters around the radiators through the very large grille area, the velocity is low. The mechanical wiping off of the heat by the air current makes fqfGtery quick results
217

in heating and renders the automatic control of the radiators a necessity.

The air distribution in the class rooms is similar to that in the galleries, except that here it does not enter through the radiators. Grilles of cast-iron about 10-in. high, K-515, as was shown on the earlier sketch, with openings looking up, though standing at an angle of 45 degrees and only 4-in. wide, are substituted for the conventional baseboards at opposite ends of the rooms. One is an inlet, the other an outlet and the same positive movement of air from one to the other is enforced. The class rooms have windows with conventional radiators under them.

The auditorium in this building has upward ventilation with a floor register under each seat, calculated for a velocity of about 100 lin. ft. of air per minute. This room has no heat loss except at the top, being surrounded by otherwise warm rooms. It has no top, in a manner of speaking, since the ceiling, designed to simulate the sky, is hung from the roof without visible means of support, and is open for several feet above the projecting ornamental shelves or “porches” at the margins of the room.

Conventional methods of ventilation would have made it necessary to abandon this unique and beautiful architectural design.

Since such an interior room must have mechanical ventilation, anyway, I was glad to use a thoroughly-distributed upward system—especially as our problem for this room is nearly always one of cooling rather than heating. There are reheating radiators in the plenum space under the floor which will always keep the floor warm when heat is needed, whether air is being delivered through it or not.

The entire building is heated by forced circulation hot water. We have inserted thermostats in the water of the tempering heaters to close the cold air intake arbitrarily whenever, by any chance, the water gets cold enough to be in danger of freezing— or rather, unless the air compressor is running and this thermostat is comfortably warm, no fresh air can pass special extra intake dampers provided for this purpose.

Another Arrangement for a Gymnasium

A church built a gymnasium, which is also used for banquets and similar entertainments, as well as for an overflow Sunday School. The room is brick-lined, without furring, without any basement or attic, and has high windows on each side. Radiators could not be used at the floor of a gymnasium for fear of accidents by contact. Suspended radiators above the danger line interfered with the windows and violated the sensibilities of the architect. The room required mechanical ventilation for periods of heavy occupancy. There was no money to waste.

I used the same friendly cast-iron baseboard mentioned before, the full length of each side of the roorCi above a tunnel
218

running down each side, the tunnel being 4 ft. x 2 ft. 6-in. I hung a pipe coil in this tunnel, the full length of each side, so that the air passing down the tunnel must cross through the pipes before it could rise into the room through the 4-in, wide slots along the sides. The vent grilles are in the face of the stage, and the spent air goes to a chimney behind the stage, or may return by working two doors, to recirculate through the tunnels.

Air supply is taken from the old fan which supplies the church, using that equipment when it would otherwise be idle, since use of this room and use of the church auditorium seldom overlap. The coils keep the floor warm and there is an excellent gravity circulation of air.,

The janitor claims that he can start cold, on a—10 degrees day, and heat the gymnasium, using the fan, in forty minutes. The vertical warm air delivery is excellent for either auditorium or gymnasium purposes, and the warm floor and full length distribution are excellent counter-irritants for the downdrafts that must come from the unfurred cold walls, single windows and thin roof.

Enclosed Radiators in Residences with French Windows and Stone Floors

Recently there has developed a frequent use, in fine residences, of French windows and stone floors, and a desire to hide the radiators. I know of no meaner thing to make a living room so equipped, livable in a blizzard, especially when there is no basement under it. We have developed the following scheme to handle such a situation. It seems to be effective in distribution.

The room is exposed on three sides, and is all doors. On the interior side it opens into an equally large stone paved room, with a fireplace at the far end. We couldn’t have radiators. We could get a continuous grille in the floor all of the way around the expqsed sides, but were limited to 10-in. in width. I think such a grille puts up a better appearance, anyhow, than the conventional big floor registers.

We made the architect give us a tunnel under this grille big enough to work in, or 48-in.x 36-in. The grille is divided by an insulated partition. The cold air falling down the glass and wall is induced to fall on down through the outer 5-in, of the grille, into the tunnel, where it is persuaded to turn around and rise through plenty of pipe coil radiation which is in two separately-valved layers, so that we may have some temperature control. The air then passes back into the room. The air movement, I take it, will get a kick down because of the heat.

As a measure of insurance we also have a pair of propeller-type recirculating fans in the tunnel which can, if necessary, pull down through half of this structure and deliver up through the other half, but this is only for insurance purposes, and I do not apprehend that the fans will b^ needed. Assuredly we
219

heat from the coils. For fear, with low-pressure steam, that only one end of the coils might be hot, we run one coil one way and the other the opposite way, so that the supply end of the upper one is over the return end of the lower one.

How the K-515 Idea was Adopted in a School Building

In a school building which has concrete joist construction we used the K-515 idea, with the long radiators recessed under the continuous windows, suspended above the inlet slots through which the air supply from the fan is delivered. The entering tempered air is distributed satisfactorily, whether or not the radiators happen to be hot. When the radiators are hot the wall and glass chill and drafts are neutralized.

The spaces between the joists are used to carry the fresh air out from the supply flues to the inlet grilles. The same flues which bring in fresh air are available above the floor to serve as vent flues. Four such flues of small size usually are easily obtainable for each tier of rooms in a three-storied school.

The mechanical wiping off of the heat from the radiators by the incoming air gives very rapid heating and exceedingly high radiator efficiencies. We have some rooms in service this winter equipped this way and having radiator shields, and some rooms without them.

The assembly halls in the buildings which have these air-distributing methods are treated the same as were described for the church gymnasium.

My impression from these experiences is that the tendency of the present is toward upward heating and ventilation, and toward the use of slots, and toward using hot concrete, stone, plaster, or even wood for visible radiation, rather than to employ the conventional dirty direct radiator.

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN FUEL BURNS

By Samuel W. Wyer

Burning of every fuel is the chemical combination of the ingredients in the fuel with oxygen of the air. Different quantities of air applied in different ways.

One pound of coal, occupying 21 cu. in., requires about 15 lbs. or 200 cu. ft. of air. The volume of air is about 16,000 times the volume of coal. One gallon of oil, 7 1-2 lbs. or 231 cu. in. requires about 142 lbs. or 1,866 cu. ft. of air. The volume of air is about 14,000 times the volume of oil. One cubic foot of natural gas requires from 9 to 10 cu. ft. of air and one cubic foot of manufactured gas from 4 to 5 cu. ft. Efficient fuel use can be secured only by the use of the correct amount of air and applied in the right way. This is entirely in the hands of the fuel user.	Digitized by CjOOQI.C
220

No general rule can be given for the exact adjustment of dampers, but proper adjustment must be ascertained by trial with each installation. In the typical house furnace or boiler, the dampers work as follows:

The draft damper, usually controlled by a chain from the living room, is generally a lift door in the ash-pit door and admits air underneath the fuel.

The feed-door damper consists of a slide in the feed door and admits air directly over the fire. If opened too wide it acts as a check.

The check damper, usually controlled by a chain to the living room, can admit cold air into the smoke pipe, reducing the chimney draft and retarding the burning of the fuel in the heater. This damper should be closed tight when fresh fuel is added to the fire.

The smoke-pipe damper will control the draft or drawing of the chimney and should always be placed between the furnace and the check damper and never between the check damper and the chimney flue.

The burning of fuel with perfect combustion will produce carbon dioxide, the same gas that is exhaled from the lungs, and water vapor. If the combustion is not perfect, carbon monoxide, a poisonous gas, and condensible vapors and smoke will be formed. No heating device has been or can be made that will absorb its combustion products, hence they must be properly removed from the house by adequate flues.

An opening should be provided at the base of all chimneys for occasional cleaning. Flues for solid fuels require larger connections than those for gas or oil. When bituminous coal is used, horizontal sections of flue pipes require frequent cleaning. With gas, the large amount of steam that must be formed when the gas is burned may give trouble in disintegrating the mortar lining of the ordinary chimney. This moisture is acid and will soon corrode ordinary thin black stove pipe; only galvanized connections should be used and flues should preferably be lined with a moisture-proof lining such as heavy steel galvanized pipe. Back or down drafts with solid fuels can be prevented by a hood at the chimney top; with gas, an opening at the bottom of the smoke pipe near the heater will protect.

Tests show that ashes frequently contain 50% of carbon. This is because the grates do not receive proper attention. In shaking grates, stop when the fire glow from above appears and before live coals go into the ash pit. Never leave ashes under the grates after shaking. Remove at once, as this will protect grates and give better circulation of air.

Even with pioper combustion of fuel, however, the heating problem is only partially solved. The big task is getting the heat into the room, water or food that is to be heated in the most direct and effective manner. The ordinary furnace or water-heater for the average house does not have enough ab-

Digitized by Google
221

sorbing surface, with the result that the combustion products go into the chimney at too high a temperature and much heat is needlessly lost. This is especially marked when gas or oil are burned in the ordinary coal furnaces.

Water tanks, furnaces and pipes for warm air, water or steam, should be adequately insulated. Merely covering, as is frequently done, with one thin thickness of asbestos sheets is not enough. In fact, such a covering is worthless. The insulation must be about 1-2 in. thick to be effective and will then cause a marked saving in fuel.

Use of a thermostat, a device for controlling fuel burning so as to maintain a predetermined temperature in a room or water tank will always promote economy, saving from 15% to 30%.- For room heating it contributes to the good health and comfort of the occupants.

Heating and Ventilating Magazine. . ■ ♦

Gymnasium and playground

" ■ 1 ' " ’ «» MODEL FREE EXERCISES FOR MEN AND WOMEN

Arranged by Joseph Weissmueller, Louisville, Ky.

Music: “Bummel Petrus”

Group I

Exercise 1. 16 Measures.

A- Three step turn left sideward, on third step lunge L. sideward, arms sideward on first and third step, arms crossed in front of chest on second step, one arm on top

of the other..............................................1-3

B- 1-4 turn L., straighten L. knee, and close R. to L. foot,

arms swing side-downward and fore-upward.....................4

C- Bend upper trunk backward, lower arms sideward,

palms up...................................................5-6

D-	Return to position B.........................................7

E-	1-4 turn R., arms side-downward..............................8

F-	Repeat exercise right, left and right.....................9.32

Exercise 2. 12 Measures, Women’s Exercise.

A- 1-4 turn L., two steps forward, beginning with L. foot,

with leg swing forward, arms at sides......................1.2

B- Leg swing L. forward and jump to deep knee bend position, arms forward........................................3

C- Jump to side stride stand position with 1-4 turn L.,

carry arms sideward..........................................4

D-	Lower trunk and arms forward, fingers touching floor.......5-6

E- Return to position C.............ij«iiu:ecLt^-Lj.QQ2l£........7
222

F-	Close L. to R. foot, lower arms side-downward.............8

G-	Repeat positions A and B...............................9-11

H-	Straighten knees, swing arms fore-upward.................12

I- Bend upper trunk backward, lower arms sideward,

palms up..............................................13-14

J-	Return to position H.....................................15

K- Layout L. backward, L. arm obliquely back-downward,

R. arm obliquely fore-upward.............................16

L-	1-4 turn L., straighten R. knee, lower arms downward.....17

M-	Swing both arms fore-upward............................. 18

N-	Lower trunk forward, arms along side of	head......19-20

O-	Return to position M..................................21-22

P-	Leg swing L. sideward, arms sideward.....................23

Q- Close L. to R. foot, arms side-downward (starting position) ................................................24

Exercise 2, 12 Measures, Men’s Exercise

A-	As Women’s Exercise.....................................1-8

B-	Repeat same............................................9-16

C-	Squat Stand..............................................17

D-	Straighten legs backward to support lying	frontways......18

E-	Bend arms slowly......................................19-20

F-	Straighten arms slowly................................21-22

G-	Return to C and to starting position..................23-24

•

Exercise 3. 8 Measures.

A- Step L. forward, bend arms, place hands in front of

shoulders .........................................1......1

B- Stride R. forward with 1-4 turn L. straighten arms sideward ................................................... 2

C- 1-4 turn L. and layout L. backward, L. arm obliquely

back-downward, R. arm obliquely fore-upward...............3

D-	Swing L. arm fore-upward................................  4

E- Lower trunk forward, arms stay along side of head,

Right arm-pit over R. knee..............................5-6

F-	Return to position D....................................  7

G- Close L. to R. foot, swing arms side-downward, to

starting position.........................................8

H-	Repeat exercise left...................................9-16

Two phrases of music to refrain, phrase I, 12 Measures, phrase 11,8 measures.

Exercise 4, Part I—12 Measures, Women’s Exercise

A-	Arms in first.............................................1

B-	Raise heels, arms to fifth..............................  2

C-	Kneel on both knees, arm	to second, first, and fifth......3

D- Bend trunk forward, raise elbow back and up, bend hands back, palm towards floor (expressing horror, as

Little Miss Muffet would on seeing the spider)............4

E- Return to C............................ D^TOGo0g[€.........5
223

F- Bend trunk backward (a line from the knees up to head) lower arms forward, bend hands back (repulsive attitude) .......'................................................6

G-	Return to C............................. ..................7

H- Bend trunk forward, arms forward, hands touching floor

(as a Moslem	on his	prayer rug).....................8

I-	Raise L. knee, place	L. foot forward,	arms in	first.......9

J-	Rise to stand	weight	on forward	foot,	arms	to	second.10

K- Change weight to R. Foot, stride L. foot sideward, turn

elbows out, hands open (as if holding a vase)............11

L-	Pause .................................................  12

Exercise 4, 12 Measures, Men’s Exercise

A-	Raise heels, raise arms to fifth	position..................1-2

B-	Kneel on both knees, lower arms,	second, first, to fifth....3-6

C- Bend trunk forward, hands along side of head, hands

touching the floor.........................................7-8

D-	Raise trunk and arms......................................9-10

E-	Bend trunk and arms forward..............................11-12

F- Rise to stand, lower arms from fifth thru second to

starting position........................................13-16

G- Place L. foot sideward, bend R. knee and R. arm (as in

Shot Put) L. arm lowered sideward, second position......17-18

H- Straighten R. knee and R. arm upward, L. arm sideward

in second position.......................................19-20

I-	Return to G............................................. 21-22

J- Straighten R. knee and R. arm sideward both arms in

second position..........................................23-24

Music lively.

Exercise 4, Part II. 8 Measures.

A-	Arms to thrust............................................  1

B-	Bend trunk forward, straighten arms forward.................2

C-	Return to position A........................................3

D-	Bend upper trunk backward, straighten	arms	upward......4

E-	Return to position A........................................5

F-	Turn trunk L. sideward, straighten	arms	forward............6

G-	Return to position A........................................7

H- Turn trunk to R. sideward, and straighten arms forward ......................................................B

I-	Return to position A........................................9

J-.	Repeat exercise from A through G	(6 counts).............10-15

K- Close L. to R. foot, lower arms side-downward to

starting position..........................................16

L- Repeat all right, (Parts I and II)

Group II

Exercise 1. 16 Measures.

A-	Raise arms fore-upward, bend knee	deep,	arms	sideward....1

B- Straighten knees, lunge L. sideward, L. arm swings side-upward, R. arm swings across trunk in front of L. shoulder, R. elbow up and out, hands to clenched fist.........._2
224

C- Change knee bending, 3-4 arm circle left side-downward,

R. arm to strike over head..................................3

D- Return to Position B..........................................4

E- Bend trunk forward, swing arms obliquely fore-downward, arms should be parallel with R. leg..................5-6

F- Return to position B..........................................7

G- Close L. to R. foot with leg swing L. sideward, arms side-downward, momentary pause holding arms sideward ..........................................................  8

I- Repeat exercise right, left, and right.....................9-32

Exercise 2, 12 Measures, Women’s Exercises

A- Closing step L. sideward, keep legs stiff...................1-2

B- With 1-4 turn L., step L. forward, keep legs stiff............3

C- Close R. foot to L. foot......................................4

D- Hands in front of shoulders, elbows back, hands and

wrists in one line...........................................5

E-	Bend knees deep,	arms	sideward...........................6

F-	Straighten knees,	arms	side-upward........................7

G-	1-4 turn right, arms	side-downward...........................8

H-	Repeat the exercise to	the right........................9-16

I-	Step L. sideward,	wave	both hands twice L. sideward,...17-18

J- Transfer weight to R. foot, repeat position 1.............19-20

K- Close R. to L. foot, arms to first, to second position, wave arms sideward three times, clap hands on fourth count, (an arm movement to each count).......................21-24

Exercise 2, 12 Measures, Men’s Exercises

A-	Squat stand, L. hand over right............................1-2

B-	Jump to stoop straddle stand...............................3-4

C-	Bend arms slowly, head rests on	hands...................5-6

D-	Return to B................................................7-8

E-	Repeat C and D............................................9-12

F-	Return to A..............................................13-14

G-	Straighten legs backward to support	lying frontways.. .15-16

H- 1-4 turn L. to side support lying R. sideways, raise L. arm sideward, legs in strade position L. over R., both

feet on floor............................................17-18

I-	Return to G...........................................'..19-20

J-	Bend arms................................................21-22

K-	Jump to squat stand quickly.................................23

L-Straighten out to starting	position...........................24

Exercise 3. 8 Measures.

From the preceding position.

A- Lunge L. sideward, arms sideward, L. arm bent, turn

head R.......................................................1

B- 1-4 turn L., close R. to L. foot, 3-4 double arm circle R.

side-downward and up........................................ 2

C- Layout L. backward, L. arm backward, R. arm obliquely

fore-upward ...............................................  3

D-	1-4 turn L., arms side-upward... niOJl Lz-^d.by.S=?.0-Q^ If..4
225

E- Bend trunk L. sideward, hands in rear of neck, elbows

back ......................................................5-6

F-	Return to position D.........................................7

G- Close L. to R. foot, arms sideward and down starting

position.....................................................8

H-	Repeat to left side....................................  9-16

Exercise 4, Part I. 12 Measures.

A-	Arms in first position.....................................1-2

B-	Arms in second position....................................3-4

C- 1-8 turn L., step L. sideward, L. arm in fifth position,

R. arm in second...........................................5-6

D- Change weight to R. foot, bending R. knee, bend trunk forward, L. arm side-downward and parallel with L.

leg, R. arm obliquely side-upward..........................8-7

E-	Repeat positions C and D..................................9-12

F- Close L. foot to R. foot, raise trunk, arms cross in front

and raise from first to fifth to second..................13-14

G-	Arms sideward to second position, turn head L...........15-16

H- Bend trunk R. sideward, L. arm from second to third

and back to second position, R. arm in second............17-18

I-	Repeat position H. to right and left.....................19-22

J-	Arms in second position................................  23-24

Exercise 4, Part II 8 Measures.

A- Same as Exercise 4, Part II, Group I.

B- Repeat Exercise 4, Part I, Group II and Exercise 4, Part II, Group II.

CALISTHENIC DRILL FOURTH GRADE

By Oscar E. Ruther, Leavenworth, Kansas.

Formation: Same as in “Wand Drill.”

The first half of the Exercise will be performed in 4 counts to the movement. The second half of the exercise will be performed in straight time.

Music. “Blaze Away” Victor record 16307 A.

All arm exercises should be made very snappy.

Exercise I

a.	Raise the arms forward 1, hold 2,3,4;

b.	Carry the arms sideward 5, hold 6,7,8;

c.	Carry the arms forward 9 hold 10,11,12;

d.	Lower the arms, and hold, 13,14,15,16;

e.	Bend the arms to thrust-1 thrust arms forward 2 bend

arms to thrust 3 lower the arms-4 Repeat e, 3 times ...	5-16

Repeat the exercise e. once more	1-16

Exercise II

a.	Raise the arms sideward-1, hold 2,3,4,

b.	Hands in back of neck-5 hold 6,7,8

c.	Straighten the arms sideward-9 hold 10,11,12

The following group of five drills were arranged for Mind and Body by Oscar , Ruther, Leavenworth, Kansas.

'	Digitized	by VjUUyiC
226

d.	Lower the arms-13 hold 14-15,16

e.	Jump to side stride and close heels-1-2 Repeat e.

7 times ............................................... 3-16

Repeat the exercise once more..............................  1-16

Exercise III

a.	Raise the arms forward upward-1, hold 2,3,4-

b.	Bend knees deep and place the hands on floor-5 hold 6,7,8 (boys: arms between knees, girls: outside of knees)

c.	Straighten knees and raise the arms upward-9 hold-10,11,12

d.	Lower the arms-13-14,15,16-

e.	Bend arms to thrust-1 Thrust arms sideward-2 Bend

arms to thrust-3 Lower arms-4. Repeat 3 times ...	5-16

Repeat the exercise e. once more.......................... 1-16

Exercise IV

a.	Hands on hips and bend trunk to the left sideward-1 hold

2,3,4

b.	Bend trunk to the right sideward-5-6,7,8-

c.	Lower trunk forward-9, hold 10-11-12

d.	Raise trunk and hands down, 13 hold 14,15,16-

e.	In 4 steps face to left side-1,2,3,4. Repeat e. 3 times 5-16

Exercise V

a.	Raise the arms forward and carry to sideward-1 hold 2,3,4

b.	Clinch hands and bend the arms to fists over head 5

hold 6,7,8

c.	Strike the arms sideward-9, hold 10,11,12

d.	Lower the arms-13,14,15,16.

e.	Bend the arms to thrust-1 Thrust the arms upward-2 Bend the arms to thrust-3. Lower the arms-4. Re-

peat this exercise e. 3 times............................. 5-16

Repeat the Exercise once more-1-16; .......................... 1-16

The girls repeat all of the exercises once more (I-II-III-IV-V) when the girls begin the II exercise the boys will begin with the first and keep on until all three songs have been played.

FLAG DRILL FOR THE PUPILS OF THE FIFTH GRADE.

Formation: The pupils will form in ranks of four (gbgb) the girl on the right side of the boy. Each pupil will carry two small flags, one in each hand and resting on the shoulders as a starting and ending position.

Open ranks sideward, the pupils on the outside will take 4 closing steps sideward outward to count 1 to 8. On count 7 & 8 the two inner pupils will take one side step.

Each movement will have two counts, move on Count 1—hold on count 2—

Music: For the exercises I-II-III. “The Red, White and Blue”. Song and chorus once.

Exercise I

a.	Bend the knees and straighten the arms forward .......... 1-	2

b.	Straighten knees and swing the arms sideward............. 3	-4

c.	Bend knees and carry the arms forward.................... 5-	6

d.	Straighten knees and place flags over shoulders....... 7-	8

Repeat this exercise three times iafeeiby.^.Q.Q§l£___ 9-32
227 Exercise II

a. Point step left sideward and straighten the arms side-

ward ............................................... 1-	2

b.	Raise the left foot behind the right knee and the left

arm upward ......................................... 3-	4

c.	Point step left sideward and arms to sideward............ 5-	6

d.	Replace the left foot and flags over shoulders........... 7-	8

Repeat same with and to the right	............ 9-16

Repeat the whole exercise left and	right .....	1-16

Exercise III

a.	Lunge left sideward and straighten the arms upward .... 1- 2

b.	Arms to sideward ................................... 3- 4

c.	Raise arms upward ............... t................. 5- 6

d.	Replace the left foot and flags over shoulders........... 7-	8

Repeat with and to the right.............................. 9-16

Repeat left and right .................................... 1-16

Exercise IV

Music for Exercise IV & V. “The	Battle	Cry	of	Freedom.”

The boys will repeat Exercise III.	Song	and	chorus	once.

The girls will repeat exercise II............................. 1-32

Exercise V

a.	Stride left sideward and straighten the arms sideward	..	1-	2

b.	Turn trunk left, raise left arm up right arm forward	....	3-	4

c.	Return trunk and arms sideward ..................... 5-	6

d.	Replace the left foot and flags over shoulders.......... 7-8

Repeat with and to the right.............................. 9-16

Repeat left and	right ...................................  1-16

Exercise VI

The Music for Exercise VI & VII “Marching Through Georgia”

Song and chorus once.

a.	Stride left forward and straighten the arms upward . 1-	2

b.	Bend trunk left and arms to sideward, (Left down, right

up) ................................................ 3- 4

c.	Straighten trunk and raise arms upward ............. 5-	6

d.	Replace the left foot and flags over shoulders........... 7-	8

Repeat with and to the right.............................. 9-16

Repeat left and	right.............................. 1-16

Exercise VII

a.	Boy’s Repeat Exercise V. Girls Repeat Exercise VI....	1-32

WAND DRILL SIXTH GRADE

Music for this drill, “National Emblem March”

Formation: Ranks of four, 2 girls and 2 boys Opening of the ranks: Pupils on the outside of each rank will take 4 closing steps outward to count 1 to 8, on count 7 and 8 the inner pupils will take one step and at the same time all

will lower the wand to starting position .................. 1-	8

Exercise I

a.	Rise on toes and raise the wand forward upward ........ 1-	2

b.	Bend knees deep and wand vertically forward, the left

hand down ......r.,4....,..... Di	izedby^.	google...	3-4


228

c.	Straighten knees and raise the wand forward upward	5- 6

d.	Lower the heels and wand to starting position ........ 7- 8

Repeat same with the right hand down ................... 9-16

e.	March 4 steps forward ................................ 1- 4

Each pupil turn left abotit in 4 steps................ 5- 8

March forward 4 steps .................................. 9-12

Each pupil turn left about in 4 steps.................. 13-16

f.	Boys: repeat the whole exercise a, b, c, d, e, f,

Girls: Repeat, but begin with the Marching ............. 1-32

Exercise II

a.	Stride left forward and raise the wand forward ....... 1- 2

b.	Turn trunk to the left, raise the left arm up and right

across body....................................... 3- 4

c.	Turn to front and wand forward ....................... 5- 6

d.	Replace the left foot and wand to starting position	....	7- 8

Repeat same with and to the right ...................... 9-16

e.	Two closing steps left sideward ...................... 1- 4

Bend arms to thrust 5, thrust upward 6, bend arms to

thrust 7, lower wand 8,

Repeat e, to the right ................................. 9-16

f.	Boys repeat the whole exercise a, b, c, d, e, f.

Girls repeat, but begin with the closing step........... 1-32

Exercise III

Boys repeat exercise I, a, b, c, d, and e............... 1-32

Girls repeat Exercise II, a, b, c, d, e, Rest 4 counts. Exercise IV

a.	Lunge left sideward and wand with left arm up, right

across body....................................... 1-	2

Lower trunk forward and wand horizontally	down,....	3-	4

c.	Raise trunk and wand with left arm up, right across

body ............................................. 5-	6

d.	Replace the left foot and wand to starting position .. 7-	8

Repeat with and to the right ........................... 9-16

e.	Jump to side stride and close heels twice ............ 1-	4

Raise wand upward 5, behind shoulders 6, upward 7,

starting position 8,

Repeat e once more ..................................... 9-16

f.	Boys Repeat the whole exercise once a, b, c, d, e,

Girls Repeat, but begin with the stride jump............ 1-32

Exercise V

a.	Stride left sideward and raise wand upward	....... 1-	2

b.	Wand behind shoulders ................................ 3-	4

c.	Bend trunk left sideward and	return .........5-6;7-8

d.	Bend trunk right sideward and	return ......9-10;ll-12

e.	Wand upward ........................................... 13-14

f.	Replace the left foot and wand	to starting position	15-16

g.	Boys repeat this exercise three (3) more times Girls repeat exercise V once then:

Face left in 4 steps ................................. 1- 4

Raise wand forward 5, upward 6, forward 7, starting position 8. Repeat this facing three (3) times Digiteed.by.C j.O.Qfll£ 	9-32
229

DUMB BELL DRILL SEVENTH GRADE

Music “Dreams of India”

Introduction of Music 8 counts, during these 8 counts the pu-

pils will open ranks outward.

Exercise I. (8 times 16 counts)

a.	Raise the arms sideward, bells verticall ................ 1-	2

Bend arms, bells over shoulders, fingers forward ........ 3-	4

Straighten the arms forward ............................. 5-	6

Carry the arms sideward, fingers forward ................ 7-	8

Bend arms, bells over shoulders, fingers forward ........ 9-10

Thrust the arms upward ..............  ..._M............ 11-12

Arms to sideward, fingers forward ...................... 13-14

Bend knees deep bells on floor, arms between knees .. 15-16

b.	Straighten knees, bells on hips ......................... 1-	2

Straighten the arms sideward ...........................  3-	4

Bend trunk to the sideward and place left bell on hip 5- 6

Straighten trunk and bell on hips ......................  7-	8

Bend trunk to right sideward and place right bell on hip 9-10

Straighten trunk and bell on hip ....................... 11-12

Raise the arms upward and click bells over head fingers

forward ..........................................   13-14

Lower the arms side-downward ................... »....	15-16

Boys: Repeat A from 1 to 16, and take up exercise II Girls: Repeat, but begin with the bells on hips etc, 1-16 Exercise II (4 times 16 counts.)

a.	Rise on toes and raise the arms forward ................   1-	2

Lower the heels and carry the arms sideward.............. 3-	4

Bend arms, place bells over shoulders, fingers forward.. 5

Thrust the arms upward ..................................... 6

Bells over shoulders fingers forward ....................... 7

Arms down at sides ......................................... 8

Repeat all of -a- once................................... 9-16

b.	Turn trunk left and raise bells in front of shoulders, fin-

gers inward, elbows up............................... 1-	2

Lift the chest, look up and thrust the arms upward ..	3-	4

Turn trunk to the front and bells in front of shoulder	5

Thrust the arms sideward...,................................ 6

Bells over shoulders ......................................  7

Arms down at sides ......................................... 8

Repeat all of -b- once but turn trunk right.............. 9-16

Repeat -a-............................................... 1-16

Repeat -b- left and right .............................   1-16

Exercise III Repeat exercise I. 3 times 16 counts.

Exercise IV (4 times 16 counts.)

a. Stride left and raise arms sideward, fingers forward ...... 1-	2

Close the right foot to left and raise the arms .upward	3- 4

Lower trunk forward and arms to sideward ................ 5-	6

Raise trunk, bend knees and swing the arms down & forward to sideward......................m^Coc___________	7-	8
230

Straighten knees raise the arms upward and click bells,

fingers forward ................................. 9-16

Lower the arms side-downward ......................  11-12

In 4 steps face to your left side .................. 13-16

Repeat -a- 3 times. 3 times 16 counts, making a complete turn to the left.

Exercise V. 2 time3. 16 counts.

a.	Lunge left sideward and bend arms to thrust ............ 1

Thrust the arms upward and return ................... 2-	3

Replace the left foot and lower the arms ............... 4

b. Repeat -a- to the right..............................  5-	8

c. Boys repeat -a- and -b- .............................. 1-	8

Girls make a complete turn to the left in 8 steps with

arms forward on count 1-2 arm upward on 3-4 arms sideward 5-6, arms down on 7-8.

d. All stride left sideward and raise arm sideward ......... 1

Raise the arms upward and click bells .................  2

Arms to sideward ............................'.......... 3

Raise the arms upward and click bells .................. 4

Arms to sideward ....................................... 5

Raise the arms upward and click bells..................  6

Arms to sideward ....................................... 7

Replace the left foot and arms down .................... 8

Raise the arms sideward and begin to circle the arms backward in the sideward position 9-15 on 16 lower arms.

INDIAN CLUB DRILL EIGHTH GRADE

Music “Dreams of India.”

Introduction 8 counts, during these 8 counts the pupils open ranks sideward, on count 8 raise club to starting position.

Exercise I 3 times. 16 counts.

a. D. A. C. inward to position upward ....................... 1-	2

D. A. C. to the left to position upward ................ 3-	4

D. A. C. inward to position upward ..................... 5-	6

D. A. C. to the left to position upward ................ 7-	8

D. A. C. outward to position upward..................... 9- 10

D. A. C. to the right to position upward.................. 11-12

D. A. C. outward to position upward....................... 13-14

D. A. C. to the right to starting position................ 15-16

b.	D. A. C. inward to position side oblique upward and

lunge left forward on count 2, and hold this position 1- 4 Straighten the left knee, weight on left foot and D. A.

C.	inward to position sideward tipping clubs on

forearms 5-6, and hold this position ........... 7-	8

Lift the arms and D. A. C. inward to position side oblique upward 9, bend the left knee-10, and hold 11-12 Replace the left foot and D. A. C. inward to starting position and hold................................ 13-16

c.	Repeat a. once more..............Dw^yCoogk-......	I*16
231

a.

b.

c.

d.

Exercise II 4 times 16 counts.

D. A. C. inward and tip clubs on forearms ...........

Lower trunk forward and hold ........................

Raise trunk and hold.................................

Lift arms and D. A. C. inward to starting position D. A. C. to the left and tip clubs on forearms and lunge

left sideward on count 2 .......................

Straighten the left knee, bend the right knee and trunk

left sideward and look toward the clubs.......

Return to first position ..........................

Replace the left foot lift the clubs and D. A. C. to the

left to starting position.......................

D. A. C. outward and tip clubs on forearm, height of

chin, ..................................v.......

Dip step left backward and return ...................

Dip step right backward and return ..................

Lift the arms and D. A. C. outward to starting position

Repeat b, to the right ..............................

Boys: repeat a-b-c-d Girls: repeat c-d-a-b-..........

1- 2 3- 4 5- 6 7- 8

1- 2

3- 4 5- 6

7- 8

1- 2 3- 4 5- 6 7- 8 1- 8 1-32

Exercise III

Repeat exercise I. 3 times.

Exercise IV 4 times. 16 counts.

a.	D. A. and H. D. and A. C. inward, continue this to

count 8, on 8 to starting position.

b.	D. A. and H. D. and A. C. to the left, continue this to

count 8, on 8 starting position

c.	D. A. and H. D. and A. C. outward, continue this to

count 8, on 8 to starting position

d.	D. A. and H. D. and A. C. to the right, continue this,

to count 8 on 8 starting position.

e.	Repeat the above exercises a. b. c. d. and add:

to a,	walk	8 short steps forward .................. 1-	8

to b,	do 4	closing steps to the left	sideward ..... 1-	8

to c,	walk	8 short steps backward	.......... 1-	8

to d,	do 4	closing steps to the right sideward .... 1-	8

Exercise V 2 times. 16 counts.

a. D. A. C. inward and tip clubs on forearms ............ 1-	2

Bend trunk left sideward and return ................. 3-	4

Bend trunk right sideward and return ................ 5-	6

Bend knees and carry the arms forward ............... 7-	8

Lift the clubs and D. A. and H. D. and A. C. inward, 9-16 and continue this, on count 16 starting position b. D. A. and H. D. and A. C. to the left and tip clubs on forearms, at same time do 1 closing step and courtesy

to the left sideward..................................... 1-	4

Repeat b, to the right ...................................... 5-	8

Replace the left foot and D. A. and H. D. and A. C.

right to position upward ...............................  9-12

D. A. and H. D. and A. C. to left to starting position 13-16

Digitized by VjOuV LL
232

.  -----------------------------------------------------«.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENT?

D.	M. F. KROGH, M. D.	JQ/

< ■ ...................... ■<»

Enlistment of the 12,000 or more public health nurses of the United States in the campaign for the eradication of the preventable causes of blindness was announced here today by Lewis H. Carris, Managing Director of the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness.

As an initial step toward the utilization of this vast new army of sight-saving workers, the Committee for the Prevention of Blindness today sent Mrs. Jessie Ross Royer, head of its nursing division, on a trip through Missouri, Kansas, Kentucky and Western New York, during which she will give 14 demonstrations before nurses’ organizations of a newly developed technique for examing the eyes of children under school age.

This method was demonstrated publicly for the first time at a recent joint conference of the National Organization for Public Health Nursing and the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness at the Russell Sage Foundation Building in New York City. The demonstration so impressed public health officials and oculists from other states who witnessed it that similar demonstrations have been arranged for Buffalo, New York, St. Louis, Kansas City, Jefferson City, Missouri, and Lexington and Louisville, Kentucky.

The technique for examining the eyes of preschool children which will be demonstrated by Mrs. Royer involves the use of what is known as the illiterate E chart in such a way that the letter E becomes “a funny little three legged animal” and the business of reading the chart becomes a game in which the child shows which way the three legged animal’s legs point. This method has made it possible to measure with a fair degree of scientific accuracy the vision of children not only in the kindergarten stage, but as young as three years. In the country’s first preschool eye clinic conducted by the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness at Hartley House in New York it was found that approximately 25 per cent of the children examined, all of whom were under seven years of age, had some eye ailment.

“It should not be assumed from this, however,” Mr. Carris said "that 25 per cent of all preschool children have eye difficulties.”

TESTS OF CIRCULATORY FITNESS

The examination of the cardiovascular reactions of persons has become a conventional method of estimating something of their physical fitness. In the clinic the same principles have been applied to determine, for patients with circulatory deficiencies, the extent to which various forms of physical exercise may

Digitized by Google
233

be warranted; likewise the improvement or the reverse that may attend the progress and treatment of the disorder. In the tests proposed by Schneider* of Wesleyan University the data employed are the pulse rate by a standard exercise, the time required for the pulse rate to return to normal after the exercise, and the change in the systolic arterial blood pressure when a change is made from recumbency to standing. It is believed that a slow heart rate in recumbency and standing, with a small difference between the two, a slight acceleration of the heart rate in exercise, with a quick return to normal afterward, and a rise in the systolic arterial blood pressure on standing, are excellent health signs and that in the physically fit individual the heart and vasomotor system are, so to speak, tuned to a different pitch than in the unfit or unhealthy person.

In her recent studies at the Harvard School of Public Health, Turner** demonstrated that even in healthy persons the change from a reclining to a quiet sitting or standing posture is attended by a fall in the circulatory minute volume. This implies a common lack of perfect adjustment to the increased needs of the erect position. Turner has described the essentially difficult task of the circulation as that of getting blood to, and not from, the heart. In the quiet erect position the usual aids to the return of blood to the right heart during exercise are lacking, there is no rhythmic muscular motion, and there is little increase of thoracic aspiration. On the other hand, because of gravity, there is a difficulty in the return of the large amount of blood below the level of the heart. It is possible that the vertical abdomen with its unsupported ventral wall may account for the unsuccessful return of blood to the heart at least in some persons.

The holding of a quiet standing position through a period of several minutes is a more difficult task than has been thought by many. Turner has ascertained that persons are frequently found whose circulation adapts itself with apparent ease to strenuous exercise yet who find quiet standing more difficult, as is shown by their reactions both subjective and objective. The best circulatory adjustment, such as is observed in persons well trained physically, is one in which the minute volume of the reclining position is maintained during standing. Systematic comparisons of the outcome of Schneider tests and the new Turner tests, including records of the heart rate and blood pressure involved in the response to long standing rather than exercise, indicated a fair degree of parallelism between the scores. The essential mechanical difficulties involved in maintaining the erect position suggest that tests based on the change from reclining to a more or less prolonged period of standing still are likely to yield

*. Schneider, E. C. A Cardiovascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency. J. A. M. A. 74: 1507 (May 29) 1920; Mil. Surgeon 52: 18 (Jan.) 1923.

**. Turner, Abby H.: Am. J. Physiol. 80: 601 (May) (l92'frO‘
234

differential results quite as suggestive as the more commonly used comparisons of exercise versus rest. Persons who stand most easily and successfully from the standpoints of objective appearance and lack of fatigue are those in whom there is a slow rate and a relatively large pulse pressure, indicating a heart adequately filled between beats. Inadequately filled hearts attempt to maintain an adequate pressure by an increased rate. Thus the low pulse pressure and the rapid rate become indicative of a low output per minute. Exercise facilitates the maintenance of the circulation in the upright position. As Turner concludes, an entirely successful meeting of the circulatory demands of prolonged standing may be an achievement which is reached only by an apparatus capable of the most perfect and responsive adjustment to relatively slight stimuli.

Turner, Abby H.: The Adjustment of Heart Rate and Arterial Pressure in Healthy Young Women During Prolonged Standing, Am. J. Physiol. 81 197 (June) 1927.

Editorial: The Journal A. M. A. July 16. 1927.

SOME EFFECTS OF MODERATE PHYSICAL TRAINING.

The proper place of exercise and physical training in the promotion of human well being cannot be precisely evaluated until the fundamental facts in relation to such muscular functions are ascertained and correctly interpreted. Clinical medicine has a special interest in this theme because it frequently makes use of various schemes of exercise as parts of its physical therapy. Rational prescription of any form of exercise presupposes an adequate knowledge of how it will affect the bodily functions and the important organs. Unfortunately, little more than the beginnings have been made in the investigation of the problems here involved. The work of the muscles proceeds at the expense of a metabolism of matter. Training seems to be a factor in determining the energy required for the performance of a given task. Thus a person unaccustomed to a certain type of muscular exertion, such as mountain climbing, is said to use proportionately more energy than one who has been trained for such work.

It is well established that the pulse rate is, broadly speaking, an index of the metabolism. Consequently the rate of the heart beat should give an indication of changes in the basal metabolism so far as this is affected by either training or the disuse of the muscles. A physically trained man is supposed to perform a given amount of work with a smaller consumption of oxygen than the untrained and to make a smaller demand on his heart, with the result that it beats less frequently.

Most comparisons of this sort have been made between trained and untrained persons of about the same size. In the studies of Schneider* and his associates at Wesleyan University in Connec-
235

ticut the effects of physical training have been observed during pre-training, training and posttraining periods in the same persons. They do not lend support to the idea that the taking of daily exercise according to some regular prescription will increase the basal exchange of the body. If anything, the basal gaseous exchange may be slightly reduced during a period of training. This seems to happen despite any possible growth in the size, and hence the oxygen requirements, of the muscles. Training slightly retarded the pulse rate of the basal condition in most persons examined. One may therefore assume that the basic processes of the body become more efficient during a period of

Ehysical training. There was no constant effect on the arterial lood pressure. The conclusions here summarized refer to rational forms of vigorous physical exercise rather than to excessive athletic undertakings of the most strenuous sort. The latter deserve far more intensive investigation than has yet been accorded to them. After all, the limits of physiologically profitable activity, rather than competitive overdoing, are problems for the scientists quite as well as for the professional athletic trainers.

*. Schneider, E. C.; Clarke, R. W., and Ring, G. C.: The Influence of Physical Training on the Basal Respiratory Exchange, Pulse Rate and Arterial Blood Pressure, Am. J. Physiol. 81: 255 (July) 1927.

Editorial: The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Aug. 6., 1927.

■

News, notes and comments

o	—■■ —.........-	■	-	o

Of 146 cities in the United States which have one or more schools organized on the work-study-play or platoon plan, 33 are in Texas. Four cities in Canada have adopted this type of school organization.

Two thousand trees are added each year to the forest established several years ago by Cold Brook public school in the town of Russia, Herkimer County, N. Y. School forests are exempt from taxation in New York State, and many schools are acquir-iing tracts of land to be wooded by pupils.

In Australia every child bom entitles the mother, regardless of wealth or station, to a sum of £5, or $25, from public funds, toward the cost of the child’s birth. The Government of France gives to every mother who nurses her own child a monthly pension during the first year of the child’s life.—School Life.

A crippled children’s bureau has been organized in the New York State Department of Education, and a register will be kept of physically handicapped children. In cases of necessity, on
236

order of the children’s court, counties will be charged with cost of the physical care and education of such children; but on approval of the State commissioner of health half of the expense so incurred will be reimbursed by the State.

A supervisor of nutrition classes has been appointed for the school department of the city of Boston. This action is the reresult of examination last year of 65,000 children, when it was found that 1,399 needed special observation and care.

A recent issue of the Lancet calls attention to the special nutritional value of the soy bean. For thousands of years this bean has been used in North China in the form of a thick jelly eaten daily by all classes of people. It was introduced into England about one hundred years ago, but it is only recently that its remarkable merits have become known. Substitutes for flour, meat, chocolate, cheese and coffee have been made from it, and a “synthetic milk” produced from it aroused much interest. But it has never become popular as a food on account of the disagreeable digestive disturbances to which it may give rise.

Now, however, a new phase in the use of the soy bean has been entered upon, owing to the discovery of Doctor Berczeller of Vienna that the obnoxious constituents can be eliminated by a special milling process and fractional distillation, without interfering with the high nutritional value of the meal. This nutritional value is so great that Professor Haberlandt years ago prophesied that the carbohydrate stores of of the potato would come to be supplemented, at least in the diet of the poorer classes, by the proteins and fats provided in such abundance in the soy bean.

The proteins of the soy bean are, according to McCullum, distinctly more valuable from the point of view of nutrition than are those of the other legumes. Other workers who have made a special study of the soy bean have concluded that its proteins are quite exceptional among the proteins of leguminous seeds in being completely adequate for normal growth and reproduction, and that they are quite as valuable as the casein in milk. They also point out that this bean seems to be unique among seeds in its vitamin content.—Good Health, Battle Creek, Mich.

RECREATION CONGRESS AT NASHVILLE

The fourteenth national Recreation Congress will be held in Memphis, Tennessee, October 3-7 under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

At a general session, W. F. Jacoby, director of parks and recreation in Dallas, will give an address on his methods of arousing public interest in and knowledge of birds, animals, and plants in Dallas parks. L. H. Weir will report on his two year study of municipal and county parks and forests. CjOOglC
237

Herbert May of New York, who is completing a study of recreation fn France, Germany, England, Denmark, Czecho-Slo-vakia and Austria will summarize his findings for the delegates. Dr. A. K. Browne, director of physical education, Peabody College, Nashville, Tennessee; John A. Lapp, retiring president of the National Conference of Social Work; Mrs. Charles Sewell of Chicago, a member of the Department of Home and Community, American Farm Bureau Federation, and George Hjelte, director of recreation, Los Angeles, are also on the program.

C.	C. Hieatt of Louisville, Kentucky, president of the National Association of Real Estate Boards, will present the subject of setting aside recreation areas in new subdivisions. Other important topics will be municipal golf, swimming pools, play programs for small children, and the kind of recreation that girls want. Demonstrations of games, dramatics, music and an exhibit of handcrafts, apparatus, materials and literature used in successful work in many cities will be features of the Congress.

Joseph Lee of Boston, president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, and John H. Finley, associate editor of the New York Times, will preside.

For details address T. E. Rivers, secretary of the Congress Committee, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

PARENT EDUCATION

A one day Conference on “Parent Education” will be held in New York City at the Hotel Pennsylvania, Wednesday, November 2nd, 1927, under the auspices of the Child Study Association of America, Inc.

The morning session will be devoted to the discussion of the Family and the Foundation of Character, with an introduction by Mrs. Howard S. Gans, the President of the Association. Dr. Will Russell, Dean, Teachers College, Columbia University, will be Chairman of this session. Mrs. Sidonie M. Gruenberg, Director of the Child Study Association, will speak on How Parents Establish Standards and Ideals; Dr. Lawson G. Lowrey, Director of the Institute of Child Guidance, on The Parent’s Part in Sex-Social Guidance; Dr. Porter Lee, Director, New York School of Social Work, will discuss Parents and the Use of Leisure.

There will be a luncheon session at which The Home’s Unconscious Influence on Individual Failure and Success will be taken up. Dr. Harry D. Kitson, Professor of Education, Teachers College, Columbia University, will speak on Home Situations as Sources of Conflict, and The Need for Vocational Guidance and Adjustment.

The program for the evening session is on Opportunities for Parents in Creative Citizenship: How Parents Can Determine the Character of Public Education by Dr. Frederick Robinson,
238

President of the College of the City of New York: How Social and Economic Limitations of the Existing Home Affect Its Function in the Community by Dr. Ernest R. Groves, Professor of Social Science at Boston University: and the Parent’s Contribution to the Child’s Social Adjustment by Dr. Arthur H. Ruggles, Superintendent of the Butler Hospital, Providence, R. I.

♦Toward the problem of rationalizing the health attitude of the patient, which is so much the same for doctor and psychologist that the two are threatened by the same menace, I have time to offer but one suggestion; and it is an ancient one. Mens sana in corpore sano. The Romans used the same word for bodily and for mental health; mental hygiene isn’t as new as we think it. We still follow the same usage: Sanity and sanitation are derived from the same root; and I think it was Mark Twain who suggested that a doctor was just a more complicated variety of janitor or plumber. There is a wholesome, well adjusted attitude toward one’s life work that is the combined issues of sanity of mind and sanity of body, as similarly we associate personal and moral cleanliness in a common hygienic principle. The dissipation of fear, the establishment of confidence, the cooperation of a rational view of the mechanisms of health, suggest an outline of clinical morale.

•Concluding sentences of an article in the Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. July 16, 1927, by Joseph Jastrow, Ph. D., Prof, of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, entitled “The Psychologist Looks at the Doctor.”)

OLD VS. NEW METHOD IN CHILD TRAINING

It used to be supposed that:

Children should obey blindly and unquestionably every adult command.

The child should be forced to do hard tasks for the sake of discipline and will-training.

All hard tasks were valuable merely because they were hard. Making children do unselfish things gave them habits of unselfishness.

Child training should be a matter of unchanging routine.

Now we believe that:

Obedience should be based on understanding.

The child's interest should lead him to do the task, whether it is hard or easy.

The child’s attitude toward his tasks makes them valuable or otherwise.

Unselfish actions must bring satisfaction to the child if he is to repeat them.

Child training requires a constant re-adjustment of routine and of ideas.

From “Children, The Magazine for ”

Digitized by VjOO^ 1C
239

BOOK REVIEWS

“Personal Hygiene for Women” by Clelia D. Mosher, M.

D.	Clothbound, 97pp. Postpaid, $1.50. Stanford University Press, Stanford University, California.

This book by Dr. Mosher is really a new edition of her well-known “Woman’s Physical Freedom.” The only modification of importance is the addition of an appendix offering tested recipes for bran foods.

As many of our readers will know, Dr. Mosher has done extensive and valuable research into the problems peculiar to women, with special emphasis on the subject of menstruation. This research covers a long period of years. The views expressed are sane and the conclusions are logical.

During this post-war period with its great emphasis upon health in general and upon the physical activity of girls and women in particular, it behooves every parent, teacher and physician to read this latest authoritative book.

Grover W. Mueller.

Hallowe’en Suggestions A traditional air of dark mystery and the gay good fellowship of the harvest season combme to make Hallowe’en a night of interesting contrasts and to give it delightful possibilities for social gatherings. Besides the home party, neighborhood and community celebrations have been gaining in favor, providing plenty of fun for young and old ana no aftermath of destroyed property.

To meet the demand for new activities for Hallowe’en parties and carnivals, the Playground and Recreation Association of America at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City, has prepared a bulletin of Hallowe’en suggestions which they will send for the nominal charge of twenty-five cents. The bulletin contains directions for a "Ghostly Gambol,” a novel party devised by Era Betzner; an easily presented playlet, “Wise Witch” by Lucy Barton, which has as characters eleven girls; and suggestions for music and dramatics suitable for the evening. Price 25 cents.

Our Health Habits. Clothbound—608 pp. by Whitcomb— Beveridge Rand McNally & Company.

The authors of this book have attempted to show to teachers and others concerned with child health problems how to guide the children entrusted to them into paths of healthy living. Throughout the book, notes to the teacher are presented which introduce the various subjects. The lessons are designed to make the performance of health habits attractive and interesting. The aim of the lesson plan is broad and vital enough in its scope to interest the children as a group, and yet detailed and practical enough to fit the needs of the individual child,. Every illustration has a practical application.
240

In grades one to six is found a veritable storehouse of suggestions, rhymes, and interesting stories, calculated to gladden the heart and arouse the enthusiasm of the teacher. Grades seven and eight are devoted largely to the presentation of health as an ethical and civic duty. The background of physiology and anatomy is entirely ignored.

The supplement is especially rich in interesting topics, particularly the reprints on milk and on food.

The authors have presented a course of study replete in detail. To the teacher who has no syllabus in health education, this book is a find. Others will discover much of value.

“Recreational Leadership of Boys” Clothbound, 137 pp. Price 75c.

"Good Times For Boys”. Clothbound, 80 pp. Price 60c by William Ralph LaPorte, Professor of Physical Education, University of Southern California. Methodist Book Concern, New York 1927.

These companion volumes are worthy contributions to the satisfaction of a growing need in a specialized field of recreational activity. While the title does not exactly indicate the point of view from which the material is treated, the contents are not disappointing to one who is starting out in the field of church recreation.

The "Good Times for Boys” is a manual of typical recreational activities briefly outlined and explained with suggestions for organization and administration. They are classified into individual and class activities and then further into games, stunts, gymnastics, water sports, camping and hiking. This volume should be a great help for those who have had little or no previous training in Physical Education.

The "Recreational Leadership of Boys” is concerned more • with the theory and philosophy of recreation as applied specifically to church interests. It discusses the values, aims, and objectives of a church recreation program and then proceeds to a consideration of the various elements of the program such as the physical, social, health, and mental activities. While this book treats a special field of the problems of recreation, it has many practical and worthwhile suggestions of general application.

The references indicated at the ends of chapters in both books are specially well selected and valuable. They add greatly to the value and usefulness of both books.

John E. Boyd.

John C. Kieffer.