MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	FEBRUARY, 1931 No.	393

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College. Indianapolis, Ind.

GFOVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New CJIm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act cf March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦—•	■■ — ♦

THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON CHILD WELFARE

Elsewhere in this issue appears an extended account of the reports made available by the White House Conference on Child Welfare, held in Washington in November. Most of the newspaper reports covering the occasion emphasize the attempts of various interests to take advantage of the conference to promote a campaign for a children’s bureau separate from other health activities. As is usually the case, the element of conflict thus introduced dominated the publicity rather than the constructive efforts exemplified in the well considered reports of committees that had been giving thought to the problems of child welfare, child health and education for the past year. In the care of the child lies the future of the nation; in the control of the education of the child and in the establishment of its habits early in life lies the secret of its happiness in later years. The disposition among psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers and specialists in various medical fields to separate their individual problems from the consideration of the whole body is one of the destructive tendencies of the times. Superspecialization in the adult is a serious problem, notwithstanding the fact that the adult, through an understanding mind, is able frequently to ward off some

Digitized by CjOOQle
334

of the evils associated with consideration of an organ, a tissue or a system within his body rather than with the human being as a whole. The child, unable to think for himself, succumbs readily to lopsided control, so that the body and mind may be distorted by superspecialization in its handling. In a great conference such as that which has just been held, it is possible for all the various interests to come together and to exchange their views— indeed, to be forced into a realization that the child must be considered as a human being and not as a mental case, a handicapped arm, a case in malnutrition or a problem in behavior.

The present administration of the government is apparently committeed to unification of control in public health. Committees in the White House Conference charged with the consideration of administrative methods recommended that the health of the child be not separated from other problems of public health but that it be brought properly under the attention of the United States Public Health Serivce. In an attempt of a revision of this point of view, women’s clubs, welfare organization and indeed every possible influence that could be brought to bear were asked to telegraph to the conference in favor of the establishment of a special department of the government for the care of the child separate from the United States Public Health Service. On short notice and without thorough consideration of all the motives and principles underlying the matter, many organizations sent their telegrams. Fortunately, the conference was so organized that it could not b£ stampeded by any such method.

The immediate, practical outcome of the White House Conference is hard to determine. It had the advantage of causing several thousands of persons especially interested in the problem of child welfare to analyze and to coordinate their views. It caused the entire nation to be, for at least one week, child-minded. It will bring about, no doubt, the dissemination of much educational material to the public. The progress of a movement so auspiciously and expansively initiated will be observed with interest.

THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON CHILD HEALTH AND PROTECTION

President Hoover called together, more than a year ago, a small group to initiate the organization of a Conference on Child Health and Protection. In due time the group was enlarged until about 1,200 representative citizens from every field of child welfare were included. They organized into more than 120 committees and undertook, by research and collection of knowl-dege, a study of the problems involved. The results of the year’s work were presented before the delegates assembled in Washington, November 19-22. More than 3,000, including physicians, psychologists, educators and administrators, were in attendance

Digitized by CjOOQle
335

at the request of the President, as representatives of federal departments, states, cities, national organizations and the medical profession. The Conference organized into four sections. Sec-rion 1 was on medical service, under the chairmanship of Dr. Samuel M. Hamill; section 2 on public health service and administration, under the chairmanship of Surg. Gen. Hugh S. Cumming; section 3 on education and training, under the chairmanship of F. D. Kelly, Ph. D., and section 4 on the handicapped, prevention, maintenance and protection, under the chairmanship of C. C. Carstens, Ph. D.

President Hoover, in his address at the opening session held in Constitution Hall, said that the problems of the conference fall into three groups: (1) the protection and stimulation of the normal child, (2) aid to the physically defective and handicapped child, and (3) the problems of the delinquent child. One of the committees reported, the President said, that among 45,000,000 chlidren there are 35,000,000 who are reasonably normal, 6,000,000 improperly nourished, 1,000,000 with defective speech, 1,000,000 with weak or damaged hearts, 675,000 who present behavior problems, 450,000 who are mentally retarded,

382,000	tuberculous, 342,000 with impaired hearing, 300,000 who are crippled, 50,000 partially blind, 18,000 totally deaf, 1,400 wholly blind, 20,000 delinquent, and 500,000 who are dependent. “If we could have” the President continued “but one generation of properly bom, trained, educated and healthy children, a thousand other problems of government would vanish. . . . These are a part of the problems that I charge you to answer. This task that you have come here to perform has never been done before. . . . From your explorations into the mental and normal endowment and opportunities of children will develop new methods to inspire their creative work and play, to substitute love and self-discipline for the rigors of rule, to guide their recreations into wholesome channels, to steer them past the reefs of temptation, to develop their characters, and to bring them to adult age in tune with life, strong in moral fiber, and prepared to play more happily their part in the productive tasks of human society.”

The Second general session was addressed by James J. Davis, Secretary of Labor, who said that “If we could put into practice what we know about safeguarding the health of children, preventing a deficiency and delinquency, and providing opportunities for wholesome group activities, we could in a single generation profoundly improve the whole character of our national life. The long, unhappy procession of children who enter adult life, physically, socially and mentally handicapped, could be made a much shorter one and the efficiency of our citizens be correspondingly increased.”

The section meetings were held in Constitution Hall, the Corcoran Art Gallery, the National Academy of Sciences Building and the American Red Cross Building. The findings and

Digitized by LaOOQle
336

conclusions of the year’s intensive study of childhood, which may be used as a national standard for local legislation and for the guidance of welfare activities and scientific research, were adopted at the final meeting. The summary report of Section 1 on medical service follows:

A.	THE COMMITTEE ON GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

1.	Knowledge of the growth and development of children is extensive in some respects but meager in others. It is important to recognize the gaps which exist and to admit ignorance, rather than to theorize with unwarranted assurance.

2.	Knowledge of the processes of growth and development during the first few weeks of life and the period of adolescence is particularly inadequate. In future studies, special consideration should be given to these two age periods.

3.	A still more satisfactory understanding of the fundamental processes of mental and physical growth and development is clearly needed. This demands unremitting, conscientious and cooperative research by the laboratory worker, the clinician and all others cooperating in the study of the child.

4.	The social and economic conditions of a child's surroundings may exert a profound influence on his development, both physical and mental. Nutriment, fatigue and such other factors as the competence of the parents, educational opportunities, the unusual hazard of disease, and so forth, are of the utmost importance and must be evaluated at all times. Scientific investigation of the factors from which clean-cut deductions may be drawn is difficult. Studies beginning with clear definitions of terms and definite objectives need to be undertaken.

5.	Mental and emotional factors have an important bearing on physical health. This implies that the doctor, in particular, should endeavor to understand the causes of behavior of his patients, and, above all, he should assist parents to develop a sound point of view in regard to the general management of the life of their children.

6.	Opportunity should be afforded every child for nutrition which to the best of our present knowledge is optimal for his needs. A well balanced diet must include both in quantity and in quality all the elements essential for the demands of the processes of growth. The provision of a liberal quantity of milk and of eggs, fruits and green vegetables provides a valuable safeguard.

7.	Mothers should be encouraged to nurse their babies. Human milk from healthy and properly nourished mothers is the ideal food for infants. Artificial feeding in cases of necessity may be a satisfactory substitute when conducted with understanding medical supervision.

8.	No single set of facts, such as height and weight, is adequate in itself to appraise and pass judgment on the health of the child. Mental and physical factors, his previous history.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
337

his race, his present condition, his opportunities and background, all are important. The normal differences which exist between individual children must be given due weight.

9.	Periodic health examinations constitute a valuable safeguard to health. These examinations should begin with the new-born infant to be repeated at suitable intervals thereafter. These should not cease with entrance to school, but should be conducted at least through adolescence. Periodic examinations should be thorough and comprehensive, and be conducted by physicians acquainted with the healthy child and the complexities of growth and development, as well as the manifestations of the diseases peculiar to the different age levels. Reliance on superficial routines and unthoughtful application of so-called standards must be guarded against constantly.

10.	Disease influences detrimentally the growth and -development of children. The best treatment is prevention.

B.	THE COMMITTEE ON PRENATAL AND MATERNAL

CARE.

1.	Infant and maternal mortality and disability are unnecessarily high. The main causes for the mother are infection, toxemia, hemorrhage and injury. For the infant they are prematurity, birth injury, malformations and infection.

2.	These casualties can be reduced by adequate maternal care throughout pregnancy, labor and the lying-in period. The infant from the moment of birth requires .adequate medical attention just as much as the mother.

3.	The universal application of our present obstetric knowledge would markedly improve these conditions. The public needs further education as to the necessity of adequate facilities for maternal care and for the education of trained personnel. The various methods now in use for educating the pregnant woman and the public are all effective and should be continued. Interested national organizations perform a valuable function in initiating and advising local efforts. While local activities should conform to certain essential standards, too much standardization destroys local initiative.

4.	Adequate care for maternity cases in the home and hospital with segregated maternity services should be available in every urban and rural community. A comprehensive program requires the cooperation of obstetrically trained doctors and nurses, and certain nonmedical workers in the fields of social service, domestic economy and nutrition.

5.	There should be some modification of the methods of reporting and classifying stillbirths and early infant and maternal deaths. It is particularly unfortunate that previable infants who have no possible chance of survival are now reported as live births. This leads to an unduly high figure for early infant

Digitized by Google
338

mortality. More accurate statistical data as to the number and causes of deaths will lead to a better understanding of causes and a more effective prevention of such casualties.

6.	Midwives are still needed in certain rural localities because of racial and economic conditions. As long as the necessity exists, more adequate provision should be made for their training and for proper supervision under medical control.

7.	Nurses constitute an important agency in maternal care. Their undergraduate and graduate training in this field should be encouraged and improved. There is special need for better training of nursing instructors. The training of nursing attendants for maternity care should also be considered.

8.	Adequate medical education is fundamental to any program for maternal care. We recommend the following specific improvements:

A more thorough correlation of obstetric teaching with the basic sciences.

Enlargement of women’s clinics wholly under the control of medical schools.

Residence of medical students in such women’s clinics where they may for a sufficient length of time receive correlated practical teaching in maternal and infant care.

Personal supervision by an obstetric teacher of all home deliveries by students.

Increased facilities in the medical schools will also provide postgraduate training for those who wish to become specialists, investigators and teachers, and for the general medical practitioner who wishes to improve his obstetrical knowledge.

Institutions for medical education and service require adequate financial support.

C.	THE COMMITTEE ON MEDICAL CARE FOR CHILDREN

The results of the various investigations have brought out certain facts and led to certain definite conclusions.

1.	There is an enormous amount of preventive work being carried on by individuals and by groups of individuals which is incomplete and wasteful because uncoordinated. There are few communities where a complete child health program is being carried out. Careful studies of local situations should be carried out locally for or by the parties concerned in order to develop more complete coordination.

2.	There is abundant evidence of lack of appreciation of the value of preventive measures by the laity. Intensive popular education is still greatly needed and should be undertaken. In such a campaign the assistance of the lay press is essential. The carrying out of preventive measures is part of the responsibility of the general practitioner and his cooperation should be sought.

3. There is little definite knowledge of the extent of bad body mechanics or “posture.” Its effects on health, in the

Digitized by C^ooQle
339

opinion of many physicians, are proved from experience with small groups of children. Extensive careful scientific investigation should be carried out in many localities and among all classes of the population to determine its extent and effect.

4.	The practice of oral hygiene and reparative dentistry, carried on for a number of years, while improving general health, has failed to decrease the incidence of dental caries among children. Such work should be continued and extended, but intensive experimental and clinical work on a large scale should be undertaken to determine definitely the part played by mineral metabolism as influenced by dietary procedures in the incidence of dental caries.

5.	Curriculums of educational institutions for physicians, dentists, nurses and physical therapists show great variations and in many cases utterly inadequate attention to preventive measures. Administrative authorities in the various schools should be urged to seriously consider the adequacy of their curriculums for preparing their students to give advice regarding essential preventive measures.

6.	Conferences with various professional educational groups should be held to consider minimum essentials of education in preventive measures and the best practical way of adjusting curriculums to meet these needs.

7.	While the committee has not investigated the extent to which measures for safeguarding the health of children in activities where health is not the primary purpose, it wishes to emphasize its conviction that in every activity for children such measures are of very great importance, are often neglected, and should always be provided under competent medical supervision.

REPORT OF SECTION ON PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE The summary report of section 2 on public health service and administration follows:

The three committees of section 2 presented to the conference detailed reports and discussions of their work and their findings. With one exception the reports were favorably received by the delegates who came to hear them.

The outstanding facts which were developed by the Committee on Communicable Disease Control, of which Dr. George H. Bigelow is the chairman, are that: 1. The knowledge of control in many communicable diseases exceeds its practical application. Existing knowledge, if generally applied, would result in a marked reduction in the prevalence of these diseases. 2. There are, however, many gaps in our knowledge concerning the results of present measures, and the fundamental facts of cause, distribution, prevention and control of many of the communicable diseases. This knowledge, when supplied, will greatly simplify and focus efforts toward control. 3. Consequently, differences in opinion and practice exist concerning the procedures to be followed to prevent or diminish the prevalence of communicable disease. Such differences will be re-

Digitized by CjOOQle
340

solved only when more precise knowledge is available. The committee emphasized the necessity for well equipped full time public health service with competent personnel for urban and rural districts, with adequate community support and legal powers relative to all phases of preventive medicine.

The Committee on Milk Production and Control, of which Mr. H. A. Whittaker is the chairman, emphasized the fact that the consumption of fluid milk in the United States is too low for proper and economical human nutrition. This country is far below the optimum daily consumption of milk for the normal child. Health agencies both official and voluntary should more actively encourage greater use of high quality milk as a nutritional and health protective program. The best information available indicates that approximately one quart of milk is desirable daily for the average growing child; but the average child receives considerably less than this amount.

While marked improvement in the sanitary quality of milk has been brought about during the past several years by agricultural and public health agencies, the investigations of the committee indicate that there is need for further improvement in the public health and quality supervision of the milk supply of this country. The committee specifically recommended that uniform requirements should be incorporated in laws or regulations for the supervision of milk supplies at least the equivalent of those contained in a milk ordinance to be recommended by the United States Public Health Service and the Bureau of Daily Industry of the United States Department of Agriculture. It is fundamental that all milk supplies should be surveyed and rated as frequently as practicable.

The committee is of the opinion that the general market milk should be pasteurized before it is consumed. Attention was called to the outstanding achievement of the federal Department of Agriculture, attained through its interest in the development of accredited herds throughout the country. Systematic work along this line began only ten years ago but far reaching results have already been obtained.

The committee on Public Health Organization, of which Dr. E. L. Bishop is the chairman, states in its report that public health administration is a relatively new science, because only in fairly recent years has there been sufficient knowledge in regard to the etiology of disease to make possible the application of specific control measures. It is a difficult science because it involves in addition to other complexities the problem of human relationships. Methods relative to the application of knowledge have therefore lagged behind the knowledge of laboratory science on which administrative practice is based. These facts have made the task of the committee especially difficult because there were no blazed trails for it to follow: It has, however, endeavored to prepare, from a completely detached point of view, an outline of procedure which in the

Digitized by t^ooQle
341

opinion of its members would best integrate public health procedure into the administrative scheme of the three elements of American government.

The report of the Subcommittee on Federal Health Organization, of which Dr. Haven Emerson is the chairman, contained one phase which met with vigorous protest by many of the members of the conference to whom it was presented on the second and third days of the meeting. The point at issue involved the conclusions that authorization should be provided for the transfer of the functions, together with the personnel and necessary appropriations for their support, of the health activities of the Divisions of Child Hygiene and of Maternity and Infancy of the Children’s Bureau to the Public Health Service, except so far as they are concerned with health studies inseparable from and indispensable to the functions of this bureau in the field of welfare of women and children. It was suggested, therefore, that in conformity with the wishes expressed by the President this point of controversy be referred to a continuing committee of the conference for further consideration, and that the report of the subcommittee as originally presented, together with the subsequently submitted dissenting opinion of Miss Abbott, be included in the final publication of the conference, with a note indicating that this matter is subject to further consideration by a continuing committee as proposed by the President.

A major recommendation of the Subcommittee on Federal Health Organization was the continuance and increase of federal agents in aid with the object of developing competent health organization in rural communities throughout the country serving the general as well as the special health needs of children.

The subcommittee on Federal Health Organization, of which Dr. John A. Ferrell is the chairman, advocated for state health departments the establishment of an organization composed of full time trained personnel to carry on the necessary administrative and special functional public health activities. It is believed that the state should join with the counties or other local governments administratively and financially in organizing and conducting adequate local health service. It is of further opinion that the federal government, through the state health departments, should supply to the various states in proportion to their needs, the personnel and money necessaiy to guarantee to every community in the nation a health service that will be able to maintain at least what the authorities may designate as a recognized standard of adequacy.

The subcommittee on City Health Organization, of which Dr. Henry T. Vaughan is the chairman, emphasized the well recognized fact that no municipal health organization has divided its functions according to the race or age distribution of its population but has so coordinated each of its special functional divisions that they contribute most effectively directly to the

Digitized by
342

improvement of child health and protection. A true test or measure of the successful operation of a city health department consists in the lowering of infant mortality and the improvement of the health level of the child and of the community.

The subcommittee on Rural Health Organization, of which Dr. Allen W. Freeman is the chairman, calls attention to the fact that, whereas the cities are provided with various institutions in the interests of the health and welfare of the chi'd, the rura1 areas must rely almost entirely on the county health unit for the problems involved in child health and in the protection of the community in health affairs. The sole and indispensable agency of health throughout the country for rural communities is the local full time health organization as now promoted and to a degree supported by federal grants in and through state departments of health to individual counties. *The committee advances the opinion that federal aid in promoting and maintaining county health departments has proved its utility and should be largely extended.

The subcommittee on the Relation of Official and Nonofficial Agencies in Public Health Organization urged the necessity for paralleling official health organization locally and nationally by rural health councils which will permit the coordination of official and voluntary health agencies in rural communities and the true coordination of national health agencies among themselves in order to avoid conflicting and competing appeals to the public for the health interest of the child.

The subcommittee on Training of Health Personnel, of which Dr. W. S. Leathers is the chairman, emphasized the great need for educational institutions and government medical services utilizing the facilities for training health personnel. One of the most significant trends in providing trained health personnel is to develop, in medical schools, well organized and properly financed departments of hygiene and preventive medicine so that physicians may have knowledge and an understanding concerning the part which they should play in the prevention of disease as practitioners of medicine. From this group will be obtained health officers, and, in order to stimulate interest on the part of medical students to adopt public health as a career, it is fundamental that they be stimulated as undergraduate students in going into this field of medical service.

The training of health personnel also involves providing proper facilities for the training of nurses and sanitary inspectors. A report of the subcommittee developed the great need of providing better facilities for training nurses in schools of nursing in conjunction with departments of hygiene and preventive medicine in medical schools. It is realized that efficient public health work can be done only by having properly trained personnel, and the whole advance in public health organization depends on those who are effectively trained.

Digitized by Google
343

Important features of the report of the Subcommittee on the Administration of Child Health Work as a part of the Official Health Program, of which Dr. Anna E. Rude is the chairman, are as follows:	All	child health activities, whether federal,

state or local, as well as activities sponsored by private agencies, should be coordinated and supervision or direction given by the constituted official health agencies; that these child health activities should be standardized so as to be scientifically sound; that extension of child health activities with emphasis on preventive health measures directed to the early age group is indicated, and, finally, that increased federal, state and local, as well as private appropriations are necessary to perfect and extend further child hygiene activities.

The Subcommittee on Practitioners of Medicine and Dentistry in Relation to Health Programs, of which Dr. David Chester Brown is the chairman, calls attention to the fact that there are certain phases of public health work which are especially well adapted for developing a constructive program of cooperation between health agencies and the physicians and dentists of a community. The state and local health departments should advise with the medical and dental professions in determining such programs and state medical and dental associations should appoint, for the benefit of the state health officer, advisory committees approved by their legislative bodies. Likewise, the district or county organizations should appoint advisory committees for local health officers. These committees will prove invaluable in adjusting differences stimulating interest and securing cooperation on the part of practitioners. Practicing physicians and dentists are, and should be, very important factors in safeguarding the health of the public. Therefore, any method employed in public health administration which tends to destroy the confidence of the community in these professions is not in the interest of human welfare and should not be tolerated.

REPORT OF SECTION ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING

Section 3, on education and training, pointed out in its report that the statements commonly heard about the youth of today running wild were not substantiated by the studies made for this conference. The present agencies for child education and training in general are alert and managed by competent men and women. What is needed is continuous critical and sympathetic study of these agencies, and then encouragement and support of the programs which may be evolved. Society must demand for every child his right to a fair chance and that involves first that he shall be born right, that he shall have a fair start and not be handicapped for life by a feeble endowment of body or mind. The welfare of a child depends on nothing else so inevitably as on the personality relationships within the family and the child’s reaction to them. The best educational efforts of schools and other agencies may be ineffectual if the emotional background of the child’s life is unhappy and inse-

Digitized by Google
344

cure. A school health service, the report adds, is an essential part of every school organization. Parents, teachers, school authorities and health specialists should join in devising a program such as will assure the full safeguards of immunization, the early detection and exclusion of contagious diseases, and the discovery and correction of remediable defects of body and mind in all the children regardless of their economic status but above all the health program should systematically promote such a regimen of life—diet, sleep, work and play—as will contribute most to the full mental and physical vigor of every child.

REPORT OF THE SECTION ON THE HANDICAPPED Section 4, on the handicapped reported that the proportion of children abused or wilfully neglected is small, but the aggregate mounts into the thousands and every locality has the problem in its midst. The more common of these abuses and neglects include failure to provide sufficient food and clothing and proper living conditions and needed medical and surgical treatment, as well as the exposing of children to immoral associations. About 1,500 foster institutions and 350 foster family agencies cared for approximately 250,000 children during the last year, one third of whom were in foster families. On the basis of the best available statistics, the report says that about 200,000 different delinquent children in 1928 were dealt with by various courts of the country and that this is only a fraction of all delinquents, as a great many are handled by the police and other agencies without resort to the courts. The report suggests that out of this conference may grow a committee, under the Department of Labor, representing the professions and leaders in industry, education and social work to undertake a practical solution of the difficulties that confront handicapped children. The report also recommended that the work of the national organizations dealing with special types of handicaps coordinate their work into a National Council on the Handicapped, which might have some federal bureau act as a research bureau and clearing house of information for the various states. The report of section 4 was, in part, as follows:

If there are from three million to five million children in the United States, as it is believed, who are handicapped in the ordinary sense of the word, namely, children who are blind and partly seeing, who are deaf and hard of hearing, who are crippled, who are mentally defective or who are suffering from tuberculosis, heart disease or parasitic diseases, the problem of the care of these children becomes a major obligation of this nation and of its constituent states. Much has been done already through public and private service, but there are wide areas, especially the rural sections of our various states, that are a veritable No Man’s Land — areas where handicapped children in desperate need grow up and die without ever hearing of efforts in their behalf. The various groups have special needs but there is at least one fundamental principle that may

Digitized by t^ooQle
345

be expressed as lying back of all the work that needs to be done and that may read as follows:

Like every child, the child who may have some physical or mental handicap is to be regarded as a potential social asset and not a liabiltiy. The handicapped child should be so guided that his aptitudes and abilities may be given the fullest development and that his life may become one of usefulness, success, and happiness.

Children who are physically or mentally handicapped are not peculiarly set apart from other children. Their likenesses to other children are greater than their differences. They require, however, more intensive application of medical care and of academic and social care and treatment to equip them to participate as fully as possible in the normal life of the community.

For the handicapped child in need of temporary institutionalization, the institution should provide treatment, care and training looking toward the child’s rehabilitation and restoration to community life. For the handicapped child in need of more permanent institutionalization, institutions should provide adequate treatment, well rounded custodial care and training which utilizes the child’s mental or physical abilities to the best advantage during his institutional life.

In the study of the six groups of the physically and mentally handicapped, certain additional general needs have come increasingly to the front; namely, early diagnosis, specialized treatment and individual health education, the largest possible cultural education that the child is able to enjoy and absorb, specialized vocational guidance, vocational education and advantageous placement with careful follow-up. The special training and education required on the part of these groups is more expensive than the education of the ordinary child, but the additional cost is inconsiderable when compared with the expense that the child who is untrained and unequipped for the world’s work lays upon the community during the rest of his life.

In order that the needs of these handicapped children may have careful consideration and may be fully met, it is neccessary that there shall be a central state coordinating agency closely linked up with the Department of Public Welfare or one of its divisions.

One of the major possibilities of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection in respect to the handicapped would be achieved if there could be sponsored under the Department of Labor a committee representing, on the one hand, leaders in industry, commerce and the professions, and, on the other hand, the medical, educational and social work groups who are daily dealing with the problems of physically and mentally handicapped with the idea in mind that through such a committee a practical solution of the difficulties that confront the handicapped could be worked out.

The committee dealing with the physically and mentally handicapped joins with the Committee on Special Classes of

Digitized by Google
346

the Section on Education and Training in recommending that national organizations dealing with special types of handicaps coordinate their work in a National Council on the Handicapped. The recommendations of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection to promote public information about the handicapped and the means of amelioration, treatment, cure, training and placement should be given careful consideration by this council so that contacts may be made with the appropriate administrative agencies in the counties and other political units in the states and that the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the White House Conference may be made increasingly effective in the several states. Such a council could do its best work if as a result of this conference some appropriate federal government bureau could be designated as the proper agency to act as a research bureau and clearing house of information for the various states and if in each state a state advisory council for handicapped children could be created, made up of representatives of state organizations interested in such children, to cooperate with the national council and to aggressively promote in the states measures for making effective the recommendations of the White House Conference.

The United States is conducting forty-eight or more different experiments in the field of child care in its various states and territories. These experiments are based on certain fundamental principles that lie back of all of them but are modified by the variety of races and nationalities served and by the various Old and New World traditions found in their populations. It is clear that there is no one panacea in organization for child care, but the experience of one state has defintiely modified the forms in other states and so the diversity we often decry has once more proved of value.

The services are very diverse. While there are localities and even states that are inclined to “enjoy" unmolested whatever standard of public administration is desired by its people, this attitude is rare. In spite of this diversity, there is an approximation even now to a “national minimum,” but its terms need to be understood and more definitely interpreted in order that it may adequately express our standards of health, happinesss and general welfare for all children throughout the country. The development of standards is an evolving process as new needs and new possibilities appear and must be carried on by each state independently and by the federal government in cooperation with the various states.

SUMMARY OF THE CONFERENCE BY DR. WILBUR

The work of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection was summarized, Saturday evening, November 22, in a nation-wide radio talk by the chairman of the conference, Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur. Among other things, Dr. Wilbur said:

Digitized by CjOOQle
347

"Every child is entitled to be understood, and all dealing with him should be based on the fullest understanding of the child.

"Every prospective mother should have suitable information, medical supervision during the prenatal period, and competent care at confinement. Every mother should have postnatal medical supervision for herself and child.

"Every child should receive periodical health examinations before and during the school period, including adolescence, by the family physician or the school or other public physician, or such examination by specialists and such hospital care as its special needs may require.

"Every child should have regular dental examination and

care.

"Every child should have instruction in the schools in health and in safety from accidents, and every teacher should be trained in health programs.

"Every child should be protected from communicable diseases to which he might be exposed at home, in school or at play, and protected from impure milk and food.

“Every child should have proper sleeping rooms, diet, hours of sleep and play, and parents should receive expert information as to the needs of children of various ages as to these questions.

"Every child should attend a school which has proper seating, lighting, ventilation and sanitation. For younger children, kindergartens and nursery schools should be provided to supplement home care.

“The school should be organized so as to discover and develop the special abilities of each child, and should assist, in vocational guidance; for children, like men, succeed by the use of their strongest qualities and special interests.

“Every child should have some form of religious, moral and character training.

“Every child has a right to play, with adequate facilities therefor.

“With the expanding domain of the community’s responsibilities for children, there should be proper provision for and supervision of recreation and entertainment.

“Eveiy child should be protected against labor that stunts growth, either physical or mental; that limits education, that deprives children of the right of comradeship, of joy and play.

“Every child who is blind, deaf, crippled or otherwise physically handicapped should be given expert study and corrective treatment, where there is the possibility of relief, and appropriate development or training. Children with subnormal or abnormal mental conditions should receive adequate study, protection, training and care.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
348

A PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM FOR BOYS OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

By Emil Rath.

(Continued from last month)

Exercise and Modern Educational Theory. Physical education cannot be accused of failing to bridge the gap between the curriculum and the child’s social life. (47) Self-testing activities and groups games are not related only to the life of the pupils(48) but are actually practiced by them out of school. They and other activities furnish the material for real learning by including the life experiences of the child in the curriculum.(49) The learning process concerns itself with correcting and improving the performance, in order to achieve certain biological outcomes, and in guiding the social behaviour of the pupil to produce important concomitant values. In this respect, it is supplemental to the out-of-school life, doing that which cannot be done, at least not so well, by the pupils in their self-directed play. (50).

Even the teaching of foundational free exercises (a purposeful type of setting - up work) can be given meaning in the pupil’s life. They improve the entire organism, structure and function, for the performance of daily tasks. To give the pupil a significant understanding of this important value and thus arouse interest in and appreciation of it, is as difficult as developing comprehension and intelligence of deferred values. In fact, those activities contain both real, immediate, and remote values (as keeping physically fit, or preparation for some sport). They are of importance in “Refining the present direction of movement (51) in the purpose of the immediate values.” They are not beyond the grasp of the adolescent, and since it requires a keener understanding to appreciate the deferred purposes (52) it makes them desirable. However, it will require an experienced instructor possessing patience and knowledge of them to teach them successfully.

Physical education, too, has had to refine and re-evaluate its subject matter, but at no time in its history did it completely fail to give the pupils at least some real life-like activities which could be carried on after school hours. Nor has it failed to supply biological values, about whose transfer no question could be raised, as well as certain character values. Even the disciplinary systems of Ling of the past and Neils Bukh of the present, representing the acme of formalism, taught climbing, vaulting, jumping, and games

47.	Rugg, Harold, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E. XI, 149.

48.	Horn, Ernest, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E. VIII, 108.

49.	Kilpatrick, W. H., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E. X, 122.

60.	Counts, G. S., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E. VI, 76.

61.	Dewey, J., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E„ XII, 171.

52. Horn, Ernest, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., VII, 102-103.

Digitized by LjOOQle
349

and dances in such a manner that these activities were practiced in the out-of-school life of children with increased pleasure and improved performance.

Physical education, unlike other subjects in the curriculum, cannot be evaluated in this respect.. One can easily conceive society going on today without any interest or participation in such activities as compose the bulk of the material of physical education. On the other hand, some phases of the 3 R’s and related subjects are constantly needed. Life today is impossible without them. But life needs more than this, more than mere daily routine of work and passive re-creation, particularly life in present day complex society. In primitive society the child was trained in the family and by the parents. It was taught early all the physical skills essential for existence. The parents continued the practice of these activities for the purpose of self-preservation. But these motor powers are no longer essential for our existence in this sense. The skills have gradually grown into a body of subject matter used to develop these identical motor powers but with an entirely different objective. They are no longer practiced for the purpose of self-preservation. Instead they have been built into games, feats of daring and competition, and should be used as sports and pastimes by adults for enjoyment and the purpose of keeping physically fit. But they are not, at least not to any great extent, being so used. Life today places great strain on the individual and a strong sinewy body is required to withstand it. When an unexpected emergency increases this strain, demanding endurance and power, the body must be equal to the exigency. Thus while it is true that man can get along without any participation in sports and pastimes, as many do until the doctor compels them to “take exercise,” a fuller and more efficient life can be had if these recreations are pursued.

For the child, on the other hand, they are as essential today as in primitive society. There can be no complete child development without them.

With proper organization and teaching procedure in school their practice will go on by guided self-direction within and by self-direction outside the school plant. Nor is much urging necessary if a foundation has been laid in school. The urge for action is a potent tendency in the adolescent, but it requires constant re-vitalizing during this erratic era. The lesson must do this. It must further arouse a love and enthusiasm for activities, and the instructor must know and apply many means of motivation. Physical education thus may be easily made a part of the adolescent behaviour. The best mechanism within the school for developing under proper leadership the habits of self-planning, self-initiating, and self-managing so significant for democracy, is the intra-mural organization and the free play or proficiency period.
350

The intra-mural organization is an excellent means for furthering the social adjustment of the pupil. (53) It gives the youth an opportunity for the practice of social behaviour(54) in participating in group and self-directed activities “influential in shaping character and conduct.” (55) Each day’s lesson in physical education offers assistance to the pupils in this type of self-direction. It lays the foundation for correct group-action, for the duties of the individuals in relation to each other and to the group, and teaches the fundamentals of the organized games played during this period. Its outcome should be a smoothly working organization so that considerable responsibility can be placed in the hands of the pupils. Here the seeds of democracy are planted in fertile soil, and given opportunity for germinating. Here, also, are given opportunities for self-realization and self-expression.

The free play or proficiency period is for the youth an embryonic society and offers as good an opportunity for these manifestations, (self-realization and self-expression) as the intramural period. Pupils are less bound by group action and are freer to choose. Self-expression, in this case revealed in diversified effort to master the environment or part of it, frequently leads to creative work in activities. New stunts are invented on the floor, mats, and on apparatus, new vaults are discovered; new knacks of control in doing field and track work, shooting goals, in throwing and catching are found, etc. The success of one pupil stimulates another and thus emulation bears fruitful results.

The social relationship is different from that prevailing in intra-mural contests. In the latter, group is pitted against group, demanding strict cooperation within the group in order to present a strong unified front to the opponents. In the former, the element of opposition is not present although emulation and competition remain. Altruistic cooperation prevails. This is manifested by the assistance and advice one pupil gives to another to aid him in personal achievement. But so does a spirit of rivalry, friendly in nature, since one tries to equal or outdo his classmate. If well organized, such a period provides profitable activity for the entire class. There is action everywhere, self-initiated and directed, “diversified, wholesome, abundant and fruitful” (56) from the physical view point. There is individual freedom present. Such procedure not only creates wholesome biological values, but also associated or concomitant values, producing response habits to situations closely related to those crop-

Eing up in every day life. Here, too, is a phase of democratic fe lilce growing out of intramural organization. Obviously both types of procedure are essential.

63.	Meyrrs, H. D., Extra-Curricular Activities in the High School, Part I, Topic 3, p. 29.

64.	Mitchell, E. D., Intramural Athletics, III, 12-13.

66. Bobbitt, Franklin, The 26th Year Book, III, 41-47.

66. Bobbitt, Fr„ The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., Ill, 41.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
351

The work during the proficiency period should be guided and not be given over entirely to self-direction. (57) The pupil may follow work charts containing specific objectives to achieve. These are checked as they are completed. The instructor moves among the pupils during the period. He explains a knack to one, demonstrates an activity to another, encourages another, introduces orderly procedure, insisting on personal rights, suggests ways of helping each other, etc, etc. This is a true laboratory of human conduct and offers unlimited opportunities to the instructor.

These two forms of procedure are based on certain interests of adolescent youth. They will vary in organization and subject matter when adapted to the Junior and Senior High School. They offer youths a means of expressing the social instinct and exercising and learning the meaning of habits, skills, and attitudes in social and moral behaviour and emotional control. (58) Pupils gain a knowledge of and insight into human nature, (59) which is usually revealed in situations arising in these activities.

Training in these character traits must be given during the regular lesson, when a particular trait may be singled out from a situation for the purpose of emphasis (60) and discussion.

The regular instruction period lays the foundation for competitive meets of various kinds; e. g., in track and field work, tumbling and apparatus work, swimming and diving, and relay races, as well as in the previously mentioned team games. There are important educational values inherent in these organized meets and in the preparation for them. But there are corresponding dangers, which the physical educator must assist youths in avoiding.

The values crop up because of the many days of preparation and the necessity of putting every ounce of power into the activity with a view of achieving success. It is this maximum effort not too frequently repeated and followed by adequate rest that produces the biological values needed for adolescent growth. Those intensive exertions are gradually led up to by the usual competition occurring in every lesson. Tests in these activities also help to pave the way. Practice and intent go together (61) so intimately in this work that it is easy to interest the youth. Suggestions for after school practice for these meets, with emphasis on the need of obeying instructions carefully, may be given since there is not at present enough time devoted to physical education within the school. Such meets must be limited to one (at most two) of each kind in the year. If excessive significance is attached to winning in these contests, the perfectly normal and desirable outcomes may become abnormal and poison to the youth.

57.	Dewey, John, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., XII, 173-174.

58.	Bonser, F. G., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., IV, 60.

59.	Hetherington, Clark, School Program of Physical Education, 31.

60.	Bonser, F. G., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., IV, 60.

61.	Kilpatrick, W. H., The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., X, 125-27.

Digitized by kjOOQle
352

Giving unnecessary publicity to the meets and the results contribute to this. A successful youth acquires an exaggerated opinion of his importance and eventually becomes the slave of a sport that should be to him a valuable pastime and a profitable means for recreation. Helps in preventing this are: arranging all competition on a point basis and recording results for a team, a class, or a school in inter-school contests; requiring contestants to take part in some other activity in addition to individual competition; including all(62) or at least a large percentage of the pupils as suggested by the Committee on Health and Physical Education of Department of Superintendence. This avoids the placing of too much importance on individual achievement and attaches more to team, class, and school accomplishment. (63)

Tests will be required in all well-conducted schools at regular intervals. In physical education these must at present, because of the nature of the subject-matter, concern themselves exclusively with measuring biological values, as strength, speed, endurance, and skill, These may be accurately and readily measured. It has not yet been discovered how the very important values cropping up in the work, as courtesy, honesty, cooperation in various forms, etc., can be measured.

Youths whose ambition it is to enter the profession of physical education may find further outlet for their ability in varsity teams, but should nevertheless continue their attendance of the regular lesson.

Although concentration on one particular activity satisfies the psychology tendency to specialize, (63) it is not to be recommended to the student in general before the age of 17 and not at all to him who wishes to enter the profession of physical education. In academic subjects specialization leads to a narrow view of the world; in physical education it leads to a lack of motor plasticity. When a thorough foundation has been laid by means of a diversity of activities, and growth and development of the youth show distinct and outstanding peculiarities in function and structure, then more enjoyment and gratification will be found in such sports for which the body is adapted than in others. This is the time for specialization. This scarcely happens before the 16th year is completed, and generally later. (63) Characteristic tendencies, no doubt, show themselves earlier in life and indicate the path that development and growth will take. Thus we find tallness, slenderness, stockiness, shortness and other variations(65) due, in all probability to heredity and environment. These traits will serve sis guiding principles

62.	a) 11 Health & Phys. Ed. in Jr. & Sr. High Schools,” in Department of Superintendence, 6th Year Book, Part III, XXIV, 461.

63.	The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., Part II, 1, 21.

64.	Tyler, J. M., Growth & Education XIII, 179-183.

65.	Williams, J. F., The Principles of Physical Education III, 99-104.

Digitized by Google
353

in well-organized procedure, (66) but are no justification for specialization.

The Instruction Period

It is obvious from the foregoing discussion that the general period of instruction might well form the core of physical education procedure for adolescent youth. The committee on “Health and Physical Education” of the Department of Superintendence takes a similar stand in insisting that the required periods of physical education “be periods of instruction rather than for playing scheduled games.” (67) Around it cluster and out of it come the various competitive meets, the intra-mural organization, the proficiency periods, and other out-of-school continuation of the work. In it is laid the foundation for growth and development of adolescent youths along broad educational lines. Out of its proper arrangement and presentation grow the biological and associated values so frequently referred to. Further, if the lesson is to be the center “from which all blessings flow,” its content and method must be based on the adolescent youth, which is the “starting point, the center, and the end”(68) of education.

Such a lesson may not be left entirely to chance, but must be prepared in advance. The conflicting opinions expressed by Horn, (69) Kilpatrick, (70) Rugg,(71) and others on this point primarily pertain to the usual academic curriculum. In physical education it is not so much an “adventure into the unknown” since we can fairly predict the developmental effects although the associated by-products cannot be determined in advance.

Nevertheless, changes must frequently be made in a lesson plan, in the activities themselves, because of unforeseen conditions in the teaching situation. No teacher can predict these. This will compel teachers to make impromptu adaptations and call forth their best efforts.

SUMMARY.

From a consideration of the foregoing facts certain conclusions may be drawn which aid in formulating the program of physical education.

1.	Growth of the entire organism is influenced favorably by activity.

2.	Disease and physical defects interfere with growth ana physical development and also deter mental development.

3.	Experiments have shown that directed exercises of the right kind are an effective means of stimulating growth and de-

66.	Measuring Scale (Weight in relation to age, height and physical type). Division of Phys. Ed., The Bd. of Public Ed., Philadelphia, Pa.

67.	“Health and Phys. Ed. in jr. and Sr. High Schools” in Department of Superintendence 6th Year Book, Part III, XXIV, 461.

68.	Dewey, John, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., XII, 170.

69.	Horn, Ernest, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., 108-109.

70.	Kilpatrick, W. H„ The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E. 136-137.

71.	Rugg, Harold, The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., 167-158.

Digitized by Google
354

velopment and that boys failing to receive such training do not grow at the same rate as those who do.

4.	The information on the increased growth of vital organs which takes place during this period implies a selection of activities, as to quantity and quality. Careful supervision is necessary so that strains may be avoided. Moderate use of vigorous competitive work in early adolescence is recommended. Individual differences should be considered in this respect.

5. Changes take place in the neuro-muscular system, which tend tp upset established coordinations. A diversity of exercises practiced regularly will help to retain good neuromuscular control.

6.	Activities which involve social situations, emotional and moral control will give the growing youth opportunities to adjust himself in social ways and give him a firm grip on his vaccilating emotional nature, providing his training is in the hands of an instructor who understands him.

7.	Specialization may tend to limit the full physical development and deprive the youth of much valuable experience if begun in early adolescence. It should not take place until middle adolescence.

8.	Training should be given predominently in activities which the youth can carry on out of school. This will give him practice in initiating and managing his own games.

9.	The general lesson must be primarily a teaching period and must lay the foundation for the intra-mural and proficiency periods, competitive meets of various kinds, and for other school play. It must also endeavor to give to the youth the standards of sportsmanship which will guide his action in his play life.

10.	Training for democracy may be furthered by training pupils in self control, self direction, and in giving them an appreciation of correct social behaviour.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

1.	Tracy, Fr., “The Psychology of Adolescence.” The Macmillan Co., New York, 1924.

2.	Hartwell, E. M., Report of Director Physical Training, Boston School Document. No. 8, 1924.

3.	Hetherington, Clark. “School Program of Physical Education,” World Book Co., 1925.

4.	Conklin, E. G. “Heredity and Environment.” Second Printing of Third Revised Edition. Princeton University Press, Princeton, 1920.

5.	Howell, W. H. “Text Book of Physiology.” Fourth Edition, W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1912.

6.	Schmidt, F. A. "Physiologie der Leibesuebungen.” Ditte Auflage, R. Voigtlaender Verlag, Leipzig, 1921.

7.	O’Shea, M. V., “Dynamic Factors in Education,” The Macmillan Co., New York, 1906.

Digitized by Google
355

8.	Baldwin, Bird F. “Physical Growth of Children,” University of Iowa Studies in Child Welfare. University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

9.	Ayres, L. P. “Laggards in our Schools,” Russell Sage Foundation, Charities Publication Committee, New York, 1909.

10.	Sippel, Hans. “ Leibesiebungen und Geistige Ermuending.” Second Edition. Weismannsche Buchhandlung. Berlin, 1927.

11.	Merrill, Ida B. and Howe, E. G. “The Effect of Exercise and Fatigue upon Resistance to Infection.” A. P. E. R. Feb. 1928.

12.	Glendening, (M. D.) Logan, “The Human Body”. Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1927.

13.	Tyler, H. M. “Growth and Education”. Houghton, Mifflin and Co., New York, 1924.

14.	Williams, (A. B., M. D.) Jesse Feiring. “The Principles of Physical Education.” W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1927.

15.	McKenzie, R. T. “Exercise in Education and Medicine.” Third Edition, W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1923.

16.	Luby, D. F. “Athletics and Their Relation to War.” Reprint from U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin, Vol. XII, No. 4, 1918.

17.	Dublin, L. I. “Longevity of College Athletes.” Reprint from Harper’s Monthly Magazine, July 1928.

18.	Deutsch, Felix and Kaulf, Emil. “Heart and Athletics.” Translation by Warfield. The C. V. Mosby Co., St. Louis, 1927.

19.	Hollingsworth, H. L. “Mental Growth and Decline.” D. Appleton and Co., New York, 1927.

20.	Pringle, R. W. “Adolescence and High School Problems.” D. C. Heath and Co., Boston, 1922.

21.	Blanchard, Phyllis, “The Child and Society.” Longmans, Green and Co., New York, 1928.

22.	Curtis, H. B. “Education Through Play.” The MacMillan Co., New York, 1915.

23.	Berry, Elmer. “The Philosophy of Athletics.” A. S. Barnes, New York, 1927.

24.	Norsworthy, Naomi and Whitley, Mary Theodora. “Psychology of Childhood.” The MacMillan Co., New York, 1926.

25.	Hall, G. Stanley, “Adolescence.” Vol. I, D. Appleton and Co., New York, 1907.

25. Koch, Konrad. “Die Erziehung zum Mute.” R. Gaertners Verlags-buchhandlung. Berlin, 1900.

27.	Rugg, Harold. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E.

28.	Horn, Ernest. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E., VIII.

29.	Kilpatrick, W. H., “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E. X.

30. Counts, G. D. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E. VI.

31. Dewey, John. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E. XII.

32.	Meyers, H. D. “Extra Curricular Activities in the High School.” A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1926.

33.	Mitchell, E. D. “Intramural Athletics.” A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1928.

34.	Bobbitt, Franklin. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E. Part II.

35.	Bonser, F. G. “The 26th Year Book.” N. S. S. E. IV.

36.	The 26th Year Book, N. S. S. E., Part II.

Digitized by CjOOQle
356

37.	Measuring Scale (Weight in relation to age, height, and physical type). Division of Phys. Ed. The Bd. of Public Ed., Philadelphia, Pa.

38. ‘‘Health and Physical Ed. in Jr. and Sr. High Schools” in De;t. of Superintendence, 6th Year Book, Part III.

(To be continued in the March issue.)

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION.

By William A. Stecher.

(Continued from last month.)

PART IV. PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS

I.	Object:

The aim of physical education in Junior High Schools is to aid in the development of the child’s innate powers. Specifically, the objectives are the fullest development of:

a)	Organic power, health and strength

b)	Nervous power and neuro-muscular coordinations,

c)	Potentialities of leadership,

d)	Acceptable social standards.

II.	Organization:

1.	Each room should have four captains, chosen half yearly by the pupils. If a class is composed of girls and boys, two of the captains should be girls.

2.	For individual achievement tests and for certain kinds of competition the pupils of a school should further be divided into Seniors and Juniors, based on age and height.

3.	Pupils needing special corrective work should be formed into a separate group.

4.	The physical training materials should be organized as follows:

A.	Games, a) Group games, b) Team games of low organization, c) Team games of high organization.

B.	Track and field events, a) Running short and long distances, b) Jumping in all its usable school forms, c) Throwing basketball, football, base ball for distance accuracy.

C.	Races of all kinds usable for school work.

D.	Stunts on the ground and on apparatus.

E.	Elementary swimming and diving.

F.	Simple marching and free exercises.

G.	Dancing (mainly for girls)—folk, character and aesthetic

H.	Physical achievement tests, a) Age-aims in standard track and field events, b) Class-aims in stunts on the ground and on apparatus, c) Advanced tests for the physically superior.

Digitized by UjOOQle
357

4. Standard facilities.

a) Adequate gymnasium and playfield, b) Dressing rooms lockers and shower baths, c) Teachers rooms and examination room, d) First aid equipment, 3) Standard play equipment and facilities.

III.	Administration.

1.	Each class should have three physical training periods of 50 minutes each, a week.

2.	Pupils needing corrective work should be given such work when the other class members receive their regular work.

3.	A physical and medical examination should be given to all pupils twice a year.

PART V. MUNICIPAL RECREATION.

I.	Aim.

The object of municipal recreation is to furnish to all inhabitants facilities and opportunities to engage in healthful, worthwhile recreational activities.

II.	.Organization.

1.	The activities on every playground to be organized on a seasonable basis. A program of activities should be posted in each centre so that visitors may enroll for such activities as interest them.

2.	Participants should be organized into groups of Adults, Adolescents, Children, or other appropriate groupings. Each group should be divided into Seniors and Juniors, or other appropriate divisions.

3.	Leagues should be formed in as many activities as possible, and on a bulletin board the standing of the teams in each league should be displayed.

4.	A diagram should show which parts of the recreation center are reserved for the different age groups.

5.	A yearly program should allow for the proper celebration of important civic happenings.

6.	If it is possible to organize the adults into a Playground Association much good can be accomplished.

7.	The creation of a leaders corps will help much in the organization and administration of the work. Participants that show evidence of leadership qualities should be encouraged to join the leaders corps.

8.	After a good leaders corps has been established it may be advisable, in some grounds, to organize a Playground Council consisting of the directors and teachers, the leaders and the captains of permanant teams.

III.	Administration.

1.	In the administration of all activities the greatest possible use should be made of leaders and captains. The main function of directors and teachers is to organize, supervise and direct most activities.

Digitized by Google
Chart kept by Captain. Each item is checked when passed. One point given for each check. Games checked if individual plays on a team.

3]§00^)Aqp3Z!,!6!a

tOMO^OOO^OOl^COtOH													NAME	
														
													Recover Object—8’	
													20-yd. good form	
													Plunge for distance	
													Stroke for form Three	
													Different strokes	
													To be optional	
													Dive	
														
													Buck and Wing	DANCING
													Swanee	
													Dixie	
													University High	
													Yankee Doodle	
													Virginia Reel	
													Mountain March	
													Irish Lilt	
													Highland Fling	
													Irish Jig	
														
														
													Relays	GAMES and SPORTS
													Volley Ball	
													B sket ball	
													Base ball	
													Football	
													Soccer	
													Pin ball	
													Long ball	
													End ball	
													Captain ball	
														
													TOTAL  POINTS	

Reverse side
cr •<

o

o

n

Grade....... Name of Team............................. Captain...................... Date.

NAME		AGE |	HEIGHT AND WEIGHT				RACE I	TRACK AND FIELD																						STUNTS						
								50-yd.  Dash		JUMPS								DISTANCE ACCURACY												| Hand Stand 1	1 Head Stand	Cartwheel	1 Somersault	Rope-climbing		POINTS
										Start-  ing  Broad		Run-  ning  Bioad		Hop  Stop  Jump		High  ( for ^ VForm/		Base-  ball		Bas-  ket  Ball		Basket-  ball  Goal  Toss		Tennis  Serve		Foot-  ball  Place-  ment		Volley-  ball  Serve								
			a  c«	May	Sept.	May																														
								1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	1	2							
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				
																																				

This record kept by the Captain of each team.
360

Name............................. Grade..........Date

Age	Height and Attitude					Effort		Sportsman-  ship		No. of p'nts to team		Physical Exam.		
	Sep.	Jan.	May	Jan.	May	Jan.	May	Jan.	May	Jan.	May	Sept.	Jan.	May
														

Remarks:

Teams

Report card to be sent to parents at end of firit and se:ond samesters. Care should be aken to stress the importance of HEALTH ove* points.

2.	The leaders class should hold regular weekly sessions.

3.	The activities of all leagues should receive the most intelligent direction and oversight of directors and teachers.

4.	Leaders and captains should be supplied with the necessary materials for their activities. A plan of procedure should be worked out by the directors and teachers so that a good control may be had of play materials and supplies.

5.	Report blanks should be prepared for captains and leaders

IV.	Projects.

1.	Pupil Playleaders and Officials.

I.	Aims.

A. To provide greater opportunity for play activities requiring direction and leadership.

B. To provide additional opportunities for developing leadership.

C.	To give training to boys and girls in:

1.	Officiating in games

2.	Leading games of low organization

3.	Assisting the teacher in the conduct of miscellaneous playground activities.

II.	Organization and Administration.

A.	Membership

1.	Selection of members

The members shall consist of boys and girls selected by the principal from pupils of upper grades.

2.	Grades of membership

Members shall be classified as Senior and Junior Members on the basis of efficiency and length of service.

Digitized by LaOOQle
361

a)	Junior Members

Pupils who have rendered efficient service during less than two school terms shall be designated Junior Members. To become a full-fledged Junior Member a pupil must give satisfactory service during a probationary or training period of one month.

b)	Senior Members

Pupils who have rendered efficient service as Junior Members during two school terms shall be designated Senior Members.

3.	Necessary qualifications of candidates for membership

a)	Ability as a leader

b)	Skill in playing games

B.	Officers

The officers shall be a Captain and a Manager.

C.	Duties of members

1.	Officiate in games.

2.	Conduct games.

3.	Keep records.

4.	Post schedules and announcements.

5.	Assist teacher in miscellaneous duties.

D.	Duties of officers

1.	The Captain shall supervise the activities of members assigned to outdoor duties.

2.	The Manager shall be responsible for keeping records, posting schedules and announcements, reminding members of assignments, and making reports to the teacher.

E.	Training

The teacher in charge will conduct meetings for the purpose of giving instruction to members. The teacher will be assisted in this instruction by the supervisors of physical education and of playgrounds upon request.

NOTE. The above plan was taken from a report upon After School Play in Philadelphia.

2.	A Sportsmanship Trophy

A.	Name of the trophy

The name of this sportsmanship trophy shall be the “Lemuel Whitaker Sportsmanship Trophy”.

B.	Care of the trophy

The Alumni Association of the South Philadelphia High School for Boys will keep the trophy in presentable condition.

Digitized by Tooele
362

C.	Control

The Boys’ High School Section of the Philadelphia Supervisory Committee on Athletics shall have the power to decide the terms on which the trophy is to be awarded.

D.	Basis for Awarding Lemuel Whitaker Sportsmanship Trophy.

1.	The trophy shall be awarded to the school displaying the best sportsmanship in athletic contests.

2.	The school team displaying the best sportsmanship during the year shall be determined annually on the basis of points awarded from September to June inclusive.

3.	Points for sportsmanship shall be awarded by the captains of each school’s first, second, and freshman teams in each sport in which three or more teams have participated. This rating of teams is to be made at the end of each sport season on the form designed for this purpose. The total number of points awarded to each school divided by the number of its teams rated will give the average number of points awarded to that school.

4.	In rating teams the following scale of values shall be used:

Very Good—10 points Good	—9-8-7 points

Fair	—6-5-4 points

Poor	—3-2-1 points

Very Poor -0 points

E.	Records

1.	All records pertaining to the ratings of teams shall be sent to the Chairman of the Sportsmanship Committee who will submit them to this committee for their consideration.

2.	The Sportsmanship Committee will determine the school having the highest average number of points, and the chairman of the committee will submit a report at the September Meeting of the Boys' High School Section of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics, recommending the awarding of the sportsmanship trophy to that school.

F.	Change of Rules.

The Boys’ High School Section of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics may alter these rules.

NOTE. The above plan has been in operation in Philadelphia for several years.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
363

3.	The Playground Associations of Honolulu.

Object:

The object of the Associations is to secure for every section of the city and county of Honolulu adequate recreation facilities.

Organization:

1.	Every citizen interested in the object of the Associations may become a member of an association representing any playground. Every playground would be entitled to a working committee of three in addition to the employed teachers and to one representative in the Playground Association Council.

2.	Officers:	(a) President

(b)	Vice-president

(c)	Secretary and Treasurer

(d)	Advisors

3.	Committees:	(a) Executive Committee

(b)	Activities and Program Committee

(c)	Ways and Means Committee

(d)	Publicity and Research Committee

Administration

1.	Duties of Officers

a.	President: The president shall preside at all meetings of the association and shall serve as chairman of the executive committee.

b.	Vice-President:

Shall preside at all meetings in the absence of president. Shall be a member of the executive committee.

c.	Secretary and Treasurer:

Shall collect all dues and fees, keep minutes of all meetings. Keep record of attendance; notify members of meetings, (both regular and special). Pay such bills as are approved by the executive committee.

d.	Advisors:

There may be any number of persons acting in the capacity of advisors, such as the playground director or assistant, physical or health director or any teacher who is definitely interested in recreation.

2.	Duties of Committee

a.	Executive Committee:

Composed of the three officers and one or more advisors. This committee shall act upon all matters concerning the organization as a whole.

b.	Activities and program committee:

Composed of three members and the playground
364

directors. This committee shall write out in advance a tentative schedule of seasonal activities for recreation and playground work within the needs of three age groups and both sexes.

c.	Ways and Means Committee:

Composed of three members. This committee shall suggest ways and means, financial, social and political, for carrying out programs and policies as decided by the associations.

d.	Publicity and Research Committee:

Composed of three members. This committee shall endeavor to create public opinion on matters concerning recreation through newspapers, P.T.A., and Improvement with mainland activities and researches. It shall publish the results of its work each year.

3.	Meetings, Dues

a.	The Playground Association Council, made up of one representative of every association, shall meet once a year for election of officers and transaction of business.

b.	The Playground Association of every playground should meet at least three times a year or on call of the president.

c.	Annual dues shall be one dollar.

4.	Reports by officers and committees should be submitted to the Association, before being presented to the Mayor and Board of Supervisors. Plans and recommendations should differentiate between accomplishments of immediate objectives and those more remote.

4.	Physical Achievement Standards.

Striving for the accomplishment of standard physical achievements is a worthwhile project for every healthy playground boy and girl. Directors and teachers continually should encourage all boys and girls to measure themselves by the following accepted standards. There are three different types of tests, known as 1) Age-aims in standard track and field events, 2) A group of graded athletic ability tests, 3) National Achievement Standards in four groups of activities. (Game skills, Track and Field, Gymnastics, Water Sports).

Note 1. The standards adopted by the former class may be found in the class pamphlet of June 1929, pages 8 and 9, also in “Mind and Body”, October and November 1929.

NOTE 2. The National Physical Achievement Standards are now being developed by the Playground and Recreation Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City, to whom inquiries should be sent.

NOTE 3. The class pamphlet of June 1929 has many other worthwhile projects oh health education, physical education and recreation.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
365

CALISTHENICS,

MODEL EXERCISES OF MOUNT VERNON TURN VEREIN, FOR THE BUFFALO TURNFEST.

Arranged by F. W. Roehr.

Music:—“Stars and Stripes Forever.”

Introduction “Sports”	Count

A: Stride right across left sideward, with raising arms

sideward upward	1

Lunge left sideward, with slowly lowering arms sideward	2-8

B:	Repeat same right	9-16

C: Cross right in back of left leg and bend trunk forward, right hand on left knee, left hand sideward (Discus Thrower)	1-2

D:	1-2 turn right, arms sideward	3-4

E: 1-4 right turn, lunge left forward, left arm obliquely

forward upward, right arm opposite	5-8

F: 1-4 turn right, bend trunk forward, changing knee-

bend, arms forward downward	(Picking up	Shot)	9-10

G: Raise trunk, left arm obliquely sideward upward,

right hand at shoulder (Shot Put Position)	11-12

H: Jump, with 1-2 turn left and change position of legs, right arm obliquely sideward upward, left arm opposite	13-16

I:	1-2 turn right on ball of left foot, (“On your mark”) 1-4

J:	Raise body, leaning forward,	resting on finger tips

(“Get Set”)	5-8

K:	Running in place	9-16

L: GROUPING Sports:—Discus, Shot-Put, and Running	1-16

M: MARCHING: In square to left, six steps forward

and left face	1-32

N:	Repeat marching to the right	1-32

Exercise No. 1

Count

A:	Bend arms to thrust	1

Arms upward stretch	2

Sideward lower	3

Strike thighs	4

B:	Three steps forward and close, with bending arms

(1) thrusting sideward (2) bending (3) and lowering (4)	5-8

C:	Squat stand, fingertips resting	on floor	9-10

D:	Stretch legs backward to front	lying support	11-12

E:	Straddle, close, straddle, close	13-16

F:	Same as “C” (Squat Stand)	1-2

G:	Jump to a stride stand, arms sideward whip	3-4

Digitized by CjOOQle
5-6

366

H: Whip trunk forward, with finger tips touching toes I:	Straighten trunk, with swinging arms forward upward	7-8

J:	Bend Trunk forward with	arms	folded on back	9-10

K: Same as “I”	. .	.	11-12

L:	Lower Arms sideward, to position of attention	13-14

M:	Left about face	15-16

N:	REPEAT ALL	1-32

“Trio” (see later).

Exercise No. 2

Count

A:	Jump to a stride	stand,	arms sideward	1

Close	2

Repeat above	3-4

B: Three steps forward and close, with bending arms (1) thrusting upward (2), bending (3), and downward (4)	5-8

C:	Jump to a stridestand, arms sideward whip	9-10

D:	Raise Arms upward	11-12

E: 1-4 turn left, slowly bending trunk and left knee,

fingertips touching floor	13-16

F: 1-2 turn right, with changing kneebend and circling left arm one full circle, to left obliquely backward downward, right arm raised right obliquely forward upward	1-4

G: Balance stand right. (Right arm forward, left aim

at side of left thigh)	5-8

H:	Close left to right, arms in back of head	9-10

I:	Cross left leg in back of right, arms sideward	11-12

J:	1-2 turn left on ball of right foot, raise arms upward	13-14

K:	Position; arms sideward downward	15-16

L:	REPEAT ALL	1-32

“Trio” (See later)

Exercise No. 3

Count

A:	Four jumps in place, with hands	at	side	1-4

B: Jump to stride stand, arms sideward, jump to cross stand, arms bent shoulder high, 1-2 turn left to straddle position, with flinging arms sideward and jump to position, arms down	5-8

C:	Raise	Arms upward (sideward upward)	9-10

D:	Bend	trunk forward	11-12

E:	Grasp	ankles	13-14

F:	Whip	trunk	15-16

G:	Straighten trunk and circle arms	backward (begin-

ning forward upward) to arms forward, with bending knees	1-2

Digitized by CjOOQle
367

H:	Kneel, arms sideward	3-4

I:	Straighten left leg sideward, and raise right arm upward	5-6

J:	Bend trunk right sideward, raise left arm upward

and right support on floor	7-8

K:	1-4 turn right, to a front lying support	9-10

L:	Jump to a squat stand	11-12

M:	Stand to position of attention	13-14

M:	Right face	15-16

N:	REPEAT ALL	1-32

‘Trio”	Count

A: Jump to stride stand and slowly raise arms outward upward, with arms slightly bent, hands closed in fist	1-8

B: Slowly bend the left knee and lower arms sideward,

hands closed and arms slightly bent	9-16

C: Turn trunk right, change kneebend and swing left arm downward to right arm, and continue with both to right arm bent over head and left arm continuing to left obliquely sideward downward	position	1-8

LADIES OPPOSITE D: Slowly lower right arm inward, to right oblique side downward, at same time straighten the right knee with raising arms sideward upward	9-16

LADIES OPPOSITE E:	Actives: Slowly bend knees lower	arms sideward

downward place hands on floor and raise to head stand	1-12

F:	Jump to squat stand	13-14

G:	Stand at attention	15-16

E: Ladies: Bend trunk and knees left andt swing arms

forward downward backward	’	1-4

F:	Reverse	5-8

G: Raise trunk, with knees still bent, and swing left

arm forward upward	9-10

H:	Change position of arms	11-12

I:	Face front and raise arms overhead to circle with

hands closed, arms slightly bent	13-14

J:	Jump to position arms sideward downward	15-16

MODEL DRILL OF THE CINCINNATI TURNGEMEINDE, BUFFALO TURNFEST 12 Ladies and 12 Men in Grouping and Free Exercises.

Arranged by Wm. P. Beyer

NOTE:—Entrance in single file formation to designated place on floor; halt. On command all run to place for the formation of opening group: on command they return to place to begin work, in front lines of six. (Three couples).

Digitized by kjOOQle
368

Exercise No. 1 Hands on hips, step left and snappy change step left, count 1, repeat 2, one-fourth turn left and long lunge left, 3, arms forward and down, hold count 4, rise to a balance step on left foot, arms left and right, bend trunk forward, counts 5-8, one-fourth turn right to front, down on right foot, bend right knee, swing both arms right (with a fist) 9, change knee bend and swing left, 10, repeat right, 11, continue arm swing upward, place right hand in front of forehead, left fist down to rear, place right foot behind left foot, 12, lunge diagonally forward right, place both fists front of forehead, 13, change knee bend, 14, change knee bend again, 15, to front position, 16. Repeat all of No. 1 to the right, 17-32

TOTAL 1-32

Exercise No. 2. Men turn and face ladies and down to knee bend arms folded on chest, 1, jump to straddle stand, arms left and right, 2, return to knee bend, arms folded on chest, 3, straighten knees, one-half turn left, arms over head, 4.

Ladies step left and fold hands behind head, 1, close right foot to left, one-fourth turn left, bend knees, arms folded on chest, 2, rise on toes, arms left and right, 3, one-half turn left and arms over head, 4.

Both lady and man now step backward right, lock hands and hold this position counts 5-8, man throws lady over back, 9-12, lady down to right knee, to parry position, left hand at forehead right hand on floor.

Man lunges forward left with both fists in striking position and all hold position, 13-14, man takes lady at hand and assists her to rise, on counts 15-16.	1-16

Repeat all to	the right	17-32

TOTAL	1-32

Exercise No. 3 Lunge sideways left, arms left and right, 1, slow knee bend left, left arm curved over head and right arm in	line	with right	leg,	2-3-4, sweep

both arms down to floor and over to left side, one-fourth turn to left, 5, rise on left foot, and lunge to left side with right foot 6, arms obliquely over head, then swing both arms down to floor 7, with a three-fourths turn left on right foot, close heels and arms at side, count 8, jump to straddle step, arms left and right (palms down) 9, bend trunk forward to cross wrists, 10, upward and obliquely outward 11, repeat cross

Digitized by v^ooQle
369

wrists, 12, repeat upward, 13, repeat cross wrists, 14, jump to front position arms at side, 15, hold,

16.

Repeat all to the right	17-32

TOTAL 1-32

Exercise No. 4 Men with a one-fourth turn left jump back to straddle position, both arms left and right, count 1, bend trunk forward and hands folded behind neck count 2, take hold of both ankles with both hands, 3-4, and hold next four counts, 5-8, jump to knee bend position, arms folded on chest, 9, rise on toes, arms over head, 10, bend knees and finger tips on floor outside of legs, 11-12, push both legs forward and sit down, 13-14, lie on back, draw legs back to bend knees, and hands at side, 15-16.

Ladies turn toward men and rise on toes and swing arms back, 1, stay on toes and swing arms forward and upward, 2, swing hands down to men’s backs and jump over back, 3-4, to bent knee position, arms folded on chest, 5-8, place hands on floor, 9, straddle legs left and right, 10, close heels, 11, straighten knees, 12, bend knees, 13, arms folded on chest, 14, straighten knees and rise with a one-half turn left and arms to front position,	15-16

Men raise arms and take ladies’ handstand 1-12 rise and take front position, 13-16 or 17-32 Ladies lunge forward left between men’s knees, arms upward, 1-2, lower arms and bend forward, place hands on men’s knees, 3-4, up to handstand and hold, 5-12, get down, 13-14, and assist man to rise from floor,

15-16 or	17-32

TOTAL 1-32

Exercise No. 5 Both ladies and men repeat all of No. 4, returning to original position.

TOTAL	1-32

Exercise No. 6 Ladies small step forward left and swing arms forward upward and down with knee dipping, up, 1, down 2, up, 3, down, 4, and continue arm circle around and lunge forward right, both arms obliquely upward, 5, one-half turn left, draw right foot to left foot, bend knees and fold arms on chest, 6, place hands on floor, side of feet, 7, slide feet forward and sit down, 8, lie down on back, with both arms straight back and stay there as you go backward raise left leg upward, 9, lower left leg, 10, raise right, 11, lower right, 12,

Digitized by LjOOQle
370

raise body by swinging arms up forward with reach, 13-14, and rise to front position, 15-16. Ladies repeat all of these sixteen counts of No. 6 in counts 17-32 or	1-32

Men's part same as ladies’ of No. 6, only without the turn. When men start the second time they make a one-half turn left on first count and all men and ladies finish facing front.

Exercise No.V7 Men step obliquely forward to the right and draw left foot, to right, 1-2, one-half turn right and lay-out left foot back, bend right knee and arms forward, 3-4, catch handstand, 5-6-7-8, men make a one-half turn left and take ladies’ knees across their shoulders in four counts, 9-12, slowly draw left foot back, raise girls up on shoulders, stepping to a straddle stand, men bend knees and allow girls to raise body over men’s heads and stand on men’s knees, men are holding ladies at the knees while ladies stand erect with arms stretched obliquely upward and outward, 13-16. Men hold this position counts 1-12, ladies jump down, 13-14, and step to original position, 15-16.

Ladies step obliquely back left, 1, lay-out right, back, 2, then left knee arms upward, 3-4, and up to handstand and concluded as described in men’s part.

TOTAL -32 counts

Exercise No. 8 Both ladies and men will repeat entire exercise of No. 3 as written.	1-32

* * *

Interlude of 16 Counts

During Interlude both ladies and men take up new formation, in one large circle, and as Part Two repeat entire light exercises as in Part One.

* * *

March to Place for Closing Tableau.

On command “Down” return to single line formation, as was held before opening tablueau, and on command run in place, right face and forward run, and follow the leader.

Digitized by

Google
Health education notes

• > —

TEACHING OF BIOLOGY IN SCHOOLS

A plea for a new method of teaching biology so as to make it less technical, bring out its intrinsic interest and use it as a “bridge” study in English schools, thereby linking the humanities with science, was made by Prof. Julian Huxley in an address to the School Nature Study Union. His two main objects were to make biology a cultural and not merely a technical subject and to avoid teaching it as if the pupils were going to become specialists in advanced biology. With few exceptions it was not taught as English and history — because of its intrinsic interest — but as a preparation for a specialized career in medicine, agriculture and forestry.

Prof. Huxley said in part as follows: “A biologic background should be part of the general thought in any civilized community. Biology was not specialized or remote in its origins or applications. It found application to such political questions as population, eugenics, personal and public health, sex problems and agriculture. It affected one’s whole apprehension of other sciences, such as psychology and anthropology. It was necessary, if an intelligent interest was to be taken in the politics of the future. In one or two generations the question of the world population would be a major political question. One advantage of teaching biology was that the subject of sex could be introduced naturally without any false modesty as part of a general scientific course, and the sex problem was put in its place as a subordinate fact in the scheme of things. The idea of teaching subjects in water-tight compartments must be op-p:sed. The narrowness of zoology, botany, and the old-fashioned chemistry and physics, which still inclined to the belief that what could not be handled in the laboratory and demonstrated in a test tube was not physics or chemistry, must be abandoned. There has been the feeling that soil chemistry is not really chemistry, and colloids had suffered in the same way. The most difficult and in some ways the most interesting problems of the future would lie in the physics and chemistry of living substances. By following the phenomena of life from their beginning up to the higher animals, a bridge between inert matter and sentient man might be discovered. The humanities must be taught so that children realized that there was a scientific side to life. The ideal to be set before teachers was scientific humanism, giving children an idea of life based on the understanding of the best in human nature, with in the background the attempt to control environment by scientific methods. At a later stage, big and

Digitized by Google
372

difficult theories such as evolution could be introduced, or heredity and animal behavior could be dealt with and instinct and adaptability, examined. There was much misapprehension with regard to animal behavior. The ideas that animals were the simplest type of reflex machines, or that they were little human beings with the same thoughts and feelings as ourselves, were completely wrong. The great generalization of physics, that the universe was running down, and of biology, that life was progressive, should be given to the growing mind. If the running down eventually destroyed the progress, that would be a long time ahead.”

EXCERPTS FROM NATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION SERVICE NEWS LETTER.

1.	According to a study of 1,000 intellectually superior children made by Dr. L. M. Terman, they are not characterized by a deficiency of play and "there is no shred of evidence to support the widespread opinion that, typically, the intellectually precocious child is weak, undersized, or nervously unstable.” The child is the father of the man, and the above is true of the physical character of the adult man (or woman) of genius.

2.	A study of the relation of physique of school children to their educational achievement was recently made in the City of Manchester, England. Only 2 out of 85 children of good scholarship were below the average in physique, while 68 out of 171 poor students, or nearly 40 per cent, were below the average in bodily measurements.

3.	From a study of 100 students in a German training school for physical education in which 15 hours of physical work is required weekly, Runge found that in most cases gymnastics and sports have a favorable influence on menstruation. There were some bad effects, however, in about 20 per cent. He concludes that it is not necessary to prohibit exercise during the menstrual period if the student is voluntarily inclined to continue her exercise.

4.	Lehman and Witty of the University of Kansas, in a “Study of Play in Relation to Intelligence,” found that "dull” children display more interest in play requiring motor activity that do “bright” children, and that they are more interested in games which involve "social participation.” They conclude “these facts should be of conspicuous value to the educator, for a sane and successful educational program must recognize the interests and abilities of the child. Such recognition must be tempered of course by sound adult judgment of what the child actually needs. In this way only can the school be made to yield its maximum returns.” The deatils of the Study will be found in The Journal of Applied Psychology for August, 1928.

5.	Of 328 cities furnishing information on the subject, 40 have one or more high schools equipped with swimming pools.

Digitized by Google
373

The proportion in the cities having a population of from 10,000 to 30,000 is about the same as in the larger cities. In some of these schools the upkeep of the equipment is more than paid for by fees from adults who use the pools at night or at other nonschool hours.

6.	Davenport, in his recent study of “Body Build and Inheritance” concludes that “in certain families there is a widespread inclination to the production of slender individuals, while in fraternities certain proportions (though usually not all) of any fraternity are fleshy or obese ***Looking at the matter broadly, we can see that no other theory than that constitutional differences as well as nutritional differences determine build, is sufficient to meet all the facts.”

7.	Franzen, in his school Health Study for the American Child Health Association, finds that "height is insufficient skeletal information to use as a basis of weight classification. Individual differences in chest dimensions and hips are more important as determinants in weight.” He finds the proportionate influence upon weight of the breadth of hips in girls as 33%, depth of chest 28%, breadth of chest 25% as compared with 14% for height; while for boys the relationship of breadth of hips to weight is 30% compared with depth of chest 25%, breadth of chest 20%, height 20%, and breadth of shoulders 5%. This is in line with the statement of Gray and Parmenter that body weight seems to vary as the greatest outer diameter of the pelvis. Franzen finds that a combination of height, breadth of hips and breadth and depth of chest furnishes the most accurate body indicator of weight.

8.	From Germany comes the report of a study of Dr. Herman Pauli of 1400 children between the ages of six and fourteen who had failed at some time to be promoted. In each of sixteen age groups into which they were divided for the study, these “repeaters” were found to be inferior in weight and height to children who were non-repeaters. Social study revealed that only a few were very poor homes. In another study Dr. Pauli divided 1500 school children into three groups according to their mark and found that the group with the best marks contained the largest number of children with height and weight above the average and that among those with the lowest marks the majority were below the average and that among those with the lowest marks the majority were below the average in these particulars. From these and earlier investigations he concludes that there is a relationship between a child’s physical development and his mental condition.

DRAWBACKS OF OPEN AIR SCHOOLS

Open air schools are used for certain delicate children for whom they are prescribed. In a report to the industrial health research board, of England, Dr. H. M. Vernon and Dr. Thomas Bedford state that during cold weather the children attending un-

Digitized by Google
374

heated open-air schools are not able to work with more than about half the average efficiency of children attending ordinary warmed schools, and even then they need special aids to maintain bodily warmth, such as extra food and clothing. The report asks, “Cannot the open-air principle be applied in some less drastic form, whereby most of its advantages are retained without its disadvatages?” The conclusion reached is that even the semi-open-air system could be improved so as to attain this end. The heating should be increased so that the air temperature of the rooms is maintained at a higher level than at

Eresent without diminishing the degree of air movement induced y open doors and windows. It is pointed out that probably the best heating system is a combination of the under-floor and ceiling-panel methods. Under-floor heating is also recommended as a substitute for the hot-water pipe and radiator system now employed in most schools. The semi-open-air school could be further improved by very careful control of the doors and windows, so as to equalize the cooling power of the air to which the children are exposed. Most important of all, children in such a school should never in cold weather sit at their work for more than an hour at a time. At present they often sit uninterruptedly for an hour and a half or an hour and three quarters. Also the children must be kept adequately nourished. Under-floor heating was employed by the Romans, when the heat from the hypocaust was conducted under the floor. It was recently adopted in Liverpool Cathedral and is in use in a few schools in this country.

IRELAND’S UNMARRIED MEN INCREASE

The fifth volume of the 1926 census of the Irish Free State, which has just been issued, deals with ages, orphanhood and conjugal conditions. The remarkable fact is disclosed that the proportion of the unmarried is much higher than in any other country and that marriages take place at a comparatively late age. Thus, 80 per cent of the males between the ages of 25 and 30 are unmarried, while the percentage in the United States is only 39. Although emigration almost ceases between the ages of 35 and 40, the proportion of unmarried men at these ages is more than thrice as great as in England. The percentage of unmarried women is also high; between the ages of 25 and 30 it is 62, against 41 in England and 23 in the United States. The percentage of unmarried women at every age is about 40 per cent higher than in England and nearly three times as great as in the United States. Further, though the rate of emigration has been decreasing, the percentage of the unmarried has been icreasing. On the other hand, the married women bear far more children than in other countries. They rear 26 per cent more children under 5 years of age than are reared in Canada and 85 per cent more than in the United States.
375

Generally married women of equal ages rear twice as many children as in the United States and nearly twice as many as in England. But in spite of this fertility the birth rate is kept down by the fewer and later marriages. The explanation seems obvious. The economic pressure is depressing the birth rate in all European countries and artificial restriction plays a part in most of them. The Free State population is predominantly Roman Catholic and the church absolutely condemns “birth control” and the government has passed a law rendering any propaganda on the subject illegal. But the economic difficulty remains and takes effect in another but equivalent manner.

RESEARCH ON HEREDITY

Before the Berliner Medizinische Gesellschaft, Prof. Erwin Baur, director of the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut fur Ziichtungs-forschung in Muncheberg, near Berlin, spoke recently on the production of new hereditary characters through strong chemical and physical stimulation. Baur took as his point of departure the fact that nothing essentially new arises from sexual propagation, since every individual represents only a combination of the qualities of the parents. Only occasionally, as the result of mutation, a new character develops in single individuals who differ in their inheritance from the original race.	In recent

years, research, particularly on certain flies (	)and on

the snapdragon plant, has shown that this mutation arises through changes in the nuclear substance of the cells and especially through modifications in a definite part of a chromosome. The origin of new hereditary qualities may be based also on the fact that all- of certain chromosomes are doubled or are lost Many endeavors have been made to solve the problem experimentally by producing arbitrarily, through definite external influences, such profound changes in the cell mucleus and thus bring about the mutation.

In the experiments of American scientists with the taufiiege, changes were brought about in the nuclear substance through the action of radium rays, whereby such mutations were effected. Baur, however, succeeded in producing mutations in plants through changes in the structure of the protoplasm of the cells. In numerous photographs he showed in his experiments on

400,000	individual specimens the malformations and changes that occur in the snapdragon. These experiments have not merely theoretical scientific interest but are also of practical importance because a new method is opened up by which the variations in cultivated plants and domestic animals can be increased and new selective material secured for breeding purposes. They are of importance also to medicine. If relatively weak stimulations by chemicals, roentgen rays and higher temperatures bring about changes that frequently are not observed

Digitized by ^ooQle
376

until the third generation, the circumstance deserves the attention of therapeutists.

The plants recovered from disturbing stimulations, such as immersion in hot or cold solutions, and centrifugation in chloral hydrate, ether and alcohol, continued to grow normally and propagate, producing in the next generation no visible changes. Not until the third generation did there appear, in comparatively large numbers, striking malformations, of which the speaker displayed numerous photographs: dwarfism, degenerations, and strangely bent leaves and blossoms. Further experiments showed that, with stronger stimulation, as with radium or with sharp poisons, the malformations were found even in the first generation.

In a few closing remarks, Geheimrat Kraus stated that what had become a reality for the botanists, namely, the production of species of greater value, was still for the medical men only a beautiful dream.

THE CARBOHYDRATES OF ALMONDS

Whatever the cause may be, nuts are finding increasing favor in our national dietary. The use of these foods is not confined to a single species. The list of the long appreciated nuts has been augmented in recent years by such less well known varieties as the cashew and the pine-nut. The proteins of the oil nuts, in particular, are known to be of good “biologic quality,” as exemplified by their widespread use in both human and animal nutrition. Rose has pointed out that nuts in their natural state or salted are not easy to masticate, and on account of their high fat content are rather slow of digestion. Hence they do not enter into the dietary of little children. When ground to a paste, however, the first objection is removed and peanut and other nut butters are an acceptable addition as the need for more food becomes pressing. Our knowledge of the possible nutritive significance of the carbohydrates present in nuts, and particularly in the oily species, is far more scanty. It has recently been pointed out that digestibility studies on these nut carbohydrates are almost entirely lacking. The usefeulness of such nuts as food for patients with diabetes is often suggested and the development of nut flours for the making of bread and cake substitutes occasionally recommended, but active use of these palatable foods has been delayed by uncertainty as to their digestibility. Lack of digestibility or production of unabsorbable fecal residue may be a characteristic of certain nut carbohydrates and therefore a property of value in the recommendation of nuts in the treatment of constipation. Recent studies of almonds at the University of California have shown anew the presence of some sucrose,

' lose, pentosans, and not easily hydrolyzable hemicellyloses.

' these one would scarcely expect any except the sucrose, i ting at most to 3 per cent of the nut, to have any great

Digitized by
377

nutritive value. This is what the California experiments indicate. Almonds are not noteworthy glycogen formers. As is true of other foods principally composed of proteins and fats, there is a possible usefulness of almonds or almond meal in low carbohydrate diets such as are used for patients with diabetes and in the ketogenic dietetic treatment of epileptic children. The bulky fecal residue resulting from the use of the nut, which is prcbably partly due to the unabsorbable carbohydrate, indicates the laxative character of this food.—Journal Am. Medical Assorted on.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Athletic Activities for Women and Girls.” Edited by National Section on Women’s Athletics, American Physical Education Association; published by American Sports Publishing Company, New York, 1930; paper bound, 169 pages; size, 7” x 5” x 1-2”; price, 25 cents.

“Athletic Activities for Women and Girls” Is the official handbook of the American Physical Education Association and contains official rules for Aquatics, Track and Field, Athletic Games, and Volleyball.

This small book undoubtedly covers the greatest amount of important material of girls’ activities of any volume of its kind or price. In the introduction it is stated that ninety-nine women assisted in compiling the material set forth, and as one reads one feels that each of these women contributed a fair portion of valuable information.

Suggestions for organizing water meets, track meets, and play days are included along with methods for scoring. Many splendid articles by specialists in their particular fields are presented on beginners’ swimming, organized swimming in camp, unstandardized water stunts, coaching of track and field events, coaching of volleyball, and programs for mass participation in games. No less than twenty-three games are described.

General articles are included to keep before the physical educator the policies of the Women’s Committee of the American Physical Education Association and the National Amateur Athletic Federation which emphasize mass participation rather than strenuous competition among highly trained teams.

Two separate charts to be used on the bulletin board are placed inside the covers of the book. One states in condensed form the official volleyball rules, and the other outlines in similar fashion the equipment, correct performance, method of measurement, and maximum performance for the important track and field events.

To physical education teachers of girls and women, regardless of the type of position, this book is recommended without reservation.

MARTHA A. GABLE

Digitized by kjOOQle
378

“Principles of Women's Athletics’’ by Florence Somers; clothbound, 150 pages; size, 7 1-2” x 5” x 1”; published by A. S. Barnes Co., New York; 1930; price, $1.60.

Miss Somers, in “Principles of Women’s Athletics,” deals with a comparatively new, yet much discussed problem of physical education, in which there has been little scientific investigation to date.

Cognizant of this lack, of basis for concrete conclusions, the author sets out to establish that basis, through painstaking compilation of facts from the works of leading thinkers in the field of education, including her own experience and research.

From this vast array of valuable information and interesting facts, which are organized and presented progressively, her principles evolve as a logical climax.

The book abounds in interesting quotations from noted authors, and these form the foundation for the establishment of objectives of athletics as influenced by specified fundamental factors in the background of the girl. Convincing proof is offered that the strenuous training and exploitation of girl athletes is in direct opposition to the dictates of good health and sound educa-tiona' policy.

So naturally does the statement of principles follow the foregoing information that the reader feels as though his own mental processes had a part in producing them.

Miss Somers does not claim her conclusions to be final, or that they should be accepted as stated, in view of the comparative infancy of the study along this line. She has, however, begun in commendable and stimulating fashion the study of a vital problem of physical education.

This volume will appeal to the thinking, far-sighted group of women physical educators who are aware of present day tendencies in women’s athletics, and who seek adequate solution of the problem compatible with the needs and welfare of the girt.

MARTHA A. GABLE

“The Rhythm of the Redman—In Song, Dance and Decoration.” By Julia M. Buttree. 7” x 10-1-4”, bound in cloth, 280 pages, price $5.00. Published by A. S. Barnes and Co.

The book consists of four parts. Part I is devoted to Indian Dancing. The author thinks that modern people—“the female with her new found vigor and the thereby increased vigor of the male”—demand vigorous dancing. The various types have appeared to meet the demand (fox trot, Greek dances, Charleston Black bottom, folk dances) but have not filled the bill. She feels that we should turn to the North American Indian for the ideal type of dancing. Hence the study of the Indian and the volume of songs and dances.

She says “In the Redman’s dance we find the physical exercise, the dramatic and imaginative possibilities, the impelling rhythm and the picturesqueness, all combined, which the youth of

Digitized by C^ooQle
379

our Country are groping for in their blind way,, among other schools of art.”

The author starts out with descriptions of the fundamental steps, accompanied by drawings. Then follow the descriptions and music for a number of Indian dances well illustrated by drawings and photographs. A few of the dances are:—Arrow Dance of the Navahos, Pipe Dance of San Juan, Deer Dance of San Juan, Rain Dance of Zuni, Hopi Snake Dance, The Wind and the Cloud, etc. In each description the history of the dance and the costuming are given.

In Part II a number of Ceremonies are described. These include Bringing in the Fire, The Naming Ceremony and Dedicating of a New Horse.

Part III consists of Indian Songs of various types, and Part IV is devoted to Indian Art. In this latter part, instructions are given for making the tepee and moccasins, and for decorating these as well as canoes, paddles, drums and shields. These are well illustrated.

Here is a book particularly recommended to those interested in camps, who are looking for authentic Indian lore to aid them in their ceremonies, pageants and dances.

JANET B. WALTER

Technique For The Woman Official As Referee Or Umpire in Girls’ Basket Ball, by the Women’s National Officials Rating Committee. Paper cover. 4-1-4” x 5 1-4”, 19 pages. 10 cents.

This valuable booklet is based on the wide experience of expert officials in girls’ basketball. The technique of officiating is handled in a thoroughly competent manner with careful attention to every detail of efficient refereeing and umpiring.

The material is splendidly organized into the following divisions: (a) Personal Qualifications, (b) Costume and Equipment, (c) Arrangements with Teams, (d) Preliminaries to Games, (e) Conduct of Games, (f) Fee, (g) Special Instructions to Umpires.

“Ten Short Suggestions” and “Notes in General on the Rules” are gems of concentrated information.

The assimilation and application of the contents of this booklet by women basketball officials will tend not only to produce a nationally uniform officiating technique but to raise the present standard of officiating.

MARTHA GABLE

“Child Health,” by Norma Seibert. Professor of Health, Ohio State University. Published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1931. Cloth bound 4” x 7”, 261 pages, 49 illustrations. Price $1.60.

A small well organized yet comprehensive treatment of the health care of the child.

Digitized by c^ooQie
380

A few remarks concerning several of the outstanding chapters will best explain the scope of the book.

Chapter I. “The Evolution of Child Health Work,” discusses the contributions made by various organizations interested in child health.

Chapter II. ‘^Problems Affecting the Growth of the Children,” points to unhygienic practices of parents due to ignorance in regard to personal hygiene. The social and economic problems affecting child health are also discussed here.

Chapter IV. “Planning for Baby’s Arrival” is full of valuable suggestions.

Chapter V. “The Natal Period,” contains much good material.

The succeeding chapters take up problems confronted during the various stages of the child’s development, ranging from infancy up to adulthood.

The book is presented in a clear and non-technical way. It is not only an excellent treatise for parents but a valuable reference for teachers.—FRED E. FOERTSCH.

“The Normal Diet,” by W. D. Sansum, M. D. Third revised edition published by The C. V. Mosby Co., St. Louis, Mo., 1930. Cloth bound, 5 1-4” x 7 3-4”, 134 pages. Price $1.50.

A small edition devoted to a simple presentation of the fundamental principles of diet. It is thorough and fairly extensive in the treatment of the subject matter, though without undue elaboration. It is written in a nontechnical style.

Chapter I deals with “The Bulk Requirements of the Body” and Chapters II and III with Acidosis. Chapters IV to VII inclusive deal respectively with the caloric, protein, mineral, vitamin, and water requirements of the body. At the end of the book are to be found menus, besides several height-weight-age tables.

Teachers in health education will find much valuable teaching material in this book.—FRED E. FOERTSCH.

An Hour of Health,” by Morris Fishbein, M. D. Publish-lished by J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, Pa., 1929. Cloth Bound, 4 1-2-” x 7 1-2”, 158 pages. Price $1.00.

This little book is rather unique, not only in the fluent and impressive style in which it is written but also in the way the author attacks many fallacious ideas and fads concerning health practices. The author indicates the necessity of basing our hygienic practices upon the surer principles evolving out of modern medical science. He states these principles in a simple way, and points out the trends of the day concerning good hygienic living.

The book is written for the layman but contains many valuable suggestions which will be of interest to teachers as well.

FRED E. FOERTSCH.

Digitized by LjOOQle