MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	DECEMBER, 1925 No,	344

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts. t WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916 y at the pottoffice at New• Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

!*-------------------------------♦

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦-— -------------------------... ♦

A SOCIOLOGICAL STUDY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

J. F. Landis, Pittsburg, Pa.

Ludwig Lewisohn, in his book "Upstream,” makes the following significant if not particularly original statement: "The world is wide and its paths are many; and the fate of no man is quite his own to shape”. We find the same thought expressed in those words attributed to the Carpenter of Nazareth,—“Man liveth not unto himself alone”. And Snedden in our text defines sociology in a somewhat similar manner when he says that this science can be defined as that which Mtreats of the social relation of human beings”. The progress of social evolution has been steadily in the direction of increasing our interdependencies”. (ppl8-18).

Of these human interdependencies, no one subject, perhaps, affects our social relationships more than does the subject

Digitized by

Google
770

of our physical well-being. In fact, throughout all our human-relationships, the matter of physical life predominates, for the existence of all relations depends, of course, on the physical. Hence, in any 'sociological investigation or discussion, we must, perforce, consider this physical side of life; and physical education must needs occupy first place in any such discussion.

It is proper, at this point, to clearly define what is meant by the term “physical education”. Crampton suggests an abbreviated definition is his “Health, Happiness and Efficiency” slogan or his H2E formula. Hetherington says “Physical Education is that phase of education which is concerned first with the organization and the leadership of children in big muscle activities, to gain the development and the adjustment inherent in the activities according to social standards; and, second, with the control of health or growth conditions naturally associated with the leadership of the activities, so that the educational process may go on without growth handicaps”. Both this detailed and the abbreviated definition might be stated somewhat as follows r-Physical education is that phase of education which concerns itself with the training of the body and mind through motor activities; it also includes, in its broader sense, a study of personal hygiene and an application of this study in daily life; and, without a doubt, resultant moral values are produced by physical education. These will be discussed later. We may then define physical education in the thoughts of Williams—i. e.—“physical education prepares the individual for proper participation in activities which are physically wholesome, mentally stimulating, and socially sound”.

In any consideration of the subject of physical education we must realize and acknowledge the past development of man, his altered modes of living, and his environmental changes, as factors which have vitally and materially affected man’s physical and mental life. Snedden lists the following “domestications” on the part of man:- (pp366).

1.	The assuming of an upright posture

2.	Dependence on concentrated and partly predigested foods

3.	Introduction of clothes as a body covering

4.	Traveling and intercommunication as a means of dis-

tributing pathogenic bacteria

5.	Using of eyes at short range

6.	Adoption of artificial heat

7.	Postponement of sex mating

8.	Routining of “unnatural” kinds of work

9.	Increase of “nervous” and decrease of Vlarge” work

10.	Compelling "decorative specialization” of women

11.	Conservation and perpetuation of physical handi-

caps and low potentialities.

In our later discussion of the social values of physical education it is necessary that we keep these “human changes” in mind.

Digitized by CjOOQle
771

1.	The History Of Physical Education.

The history of physical education is essentially the history of man himself for undoubtedly many forms of physical activity by which man sought to “perfect the body,” discipline the mind, and mold the character of his young” (Leonard pp 2) could be traced back to a prehistoric age. All records of man in his earliest stages of existence, all hieroglyphics of ancient time, depict physical activity in some form or other. But in the study of the evolution of physical education, as in our studies of most all forms of education, we find it sufficient to begin with an investigation of the history of ancient Greece. As early as 480 B. C. gymnastics were generally accepted as a necessary part of education in Greece and provisions were made by the state for physical exercise on the part of men and boy citizens. Great national festivals and training for warfare emphasized the training of the body rather than the training of the mind. We are all familiar with the great Olympian athletic festivals held as a national affair every four years; and, indeed, part of their early religious rites included physical games and contests. So much emphasis was placed on athletic prowess that the greatest honor one could achieve in Greece was the “victor’s wreath”. Great physical ideals became the substance of all Grecian folk lore, song and poetry.

Roman conquest coming a few hundred years later, converted these great physical ideals into gladitorial combats and specialized warfare. Thus, in transferring physical activity from the masses into specialized professional attitudes, and in her avaricious greed for material gain and power, Rome soon weakened herself to the invasion of other nations. These Teutonic invaders were apostles of physical exercise—not particularly in the form of national games—but as a means of livelihood, and, therefore, their contribution to the evolution of physical training was not particularly outstanding. About a century after the Teutonic invasion of Romanized Europe, we find that the newly organized Christian Church, with its doctrine of asceticism and its system of proselyting activities, exerted a de-clerating influence on the growth of physical activities. “It has been one of the fundamental ideas of oriental religions that evil inheres in matter, while mind or spirit is essentially divine and pure”. (Leonard pp 37) The belief in the innate depravity of human nature arose about this time. Monastic life became popular and the pendulum swung from the emphasized physical activities of the Greeks and Romans to the other extreme—that of predominance of mental and “’spiritual” activities. These ascetic ideals held sway until the profanation of the "Holy” Land by Mohammedan Warriors, when military Christianity took the place of ascetic Christianity and, hence, physical prowess was again placed at a higher premium. The so-called “Age of Chivalry” resulted in a great acceleration of physical activities. The “Renaissance,” or the revival of learning and the Reformation during the 13th and 14th centuries,

Digitized by

Google
772

played a great part in the development of our ^education of today. Such men a Luther, Zwingli, Montaigue, Milton, Locke and Rousseau exerted powerful influence in shaping our ideals of mental and physical training. During the 17th and 18th centuries there was a rapid growth and development of physical education. Foremost in this work was Germany with such men as Basedow (1723-1790), Guts Muths (1759-1839) Jahn 1778-1852), and Spiess (1782-1841) leaders in gymnastic training and public school activities and Koch (1846-1911) in the playground movement, Ling (1776-1839) in Sweden and Nachte-gall (1777-1847) in Denmark contributed much to this rapidly growing phase of education. These three countries later influenced the trend of physical training in our own country. During the early part of the nineteenth century physical training was greatly stressed as part of the school system of Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Great Britain.

"The first school, college and public gymnasiums in the . United States were opened in the years 1825 and 1826 in Massachusetts, at Northampton, Cambridge, and Boston”. (Leonard pp 227). Round Hill School at Northampton was probably the first public school to introduce physical education in this country. This work was under the direction of Charles Beck. About the same time—1826—Charles Fillen, Professor of German at Harvard University, began the first-recognized college gymnastic training. The next few years found many public and school gymnasiums being organized and developed throughout the country. Dio Lewis (1823-1886) established one of the first training schools for public school teachers in this branch of education (1861).

Doctor Edward Hitchcock and Doctor Dudley Sargent were two outstanding characters in the development of physical education ideals in our country.

11.	Present Status Of The Subject.

Though several of our states had non-descript and haphazard systems of physical education, only three had enacted legislation prior to 1913—North Dakota, 1899; Ohio, 1904 and Idaho, 1913. The growth of the playground movement in the United States, from 1906 to 1925 had been very rapid and had helped stimulate physical education work. But previous to the world war no great concerted action had been taken in the matter of state legislation. The results of the War Department examination in connection with the war shows that fully one-third of our men were physically unfit for active war service. This realization of physical unpreparedness was undoubtedly the cause of action on the part of the many states, for the last ten years show a marked increase in state laws regarding physical education. At the present time there are 31 states wherein laws have been enacted regarding public school physical education. In most of these states the law is compulsory and prescribes from two to five hours or more per week for

Digitized by

Google
773

the school subject. Fifteen states have paid supervisors of health or physical education and state appropriations for this work have been greatly increased. In 1920 a bill was introduced in our national congress (Fess-Capper Bill H. R. No. 22 -S. No. 416) recommending Federal aid for state physical education programs with a director of physical education in the Federal Government. In states requiring physical education as part of the school curriculum, the following educational aims and attitudes have been receommended. (See Bulletin No. 1, 1922, Bureau of Education).

(a)	The purpose of these laws shall be to provide for the organization and supervision of courses in physical education in the elementary, secondary, and normal schools.

(b)	The scope shall include all public school pupils except those physically disabled.

(c)	Completion of said courses is necessary for graduation.

(d)	Specially trained teachers shall be provided for this work.

Several other institutions have greatly influenced the advance of physical education in our country. Through the physical department of the Young Men’s Christian Associations has come a great enthusiasm for physical activities and quite frequently the Y. M. C. A. offers facilities that the schools cannot afford. German Tum-vereins since their organization in 1850 have stimulated much interest in physical development. Many churches, through the organization of community houses and settlement houses have helped materially. The playground movement, mentioned above, has added a great impetus. Industrial organizations, realizing the value of physical fitness, have in many instances, expended large sums of money and created extensive departments of welfare work for the benefit of their employes. During the past twenty-five years our country has experienced a tremendous revival in athletic sports, both amateur and professional, and the wide-spread interest in this field of recreation has served to incite attention to personal physical characteristics.

The reason for this rapid growth of physical education is clearly evident when one considers the need of it. As before mentioned, the World War possibly made us realize our physical deficiencies. Then, as we take into consideration the tremendous and overwhelming number of changes in our economic and social aspects of life, we begin to appreciate why the deficiencies have resulted. The last half-century of our nation’s history has included a remarkable number of so-called ‘labor-saving” devices and inventions, so that no longer is man obliged to perform much physical labor for his daily living and sustenance. Only a few generations ago, the majority of our popu-ulation was engaged in agricultural pursuits where daily physical exercise was necessary. Now this number has rapidly less-
774

ened until the majority of our citizens live in cities and industrial communities where machinery has mitigated man’s strenuous endeavors, and those who are yet engaged in farming do so in a scientific way, i. e. the farming is performed by means of intricate machinery which reduces to a minimum the actual physical labors of those persons engaged.

New and many means of locomotion have been devised. The steam engine, electric railways, automobiles, airplanes, steamships, and other forms of transportation have served to subtract from man’s previous modes of exercise, and today, instead of developing and using, to any great extent, our large muscle groups, we live at the expenditure of nervous energy. These new conditions arising as part of the civilization of the past few decades, have placed a burden on the schools of today and have clearly demonstrated the absolute need of a physical education program for everyone.

Hethenngton (see reference) says—^Social conditions have squeezed much of the old industrial, social, recreative and educational activities out of the home and the new demands of a civilization daily growing more complex have compelled the school to take over and greatly elaborate the old simple processes of education in the home and community”.

The new social conditions have eliminated the physical activities formerly found in the home environment ana hence the need of a uniform and systematically organized physical education. But conservative public opinion regarding the introduction of new subjects in the school curriculum; our national background and experience as pioneers in establishing our early frontiers; and powerful prejudices of asceticism and scholasticism have all combined to inhibit the proper growth of this subject.

III.	Critical And Sociological Considerations

Since physical education is a phase of general education, its objectives should be interpreted in terms of the objectives of education as a whole (Hetherington). Hence the principles of physical education can be stated generally as the same "cardinal principles” suggested by the commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, appointed by the N. E. A. in 1918. (See Bulletin No. 35). This commission suggested Health as the first objective of education. And the same Commission in a later report (Bulletin No. 50) says:- "So far the public school has preempted the field of health education without occupying it. Theoretically, educators believe that health is more important than quantity of knowledge; practically, they seldom act on this belief. The program of studies has not yet been adjusted to meet the changed need of the pupils. The present arrangement for physical activity can be looked upon only as palliative measures in that they give some relief from the school desk. They are essentially of negative character, aiming to minimize harmful influences............ The attain-
775

ment of adequate control and development is impossible with the present equipment and time allotment”.

As a nation we have progressed far in the development of physical education in comparison with the status of this subject a few years ago. As evidence for this statement one need only to glance at the appropriations for enlarged and better equipped facilities of physical trining in various cities.

Slow to realize the benefits accruing from proper physical development, we have awakened from our lethargy and are now engaged in a violent and strenuous campaign for better gymnasiums, better playgrounds, and better recreative facilities. Instead of regarding physical education as a fad, an extra curricular activity, an evil to be suffered and not encouraged, educators are now accepting it as a part of every school curriculum—an integral, essential, a vitally important school subject, worthy of at least equal attention to other school studies. Accordingly, a definite place in the school program is being granted and specially trained teachers are being placed in charge of this work.

Yet we have not entirely caught the vision of the particular objectives of physical education. Individual differences are being recognized in our school work, and since education is a development from within, we must realize that proper physical development comes only through the workings of natural instincts and desires (Williams) Hence our present day program of wholesale or mass “physical culture” as found in many schools,—does not suffice. A mere development of muscles, the training of victorious teams, an extensive program of health lectures, are not at all adequate in our school program. We must aim higher. In addition to well-developed muscular systems, well regulated health habits, teamwork and morale, we must inculcate those high ideals of clean and noble endeavor, must fit our physical education programs to the child and not the child to our programs. True it is that our present-day program contributes to the physical, mental, and organic development of the child, but since human nature is but an expression of fundamental instincts shown through physical activities (See Hetherington), physical education must also include character and moral training as one of its chief objectives.

The report of the Committee on physical education recommends in Bulletin No. 50 the following “health” program:

1.	A careful health examination

2.	A healthful environment in home and school

3.	Instruction in health problems

4.	Physical activities

5.	School credit

These aims, if properly carried out in our public school system cannot but result in a more vigorous, healthful, type of youth. These needs cannot be overlooked in our school program of today without a serious result to the individual student and to the nation. We must recognize the sociological

Digitized by

Google
776

value of physical development—in the larger sense—if we are to realize those ideals which make for perfect citizenship. Only through such physical education programs,—properly organized, competently supervised, and ideally inspired,—can we hope to train the child to find his place in our democracy and thus lead civilization to even nobler ends.

RHYTHMIC GYMNASTICS IN GERMANY

By Rolf Gardiner.

At a conference which was held at Berlin in October, 1922 and attended by representatives and exponents of all the leading schools of physical education, eurythmics and dancing in Germany, the following critical opinions seemed to be almost universally held:—

(1) That gymnastics, as they were commonly taught in German schools, suppressed the natural feeling of the body through over-emphasis on apparatus work in which the centre of balance was constantly shifted from the pelvis to the shoulders, through the over-exertion of particular sets of muscles, through unrhythmical execution of movements (*. e., movements which are performed contrary to the natural rhythm of breathing) and finally through a more or less indifferent attitude to the form and beauty of bodily exercises.

(2)	That in athletics and games, overtraining and overstraining were constant dangers, and that in dancing alone, rhythmic performance was of primary import, since there was here an inner emotional impulse towards rhythmic movement. Both gymnastics and athletics required penetrating with rhythmic feeling.

(3)	That the individual was an organism with its own rhythm and own spiritual needs, and true education must keep its eyes fixed on both ends, development of the individual as such, and as a member of the social community in permanent polaric tension.

(4)	That it was not training of the body that should be souglit after, but rather training through the body, the body being the form and expression of that other quantity, call it X, or psyche, or the soul. Body and soul must no longer be divided and antagonized as they have been throughout the Christian era; body is the expression of the soul, which is the source of its own life-rhythm.

This insistence on rhythm is the keynote of modern German gymnastics. It is some twenty years since Jacques Dal-croze discovered that rhythm is by its very nature a thing of the body and that a sense for it can only be inculcated by physiological means, and this discovery has had its repercussions in every sphere of physical education in Germany. To define

Reprint Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Digitized by

Google
777

rhythm in words is to attempt the impossible. In the book published after the conference of 1922, YKuenstlerische Koer-perschulung” (Breslau. Ferdinand Hirt, 1923) nigh every contributor attempts to do so, with the result that the reader is •confronted with a series of complicated abstract assertions which confuse, rather than clarify, and one closes the book to think of the ebb and flow of the sea waves, the wheeling of night into day, or to feel the rise and fall of one’s own breath or the beat of one’s own heart.

The development of the school founded by Dalcroze at Hellerau from a centre of purely musical (often criticised as over-intellectual) training to a basic method of general education is characteristic. In the early stages all movement was controlled by and made dependent upon the music; later the movements began to have a strong reaction upon the music. The ballets performed by the Hellerau school after the war, have been almost wholly independent of music; drums, tomtoms and musical accompaniment have been used to heighten the internal rhythm created by the dancers; the dancers have no longer attempted to interpret the . music.

This is interesting when one remembers that the fiddlers who used to play for the English Morris “sides” in the Cotswold and other parts of England have been often heard to declare that they “played to the dancers' feet.”

Nowadays practically every gymnastic school in Germany uses the drum or tom-tom to accompany all movements. In Hamburg I remember seeing a ballet done by some elementary school children who had been taught by a pupil of Rudolf von Laban. Nearly the whole ballet—the idea of which was a very simple myth, the conflict between the powers of Rain, represented by the girls, and the powers of Fire, the boys—was accompanied by a drum, or merely by the stamping of feet or clapping of hands. Music was only introduced, and with a strangely magical effect, at a particular climax of the performance. Here the rhythm was created internally by the mass movements of the dancers, not by any external agent.

At Hellerau, it was found that in the course of gymnastic practices, the rhythms of the individual pupils gradually developed into a collective group rhythm, and it is precisely this collective group rhythm which is sought and found in this new type of ballet, a ballet not necessarily designed for public performance, but a thing sufficient to itself, a common act of the community, like church ritual or the social dance.

Thus the rhythmic gymnastics, such as are practised at Hellerau or at Laban’s school in Hamburg, or that of Rudolf Bode in Munich, are neither music nor gymnastics, nor dance, but the basis of a general education. Their effect is both emotional and intellectual and they link the rhythm of the individual with the collective rhythm of the group.

The desire for a physical renaissance has made gymnastics an essential feature of the moral education of young Germany.

Digitized by

Google
778

Defeat and years of hunger and distress have intensified this desire. The movement for hiking, instigated by the Wander-voegel, which has captured the whole of young Germany, has also added gymnastics to its programme of handicrafts, playacting, dance and song. Especially in the purely male organizations, which preponderate, gymnastics are a substitute for the dance. There is no men’s “Morris” in Germany, and the sword dance tradition has virtually perished.

With the notable exception of certain groups, such as the Geistlaender Tanzkreise at Hamburg, who have evolved a new social and ritual dance, based on the dance of the north German peasantry, the folk dances originally collected by the Wander-voegel have degenerated into infantile singing games, and been rejected by their successors as childish and effeminate. The new gymnastics are more favored. They are usually performed naked or with a minimum of clothing and whenever possible out of doors and in the sun. They tend, as at Hellerau and elsewhere, to develop into a form of dance, the rhythm of the individual contributing to the creation of a group rhythm.

Instead of playing football and cricket, as we do in England, young Germans combine in a romantic form of long distance hiking, with singing and gymnastics and handicrafts. It is their method of training character and esprit de corps, and is a necessary counterweight to the still overheavy, intellectual education of their schools and universities.

Hans Suren, a Major of the German Reichswehr, who was for a long time chief of an officers’ training school in West-falia, made his men live in the open on the very simplest fruit and vegetable diet, and without any clothing whatsover. The pictures of splendid sun-bronzed male bodies in movement, shown in his book “Der Mensch in der Sonne” (Man in the Sun), are a testimony to the regenerative forces of sun and wind and hard, simple living. It is obvious that a more sensible and natural attitude towards the body is now the sine qua non of German physical education, but there is no need for nakedness to be developed into an esoteric cult, armed with pseudo-artistic picture books and a sentimental letter-press, such as has often been the case. Cults and philosophies of nakedness are the reactions of sick and neurotic persons; the normal healthy human being is simply quietly sensible.

In the development of the modem German gymnastic movement, several influences must be mentioned. One of these was the teaching of Frau Bess M. Mensendieck, who for the past twenty years has done invaluable work among women, teaching correct ways of movement. She begins with quite simple movements such as running and walking, sitting or bending down to pick something up, based on a study of anatomy and the mechanical laws of the body. Her work was one of corrective hygiene and physical re-education, enabling women to attain the maximum vitality and beauty of which their bodies were capable through simple instruction and exercise.
779

Another re-educative influence issued from two sisters of the name of Schlaffhorst, in the little town of Rothenburg bei Fulda. Their discovery lay in the importance of right breathing, and with years of experience and investigation, they have developed a little science. It is precisely in this vital question of breathing, that the relation of body with the X quantity (Psyche, Greek: breath) is most closely touched, and at the same time in intimate connection with that other excelling phenomenon of rhythm. To control one’s breathing rightly is to be master of one’s own passions and impulses. According to the Schlaffhorsts, deep in-breathing alone is not enough. One must also learn to br	~	’	hrough	sufficient

out insufficiently—is the carbonic acid discharged from the lungs. And after the exhalation, the diaphragm must relax slowly and allow a pause of rest for the whole breathing apparatus, before the next inbreath is begun.

This pause between inspiration and expiration is the subject of one of the most valuable contributions to German educational literature made since the War: “Die Schopferische Pause” (the creative pause) by Dr. Fritz Klatt, which traces the rhythmic ebb and flow of energy in man, during the various stages of his growth, in relation to the rhythms of the nights and days and seasons, the need for creative work and communication of energy between human beings.

Dr. Rudolf Bode, of Munich, made rhythmic breathing a central feature of his system of gymnastics. According to him all physical education must be based upon a rhythmical alternation of tension and relaxation, even as the heart has its systole, diastole and the lungs their rhythmic action. This rhythmic alternation, which is the outward and living expression of the spirit within, must not be disclosed through the action of the will; the function of the will consists in giving this pulsing movement aim and direction as a rider gives direction to his horse. The will must be trained and strengthened without deranging or distorting the natural life of the individual. Having once corrected all bodily defects which prevent the rhythmic flow of the natural energies, the function of education consists in heightening the power of expression, not merely in training the will. In Rudolf Bode’s school, every movement, be it a swing, a thrust, a push or	a pull, is made a movement	of	the

entire body, the idea being	to	maintain a constant sense	of	the

totality of the body-spirit.

The same notion pervades the work of the Loheland school (at Dirlos in the Rhoen district), a settlement like Hellerau, in which gymnastics and dancing are the central communal activity in a number of undertakings such as agriculture, gardening, weaving, carpentry, basket-making, ^etc. The novice must learn to let the movements	of	his limbs harmonize with	the	natural movement of breathing,	so that he comes to be	aware

of the alternating centrifugal and centripetal power of his own

exhalation—and apparently

person breathes

Digitized by

Google
780

body, and is thus able to overcome the sense of weight in his limbs and attain perfect repose, even in the quickest movement.

As will be gathered from this short survey, obedience to the fundamental law of rhythm is the alpha and omega of every ex-

gjrimental school of physical education in post-war Germany.

very exponent, however, warns against the pseudo-rhythmical gymnastics, in which an apparent rhythm is imposed from without, either by commands or by the use of music. Rhythm is a natural function, which cannot be induced consciously. Rather is it the one universal expression of the hidden impulse of life, whether it be seen in the human body, in the changing seasons of the earth or in the movements of the solar system. It interrelates every mortal thing and is the fundamental mystery behind every religion which has flourished on the earth. Its more local expression in the harmonious growth and development of the body, has, I think, been scarcely touched on by modern British education.

Bibliography

Bode: Ausdrueksgymnastik. (C. H. Beck, Munich).

Rhythmus and Kbrpererziehung (Diederichs, Jena, 1923).

Die Elizabeth Duncan Schule:	(Diederichs,	Jena).

Hageman: Weibliche Korperbildung und Bewegungskunst. (Delphin Verlag, Munich).

Jacques Dalcroze: Music, Rhythm and Education.

Klatt: Die Schdpferische Pause (Diederichs, Jena).

Pallat und Hilke: Kiinstlerische Korperschulung (F. Hirt, Breslau). Suren: Der Mensch in der Sonne.

HOW TO CHOOSE THE BEST FOOD FOR THE LEAST

MONEY

Lucy H. Giilett, American Child Health Association.

As I. understand from your letter, you are trying to persuade children to introduce some foods into their diet with which they are not acquainted. Doubtless your problem with children is complicated with the low income of many of the families. Such families naturally turn to starchy foods as the cheapest diet. In this way their good judgment has taught them that they can get more immediate return in energy for the money spent, but of course they are unmindful of the results which will follow from a lack of the necessary vegetables and fruits.

If your families are like many of those with which we have worked in New York, doubtless the income is sufficient to provide for these necessities in many instances. The teacher should be well enough acquainted with the home life of the children to know whether it is possible for them to buy the

Digitized by Google
781

food necessary for their health. With even a minimum amount of money, education will accomplish much. In this way she will avoid many a heart break through suggesting impossibilities to children who want to cooperate.

We have set as our aim the following minimum standard in such families:

At least a pint of milk a day for every child (hoping of course that they may have more where possible).

At least two vegetables every day—one of which should be potatoes, with a green, leafy vegetable three or four times a week at least.

Fresh fruit three or four times a week—every day if possible.

Dried fruit on the days when no fresh fruit is given.

Dark breads and cereals are best and should be used at least once a day.

Some one of the following every day—

Fish, meat, eggs, dried beans, peas or cheese.

Some fat.

Very little sweet—none between meals.

No tea or coffee.

Methods of preparation and ways of getting these various foods into the diet will vary with nationality. We have found it best and most practical to simply stress the foods mentioned, always emphasizing “not fried”—letting them prepare them in the way in which they like best.

The method of presenting the facts is very important in getting cooperation. Some methods found useful are as follows:

1.	The word of a physician goes a long way. For the doctor to tell the children what to eat is very important.

2. A weight chart or a record of weekly weights with the information as to what each child should weigh will stimulate competition and often induce the child to eat a food that he thinks he does not like.

3.	A score card containing desirable foods on which each child can check at the end of the week the foods eaten has often been a successful means of getting the children to eat the foods that are best for them.

4.	Posters made by the children emphasizing these foods will create interest.

5.	If the children are encouraged to save their pennies ordinarily spent for candy, it is usually found that they can buy with the pennies saved all the fresh fruit necessary.

6.	It is of course useless to say that the personality of the teacher is of primary importance in persuading children to change food habits.

Methods 1, 2 and 4 are probably the most practical for grade schools where there is no special health worker. As previously said, it is quite necessary for the teacher to understand home conditions. One poor little malnourished boy,

Digitized by

Google
782

when asked if his mother could not give him just two cups of milk a day, said, with tears in his eyes, “maybe she can now. my baby brother who had to have all the milk has just died.”

You will perhaps find many helpful suggestions in the following books:

“Nutrition Notes for Elementary Teachers” by Mary McCormick, University of State of New York Press, Albany, New York.

“Diet for the School Child,” U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

“Suggestions for a Program for Health Teaching in the Elementary Schools,” Health Education Bulletin No 10, Department in the Interior, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

Graphic charts or methods requiring action on the part of the child will aid in gaining interest and cooperation of children.

Food models of pasteboard, useful when foods are impracticable, may be obtained from the University of Chicago Bookstore, 5802 Ellis Avenue, Chicago.

BRINGING UP CHILDREN

By Jessie Taft, Ph. D. Director Department of Child Study, Children’s Bureau and Children’s Aid Society Philadelphia.

If you want to find a new food, a new fabric, a new way to travel by land, sea, or air, an improved method for breeding pigs, all you have to do is to go to the scientist. “Ask and it shall be given unto you” is more than fulfilled in modem physics and chemistry. If you need advice on how to bring up children, so that they will become happy, energetic, confident, social, efficient, courageous men and women, you may have to inquire in many quarters before you receive a satisfactory reply. It has taken the world a long time to realize that human behavior is the most important thing in it, and thus far only a few scientific minds have applied themselves to studying the behavior of people just as a chemist studies the behavior of atoms and molecules.

From such students of human activity we are beginning to get new light on the way our cnildren behave and why. They are not only laying bare the hidden springs of conduct; they are giving us the hope of something approaching a control of conduct. We may expect to learn in time how changes in behavior are brought about and how the undesirable attitudes, moods, and habits can be replaced by reactions more advantageous to the individual and society. In other words, they are promising mental as well as physical health. If we we are willing to make the effort. Those of us who have been teaching or rearing children by instinct, precedent or rule of

*Reprint from “Health Bulletin” State of North Carolina.

Digitized by

Google
783

thumb methods will have to free ourselves of all our old habits and try to look at young people with fresh eyes—try to see them as interesting, unsolved problems, each child an individual different from every other in the world. What works for Johnny will not necessarily be effective with Mary. There are no short cuts. We have been misled by such rash generalizations as “Spare the rod, spoil the child.” They have come to have an unwarranted power over us through the weight of age and constant repetition. There is no one rule to be followed with all children, and we must free ourselves from any sense of fear or sin when we cut loose from traditional savings in our efforts to see each child’s behavior as a new problem worthy of our best thinking and experimentation.

Now what are some of the fundmental things the scientist in human behavior is telling us about children? Theoretically they seem rather simple and not so new, yet when we really try to act on them, we may find that they go against deep-seated habits of feeling and thinking. They hit many ancient predudices and stir up resentment in us because our comfortable, blind ways and selfish interests are disturbed. Let us not, therefore, give too easy and complacent assent to the theories, failing to realize what is implied in their application, but be prepared to think, weigh, and try out, even in the face of personal discomfort and a sense of sin at so outraging time-honored, traditional methods.

Instead of making statements that all might accept easily without realization of their implications, supposing we put some of the new psychology in ways that bring out its opposition to our older methods.

Human beings are not essentially different from animals. It is impossible to understand children without seing how their ways of behavior have grown out of a long, gradual, evolution of animal life. There is no split, no miraculous difference.

It is natural for children to be interested in all parts of their bodies and all of their bodily functions. It is a grave mistake to teach them to think of excretion, or the organs of excretion or sex as something mysterious or sinful.

There is no particular virtue in submission or obedience as such. Children’s wills are not benefited by being broken.

Failure which is not compensated for is bad for a child. Success is biologically necessary and wholesome.

There is no virtue in forcing a child to do what is hard. The essential quality of work is not hardness or unpleasantness. Spontaneous interest is a better driver than forced attention.

Expression is a better source of discipline than repression.

Punishment administered from the outside is les s effective the internal control of a compelling interest.

Digitized by

Google
784

Emotions, desires, impulses are more important than intellect and ideas.

A child is not necessarily bad or unnatural because he acquires a habit of self-abuse or lying or taking things that do not belong to	him. Such	habits are	potential in all

children and arise	from needs	that are	not being met.

By this time our Puritan ancestry rising up in us is doubtless	protesting against	such laxness	and easy virtue. The path

of	righteousness ought	to be hard	and stony.	How is it pos-

sible for the good way to be pleasant? The scientist can only answer that we have given our own methods an age-long trial. We have not developed any of the sure control that science can show in the physical world. It is time for us to open our minds, give up our prejudices, and let science show us the facts of human behavior even when they seem to go against customs we hold dear. Science will lay bare many things which are unpleasant to us but it will show how we can get mental health and happiness for our children if we are not afraid to see human beings as they are.

Human Beings Are Not Primarily Rational.

The first preconceived idea we have to overcome before we can begin to look at behavior as it really is, is the firm belief that we are all rational beings. Neither children nor adults are primarily rational. None of us, however intellectual, are motivated by ideas. The whole development of animal life is in terms of action in response to some need of the organism. Need of food, need to escape danger, need to mate or procreate, need for air, warmth, light—these are the primary moving forces. Ideas and reasons are very recent additions to the equipment of this moving, seeking, striving, animal world. They are intended primarily to insure a more prompt, adequate, and safe satisfaction for those needs which are of first importance to life. The metive force in all of us, adults and children alike, is what we need, desire, want, not what we coldly think. Remove the drive of needs and impulses and life stops. It is energy, the will to live, the something which keeps all normal organisms struggling to exist, that is vital. Ideas of themselves have no power unless our desires give it them. Intellect is like the steering gear of an automobile, it is useless unless there is power.

Our needs set up the ends for which we strive; intellect works out the best method by which those ends can be obtained. Of itself, intellect is neither good nor bad; it works equally for the good or the evil end. My desire is to build a house. That desire furnishes the motive force. The idea of the house, the details of the architectural plan as such, have no force except as my wish is for that partidular object. If I were set on a boat instead, the idea of house would not affect me. But, riven the desire, the idea furnishes the plans whereby it is realized. It is the servant, the worker, the instrument. Desire is master. No one need worry about the immorality of this fact. There
786

is no inherent vice about needs or wishes. It is quite as possible to wish good things as bad. The only thing to look out for is that one does not fail to recognize the wish at the bottom of all conduct, even when it is not praise-worthy.

Rationalization a Common Frailty

Here we come to the great weakness of all human nature and the greatest misuse of that most valuable instrument, in-' tellect. Intellect ought to be used to work with hard facts in a real world, but what we all do is to use it to deceive ourselves and-others by disguising from ourselves the real wishes back of our behavior ana assigning beautiful, rational motives which accord with our ideas of right and wrong and keep us feeling virtuous and at peace with ourselves. The psychological scientist calls this rationalization. It is one of our worst vices and the greatest obstacle to understanding children as well as ourselves and other people. The only way to overcome it is to be willing to see the wish back of every act even when it is not a pretty sight. When we can do this with ourselves, we can begin to see children as they are without abhorrence or over-idealization.

A simple illustration of rationalization is saying we are too tired to go to church or that our cold is too bad to permit our going, when we might find, if we looked deeper, that a comfortable chair by the fire, a new novel, and a bleak day outside were contributory factors. We are made more conscious of the cold or the tiredness by the active desire to stay at home which is conflicting with our customary interest in going to church, but would be repressed sternly by us if not disguised by the legitimate reason which our physical condition can be made to supply. If some really powerful desire were driving us out we should probably reason ourselves into thinking that the cold was better or it might be helped by fresh air. Such “wishful thinking” as this is far more universal and deep-seated in every one than we imagine. We build up a morality or religion which makes us comfortable and then we are not able to recognize in ourselves or our children any desire, however natural, that would tend to destroy what we have built up. Some of us have ideas of sex which are not in accord with facts. We are then obliged to repress or rationalize any expression of sex or impulses toward such expression which are contrary to our theories or conviction. We may assume that children have no sex interests or feelings. Thereupon we do not permit ourselves to see the expression of sex interests in our children. It is our theory that no decent woman really longs for the physical side of sex life. We must then repress or disguise from ourselves the existence of such natural impulses and in so doing perhaps destroy our own happiness.

Children the Victims of Adult Self-Deception.

In no direction, except perhaps along sex lines, are we so blind to the influences of our own wishes as in our relations

Digitized by v^,ooQle
786

to children. As parents or teachers we become utterly confused by the difference between the real good of the child and our own personal desires. Until we are clear on this, until we are able to catch ourselves in our rationalizations about children, we shall not be fit to deal with them, much less to understand their behavior and ours.

The discipline and training of children are too often largely a matter of adult comfort and are rationalized into theories as to the necessity of instant obedience, freedom of expression, certain kinds of food, or a particular vocation. The lazy parent lets the child follow his own whims as to food, bedtime, clothes, and play. The stupid parent teaches the child all of his own irrational food, thought, and work habits as the only right ways of behaving. The irritable parent makes the child respect his irritability. Silence, submissiveness, inactivity, not being in the way, become virtues. The domineering parent insists on expressing his own tastes and interests through the child. The child must be, do, or like just those things which the parent finds supremely desirable. None of this done in the name of rational discipline has conscious, moral, or educational value. It depends largely on * the chance method which the adult chooses of having his own way, preserving his comfort, expressing his desires. It has nothing to do with an objective appreciation of the child, his needs, and the moving forces back of his behavior.

Rationalization the Basis of . Misinterpretation of

Children.

Parents and teachers are apt to label a child in this rationalizing fashion, to brand him according to the way in which he happens to interfere with their wishes or prejudices. The child who does not respond at once to adult wishes is obstinate. What his refusal to fact means to him is usually not investigated. Back of obstinacy one frequently finds fear; a sense of inferiority, a certainty of failure. Not trying to do what is asked is a safer thing than exposing weakness. Back of obstinacy may be a genuine struggle to preserve the integrity of the personality against the overwhelming ego of the adult.

Adults are very ready to call a child lazy because work for them does not interest him as much as work for himself, which they call play. They ought to watch that child when he is engaged in his own pursuits. Perhaps he is tireless and persistent when he works for himself. The child who does not come on the instant when he is called is usually considered disobedient. He has perhaps been ruthlessly interrupted in the midst of what is to him an important piece of work. All of his interests are engaged, concentrated upon an end which is about to be accomplished. His unwillingness to leave his job is a splendid quality, but it conflicts with an adult world which fails to make allowances. A small boy of nine who is called in to take a bath before dinner exhibits a sulkiness and
787

resentment quite out of proportion as far as the adult can see. At bed time he manages to come out with the deep sense of injustice from which he was suffering. The adult had called him quite without regard to what he was doing and had not bothered to inquire why he was not ready to come at that moment. He was at a critical point in the construction of an elaborate fort, which was to him a serious project. His point of view had been ruthlessly ignored and the work value of his play not respected.

Just as we are not rational in our behavior, so the child is not rational, but is moved by impulses, needs and wishes which he himself does not understand. We cannot, then, expect to influence his conduct primarily by reasoning or to find out by asking him why he behaves as he does. We have to accept the fact that everything he does is a more or less blind effort to meet a deep-seated need of his own, an attempt at adjusting himself to his environment, just as every animal organism is impelled to do. Once we have freed ourselves from our own rationalizing, we may hope to look at the behavior of children objectively as something to be studied and understood in the light of the needs of the child, the environment, or situation, and the history of the child’s development.

The Primary Needs of the Child.

What is the child trying to get? What are his essential needs? What is he trying to satisfy through his behavior? We can be sure that certain driving impulses are at work even when we are not able to find just how they are being expressed. The infant is aroused to activity almost entirely by three needs, the need for food, the need to excrete waste, and the need for air. When not impelled to struggle for the satisfaction of these wants, he is content to sleep. We must recognize how complete is the absorption of infancy in these primary moving impulses and how natural is the interest which all unexpressed human beings feel in the organs and the function of excretion as well as in the taking in of food. The pleasure that is associated with sucking is intense and far-reaching in its influence on the human being throughout life. To the infant it represents the realization of his most perfect happiness, warmth, protection, nourishment, rhythm of motion, pleasant tactual sensations. It is not to be wondered at that thumb sucking is such a common habit. Nail biting also is an allied activity related to the early pleasures of life which we are loath to relinquish. Urination and defecation are likewise associated with the pleasures of relief from pressure, pleasant tactual and temperature sensations, the loving attention of the mother, and the interest of producing something, a sort of creation which comes from one’s own body.

There is great danger in giving the child the wrong attitude towards these natural interests. The over-attentive mother may make the early experiences so pleasurable that the

Digitized by

Google
788

infant has difficulty in giving them up for more developed interests. He may cling to the joys and sensations of this period to the neglect of later stages of growth. On the other hand, the mother who is disgusted at natural functions, or who is horrified at the child’s interest in them and gives him the sense that there is something very wicked about his body, is building up a harmful conflict of impulses in the child. The interests which have to be repressed violently take on undue value. The child has to struggle against them thus strengthening them and fixing his attention on them. He may be unable to free himself from their attraction as he should do in the natural course of development. He may succeed in repressing the outward expression of interest and may deceive himself, while there remains a fear, a lack of freedom in his attitude toward his own body and the natural functions, and an over-valuation of their importance even though it be expressed negatively. Such an attitude is apt to be carried over into a horror of sex or an attempt to repress natural sex impulses.

The best way to treat the first interests of the child is to take them in a simple, frank, matter-of-fact way with no undue emphasis. Satisfy his curiosity; allow him to express his interest. Treat it all on the basis of natural fact, and see to it that he gets every opportunity to develop responses to other stimuli. He will grow away from infantile desires naturally if nothing is done to fixate his interests and if he has plenty of opportunity in the environment and is not forced back upon his own body for lack of other things to do. The chief trouble usually lies in the false attitude of the adult who reads into the child’s behavior all of his own ideas of sex and his own sense of sin and wickedness associated with the bodily functions. We must learn to take all moral quality out of these early interests of the child. Too often the adult speaks of a young child as unnatural, immoral, a sex pervert, abnormal, and what not, simply because he is normally interested in the pleasant sensations connected with his body. Too often the adult puts his own fear into the mind of the child, telling him that playing with his genital organs will lead to insanity or will make him an idiot or give him St. Vitus’ dance and the like. Needless to say that such statements are as unture as they are dangerous to the future happiness of the child. It is normal for the child to be interested in his body, and there is hardly a child who has not expressed that interest at some time or other in the investigation of all parts of his anatomy and in experimental playing with the various organs and functions.

All Behavior an Attempt at Biological Adjustment

Every child is impelled to succeed, to get for himself a sense of power and at-homeness in a strange world. Biologically this is a necessity. Every organism struggles to adjust itself successfully. Too much failure is bad. No child can stand an

Digitized by

Google
789

overdose of defeat, and if it is forced on him by adults or his own defects, he will automatically try to compensate. Success is sought in approval of adults or other children, in physical beauty, skill, strength, or prowess, in intellectual achievement in work or play, in some special talent or skill.

Any source of weakness, a physical defect, a lack of grace or beauty, disapproval from adults, a sense of not being loved, an intellectual inferiority, poor health, lack of courage and energy, ridicule, a domineering parent, lack of opportunity for play or self-chosen work, failure at school, unpopularity with other children, especially of the opposite sex, social inferiority due to poverty or delinquency, a sense of sin and social ostracism arising from a hidden sex interest, or other forbidden conduct— any one or more of the infinite possibilities of handicap, physical, mental, or social—will make it difficult for the child to obtain the sense of assurance, well being, and at-homeness which we all seek. Where he is not able to get a satisfying sense of power in one way, he seeks it in another, although he himself may have no notion of what his conduct means. Who does not recall the agonies of inferiority suffered because of red hair, over- or under-weight, a big nose, outstanding ears?

Unconscious and Undesirable Forms of Compensation for Inferiority.

The child who for any reason, perhaps lack of physical skill and strength, is not popular with children, may easily over-compensate by trying to outshine others in school and win the favor of teachers. The child who is inferior in intelligence and is not equal to the school work, if forced to face daily defeat and disapproval may develop almost any form of compensatory activity. Some children become obstinate and refuse to co-operate in any way. Others grow “smarty,” become the goats of the school room, spend their time trying to draw the attention to themselves and upset discipline. Still others go into deliquency outside school. The more sensitive child may become emotionally depressed or nervous and unable to use the little ability he has. Masturbation, lying, boasting, stealing, may easily appear as ways which the organism uses to compensate for the inferiority and failure in school. The child unconsciously seeks to comfort himself, to make up in some way for the hurt he is receiving, to gain pleasure or a sense of accomplishment.

The child who has a great lack in his home life, who is perhaps without social standing or without parents, will frequently take to boastful story-telling. He will brag of his relatives, of their power and possessions, or of his own feats. This is nature's attempt to make the individual feel strong and comfortable in the face of a great lack. We usually label it lying without any attempt to interpret it.

A child who has no other way to control the environment, or who has never been taught to use direct methods, will often

Digitized by

Google
790

tyrannize over adults with tantrums, vomiting spells, all kinds of moods and physical symptoms. He satisfies his desires m this indirect way and gets a sense of power and control over his world at the same time. Morever, he avoids the effort of working to obtain his ends in a legitimate fashion. He clings to the infantile stage of development because he can satisfy his primary needs without effort by the methods which worked when he was a baby. When we adults cry to obtain our ends, use moods, illness, or temper to bring our families to time, we too are using infantile methods of controlling the environment.

One of the most insidious and easy ways of compensating for failure or fear of attempting to succeed, is day-dreaming. The child who lacks courage and initiative, who is easily repressed and submits to every obstacle, will often refuse to compensate in any active way, but will seek refuge in dreams. This type of child attracts little attention at first. He is quiet, submits to discipline, gives no trouble at school, never rebels or quarrels. He evades, however, all responsibility, is unduly modest and retiring, shunning the limelight and social competition. He tends to avoid companionship of other children, likes to stay alone with a book or his dream world.

All of us do a certain amount of day-dreaming. We comfort ourselves, soften the hard places, shorten the time of waiting by dream fulfillment. In dreams we accomplish all that we most desire, we are brave, beautiful, successful, beloved. It is a seductively easy and satisfying process. If carried out to tKe extent of unfitting the individual for dealing with real people or the facts of a real world, it is fatal to mental health and happiness. Dreams which are really plans, dreams which are inspirations and are followed by action, are legitimate. Dreams which are purely sugar-plum comfort and substitutes for accomplishment are allowable only when they occupy too little time to interfere with a successful attack on the facts of the real world. In children any tendency to use them to evade real issues should be carefully watched.

External Versus Internal, Repressive Versus Expressive,

Methods.

What is the relation of this interpretation of behavior to discipline and education? How is undesirable behavior to be altered? It may be possible to see that it is fulfilling a need of the child and yet something must be done about it. The child cannot be permitted to continue his unpleasant or antisocial habits.

As soon as we get to the point of changing the child’s behavior we have to guard carefully against rationalization because our own driving wishes are at once involved. If we do not scrutinize our reactions keenly, we may find ourselves simply putting the lid on, stopping by the sheer weight of our superior force activities which irritate, repel or alarm us. It
791

is so easy to discipline in this way and so natural to cut off short, to destroy any unpleasant stimulous which is under our control.

There are many relatively unimportant things which to save time and effort must be enforced in this external fashion. What we do is to take away from the child responsibilty for working out his own reactions, and allow him to substitute our will for his. He knows we will nag him into action. We will make the effort for him, see that he does what is required. It is perhaps well enough to save the child’s energy in supplying the will for forming such habits as airing the bed, brushing the teeth, washing ears, folding napkins, etc. This is pure habit-training and saves his strength for other things. While it is absolutely essential for the child to have such training, it is not education from the inside. The more the child can help to form his own habits, the better. Even in this realm, responsibility of the adult should not be carried to an extreme. A little girl has the habit of announcing in the morning that she is not going to school. If this challenge is taken up by the parents she is relieved of the necessity of deciding for herself. They will see to it that she goes and she can indulge her resistance freely. If they refuse to be alarmed and force the responsibility back upon her the wind is taken out of her sails. She is obliged to make her own decision and take the consequences.

Neither is the reward-punishment motive very educational. It too is external to the act which the child carries out. He needs to be doing things because of his own direct interest. Anything as external as compulsion, fear of punishment, or hope of reward, works only when the indirect stimulous is present. Remove it and the child is left without the motivation of the direct interests which would operate whether or not external forces were present. The child who studies simply because he is made to never becomes much of a student. The workman who keeps to his job because of the pay envelope will never be likely to increase it. The morality which is kept alive by fear of punishment or hope of reward or by the will of another is not more than skin deep.

When one wishes to alter the behavior of a child, the first thing to do is to study the behavior and try to interpret it in terms of the previous history of the child, the kind of environment he has been reacting to, the first appearance and the development of the behavior, his own explanation of it, and the probable need it is supplying. If after careful scrutiny of all the facts it seems evident that what we have is a mere left over of a pure habit reaction which has little significance for the child, then a sharp punishment may be a good way of shocking him out of this old behavior pattern, although not necessarily the only way. If, on the other hand, the relaton of the behavior to a genuine need or desire of the child is apparent, some way must be found of satisfying this need. Repression will simply force it into other channels where it may

Digitized by ’ Uoogle
792

not be so easily followed. You dcannot kill desire, you can only alter the form of expression. If a legitimate outlet can be provided the undesirable behavior can be permanently cured because it will no longer be necessary.

Joe is an Italian boy who has become the terror of the neighborhood. He is only twelve but he refuses to go to school and is fast becoming a gang leader. When Joe is induced after much effort to enter a special school which gives individual attention and considerable freedom of expression and variety of work, it is discovered that he resents deeply his language handicap and the fact that he must go in a class with little children. The public school judges Joe entirely by book knowledge. He is never given an apportunity to do in school things he can do well. In the special school he is allowed to use his hands as well as his tongue and eyes. He finds that he is as good as anybody when he wields hammer and saw. He discovers that he can build and model and garden and play baseball just as intelligently as any boy of his age. All of his energy goes over into allowable activity. School becomes his greatest joy. He is a leader but not a delinquent. No amount of punishment, repression or bribery would have solved Joe’s problem. All of these had been tried by the public school and the mother. The unused energy, the intense need to be superior somewhere, had to have expression. As soon as he discovered school activities which allowed him to satisfy these normal desires he abandoned without effort the violent antisocial behavior which had reduced his mother to despair.

Anna was considered the worst child in the orphanage. She had a terrible temper, she was hostile and domineering with children and matrons, and she stole anything that came in her way—food, trinkets, small change, clothes. She was removed to a small observation school in the country where there were nine or ten difficult children with a teacher who did not believe in repressive methods. She was given complete freedom for a time. At first she seemed to be quite wild from the sudden release. She had a few tantrums, but was much ashamed of them. She grew deeply attached to the teacher and was eager to win her approval. She was told that her habit of taking things was very human but ought to be broken as soon as possible. It was not suitable for a girl of her age, but belonged to early childhood. She would not be punished if she indulged it but she must try to be frank about it. The child was given many ways to express her strong driving impulses. It was found that she had good ability along several lines. She loved to manage people and things. She was given scope for her desire to dominate. She was sent later to a school where she found abundant use for all of her energy and ability. The temper was brought within bounds although it has always broken out occasionally under stress. The stealing habit has disappeared completely as if it had never been. Repressive measures had been used to the limit with this child and had

Digitized by

Google
*

798

failed because the needs which the stealing satisfied had never been met by the environment of the orphanage.

The new psychology of behavior tells us that the only way we can educate or reform is through the desires, needs, interests of the individual. They must ultimately be expressed in some form or other. They cannot be destroyed without destroying life itself. It is just a question of whether there is enough intelligence brought to bear to work out legitimate ways in which the actual desires of the organism can find outlet. Energy has to go somewhere—if not forward, then back; if not out in the open, then by some underground channel. The teacher may force the child to look at his book, but she cannot prevent the wish from fulfilling itself in a day dream. She may by fear or bribe induce the child to learn an arithmetic table, but she cannot, unless she engages his real interest, prevent his forgetting it the moment the examination is over.

“But,” says the Puritan, “must we not teach our children to do things they do not like? Must we not prepare them for work, for the hard things of life? How shall we teach the supremacy of duty if they are always to follow their own interests?” There is only one answer to this. It does not silence the incorrigible New England conscience, but it is good psychology. The greatest	motive power	in the world	is	desire,

interest. If once engaged it will work	the individual	as	no in-

direct stimulus ever can, because hs entire attention, his whole heart, are in the process.

Who works hardest, the man who hates his job and resists it at every turn,	forcing himself	through the long	hours,

or the man who loves	it so he can hardly go home	at	night?

The man who is expressing his own deepest interest works for the work's sake. Work is play to him, and in consequence he spends himself freely. No one ever produced a marvelous invention, a beautiful picture, a great idea, under external compulsion. Hard work is the product of intense need or interest. It is for the end we set up, our heart’s desire, that we surmount all obstacles.

When the child finds a school which can educate him through his own spontaneous driving interests he will not need to be compelled to work at his lessons. The difficulty with most schools at present is that they substitute for the interest and desire of the child the energy and purpose of the teacher to get over so much reading, writing and arithmetic. Schools should be planned in terms of what the child needs to work out in relation to a real world. At present they tend to express the system in which teachers and principals can most easily function.

In development of its plan to create a great .university centre in that neighborhood, New York University has signed contracts for the purchase of the Lies Building, the Benedick Apartments and the Celluloid Building, all having a frontage
794

of 200 feet on the east side of Washington Square, with an average depth of 100 feet. With this acquisition the university will own all the property on that side of the square.

THE THREE FACTORS OF COMFORT

By Lawrence W. Andrews, Columbus, 0.

Comfort, like all Gaul, is divided into three parts. And, although there are those who still classify comfort as a luxury, even in this year of 1925, yet it is becoming more generally recognized that comfort is directly correlated with health and proper living.

During the summer months comfort is provided by nature in almost limitless quantities, except during periods of extreme heat. There is really no summer comfort problem.

But when winter approaches, when fires are started and houses are closed, it becomes a matter of utmost importance, increasing with growing populations and the crowding together of people.

Recent medical investigations have thrown some light on the importance of comfort in its relation to winter epidemics of respiratory diseases, especially among children. From them it has been found that comfort has a most direct bearing on civic health conditions. If one or two of the comfort factors are provided to the exclusion of the second or third there follows a health report which reflects to the discredit of the civic authorities. On the other hand if all three comfort factors are at hand, the health level is uniformly high.

We, as a people, have inherited a misconception of proper living during the winter months. Our fathers gauged their comfort by the thermometer. If the rooms in their homes were 70 or more degrees they considered themselves comfortable and looked upon more or less regular attacks of grippe, influenza and "colds” as divine manifestations which were an inevitable part of winter.

But we now know that humidity and ventilation are almost equally important as temperature; that the triology of comfort— heat, humidity and ventilation—must be at hand for healthful living conditions. It is, in fact, for the lack of the latter two factors that monkeys die in our zoological gardens by the hundreds every winter; that office workers penned in baked rooms for eight hours every day, suffer periodic fatigue; that we often experience decided discomfort even though the theremometer shows a high temperature reading.

Few people realize the extent to which we, as Americans, bake ourselves for six or seven months every year. In thousands of homes where temperature is the ruling comfort factor, the air is drier by actual measurement than that of the deserts of the world—about 40 percent drier than the human body is made to endure. The result is inevitable, manifesting itself in extreme evaporation of the mucous membranes, Even the wood, work

Digitized by

Google
796

and furnishings in these baked homes show the strain. They crack and warp under the intense dryness of the heat.

The remedy is sometimes difficult. Often, it is attempted by placing water pans around the rooms in the hope that an increased humidity could be attained. But investigations in the home heating laboratories of the University of Illinois have shown that this is futile; that so small a quantity of water can be evaporated from these pans that it has no appreciable effect upon humidity readings in the rooms. It would be necessary to construct special pans, covering a good deal of floor space to provide enuf evaporation to bring the humidity in baked homes up to the health point.

For those who have warm air furnaces, the problem is less difficult. On such heaters there is a water pan which, if kept continually filled, will go far toward supplying the needed moisture even during extreme cold weather when fires are going full. Ventilation is also more or less insured since the warm air, replacing the cold keeps the air in constant motion, and air motion is more important than air quality.

However the problem is solved, it should become a matter of general education to impress upon every city dweller the importance of discarding the old heat idea as a standard of winter comfort. Once the average person comes to understand that the triology of comfort—heat, humidity and ventilation—must be provided during the winter months, modem civilization will have gone a long way toward better living conditions and cleaner health records.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. U. P. KROGH, M. D.

Athletic Strenuosity. For twenty-five years the tendency, in this country at least, has been to increase speed, until we have reached the age of little rest: almost no nerve and brain relaxation and often not even enough muscle rest. The consequent mental and physical tire is interpreted by the business layman as a need for more exercise. If he cannot take regular exercise, he may drink more coffee or alcohol or use more tobacco, either to cause stimulation or to procure rest. When he does take exercise it is usually spasmodically, mostly at week ends and excessively, to the point frequently, of causing heart tire. If his exercise is golf, it is thirty-six holes instead of eighteen; if it is tennis, it is five sets morning and afternoon; if it is walking, it is a cross-country “hike” with too many hills and too much climbing. Even motoring for pleasure has become “speed and distance,” at tension instead of with relaxation. The efficient man would advise regular training for the development of any set of muscles for any particular test, but he does not seem to realize that the heart is

Google
796

a muscle and that without training (regular, daily, gradually increasing muscle work) he pushes it to tire and often to exhaustion by his spasmodic, unregulated exertion.

The restless age of speed, telephones, stenographers, dictagraphs, committee work, ceaseless interviews, overeating and hurried eating, artificial stimulation, chronic mouth infection (which is very frequent), all lead to one end: chronic cardiovascular-renal disease, the greatest cause of death in all our cities. The women do not escape this strenuosity, and are adding too much of the same program to their household duties. The result is the same as in men, except that women may have more nervous irritability due to overstimulation of the thyroid gland.

The craze of the day is competitive athletics. Twenty years ago such were confined to colleges and universities, but now the disease of “athletic competitis” has spread to the high schools, and therefore to undeveloped youth. The larger the boy, without regard to his age, the more the captain and the athletic trainer corral him for physical stunts and competitive strains. A boy who has grown rapidly to oversize may not have his heart developed to fit his bulk. Ordinary exercise, even if not competitive athletics, causes his heart to work all that it is well able to do, and hence competitive speed or endurance is absolutely inexcusable in his case. Doubtless many fine, sturdy lads are damaged by high school athletics.

In colleges, the oversized boy, tall and overweight, is excellent football material. If not overtrained and heart-hurt at the time of the athletic tests, he acquires an hypertrophied heart and hence an increased systolic blood pressure, which makes him uncomfortable and mentally and physically “foul” (as he terms it) as soon as his athletic life ceases. He is from this time on an impaired insurance risk; as a rule, he does not live to his expectancy. In practically all colleges and in some schools, physical medical examinations are made of each boy or youth before he is accepted and trained for any special branch of athletics, and the diseased or damaged hearts are eliminated. But what medical examination of a boy or youth can exactly determine his reserve heart strength?

It would seem, therefore, that all competitive athletics should be graded to the average endurance for the age of the boy. The distance of the run and the length of the boat race should be kept down to the figure that is perfectly safe for well hearts at the given age. Acute heart strain is of not infrequent occurrence in training for athletics, to say nothing of such occurrence at the end of a race. It has been repeatedly shown that with the first strain of heavy work the heart increases in size; but it soon becomes normal or even smaller as it more strenuously contracts, and the cavities of the heart will be completely emptied at each systole. If the work is too heavy and the systolic blood pressure is rapidly increased, it may become so great as to prevent the left ventricle from completely evacuating its content. The heart then increases in size and may sooner or later become strained; if this strain is
797

severe, an acute dilatation may of course occur, even in an otherwise well person. Such instances are not infrequent. A heart that is already enlarged or slightly dilated and insufficient will more slowly increase its forcefulness under the stress of muscular labor, and we have a delayed rise in systolic pressure. Also the

1>aleness, faintness, nausea and vomiting that often occur after ong runs or other severe strain, with or without heart pain, are' evideribe of heart strain. An athletic strain may not show an actual acute dilatation, but the heart weakness may persist for days and even weeks. Repeated heart strain must impair future heart tone. The heart strain face, as photographed at the end of a long competitive race, typically shows the actual circulatory strain undergone by the competitor. Falling over in the boat at the end of the four mile race is positive indication of the utter heart exhaustion.

The boy is ready to die for the fame and success of his alma mater, and the faculty, school mates and friends all put their faith and dependence on him. He must not	fail!	But is	the

sacrifice of even a small number (there may be	many)	of	our	fine

sturdy young men worth the price? Our young girls, in this age of feminine freedom, are also overdoing athletics. A girl should not be coddled because die is menstruating, but common sense (almost a lost commodity) at such a period should be exercised. How many of a basketball team of girls, scheduled to compete with another team on a given day, are beginning	or	in	the

midst of this feminine function, in which the	uterus	is	physio-

logically congested and temporarily abnormally heavy, and hence liable to displacement by the inexcusable strenuosity and roughness of this particular game? Why should girls try tests of vaulting? Is such prowess worth the possible price?

Disapproval of graded constant calisthenics, exercise, athletics and outdoor life for all children and youth is not intended. Outdoor exercise and sports are essential for the health of adults. More walking and less automobiling have a value thus far not much appreciated. Our age has been characterized as “athletic crazy”; let us see whether we cannot get back to athletic “normalcy.”

Editorial-.The Journal of ihe Am. Med. Assoc. July 25, 1925.

Effect of Exercise on Distribution of Corpuscles in Blood—

All of seventeen individuals running a marathon race of 26 1-4 miles in from two and one-half to three hours, showed a relative and absolute increase in the number of their polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytes and blood platelets in the peripheral circulation. The character of the red cells and the relative percentage of their immature forms remained practically unchanged in the peripheral circulation during the exercise. There was no definite evidence of newly formed or immature cellular elements (with the possible exception of the blood platelets) being added to the circulation during the period of exercise. The change in the number of white cells and blood

Google
798

platelets is probably the result of a more thorough mixing of the blood of the internal and peripheral blood vessels, with a redistribution of its elements. An increased number of young red cells and, in some cases, blood platelets and white cells in the blood of the athletes was observed before the race. This suggests a possible relationship between the previous period of training and the slightly lowered threshold of blood cell delivery.

American Journal of Physiology, Baltimore 71:1-227 (<Dec.) 1924.—p. 106.

Effect of Environmental Temperature on Metabolism—

The results of Morgulis’ study as a whole show that changes in temperature do not produce an alteration of metabolic activity of the tissue cells except in so far as either the low or the high temperature, through peripheral stimulation, may cause restlessness on the part of the subject or induce a state of heightened muscular tone, often without any other gross manifestations. The experimental results presented by Morgulis, including a study of the carbon dioxid production ana oxygen consumption under various temperatures, aided by a graphic study of the general behavior of the animals and the cardiac response under these different conditions, make it clear that there is no special mechanism of chemical regulation of metabolism. The metabolic changes produced under different temperatures are either the result of shivering and restlessnes or, the absence of such gross evidences of lack of relaxation on the part of the subject, they are due to differences in muscular tonicity produced reflexly through cutaneous stimulation.

American Journal of Physiology, Baltimore 71: Dec. 1924 p. 49.

News, notes and comments

WOMEN’S INTERNATIONAL MEET*

The International Women’s Amateur Athletic competitions organised by the Daily Sketch were held on the Stamford Bridge grounds on Saturday, August 1st, before a very large audience.

It was an afternoon for women. No men’s events. After the march past of the competitors for all events, gymnasts and netball teams, the competitions commenced.

The countries represented were, Canada, Czecho-Slovakia and Great Britain. This was Canada’s first appearance in a Women’s International.

The handsome trophy presented by the Daily Sketch was

*From Physical Education, England.

Digitized by CjOOQle
799

won by Great Britain with 56 points. Czecho-Slovakia second with 26; and Canada third with 23.

Great Britain had 7 firsts, 4 seconds, 2 thirds and a fourth; the Czechos, 2 firsts, 3 seconds and 5 thirds, and Canada, 2 seconds 5 thirds and 4 fourths.

The International events were: 100 yds., 250 meters, shot put, high jump, long jump, javelin, 100 yds. hurdles, 660 yds. relay, and 880 yds. For the 880 yds. neither Canada nor Czechoslovakia ran and points were not claimed by Great Britain. The race was run by the British representatives. Miss Trickey winning in a world’s record time of 2 min. 24 sec.

A world's record was also created by Miss V. Palmer in the 250 metres: time 33 4-5 sec.

Other events were 100 yds. open, 100 yds. open hurdles, 880 yds. walk, 440 yds, relay.

Taking the International Competition as a whole, it was a most successful meeting and well organised. The prizes at the close were handed to the winners by Lord Decies, the International teams cheering each other in a most enthusiastic manner.

During the afternoon, at the invitation of the committee of the W. A. A. A., an excellent display of gymnastics, consisting of exercises on the vaulting horse was given.

Six vaulting horses were arranged round the arena, and some very good work was shown; and at the conclusion of the exercises, on a given signal, each team showed an effective set of pyramids which were much applauded. Exhibition net ball matches, arranged by the London and Home Counties Net Ball Assoc., were also played during the afternoon. .

The results were as follows.

250 Metres.—Vera Palmer (Great Britain), I. Kathleen Flanagan (Canada), 2; V. T. Streater (Great Britain), 3 Time 33 4-5 sec. World’s Record. -

Putting the Shot (8 lb. two hands added).—M. Weston (Great Britain), 60 ft. 3 1-4 in., I.; Vencova (Czecho-Slovakia), 60 ft. 3 1-4 in., 2; Jean Hodson (Canada), 59 ft. 2 1-2 in. 3.

100 Yards.—Rose Thompson (Great Britain), I; Nora Calle-baut (Great Britain), 2; Josephine Dyment (Canada), 3. Time 11 4-5 sec.

High Jump.—Phyllis Green (Great Britain), 4ft. 10 in., I; Hilda Hatt (Great Britain), 4 ft. 9 in., 2; Velma Springstead (Canada), 4 ft. 7 in., 3.

Javelin (two hands added).—Janderova (Czecho-Slovakia), 158 ft. 7 1-2 in., I; Olmrova (Czecho-Slovakia), 148 ft. 2 1-2 in., 2; Sophie Elliott-Lynn (Great Britain), 141 ft. 9 1-2 in., 3.

100 Yards Hurdles.—Hilda Hatt (Great Britain)I; Peggy Batt (Great Britain) 2; Grace Cobacher (Canada), 3.

Discus.—Havlickova (Czecho-Slovakia), 87 ft. 6 in., 1; Kucerova (Cecho-Slovakia), 80 ft. 5 1-4 in., 2; Jean Godson (Canada), 78 ft. 7in., 3.

Digitized by
800

Long Jump.—Margaret Hull (Great Britain) 16ft. 11 in., I: Phyllis Green (Great Britain) 16 ft. 6 in., 2; Smolova (Czechoslovakia), 16 ft. 3 in., 3.

660 Yards Relay Race (220, 110, 220, 110.)—Great Britain (Vera Palmer, Madge Wannop, Florence Haynes, and Rose Thomson),!; Canada (Myrtle Cook, Josephine Dyment Kathleen Flanagan, and Gerturde Wood.) 2; Czecho-Slovakia (Kofrankova, Smolova, Kucerova, and Olmrova), 3. Time, 1 min. 20 sec.

Special event.—880 Yards Scratch Race.—Edith Trickery, I; Gladys Lane, 2; Phyllis Hall, 3. Time 2 min. 24 sec. World’s record

THE EDINBURGH CONFERENCE*

A Scotch pastor was calling on one of his parishoners, Mrs. Macintosh by name. Now Mrs. Macintosh was more than (pleased by the honor.

"Won't you have a little tea?” asked the good lady.

"No tea, thank you,” replied the minister.

"Won’t you have a little coffee?” repeated Mrs. Macintosh. "No coffee, thank you.”

"Won't you have a little cocoa?”

“No cocoa, thank you.”

“Come now, dominie, won’t you have a nip of whiskey and water?”

“No water, thank you.”

This not only illustrates the Scotch aversion to water and diluted potations, but recalls to my mind their full strength, hospitality, and deep interest in things educational, theological, and philosophical. I can think of nothing more perfect than the good spirit of hospitality that drew from seventy-five different nations of the world 3,500 delegates of all races, creeds, tongues, political beliefs, and cared for them, blending them into a force that shall influence the world till that time shall be ripe when, as their beloved poet Bums says, “It’s coming yet a’ that—that man to man the world o’er shall brothers be, a’that!”

It takes a poet to have such a vision of neighborliness, and perchance an education to make it come to pass, and world inclusiveness to make such a prophecy. So, after centuries when peoples could not meet on any common platform of religion, > nor was it possible for the nations, as yet, to get together on political grounds entirely,—education offered the medium to so tell the truth as to appeal to nations regardless of race, creed, religion, or nationality—the universality of the truth that shall make men free, make them better acquainted, make them understand one another better and appreciate one another more. This thought was emphasized and stressed whether it was in the department of pre-school

•This report by Miss Jessie Gray of Philadelphia of the Worlds Federation of Educational Associations was taken from the Phila. News Letter, the official publication of the Philadelphia^Teachers.

Digitized by LjOOQle
801

education, the elementary group, the secondary group, the university group, or in the groups whose aim it was to remove illiteracy, improve health, promote adult education or whether that same truth permeated the teacher training or the character training section.

All representatives spoke with deep conviction that the time is now ripe for educators to have a hand in guiding the “purposeful direction of the human race.”

According to Dr. Thomas, the president, it was the purpose of the great organization of the W. F. E. A. to effect a closer unit of organized educational forces throughout the world, to stabilize (so far as education can) the trend of the future, to provide a sane and courageous leadership in directing the advancement of the human race, to select those virtues which foster happiness and progress, and to make war on those inherited elements that retard or misdirect human progress.

Truly ideal! Truly worth while for educators to use curricula, methods, text-books, materials, as a means to attain this great goal,—the education of youth with the alert mind, the open heart, the generous soul, which is the best harvest of right education. Education, therefore, is a great cause, whose purpose is the same in every nation, every tongue, every climate, regardless of creed or race. That aim is to create citizens intensely national and vitally concerned in their own nationalism but at the same time so interested economically, politically, socially in other nations that the good of one is the good of all.

Education, as a world dream, should lead the way to a peaceful conquest of the world—greater than that of Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon—greater because unselfish and altruistic and spiritual.

Over and over again the deepest, most unselfish, philosophy was lived in the W. F. E. A. in deference to the best others had to offer, because it was their best—the glad linking of motive power throughout all discussions that minor details should not cause discussions upon which people might stray but that the cause of education was paramount to method, to individualism, that if focused properly it made a blend of humanity that is true brotherhood.

Another great good resulting from the W. F. E. A. would be that educators would meet in different lands from year to year, and as they met and knew the people more intimately they would go back feeling the common bond of humanity, that they were all of one flesh and blood, that they were “brothers all,” that they had common interests and ideals which would help them lift up the estimate of their fellow men throughout the world. Althougn educators look on life from different angles, they are united in building character to solve world problems, in developing a sense of duty and a spirit of good will in the young lives entrusted to their care.

I might continue recording facts in the Conference which was but the dawn of a spiritual renaissance that is coming to bless the world. As one East Indian well said, “He realized as never

Digitized by

Google
802

before that here and there all over the world there were human reservoirs of sympathy, tolerance, good will, awaiting only the touch of the right hand to descend in floods of blessing on the waiting world.”

But if I continued recording facts I should not do the thing I want to. As teachers, what does the challenge of forming the international mind mean to us?

May 18, the W. F. E. A. has proclaimed as Good Will Day, a day—as our Thanksgiving Day—set aside so that we may recount all our gains in international mindedness, that may be accomplished in many of ways suggested there and some of which are in practice here in Philadelphia. The exchange of letters between children of different nations; pictures of some great good thing accomplished or historic event could be sent; Junior Red Cross participation could be stressed; the visiting of foreign lands, the exchange of pupils and students (for that too is being done to encourage internationalism), the study of foreign languages, the exchange of literature,—all these could naturally lead up to the International or Good Will Day.

Stories of our indebtedness to other nations might constantly be told—our indebtedness to Italy, France, Russia, Austria for music, to other lands for sculpture, art, poetry, raw materials and honest hands to make them useful, and so internationalism could become a contagion from the right kind of broadminded teacher.

Of course, you will want to know wherein America excelled. In pre-school educational activities, in this one department we have devoted more time and experimentation than any other nation, and Pennsylvania should be proud that Miss Julia Wade Abbot, of Philadelphia, was the leader of the program for that department.

America also excels in the adult educational field, in the dis-sfemination of books, magazines, in lectures, musicals, and drama. We also lead in the wiping out of illiteracy, although a few nations have no illiterates, and we show leadership in vocational education. That leaves elementary, secondary and university education as fields in which we must be older to do better work.

’ It would hardly be fair not to mention the treats we had other than the sessions of the conventions. One night the delegates attended a reception given by the Lord Provost and Council of Edinburgh.. Exquisite music was provided with the pipers, bagpiping at intervals. Here the delegates had the opportunity to converse with the other guests from all comers of the globe. The conference began Monday, July 20, and lasted till the following Monday, a week inclusive,—a long feast of fine soul building stuff, which will have a fine fruitage in future progress. It was a great privilege to attend the W. F. E. A., and I trust more Philadelphians will have that privilege next time.

There were two groups, each one of which (some 500 in number) a[l sat down to a luncheon on Tuesday or Wednesday, at which service and menu were of the finest. Here again the typical foreign

Digitized by

Google
803

brought their inspirational message of appreciation arid gladness for the privilege of being in Edinburgh.

On Thursday, all delegation activities were suspended and a choice of three out-of-door events was offered. 1. A trip to Abbotsford and the Scott country; 2. A trip by water to the Kyles of Butte; 3. To play golf and have tea at St. Andrew’s.

On Sunday all churches held special services and it was quite necessary to go thirty or forty minutes before the service to insure one’s having a seat—a testimony indeed to the source of inspiration for right educational leadership, and my testimony that Scottish ministers consider themselves rightfully among those who educate educators. There was music and movies to show educational gains. There was cheer, unselfishness, good Will, courtesy of the finest.

Dear Editor,

It is with profound regret that the Physical Educators Club has learned of the death of our friend Wm. Fleck.

Wm. Fleck was an active enthusiastic co-worker in the field of physical education. Through all his life he gave his best efforts to put it on a broad educational basis thereby placing it within reach of and to the benefit of all. He began as a teacher in our Turning Societies and many of the older members still retain in their hearts memories of appreciation of their former instructor. It was at this time that his ability and zeal attracted widespread attention and he was rewarded by being called to the Deanship of our Normal College. During this period of his life he did his best work and many of his highly successful pupils give testimony of his great leadership and untiring effort.

Later, when misfortune overtook him and physical debility incapacitated him from following his chosen profession, he. continued in his struggle for his ideals. He put his talent and wide experience to good use and from his invalid chair directed and aided the evolution of educational phases of physical education. Capable and enthusiastic as he was in his work, he carried the same undaunted spirit into his relationship with his friends. A more congenial companion during hours of play and relaxation could hardly be wished for. Broad minded and big hearted, Wm. Fleck left many true, admiring friends behind.

The Physical Educators Club mourns the loss of a sincere friend and deeply regrets the departure of a public spirited man,. who. ably did his part in service for mankind.

Physical Educators Club,

Max Stress, Pres.

Geo. W. Sonnenleiter, Sec.

Formerly Jahn Club, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by CjOOQle
TIME.

804

YOUNG AMERICA AT CHRISTMAS

By Joseph Weissmuller, Louisville, Ky.

A Synopsis of the play

Santa Claus being an international figure, so to speak, receives a letter from an irate U. S. school teacher telling him, Santa, to look at the inclosed records of his pupils, which are very poor indeed, and fix the giving of gifts accordingly.

Old Santa who is a great friend of Uncle Sam promptly sends him a message regarding the poor standing of his children at school.

While visiting one of his schools, Uncle Sam receives the message by mail. He, being a good business man, knows that first hand information is to be preferred at all times, then and there decides to prolong his casual visit to a whole school period, asking questions, hearing their answers, recitations, songs, and watching their exercises, dancing and stunts. All this is very gratifying to Uncle Sam, who in return cites the school teacher for an explanation of his note to Santa, and of course all turns out just right.

This little comedy was written by Albert E. Loeffler.

It goes without saying, that the main characters should be selected according to their ability.

The teacher, Uncle Sam, Santa Claus, and the Mailman are adults; all the other characters are children.

Costumes—

Teacher, Prince Albert suit, high hat, beard, wig,-cane and old violin case.

Uncle Sam, Mailman, Santa Claus, in their official garb.

Children in their school dresses.

Solo dancer, a party dress. “The Three Graces,” Pavlowa costume.

vJapanese Dolls,” Japanese dress.

Songs:- “When It’s Winter,” “I Am Kept In Very Often, Sir.” “Postman’s Song,” “Howdy, Santa”, “Good Day, Sam,” “Greetings, greetings, Santa Claus.”

Recitations:- “Mother’s Gift” “Little Willie” from Santa Claus Junior, by Margaret E. Lacy, & Eduardo Marzo,

G.	Schirmer, Publisher.

“O, We’re the Dolls of Gay Paris” by Mary Packer. G. Schirmer.

"Snow Kisses” by Constance M. Lowe. Eldridge Entertainment House, Franklin, 0.

Dances:- Solo Dance, “Violettes,” “Saibara,” Louis Chalif.

Scene:- A school room arranged so that the school desks or chairs are placed to one side of the stage, see the following sketch.

Digitized by
FRENCH

STAIRWAY

805

Scene:- A schoolroom, curtain rises but once, pupils enter at random.

Teacher(enters) Good morning, boys and girls! Are you all here?

Children ■-Teacher -

Teacher >

Harry t-

Teacher

Harry

Teacher t-

WiUie

Teacher

Teacher

Johnny

Teacher i-

Carrie

Teacher

Carnet-

Teacher

Yes, teacher, we’re here!

Quiet! I know you’re here. I am speaking to those who are not here, and to you that are here, I want to say this, I will have no monkey business!

You are very noisy today. I can see something is going to happen around here. We will have a very distinguished guest with us to day, and for that I shall make the lesson short; but first we will sing a little song. Who will sing a song? (holds up hand) I will, teacher!

That’s fine; what will you sing?

“When It's Winter” (sings, the class joins in chorus)

The next lesson will be spelling.

Willie, spell Moon.

M-o-o-n.

Good, sit down.

Johnny, make a sentence with word moon. The moon is made of green cheese.

Sit down.

(to teacher) Do^you want to hear a good joke? Can you beat it, now these kids want to tell me jokes. (To Carrie) Well, if it’s a good one let’s have it.

Well, put a dime on the floor, (teacher places dime); now stand on it. (teacher does as told) Wool worth!

Well, Woolworth, is that the joke?

Digitized by

Google
806

CarrieSure, nothing over ten cents. Teacher:- You sassy thing, go back to your seat. Teacher:- Sally, spell the word Atlantic. Sally:- A-t-l-a-n-t-i-c

Teacher:- Very good, sit down.

Teacher:- Josie, spell Pacific.

Josie:- P-a-c-i-f-i-c.

Teacher:- Very good.

Johnny, what’s the Atlantic and Pacific?

Johnny:- The two largest oceans in the world.

Teacher:- You are right, Johnny.

Tough Guy:(jumps up waves both his arms) That’s wrong teacher, they might be the two largest oceans but they used to be a Tea Company.

Teacher:- Sally, spell delight.

Salley:- Capital D-e-l-i-g-h-t.

Teacher:- Good. Samuel, make a sentence with the word delight.

.Samuel:- The wind blew in our window and blew out delight.

..Harry:- Teacher, does the foot of Market Street wear a shoe?

Teacher:- Susan, go up to the dancing class and ask Eugenia to come down and entertain us with a little dance while we are waiting for the celebrated guest.

Teacher:- (to Eugenia) Will you dance for us?

Eugenia:	(courtsey) Yes. teacher.

All:- Applaud, (bell rings, enter Uncle Sam.)

Susan:- (announces) Uncle Sam!

Uncle Sam:(bows to school and the audience. See Uncle Sam in Santa Claus Junior)

Note while U. S. recites the lines (“Oh hark! I hear the tramp of feet” [the [Mailman scrapes his feet outside.)

Door Bell rings.

Susan answers bell; enter Mailman.

Mailman :-(walks up to Uncle Sam salutes and hands him a letter) Here is a message from Old Santa. (Mailman sings song; see postman’s song in Santa Claus Junior)

Uncle	Sam:-(opens letter, pretends to read, while Mailman

sings)

Uncle Sam:-(addressing the school children) Listen to this!

Dear Sam:-I am delayed, so am sending you this list of school children, (read names of children who have been reported as unruly)

Some of your children must be terrible accord-ding to the teacher’s report; I will be there as soon as possible. Signed: Santa Claus.

Digitized by

Google
807

Uncle Sam :Since this letter from Santa gives me some idea of your standing, I am going to find out for myself what you can do and how much you know. Willie, speak up, what have you learned?

Willie:- I can say a piece.

Uncle Sam :Let’s hear it

Willie:- “Little Willie” from Santa Junior.

Uncle Sam:You must have been a very good pupil; now, let me see you perform some stunts.

Williei-	Uncle Sam, I’ll have to get my gang to do them.

(U. S. nods his approval, W. runs off to bring in boys group.)

Boys exit, after their performance)

Teacher:- (Sends Sally out on the floor)

(Sally walks up to Uncle Sam, courtseys)

Unice Sam :What is your name my little girl?

SallySally.

Uncle Sam:What can you do, Sally?

Sally.- I can recite “Snow Kisses” (see Christmas collation; Constance M. Moore, Eltridge Entertainment House.)

Uncle	Sam:- (walks	about,	taking great interest in every-

thing that goes on about him, applauds) Splendid! Splendid!! Little Sally, is there anything else you and your Class can do?

Sally:- Indeed, Uncle Sam, we can do some exercises with wooden rings.

Uncle Sam:- (motions for her and her group to show the exercises) (After the exercises the girls exit.).

Teacher:-	Michael!	Come here, (waves rule at him)

Now tell something to your Uncle Sam; I mean something good.

Michael:-	(swallows	hard, bows to Uncle Sam and the

audience). Recites “Mother’s Gift” (see Santa Junior)

Uncle Sam:- (to Michael) For this I’ll give you a better rating, (erases and writes)

Teacher:- Michael, you made a hit, go get the other Dumbbells and make some more hits; show your Uncle Sam the Dumbbell exercises; and maybe some Pyramids and other things.

Uncle	Sam:-(Boys Class does its number and exits) (Scan-

ning the list in his hands, calls out Carrie and several others of the girls class) Girls, will you sing for us?

Carrie:- Uncle Sam, what kind of song would you like to hear?

Uncle Sam:-A sweet Christmas Song will do.

Girls:- Sing 4‘Holy Night”. After the song different classes perform their Folk dance, Parallel Bar exercises, and wands)

Digitized by ^.ooQle
808

Unde	Sam:-That was very' good!

Teacher! (holds out the list) what is the meaning of these marks you sent to Old Santa? Why these youngsters are as good or better than a lot of others I have seen and heard?

Teacher:- You see Uncle Sam, they were so poor one day that I gave them each a capital “R” for rotten.

Uncle	Sam:-There is	only one more to be heard from, and

that is Samuel, Jr.

Samuel Jr.:- (bows) Sings “I’m kept in very often, Sir” (see Santa Junior)

Uncle Sam :-Samuel, you try to be good next year, I’ll see Santa and speak to him about you.

Let’s see some of your stock in trade; show what you can do! (Junior boys do their Clown dance and Parallel Bar exercises)

Jap Doll:- enters with her group

Uncle	Sam:-(delightedly)	Well! Well! and who may these

IoHiaq Via?

First Doll:- We are the Doils Of Gay Paris!

(they run in to their places which have been marked off beforehand and sing) “0, we’re the dolls of gay Paris” (by Mary Packer) then dance “Saibara.”

As these little ones finish, bells are heard in the distance, coming closer; enter Santa Claus, with sled and pack, etc.

Uncle Sam:-(meets Santa)

Santa:- Uncle Sam :-Duet, (see Santa Junior)

(during their song all children who have performed enter the stage and, as a Finale, sing "Greeting, Greeting Santa Claus.”

DRILLS FOR THE PLAYLET

1.	Wooden-Ring Exercises

Small Girls, 5-10 years.

Music :-“Garden Dance” by Vargas.

A Schottische; four counts to a measure, two counts to a movement.

Introduction: all stand still, hands in starting position grasping ring.

Each exercise to be executed four times.

PART I

1	Bend the arms upward-1-2 ;raise heels, straighten the arms upward, twist the ring inward, so that the backs

of hands are toward each other-3-4, retum-5-8...... 8M

2	Bend arms upward, counts-1-2; bend knees deep, straighten the arms, forward, twist ring-3-4...................... 8M

3	Stride left forward, bend the arms upward, -1-2; bend

trunk forward, straighten the arms forwards, twist the ring 3-4.............................................

Digitized by CjOOQle

8M
4

1

2

1

2

1

2

1

2

1

2

809

Stride left sideward, bend the arms,1-2; turn trunk left,

straighten the arms forward 3-4 in all................

PART II

Ring in the left hand, lunge left, sideward, raise the left arm sideupward, right arm opposite (obliquely) 1-2 1 half arm circle right downward, touch the ring with

right hand,{turn head left, 3-4.......................

Couples face each other; the exercise for file one is described; file two does the opposite. Raise arms sideward ring in the left hand, grasp partner’s ring with the right hand, lunge right sideward, arms sideward 1-2; turn right, kneel left, swing the right arm upward, the left

arm side-downward, and forward, 3-4; return 5-8.......

PART III First Part In Divided Order File one perform exercise 1 of Part I.

File two exercise 2|four times, change................

File Onejexercise 3

File Two perform exercise 4 four times, change........

Note:- All exercises are described up to the second count, the return movements should follow in reverse order.

2. Free Exercises.

Boys,. 5-10 years of age Formation :-In even ranks in open order, counted off by twos. Music :-“Berlin Echoes,” by Paul Lincke; two counts to a measure.

PART I

Bend arm to thrust 1-2; straighten the arms upward, raise heels 3-4; Return movements 5-8; repeat three

times 9-32	.........................................

Eight steps in place with a 1-4 turn left, on the first

of every two counts...................................

Bend the knees, place hands on the floor (squat stand) 1-2 straighten the left leg sideward, 3-4, return 5-8

Repeat right, left, right-9-32........................

PART II

Bend the arms to thrust-1-2; bend the knees, straighten the arms sideward,-3-4; retum-5-8; repeat three times

9-32	...............................................

Hands on hips, kneel on both knees in two counts 1-2 bend trunk forward touch the floor with the forehead, -3-4; raise-5-6 Repeat the last four counts twice,-7-14;

back to starting position-15-16; repeat once-17-32....

PART III

Place hands in rear of neck,l-2; bend trunk forward-3-4;

return-5-8; repeat three times,-9-32..................

Fall to seat and bend the arm to thrust,-1-2 (legs forward) Bend trunk forward, straighten the arms forward, touching the toes,-3-4; return,-5-6 Repeat the last four

8M

8M

8M

16M

16M

16M

4M

16M

16M

16M

16M

Digitized by

Google
16M

810

counts twice; (on counts 13-14 (the legs are bent and crossed)-7-14; jump to stand,-15-16; repeat all;-17-32....

PART IV

1	Companion exercises, figure eight, for detail see Mind and Body October, 1921, No. 1 jump to side stride stand, hands in rear of neck, 1-2; hold for counts-3-14; to stand-15-16; No. 2 passes between the legs of No. 1 in a figure eight on his hands and knees,-1-16 Reverse all-17-32	...........................................

PART V

1	No. 1 face right, fall to lying frontways in four counts, No. 2 run the hurdles, i. e. file No. 1 are the hurdles, file No. 2 counter run right jumping over the No. 1. All this should not take more than sixteen counts or double the amount, so as to come out with the music, see Fi-gure-I, counts-1-16. Reverse all, No. 2 face left, No. 1

run the Hurdles-17-32.................................

Note:-If these exercises are not available repeat Parts II and III

Closing the ranks to the right, face right and march off.

FIG. 1 NO. 2 *r

3

3 Wand Exercises

Girls, 12-15 years of age Music :-"Stars and Stripes For Ever,” by John P. Sousa. Two counts to a measure; two counts to a movement. All exercises are to be executed four times, the tactics or marching exercises and pose, once.

Formation :-Ranks of three, six or nine, in open order, wand carried on the right side, vertical.

Introduction :-Raise the left arm sideward-1-2; grasp the upper end of wand-3-4; lower the wand horizontal in front-5-6; rest -7-8 ..........................

Group I

1	Swing the arms forward-1-2; raise heels and the arms up-

ward-3-4; return movements-5-8;.......................

2	Raise arms forward,-1-2, bend the knees deep, cross left,

arm over right, wand horizontal-3-4 return 5-8........

3	Jump to side stride stand swing the arms foreupward,

wand horizontal-1-2; lower trunk forward, arms stay alongside of head-3-4; raise, -5-6; bend upper trunk backward, place the wand on the shoulder bend arms wand horizontal-7-8; raise-9-10. Repeat, counts 3 to 6 three times; starting position-15-16 .................

Digitized by

Google

16M

16M

4M

16M

16M

32M
811

4	In divided order all do exercise 3, four times; file-1-

faces left, file-3-faces right i. e. to their respective centers or towards file-2-......................................

Music :-Trio

5	On the first two counts of this part carry the wand, closing the ranks in columns of three, in four counts, No. 2 mark time, No. 1 two closing steps left, No. 3 two closing right, all four steps in place, see Figure 1,1-8 Column No. 1 a whole wheel left,-9-24; Open ranks in eight counts 25-32; pose, see Figure-II pose is held for twelve counta-44; to starting position-45-48.

Note:-Omit the introduction; the music is played from the beginning, twice more.

Fig. 2

Group II

1 Place left foot forward, bend the right knee swing the arms foreupward-1-2; change knee bending, lower the wand left arm sideward wand horizontal-3-4; return movements.....................................................

2	Place left foot sideward, bend the right knee, raise left

arm sideward wand horizontal-1-2; change knee bending, swing left arm sideward, downward, right arm sideup-ward, left hand in front of right shoulder, wand vertical -3-4; return .............................................

3	Lunge left sideward, raise right arm sideward left hand in front of right shoulder, wand horizontal,-1-2; straighten the left knee and the arms upward wand horizontal-3-4; bend the left knee, turn trunk left and bend forward, lower left arm sideward right hand in front of left shoulder, turn head to the left, wand horizontal-5-6; return to the preceding position-7-8.

Repeat the last four counts to the right side-9-12; to

starting position 13-16 in all............................

Files are to be divided in even numbers marching on the lines of a square, No. 1 starting with left foot, four steps forward, face left and repeat three times; No. 2 stand still-1-6.

Reverse all; No. 2 starting with right foot; - 16 Pose, see time in the first group, see Figure IV..........

1

Group III

Lunge left forward, swing the left arm foreupward right hand in front of left shoulder-1-2; bend trunk forward, left end of the wand swings toward right foot, right hand

return ...............................................

Lunge left sideward. Raise the right arm sideward-1-2; Bend trunk right raise the left arm sideupward, right

Digitized by

Google

32M

16M

16M

32M

24M

16M
16M

32M

812

3

4

hand in front left, shoulder wand vertical-3-4; return

5-8	....................................................

Repeat exercise (1) of Part I...............................

Close the ranks as in group I, eight counts; 1-4. Wheel to the center, left column to left, right column opposite 9-12; four steps forward toward the center; all face front toward the audience, march off by twos, 13-16 See Figure IV A-&-B

A

B

T T T

V—£■

H

H

T T T

t

T T T T T T T T T T -T T

4 Dumbbell Exercises

Boys, 12-16 years of age Music:-“Jolly Coppersmith” by Peter.

Two counts to a measure, two counts to a movement. Formation in Ranks of three or six.

Introduction:-Boys stand still; one bell in each hand,..... 4M

Part I

1 Bend the arms to thrust-1-2; straighten the arm for-ward-3-4 bend the arms-5-6, repeat the last four counts

twice-7-14 lower arms to starting position-15-16....... 8M

Repeat -17-32	  8M

2. Same arm exercise as (1) but bend trunk forward, three

times as the arms are straightened forward,-1-2.......... 16M

3	As (1) but turn trunk left and right alternately....... 16M

4	In divided order, File No. 1 do exercise 3, starting left File No. 3 do exercise 3, starting right

File No. 2 do exercise 2 ................................. 16M

Interlude

Pose:-See Figure 1......................................... 6M

FIGURE 1	FIGURE 2

PART II

1	Bend the knees in four counts and at the same time click the bells alternately in time to the music, 1-4;

Jump to a side stride stand, swing the arms sideward,

5-6; Bend trunk forward, swing the arms forward, click bells 7-8; return to preceding position 9-10; repeat the last four counts-11-14; jump to starting position -15-16; Repeat all, three times-17-64 .................... 32M

2	Weight lifting exercises.

Stride left sideward, bend trunk forward, place right hand on hip, reach with left, as if picking up a weight-1-2;

Bend the right knee, raise trunk and snap up the left

Digitized by

Google
813

arm to left shoulder, 3-4; straighten the right knee and left arm pushing up the weight, 5-6; return to proceeding position,-7-8; repeat the last four counts 9-12; place weight on the floor-13-14; to starting position-15-16, repeat all right, left, right................................ 32M

3	In divided order, No. 1	No. 2	No. 3	No. 1	No. 2	No. 3

T	T	T	T	T	T

No. 1 Perform exercise (2) starting left foot

No. 3 perform exercise (2) starting right foot

No. 2 perform exercise (1) four times ..................... 32M

PART III

1	Squat stand-1-2; straighten the legs backward-3-4; Repeat 16M

2	Lunge left sideward bend the arms to thrust, 1-2

straighten left arm obliquely sideupward, right opposite 3-4 Repeat..........................*......... 16M

3	Interlude :-pose see Figure II

4	In divided order proceed as in the previous part....	16M

Closing the ranks and march off.

5.	Moment Musical

Music by Schubert.

The Dance has been arranged for three dancers, two with the Pipes of Pan. One with a scarf, No. 1 and No. 3 are the pipe dancers. No. 2 scarf dancer.

Introduction .............................................. 2M

All polka steps and skip steps should be executed with high knee raising.

PART I

No.l and No.3 come out from the rear right hand corner of the stage, see Figure I. Two polka steps forward, playing the pipes, on the first bend forward on the second step gradually straighten out to erect position, playing pipes in pantomime-1-4................. 2M

Four slap steps forward, swing the arms naturally, the

pipes in the right hand-5-8............................ 2M

Repeat, three times, the first 12 measures should bring the dancers once around the stage, see Figure II; both face left facing the audience, see Figure III; on the last four measures they should be in middle of the stage facing each other, see Figure IV................ 12M

PART II

No 1 and No 3 do millwheel left, in double balance hop

left and right,-1-8, eight skip steps forward-9-16... 8M

Repeat all,-17-32........................................ 8M

Scarf dancer appears at the beginning of this part, from the same comer as the pipers; same step i. e., double step hop left and right, eight skips forward arms fourth intermediate in the step hops; they swing naturally in the skips. This should bring her to rear center of stage, face audience, the next eight measures should bring her between No. 1 and No. 3, see Figure V...... 16M

Digitized by

Google
814

PART III

All facing toward left side of stage, see Figure VI; step left forward, stoop forward, playing pipes, point right foot forward, straighten to erect position,-l-4 starting right foot-5-8

Scarf dancer same step, swings scarf down and up... 4M

moving in an oval to the left two polka hops, and four

skip steps forward.................................... 4M

Repeat, see Figure VII................................ 8M

PART IV

The following eight measures of music are to be repeated.

No. 1 and No. 3 move backward, No. 2 forward, for four measures, two polka hops and four skip steps, see

Figure VIII ......................................-	4M

Now reverse •	.................................... 4M

All three join hands in circle formation; balance left, forward-1-2, balance right backward-3-4. Repeat all,-5-8	4M

Eight litte running steps left, dancers lean backward, the

arms are well	extended................................ 4M

PART VI

Repeat the first two measures of Part III, four skips forward face about, see Figure IX

Repeat the last four measures with facing about.... 8M

Repeat all ........................................... 8M

On the last count, move straight forward, without the

turn, repeat the	first	two measures................... 2M

Four skips forward, exit see Figure X................. 2M

1 H H 1  FIGURE 1 1	FIGURE 6 j	1 H"H 1
FIGURE 21 j	FIGURE 7	C3 1
FIGURE 3 | T ^ T |	FIGURE 8	•4-1- ^ H-* 1 T 1
FIGURE 41 h H |	FIGURE 9 |	1 & I
\r\—-h  figures! C	FIGURE 10	H H H |

6.	Clown Exercises

Boys age from 14-18 years Music :-‘‘Liberty Bell'’ by Sousa. Two counts to a measure. Formation :-Flank Circle formation, arms length distance, see Figure I.

Introduction :-Eight counts, stand still......................... 4M

Digitized by

Google
815 PART I

1	1-4 turn left, four steps forward, toward the center of

the circle, 1-4; face right and four steps in place,-5-8.... Place hands on front shoulders, cut hop left and right, circle progresses forward (raise the left leg sideward, hop on right foot-9-10; displace right foot with left foot and hop on left foot-11-12,) repeat this three times-13-24.... Lower arms, face left, four steps backward, face right four steps in place-25-32...................................

2	Lunge left sideward, raise the arms sideward,-1-2; bend

trunk left sideward, touch floor with left hand-3-4; return -5-8; Repeat right, left, right-9-32........................

3	Repeat exercise-1 ..........................................

4	Kneel left, bend the arms upward, -1-2; straighten the

right leg sideward, left arm sideward, right arm upward left hand touching the floor, right leg, trunk and right arm forming one line-3-4; returning-5-8; repeat all right, left, right-9-32.....'...............................

A* *-**y		% £ *
r	*	*
u-		&
.K  V	AV	
/ t- yVv	*	

PART II

1	Repeat exercise 1- but omit the 1-4 turn on the last

four counts, all facing the center..... ..............

2	Join hands in the front circle formation, lunge left

forward swing the arms foreupward-1-2; bend trunk forward, lower arms forward, until the hands touch floor

3-4; retum-5-8; repeat all right, left, right ........

3	Repeat 1- of Part II..................................

4	Squat stand-1-2; straighten the legs backward, to sup-

port-lying frontways-3-4; squat stand with crossing left foot in front of right foot-5-6; straighten to stand with a 1-2 turn right,-7-8; Repeat three times-9-32........

PART III

1	Repeat exercise 1 of Part I; on the last four counts

No. 1 face center, marching in place, while No. 2 face right about in four steps, both lock their arms i.e. elbows respectively, see Figure II...........................

2	No 1 bend trunk forward, lifting his partner No 2 off

the floor-1-2; straighten trunk lowering No 2 to floor again-3-4 (Note the boy who is lifted leaves his legs perfectly straight). Reverse the above. No. 2 do the lifting and lowering-5-8. Repeat three times..................

3	Repeat exercise 1 of Part III ........................

Digitized by

Google

4M

8M

4M

16M

16M

16M

16 M

16M

16M

16M

16M

16M

16M
816

4	The arms of the partners are locked as before, but the heels are two feet away from each other, both sit down on the floor-1-4; raise to stand-5-8; repeat three

times-9-32 .................................................... 16M

Exit:-As follows, No. 2 face in line of direction, do squat stand and come to support lying frontways with feet apart, in four counts; No. 1 face the same direction, pick up No.2 by the ankles, in wheel barrow fashion, in this position walk off.

7.	Pyramids Boys.

Jk Rank #1 Jk Rank#8

Rank #3

Rank #4

14-tnye

|

g'l'i'i'pc

o o o o • • • •

'S-0.0.0-O-

<-*- o o O O

^0.0.0.0.

S’

a

|

8

s

a>