MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	SEPT.-OCT.	1933	No.	414

By Way of Disputing the Value of Present Trends in Physical Education

By Randall D. Warden, Director of Physical Education, Newark, N. J.

Mind and Body has most opportunely opened up for discussion the question of what shall be taught in physical education at the present time.

In the January issue, Emil Rath propounded a theory of core activities in physical exercise to which V. S. Blanchard has made objection in the March issue.

Inasmuch as the debate promises to develop into a real Donnybrook, judging from the contribution last April, I cannot resist the temptation to seize a shillalah and get into the fray.

Let us start with a clear and simple understanding of the question under dispute. If we remove all the philosophical and pedagogical bombast, we have just two points upon which to differ.

The first one is that of subject matter.

Blanchard and his adherents claim that the child learns best by doing things which gain his interest. Therefore, the child, if left to himself, will choose stunts, games, sport and athletic exercise. They object particularly to the use of free or fundamental exercise as a suitable vehicle for training a child’s physical faculties. On the other hand, Rath and the subscribers to his theory claim that material should be unlimited and should be chosen by the teacher for the needs of the all-round development of the child.

This side feels strongly that tactics, dancing, apparatus, fundamental exercises, athletics, sports ahd games combined in a program will do more to develop the children than a constricted sports period of instruction.

The second point of difference is the claim that the child learns better when taught informally than when “goaded by a drill master”. Or, briefly, shall the instruction be formal or informal?

In other words, Johnny learns more effectively when he makes his own rules, sets up his own conduct and carries on his own routine work.

The opposing force contends that Johnny’s learning process is simplified when he is directed in his exercise by explanations and demonstrations under the direction and commands of his teacher.

With the differences of the two rival camps in mind, let us

Digitized by ^.ooQLe
110

go back and talk about the first point of dissension, viz: The Interest Motive.

No one will deny that interest is a very great factor in the learning process. But the question here is whether the child is able at all times to choose the right kind of exercise for his particular needs. And further, if the teacher is to encourage this by giving only exercise which the child likes, is he likely to round out the child’s development? Certainly a child educated to control his entire neuro-muscular coordination and to stretch and contract his entire musculature to the full limit of its use, is a better trained child than one who can simply play the games which are most common to the gymnasium or playground; or which he likes to do best.

It will be claimed that a rhythmic drill, after the Bukh pattern, is artificial and uninteresting to the child, and therefore is not in the class of natural exercises such as running and throwing. However, can you conceive of attaining such splendid controls and such suppleness of the body by the exercise of running and throwing as is attained by a Bukh class? Or on the other hand do we presuppose that a child, who has had such fundamental rhythmics will not learn to run, throw, play or do stunts as well as ball players? Certainly not!

We achieve, or at least approach, perfection by repetition. But Blanchard says, in effect, if I understand him, perfection in physical education is not desirable. Does he subscribe to mediocrity in education? I was under the impression that we taught people in order that they might learn all that was best in human procedure and thus develop a higher civilization. Ruskin says: “Education, briefly, is the leading human souls to what is best, and making what is best out of them.”

How did Demosthenes learn to speak perfectly? By saying words over and over again with pebbles in his mouth. I do not suppose this was exactly pleasant exercise. How did Helen Keller learn to talk? By repeating the same word until her teacher was satisfied! How did Franklin learn to write? By writing and re-writing the same article until he reached perfection. This must have entailed more drudgery than you or I would like. And yet these exercises must be conceded as the tools which made these people famous.

If these examples show that where imperfections are found benefit may be derived from tedious fundamentals, will it not be concluded that 37% of our youth known to have physical imperfections as brought out by war time statistics may be corrected by similar tedious procedure and application of fundamental exercise?

When we know that success in any line of endeavor requires infinite care, patience and application, why do we adopt methods of teaching which certainly under most instructors, especially in the gymnasium and on the playfield, allow children such leeway that they grow careless and seldom apply themselves thoroughly to learning anything well. Can you dispute that most

Digitized by v^ooQle
Ill

informal instruction inevitably degenerates into the practice of following the lines of least resistance?

It is obvious that a narrow and restricted program which relies on games and skills alone for the development of that complicated machine, the human body, neglects the use of many tools which could be made of great assistance in rounding into perfection an instrument which has no limits of development.

Should not the ripened experience and judgment of the teacher, the principal and the supervisor be worth more in the education of the child than a program of games which the pupil selects for his own satisfaction and pleasure?

Again, I think that the school which maintains that interest should predominate is just a bit unjust in not conceding that interest can also be aroused in teaching fundamental rhythmic exercises or dancing to. a group of boys. And I would even challenge the contention that because a drill is artificial, there is no interest in it for the boys. I know there is that same exhilaration and emotional satisfaction in a drill well done as there is in a beautiful dance or a rollicking folk step.

It seems to me that those who inveigh against the drill start out with the assumption that the interest-creating possibilities of so-called free exercises are totally absent. This, of course, is the wrong attitude to take and should be revised according to newly-developed principles and theories on this subject.

Now let us discuss the second point of disagreement, viz: Shall there be any form, line or perspective to a class during the lesson or should we let the group organize as best it can, and take care of its own conduct situations? The theorists insist that the latter is important and that only by doing this, can we develop people who think for themselves.

I do not take issue with this statement but I take issue with the application of this principle. From what I have observed, when the lesson consists merely of throwing out basketballs, baseballs, volley and soccer balls to the children, it is generally pretty poor physical education. The children usually seize upon these balls with great avidity and proceed to amuse themselves with little thought of learning the skills that should precede the playing of the game. Besides I have seen few teachers who have done much in developing a technique for imparting these skills. Moreover, I think the story about the teacher who spent the greater part of the period telling the boys how to play and at last met with the expletive: “Oh, hell! give us the ball!” is typical of the amount of attention usually paid to game instruction.

Are we not likely to over-emphasize this self-initiative theory? It seems to me that even if it is a valuable way to teach people to think for themselves and do for themselves, at best we are educating a lot of children to be independent who are not fitted for this high plane of conduct.
112

It is a good training for youth to learn to take orders. I have the greatest admiration for the U. S. Army cadet and the U. S. midshipman. Anyone who has come in contact with either of these National training schools will comment most favorably upon the gentlemanly behaviour and superior personal conduct of the boys. And I rather think their subsequent success will measure up above the average. In comparison with most of our colleges, these boys stand out. I am at a loss to explain this, unless it is due to their training., If it is due to their formal training, and their habit of obeying orders, habits of neatness, promptness, good posture and keeping up to the mark [and I know of no other point of difference in instruction between them and the other colleges of the country], unquestionably formality and obedience to orders have value. - 5

We have college professors who write learnedly of the law of effect and our integrating processes in education. They say that the core of education is the child himself. We would not deny that they call attention to valuable ideas in education. But the good old axiom will ever hold true: “As the twig is bent, the tree is inclined.” I therefore would like to see the best features of both schools of education brought together for a stronger program than either camp can in itself provide.

This seems to be absolutely essential if we are not to wreck the profession with foolish notions and prejudices. No doubt we must go along with modem education but let us not forsake blindly what has long proven its value.

The unfortunate part of all this discussion lies in the inability of the young teachqr to interpret the different methods and to use them effectively. Trying to use the so-called informal method of teaching has resulted in a group of young teachers carrying on a slip-shod “throw-out-the-balls” brand of physical education which is disgusting principals and teachers with its lack of aim and direction. There are great possibilities in a class where personal freedom is allowed to bring out all the best in one’s conduct and character, but few teachers are sufficiently trained in this method to develop and make use of one half of its possibilities.

We can well afford to get together on some of these controversial points, clear up misunderstandings and make use of the good in them for the improvement of the profession. To discard or decry worthwhile physical activities on far-fetched educational theories does not appear to be sound procedure.

“Let the child decide” is a good slogan. However, it has been my experience that when children are allowed to choose for themselves, they frequently select such activities as are least desirable for their welfare and with no other fundamental purpose than their own pleasure. Note the number of boys who play basketball exclusively to the detriment of their health.

Rath has in his dissertation presented a plan of procedure which is definite and will I am sure produce positive results.

Digitized by Google
113

I am not so sure that Blanchard's approach will give equally positive results.

There is a good deal of hokum about educating the child through physical education, through play and games to be a good citizen and to acquire those attributes of all education—self-sacrifice, loyalty, self-control, mental and moral poise and good sportsmanship. On the whole, I am sure we are treading on surer ground when we hold ourselves to the main object which is the physical development of the child.

In the past, overcritical views and recriminating controversies have not always benefited physical education and I sincerely hope that this discussion will not lead to troubled waters.

It seems to me that a happy solution can be found in carefully selecting the good points of both procedures with the welfare of the child the paramount issue, while considering his nature and inherent weaknesses, [He is a good deal like a colt and must be trained with the same firm hand] and so reach an amicable agreement that will be a credit to physical education as well as an addition to education itself.

“Core Activities” Once More

William A. Stecher, Honolulu, T. H.

"When I read Mr. Blanchard’s article in reply to statements made by Mr. Rath in a previous article, I was at least glad to see that a person disagreeing had the courage of his convictions and that he replied in a -vigorous manner. But I also had the feeling that the author read into Mr. Rath’s article things that never were intended or intimated. Nowhere in the criticized article do I find a statement or even an intimation that “activities” are to be given precedence over the child. To me the article is an attempt to classify the great number of physical education activities; to show that some activities are more valuable than others. I felt that if I were a teacher and had been given the responsibility of outlining an activities program for physical education purposes, I had a guide in the article that would be of great service to me.

In his article, Mr. Blanchard, in giving his conception of physical education “methods,” analyzes the steps and the activities that a boy makes in learning the headstand. He shows that there are some things that are more valuable than others; yes, that some are wrong. To my understanding that is what Mr. Rath has attempted in his article. He shows that to accomplish certain things in the physical education of a child some activities are better than others; that some are fundamental.

Mr. Blanchard evidently thinks that only the so-called natural activities have educational value. To be sure of this I again read his article, and I was forcibly reminded by it of the articles we used1 to Write when the “war of the systems” was in its glory.

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
114

This was at the time when the slogans were “Hurrah for our side; damned be the fellows of the other side; they are stubborn blockheads, heathen who either are to be converted or exterminated." We had lots of heat then, but not so much light. [Dr. Sargent and Dr. McKenzie helped in giving light.]

Well, as one gets older one discovers that there are several paths to glory. And since living in Hawaii I have found that those fellow-creatures classed by “us Christians" as heathen are not so bad at all. In fact, I found that the so-called “Christian virtues” are not only present in these heathen, but that in many cases their lives are superior to those lived by us. I am positive that they enjoy themselves and that they are as sure of their salvation as we are. Naturally, such a frame of mind sets me to wondering if all the physical education virtues are to be found only in those who swear by the program of so-called natural activities. Mr. Blanchard asks “what criteria is at hand to show that such fundamental free exercises do prepare the body thoroughly for life activities?” I wonder if Mr. Blanchard ever has been in Sweden and the adjoining countries. When we old timers first met the “Swedish invasion” the Swedes had the most formal system of gymnastics known. Who would dare say that these energetic, polished and educated gentlemen were not prepared, thoroughly for life activities, or that the citizens of Sweden had about as much individuality as the music produced by an electrical player piano.

The St. Louis World’s Fair in J.P04 brought together many physical educators of different countries. Attending the same lectures and physical activities for several weeks brought about a better understanding among us. Many became friends, and I vividly recall a remark made by Dr. Karl Zapp to my Swedish friend Jajob Bolin, when at parting he said "Bolin I never believed that a Swede could be such a good fellow”.

And so, in closing, I will say let us try to be less dogmatic. Even if Mr. Blanchard has “never seen the vital interest evoked under a teacher-controlled group taking fundamental free exercises,” it may be possible that somewhere on this globe of ours there are such benighted heathen, and perhaps they may even be vitally interested as well as enjoying the proceeding.

Comments on “Core Activities in Physical

Education”

H- P. Neilson, Chief, Division of Health and Physical Education, Sacramento,

California.

The article “Core Activities in Physical Education” contains many statements with which I can agree. For instance, “A thoroughly conditioned body is rhythmic, moves with ease, knows how and when and what part of the body to relax, has the
115

strength for ordinary tasks and has full range of movement in all of its joints; the instructional period is the most important part of physical education because it lays the foundation for further practice; in organized instruction it is impossible to teach activities that will give pleasure to all of the pupils all of the time; children taka part to excess in one kind of activity because they can do it well, and because doing it well gives them pleasure; the pupil must be taught to work and to face drudgery with determination when the goal requires it; and if children repeated only the responses which give them satisfaction most of them would make but little progress,” are statements with which there can be no fundamental disagreement.

Those who believe that education is the result of activity and that in the last analysis all the educational objectives there are or ever can be are but the results of activities, must disagree violently with the thesis that “Fundamental free exercises, intended to prepare the body thoroughly for life’s activities, are placed in the hub, or first zone of a star-wheel and they are indeed the “hub” of physical education around which all other activities group themselves.” Each activity in which the individual engages has its effect in the development of the individual. The contribution is specific. It becomes general only when it is like the contribution made by other activities. Specific preparation for swimming cannot be had by playing soccer. At least more progress will be made in swimming by swimming than by playing soccer. Conditioning the body for tennis can best be done by engaging in the activity most nearly like tennis, which is tennis itself. Conditioning the body for life’s activities can best be done by engaging in life’s activities. It is better than an even bet that a professional boxer is conditioned more by actual boxing with an opponent than he is by a set of exercises given to command. In other words, free exercises condition the individual specifically to do free exercises. The individual, when he participates in free exercises, has his development influenced. The development is not and cannot be basic and prerequisite to engage in other kinds of activities.

It interests me to know that children played, grew and developed before free exercises were invented; that animals do not wave their legs to condition themselves; that neither children nor adults in any great numbers ever continue free exercises as a necessary life activity. Free exercises do give certain results. To some their performance brings pleasure and there is relationship to some of the activities in life. They have their place— for some people they may occupy the central position, but for the great mass of people they will continue to be far from the center or hub of the wheel.

I can think of no reasons why basketball should be the hub of the star-wheel for all pupils around which all other activities should revolve. Why then should baseball, tennis, football, dancing, or free exercises be placed there? In short, there can be no general pattern to fit all pupils. The day of “systems” is
116

past. When we are able to analyze in great detail activities and their effects and classify pupils according to their age, sex and individual differences, we shall then be in a position to put two together with better results.

The Rise and Fall of Food Fads*

By Wingate M. Johnson.

The story has been told of the celebrated Dr. E. G. Janeway, whose memory is still green in New York, that a younger colleague once took a man to his office for an examination. After the great internist had lookd the patient over, he offered his diagnosis and outlined a treatment, but said nothing about the diet, so the patient asked what he should eat. “Eat anything you want,” replied Dr. Janeway, “except creamed oysters.” Greatly impressed by this ready warning, but too overawed to ask how it was reached, the patient later asked his doctor to explain how any man could be such a genius as to know that a perfect stranger could not eat creamed oysters safely. The lesser medical light was honest enough to admit his own ignorance, but volunteered to ask the eminent one at the next opportunity. Dr. Janeway’s reply was, “I ate some myself the week before and they damn near killed me!”

Here is the basic reason for much of the advice that is cur--rently given about diet. Doctors and dietitians, both amateur and professional, are very apt to be influenced by their personal bias in telling their patients what to eat and what to let alone. Fortunately for the human race, it can adapt itself to a wide variety of foods. The vegetarian faddists long ago demonstrated that meat can be dispensed with; more recently, Stefansson and his companions lived for nine months in the Arctic on meat alone. When the criticism was offered that the intense cold and their strenuous exercise enabled them to utilize more meat than would have been possible in a temperate climate, Stefansson and a friend lived for a year in New York on an exclusive meat diet, with no increase in their usual amount of exercise. Complete physical examinations before and after the experiment indicated that they were in rather better condition at the end of the year than at its beginning.

A counter experiment was conducted at one of the universities, and the subject was shown to have greatly damaged his kidneys thereby: but the cynical may wonder just how unbiased was this experiment, since it was financed by a grant from the president of a cereal company. Contrariwise, it is true that reprints describing the Stefansson experiment were distributed by the American Meat Packers’ Association, but Stefansson’s original

*Reprinted by kind permission of The American Mercury.

Digitized by Google
117

experiment was conducted in the Arctic, with no thought of its commercialization.

The chief lesson to be drawn from the investigations of the strict vegetarians and the strict meat eaters is that the human digestive apparatus is immensely adaptable. This quality serves the infant well from the first; for it is doubtful if the population of the United States would ever have increased if the infant part of it had not been able to thrive on a wide variety of artificial feeding. When I graduated in medicine nearly twenty-five years ago, the addition of limewater to the milk in bottle feeding was almost universal, for it was thought that increased alkalinity was essential. But now the vogue is for the addition of lactic acid to increase its acidity. Babies have thrived equally well on either diet; perhaps their ignorance of the chemistry of digestion saved them.

At one time boiling milk was thought to make it harder to digest; now it is known to make it more digestible. Then lactose was thought to be essential, for it was the kind of sugar found in milk; later it was tabooed as inclined to cause more fermentation. Now it is again being advocated as not causing fermentation, so, in thfc words of the celebrated Mr. Dooley, “there ye are.”

It is no wonder that one authority has advocated passing around a tray loaded with various foodstuffs, and allowing babies to choose their own. She reports that they show very good judgment, even when only a few weeks old.

Until comparatively recent times, a diet low in proteins was always ordered in nephritis, because it was argued that, since in this condition, the kidneys allow protein [albumin] to pass through their filtering mechanism into the urine, an excess of protein would irritate them. Now a high protein diet is popular —on the assumption that the proteins really do not irritate the kidneys at all, and that their excessive loss in the urine must be replaced by increasing them in the diet, else anemia and malnutrition will result. Undoubtedly the modern treatment is giving the better results.

Great interest ip the study of dietetics has been aroused by the discovery within the past few years of the vitamins. "While their recognition is of prime importance, it is unfortunate that they have been exploited beyond all reason by various commercial houses. Yeast is no longer content to be the humble means of raising bread and fermenting home-brew. It must also banish pimples, that tired feeling, auto-intoxication, and most of the other ills the flesh is heir to. Various means are adopted for making it more palatable—and less efficient.

The fruit growers’ associations would have us hold that day lost when at least three glasses of orange juice are not consumed, or a half-dozen bananas, or a peck of apples. Apple juice is being “electrically treated” to prevent its forming cider, and sold as good for everything from peptic ulcer through high blood pressure to general debility. But just why this elaborate treat-

Digitized by UaOOQle
118

ment to prevent nature from having her way should enhance its value is hard to explain.

The truth is that Mother Nature is so lavish with all the essentials of life that anyone who eats a diet even fairly well balanced is in no danger of suffering from lack of vitamins. As McCollum and Simonds have well said, “the place to get vitamins [with the exception of Vitamin D} is in the market, in the grocery-store, from the milk man and from the garden, and not from the drug-store.”

Certain articles of food, wholesome in themselves, have been so unduly exalted by dietitians that their use has become a kind of fetish. It is considered quite immoral nowadays to rear a child without its quota of spinach, and carrots are thought to be almost as valuable as the gold they resemble. As a matter of fact, there are a number of other vegetables that may be safely substituted for either or both of these new household gods.

Two mistakes are commonly made by the dyspeptic individual. One is the gradual elimination from his diet of one article after another [because he always attributes his discomfort to the last thing eaten], until he is on almost stravation rations. The other is the attempt to overcome constipation by the use of an excessive amount of roughage in the diet,, such as bran, coarse vegetables, salads, fruits and berries. Dr. Walter C. Alvarez, perhaps the best living authority on the digestive appar-tus, thinks that this roughage fad is largely responsible for the marked increase in mucous colitis during the past few years.

Dr. Alvarez is doing much to drive away the bogies of constipation and auto-intoxication, both largely the products of advertising. He gives convincing evidence that intestinal auto intoxication in adults is a very rare condition, and he also says that “there is little evidence to show that constipation ever produces diseases like high blood pressure, arthritis, or rheumatism.”

Perhaps the most dangerous fad just now is limited almost entirely to women—that of dieting to get or to keep thin. Like many other follies, it is the shadow of a virtue. Unquestionably, of the two extremes, leanness is preferable to obesity. I have often remarked that the practice of medicine would be made much easier if I could persuade my male patients to diet more and my female patients to diet less. If the ladies would only use discretion in the matter, and not diet to the point of emaciation, they would deserve to be congratulated upon their will power. But no amount of persuasion will make them listen to reason.

Dr. S. Adolphus Knopf has pointed out that since 1924 there has been an “alarming increase in the morbidity and mortality of tuberculosis among [American] young women” as compared with young men of corresponding ages. He shows that the death-rate in New York among girls is now almost twice the rate for boys. He attributes this chiefly to the “almost insane desire of so many young women to have slender figures.” After arguing in vain with numerous victims of this craze, I have often

Digitized by
119

thought he might well have omitted the almost before insane. For instance, one very capable and intelligent trained nurse who had voluntarily lost more than a third of her weight—and with it much of her beauty, animation, and charm—was found to have incipient tuberculosis. In spite of all the persuasion I, with three other physicians, could bring to bear, she stubbornly refused to eat more than starvation rations, since she would rather have consumption than risk getting fat.

The price that these deluded victims pay is the sacrifice of the fresh beauty and vivacity that belong to youth. Other common by-products of excessive skinniness are kidneys movable or floating from absorption of their beds of fat; digestive disturbances from the sagging down of the stomach and intestines; anemia from malnutrition; and excessively low blood pressure, with its attendant weariness.

Many people are unconscious victims of dietary fancies. How often is the expression heard, “I can’t eat fish,” or “I can’t drink milk,” or “I never could learn to like spinach” or eggs, or what not.

Often the victim of such fancies expects to become nauseated by the article in question—and he is seldom disappointed. Stef-ansson, in “The Friendly Arctic,” one of the best books on dietetics in existence, says that he thought he could not eat fish until he was twenty-five years old, but admits he might have learned sooner “if it had not furnished such a fascinating topic of conversation.”

It is true that there are rare cases of true idiosyncrasy tc certain foods. Every pediatrician occasionally has under his care a baby who may break out with great welts and perhaps vomit violently when given his first taste of egg; but most of these will acquire a tolerance for it if given very small amounts at first, gradually increased. The great majority of food fancies, however, are purely imaginary, and can be overcome by the exercise of sufficient will power.

An example has come to my notice since the preparation of this article began. My secretary, a most intelligent young woman for years thought she could not eat oysters, because they had made her sick in her childhood. But now, encouraged by Stef-ansson’s experience with fish, she has eaten them several times, not only with impunity, but with relish.

Many of the current fancies amount to superstitions, such as the belief that fish and milk form a dangerous combination if eaten together. During my interne days, we were served fish every Friday for dinner. With most of the other young doctors, I washed my fish down with two or three glasses of milk—and can testify that they mixed perfectly at least once a week for eighteen months.

A food fancy sponsored largely by physicians, especially pediatricians, is the supposed danger of giving milk with fruits. In the last edition of Dr. Holt’s famous “Care and Feeding of Children,” which for more than a generation has been the Bible
120

of young American mothers, he says, “It is not, as a rule, wise to give cream or milk with tour fruits.” Other pediatricians generally advised mothers to give their children orange juice between meals, and never with milk. Apparently it never occurred to them that the first thing that happens to milk in the stomach is that it is curdled by the acid gastric juice. Now many pediatricians mix lemon juice instead of lactic acid with milk.

This idea that certain combinations of foods are either helpful or harmful is exploited widely by quacks. One with a large following condemns the age-old custom of eating meats and starches in combination. Others insist on foods being eaten raw—apparently ignorant of the increased risk of ingesting intestinal parasites in the process. Many other food fancies are due to advertising. For instance, a malted cereal is widely proclaimed as a hypnotic —whereas any light meal, such as a glass of plain milk with a few crackers, would answer the same purpose, by coaxing blood from the brain into the stomach.

A food fancy now happily losing ground is the belief that childbirth may be made easier if the prospective mother eats lightly during the last half of her pregnancy. One woman of my acquaintance, who had been warned by a number of medical men that a serious heart condition made childbearing dangerous, was so eager for a child that she foolhardily took the risk, and then placed herself under the care of a “specialist” in a large city. He assured her that all would be well if she would only limit the size of the child by following the diet he prescribed. She obeyed faithfully, and in a few months could have posed for a picture of a starving Belgian. In spite of this, she had a severe heart attack at the eighth month. As a forlorn hope she was delivered by Caesarean section under local anesthesia, and by a miracle lived.

But although the baby was bom a month too soon, it weighed somewhat more than six pounds [though it did not have the stamina to live more than a few hours] and another month would have brought its weight above the average, despite the mother’s self-induced emaciation.

NOTES ON THE DEEPER MEANING AND UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS TAUGHT BY CARL LOGES. GERMANY.

Translated by Ernst Thoma from an article by H. Bruns in which the latter describes a post graduate course conducted by Carl Loges.

Loges has no system and wants no system. He wants live work, striving, creating. He utilizes the good wherever he finds it, be it by Bode, by Laban, by Wigman, by Loheland.

The fundamentals briefly include the following:

The suppleing exercises serve to establish the natural flexibility of the body. This is . necessary orthopedic work. [When the natural capacity for movement is re-established, when the

Digitized by

Google
121

Ijody has regained its healthy motion, when it can tense and relax in a natural way, then the real “school of motion” begins.

Loges builds up his exercises fundamentally upon the much discussed idea of tension and relaxation. To establish the complete range between tension and relaxation is one of the fundamentals of the limbering exercises, and prepares for the relaxation.

For the body to move freely it must be in equilibrium, irrespective of the type of movement, be it bending, turning, jumping, the center of gravity must be perpendicularly over the point of support. As the center of gravity of the human body lies somewhere in the pelvic region, intensive work of the pelvis in all directions is essential.

The suppleing exercises, the stretching^ the tensing and relaxing of local muscle groups we call the “School of the Body,” but when we add the idea of control of the center of gravity and the consequential rational rhythmical movements, we pass on into the “School of Motion,” the development of the sense of motion of the entire body. It is in the “School of Motion” that the joy inherent in rhythmical movement begins.

"We thank Loges for wilfully diverging from the mushy-feminine line of work we still find so often in woman’s gymnastics. Though the woman does not require strength in the same degree with the man' it is nevertheless wrong to deduce from this fact that women’s gymnastics must therefore dissolve in sweet forms of movement. To the contrary, we must introduce some of the spice of earnest but joyful work of the body. We must not try to get aesthetic effects from without but must let these grow from the sense of motion within. A dynamic element is introduced by the alternation of tension and relaxation.

To each emotion is assigned its “appropriate” type of movement. Loges gives recognition to the more delicate sitrrings of emotion and encourages “listening inside” while exercising. And how wonderfully strange it is when one moves with closed eyes and feels within oneself the swinging rhythm of the movement, so different from when the open eyes rest upon external objects.	*

The object of the “School of Motion” is to develop equilibrium, to make the movements dynamic by alternate tension and relaxation, to vary them according to personal characteristics and to arouse the inner feeling or sense of motion and bring about accord between the soul and the motion of the body.

From here we go further, into artistic characteristics, such as artistic dancing. The fine and valuable thing the participants of the course took with them was not forms of movements. Loges wants to go beyond the forms of exercises that divide all into different systems and uncover the fundamentals of natural movements; he tries out all kinds of movements on his own body and aims to establish practical fundamentals whose forms and variations can be individualized. So in this course we also had

Digitized by ^ooQle
122

movement improvision as a motion study. Beyond the forms of movements we must advance to "motion ideas”.

Natural capacity for motion, rhythmic work of the whole body, equilibrium, emotional expression—with these we really have everything. And so Loges gave us little of forms of exercise but much in variation and incalculably much in movement possibilities. He is clear in his ideas, but tolerant in form.

Loges also sees in gymnastics a valuable preparation for track and field work.

He sees the difference that should mark the gymnastics of men and women due to. the differences in body build and emotional tendencies.

Another thing to just briefly mention is the frequent neglect of shoulder and arm exercises for women. Loges promotes the supporting power of these parts by natural exercises on apparatus and animal imitation exercises of Count Thun-Hohenstein of Vienna.

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.

To Recreation Executives, Park Superintendents and Chairmen of Park and Recreation Boards

Under the public works provision of the National Recovery Act, $3,300,000,000 is now available for public works and many hundred millions of this will be spent by cities.

Park and recreational projects—wading pools, swimming pools, tennis courts, field and shelter houses, playground development, etc.—are all eligible projects for such municipal public works.

The federal law provides that the federal government will make to municipalities outright grants of thirty percent of the cost of labor and material for approved municipal public works projects and will loan the balance of the total cost of the projects at four percent interest.

If the financial condition of your city is such that it is going to participate under the provisions of this public works act, here is a great opportunity to secure needed park and recreational facilities for your community at a local cost of little more than seventy percent of the total cost of the project.

Since speed in inaugurating public works projects is urgent, cities are now deciding on their askings, and therefore park and recreational authorities will do well to get busy immediately to make sure that park and recreational projects are included.

National Recreation Association.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	SEPT.-OCT.	1933	No.	414

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor. 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. v

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

In eating, as in many other things, it is probably true that a little nonsense will do no harm; but when this develops into a narrowly restricted fad or fetish the matter becomes extremely dangerous. The article by Wingate M. Johnson on “The Rise And Fall Of Food Fads'* contains the sort of common sense which keeps folks from straying too far from an intelligent manner of living.

It seems that people are ever ready to discard what is old and of proven worth for a newly discovered truth which has limited application, or even for a catch word or an empty phrase. Whether this is due to a desire for change, to avoid monotony, or whether it is the result of vociferous preaching by leaders [for altruistic or for selfish motives] is not always easy to determine; Of course, it is of utmost importance that people are willing and able to change their thoughts and customs, else there would be no progress.

The unfortunate thing about it is that people are not always properly guided by the leaders. If only the leaders, organizations as well as individuals, would weigh carefully, pick out what is better than or as good as what we have, warn against total substitution while pointing to specific applications,— then much foolishness as well as danger would be avoided.

What is true of food habits and other modes of living has application to physical education as well. Let us have continued frank and calm discussion

Digitized by LjOOQle
124

toy our leaders and let us have earnest thought on the part of all teachers with a view to properly evaluating all the newly emphasized activities and principles which periodically are forced to the front.

But, above all, let us not discourage original thinking and scientific experimental work!

We are delighted to announce that Howard L. Conrad has been added to the staff of regular contributors to Mind and Body. As a member of the staff, Mr. Conrad will provide the material dealing with health education and related subject matter. As parts of his monthly contribution there will be a series of paiagraphs under the heading of “Health Education Notes” and selected articles which have appeared in leading journals throughout this and other countries. In addition there will be periodic original articles, including a number from his own pen.

Mr. Conrad has had a rich and successful experience in various phases of health education. Our readers may look forward confidently to an interesting and discriminating presentation of material in this field.

The 34th German National Turnfest which was held in Stuttgart during July exceeded all expectations. It had been feared in most quarters that the bad economic state of Germany, coupled with the tense political situation would result in greatly reduced participation. On the contrary, the Turnfest was bigger and better than ever. Considerably more than sixty-thousand men and women took active part, and on two of the many special occasions during the week of intensive activity, two hundred and fifty thousand spectators were gathered in one enclosure to witness the program, with several thousand more clamoring to enter. That all roads in Germany led to the Turnfest can be attested by the writer who traveled throughout the country by automobile and saw individuals, couples, and small and large groups headed toward Stuttgart on foot, bicycle, motorcycle, bus, railroad, and boat.

The complexity of organization involved, the fullness and richness of the program, the number of participants, and the enthusiasm of the populace in connection with one of these Turnfests beggars description. It is an event that all teachers of physical education ought to make an effort to attend.

Physical education suffered a great loss in the passing of Mathias H. Macherey who died in June after a brief illness. Readers of Mind and Body will remember his frequent contributions of practical material to these pages. He is well known, further, for his books which have provided useful content material to thousands of teachers in the field.

Never a gifted speaker, Mathias Macherey was not a frequent figure on convention platforms. It was as an organizer of practical programs, as a supervisory helper to teachers, and as an instructor of youth that he made his important contributions. He will be sorely missed in Newark, N. J., where he served the public schools and playgrounds for many yearn.

SPECIAL REQUEST

Our subscribers are particularly asked to give attention to the Publishers' Note on page 144 of this issue. It is important.

Digitized by t^ooQle
125

Physical Illiteracy

By James Edward Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service

Physical illiteracy is growing in America. The public schools are as much responsible for physical literacy as they are for mental literacy. For the past twelve years the National and State Parent Teacher Associations have been interested in promoting state-wide physical and health education programs.

No subject in the public schools has grown so rapidly as physical education. Today thirty-six states representing 90% of the population of the country have laws, and 20 states representing 70% of the population have state directors of physical education on the staff of state superintendents of schools. There is physical illiteracy in the country. School statistics show that 70% of our 26 million school children have defects which do two things if neglected: [1] mar their future health and physical welfare; [2] retard their school progress.

The war draft statistics showed that 30% of the young manhood of this country between the ages of 21 to 31, when they should be physically fit and at their best, had physical defects which so handicapped them that they could not go into uniform to defend their flag.

Life Insurance Companies say that the death rate is increasing between the ages of 45 to 70. *On the average the man of 45 has less a chance to live than the man of 45, 100 years ago.

No subject in the next ten years will make more progress than health education. Why? Because in this industrial machine age of stress and strain, health education becomes of first importance.

Modem mechanical inventions are creating an artificial environment in which it will be more difficult for youth to live completely. We must make the school term conform more closely to the natural life of the child. This is an artificial age of standardization. Outdoor 'living becomes more difficult. Big muscle activity in work and play is almost impossible in the large cities.

With the passing of the dirt roads, the old swimming hole, the chores, and with the coming of movies, radio, and vacuum cleaners, youth will have greater difficulty to live physically.

We have conquered communicable diseases, but a new set of physical ailments besets man. The diseases that are attacking men and women over the age of forty come from within. They originate from four organs—heart, lungs, kidneys, and liver. The rapid increase in heart disease is not only a warning signal but an indictment. In this hectic world of machines and efficiency methods, children are being raised. In this artificial age, activity is essential to growth and development. Activity is the great biological drive in human life. Play is essential to child life; through it, he gains life. The antidote for this physical

Digitized by

Google
126

degeneration in human life is more outdoor living, big muscle activity, play and recreation, and balanced ratio between work, rest and play.

The object of education is not alone to make a living but to make a life. We often gain a livelihood but lose the art of living. The modem definition of education is to prepare the child for complete living. Complete living will become more difficult under modem conditions of this industrial machine age.

We should guarantee to our children the right to live completely. To live completely they must have good health and be fit physically. It will be more difficult in this mechanical and industrial age for our girls and boys to live completely physically. A requirement for graduation from our public schools should be that every child have a sound mind in a sound body.

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHERS OF HEALTH EDUCATION

Allen G. Ireland, M. D.

I would offer these points for you to think over.

1.	The child is not interested in health or hygifene as such. Health, an abstract term, is beyond his comprehension. It is understandable only to late adolescents and adults.

2.	But the child is interested in anything that will promote his immediate interests, those phases of life close and dear to him.

3.	In formal hygiene instruction, the child’s objective is to learn enough to pass an examination, to meet a school requirement. Any effect on living is usually accidental, or by chance the facts learned touched intimately some interest as suggested above.

4.	One sure way to make health education effective and interesting is to reverse the usual order by letting the pupils talk, discuss, suggest, and ask questions, while the teacher is silent or, at the most, merely a guide.

5.	“Seeing is believing” is a truism with children. They are made to be like that. True, if you tell them there are germs, they believe; but to show them germs under a miscroscope is convincing as well as interest-provoking. I know most schools don’t have microscopes, but the example can be applied to seeing water purification plants, spoiled food, poison ivy, gain in height and wight, and so on without end.

6.	As a rule stick close to familiar events and situations in child life.

7.	Give children every opportunity to deduce their own health rules and the rules for healthful homes and communities. It is that self-activity that teaches, not what you tell them.

8.	Assigned lessons and recitations should be discarded.

9.	Have, you tried experiments, projects, and socialized discussion? They are easier on the teacher, and far more interesting to the class.

Digitized by Google
127

10.	Anatomy and physiology are of no value in themselves. They have a place only in so far as they make the reasons for healthful living clear to children. To that end, therefore, such facts should be brought into the lesson only as needed or when questions arise.—News Letter, New Jersey Physical Education Association.

ONE-STEP JUMP

Grover W. Mueller

The participant begins with the toes of both lor one] feet at the take-off line. If only one foot is at the line, the other foot must be raised clearly from the ground. He takes a step from the take-off line with one foot and then immediately jumps, landing on both feet. The step should assist in gaining momentum for the jump. The one-stop jump, then, is like the last two parts of the event called hop-step-jump.

The step-jump is measured from the edge of the take-off to the nearest impression on the ground made by any part of the jumper after the completion of the step. The total distance covered from the line by the step and the jump is thus measured.

This event is more interesting to most participants than is the standing broad jump because it is a more natural way of jumping and because it is more vigorous. At the same time the event may be conducted under the same limitations of space and equipment which made the standing broad jump a valuable event.

Where suitable facilities permit, the “Two-step Jump” should also be used. The only difference in technique between this event and the one-step jump is that two steps are taken in the former instead of one step.

Foul:—Touching the ground in front of take-off in an attempt to jump.

Penalty:—A foul will count as a trial without a score.

Life Saving Stervice Facts from Discobolus, Cincinnati.

From a report of the “Arbeiter-Tum and Sport Bund” of Germany covering the activities of their aquatic life saving service, we note the following interesting items.

Of the total of persons rescued from the water 805 were fully conscious, 107 were semi-conscious, 132 were unconscious.

In 240 cases of the fully conscious the rescuer had to battle with the victim while only 17 of the half-conscious resisted.

In 138 cases resuscitation methods had to be applied requiring from two minutes to two horns effort.

The length of time required to revive the patients is given as

3	minutes in 13 cases 10 minutes in 10 cases 15 minutes in 17 cases 20 minutes in 10 cases 30 minutes in 18 cases

Digitized by CaOOQle
128

90 minutes in 4 cases 120 minutes in 1 case The methods used are tabulated thus:

Schaefer method in 64 cases

Sylvester method in 41 cases

Howard method in 17 cases

Combined Sylvester and Howard in 8 cases

First Sylvester, then Shaefer in 4 cases

Pulmotor in 4 cases.

In a few cases the pulmotor supplemented the manual efforts as did also oxygen inhalation and various medical injections.

The duration of immersion of those revived from total unconsciousness is tabulated as follows:

1-2 minute 1 minute 1-2 minutes 2 minutes

4	minutes

5	minutes

6	minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes

5 persons 13 persons

4	persons 30 persons

9 persons

1	person 7 persons

2	persons

5	persons

EXTRACTS FROM A REPORT BY DR. JAMES ROBERTS, MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH OF HAMILTON,

ONTARIO.

In looking back over recent years of my experience as Medical Officer of Health, I find the discussion as to whether medical inspection of schools should be under the supervision of the Board of Health or Board of Education to have been of annual, nay, even of perennial interest. At times reasonable and dispassionate, the argument has occasionally waxed warm and even acrimonious. .

Permit me at the outset of my remarks to call your attention to a fundamental consideration which has not been sufficiently emphasized in the presentation of our problem to those who are not nurses and doctors, but which is of paramount significance to a proper conception of what school hygiene, looked at from a broad and really worth while viewpoint, comprehends. We refer to the difference between “health supervision” and “instruction in health.” The former, for the infant, preschool child, school child, adolescent, and adult is preeminently the duty of the official health department. The latter is the function of the educational authority. To except the school child arbitrarily from any comprehensive program of the Department of Health can be defended on no grounds nor by any process of sound reasoning. Health instruction is the business of the Board of Education. Health supervision and protection is the responsibility of the Board of Health and the Medical Officer of Health. . ..

Both academically and strategically the teacher is better

Digitized by

Google
129

equipped to carry on the teaching of health and hygiene in the school-room than the nurse. . . . Not only would I insist on the school authorities seeing that the teacher’s training is adequate to insure that this type of instruction shall not be carried out in a perfunctory or half-hearted manner, but that in all the educational curricula of the country the teaching of health and hygiene shall be so incorporated as to invest them with the importance which their influence on the future of our citizenship demands. . . .

Corrective physical education has become as indubitably and acceptedly a part of the school program as manual training, vocational guidance or domestic science or any other of the so-called fads which once upon a time aroused alike the criticism and the deprecation of the taxpayers. Corrective gymnastics, postural exercises, orthopedics, rest, nutritional clinics, sun baths, open air schools, etc., have become indispensable adjuncts in our efforts to insure the ability of the child to attend school and to make the most of his educational opportunities. In the evolution or reorganization of existing school health services, whether under the Medical Officer of Health or School Medical Officer as the case may be, these services are essentially medical as to their estab-lislunent and successful maintenance. . . .

The Medical Officer of Health takes the stand, logical and convincing to himself, no matter how irrational it may seem to others, that the necessary visits to the school in connection with the control of communicable diseases offer exceptional opportunities at the same time for search and investigation into the causes which later in life lay the foundation for physical and mental ill health, and that inasmuch as the schools have the children under observation for only 5 to 6 hours per day and for only 195 of the 365 days in the year, any program of health supervision undertaken by the school authorities must of necessity be partial, isolated and in most cases ill coordinated with the scheme of preventive medicine which is in operation throughout every day in the year, and which, moreover, is often re-sponsib e for some of the best and most intensive efforts of the Health Department durijig those months'of the year when the school health service, no matter how urgent the necessity, has entirely ceased to function. It is obvious, therefore, and to every one, that where health work, even to the extent of overlapping the work of the Health Officer in the control of contagion is carried on, that official becomes legally responsible for any miscarriage or neglect of duty and must not only carry on a campaign against infections in the public schools but as is the case in this city at the present time, must organize and carry on a similar crusade in the private and parochial schools. . . .

We are, in fact, at the present time, and have been for some years past, in the anomalous position of providing a dental service for both public and parochial schools, a nursing service for the control of communicable diseases in both classes of schools and a service for the correction of physical defects in the home.

Digitized by CjOOQle
130

or, in other words are carrying on a generalized nursing service covering the entire area of the city. . . .

Just here it would seem opportune to say a few words setting forth the advantages of such a nursing service. Accompanying my report is submitted a map showing the nursing districts which after due regard to density of population and other details necessary to be considered would, in our judgment be adequate to insure the successful working out of the proposed amalgamation. These districts are so arranged that the district nurse in each case may take care of all children, school and preschool in her area, not only with respect to her work in the schools, but will be able to assume responsibility for attendance at clinics and to follow up work in the homes. Contacts from contagious diseases and absentees from schools on account of presumptive contagion or other disabling cause can be visited without overlapping, as the district over which any particular nurse assumes health supervision contains all that portion of the city from which the attendance at school or schools is derived. . .

That a system of generalized nursing is the ideal in the field of public health is the opinion of those who have made a comparison of both specialized and generalized systems and who are qualified to make a pronouncement. . . .

It cannot but appear self-evident to anyone who has made a study of our health administration as its outlook has expanded and its development has progressed by leaps and bounds during recent years, that we are not dealing here with merely an educational reform or a social problem, but with a world wide realization of the importance of preventive medicine in the conservation of life and health. For this reason it would seem patent for the Health Officer to undertake whatever measures are reasonably available to promote the health of the entire community at all times for those of any age. He cannot without laying himself open to the charge of inconsistency assume responsibility for the health of children up to 5 years of age, then turn them over tc another official until they are 16, and subsequently without adequate records in his possession concerning the events in their physical and mental career at school, be expected to take the necessary steps to insure for them a healthy manhood and womanhood. . . .

We all, whether health or school officials, doctors, nurses, or lay persons, take a conscious pride in the great child hygiene movement, the impulse of which has travelled round the world and the influence of which has been felt to a greater or less degree in every city, town, and hamlet to which the gospel of hygiene and sanitation has penetrated. We all fully realize that as never before in history the present is the era of the child, and that medical inspection of schools, no matter by what authority carried on, has made an outstanding contribution to the betterment of the status of our children. In the future, as in the past, no matter what may be the decision of the city’s representatives on the proposed amalgamation, our desire will be to co-

Digitized by Google
131

operate to the best of our ability with School Boards or other agencies engaged in health and social work, to the end that we may forget our personal differences and consider only the child. Only by the assumption of such an attitude can our efforts be successful and the children be assured of a square deal.—American Journal of Public Health.

TENNIS DRILL—Tactics, Exercises and Pyramids

Jacob Rutishauser, Waterbury Turnverein Vorwaerts. Model Exercises

Buffalo Turnfest.

Participants: Eight ladies and nine men.

Formation: Ranks of Four in open order.

Music: Hoch Habsburg March by J. N. Krai.

Play first half of music two times omitting Introduction second time, 120 beats to the minute, two counts to the measure for Tactics. Second half of music, play Trio twice, 90 beats to the minute for Tennis Exercises and pyramids, and repeat second half of music omitting Trio. Repeat second half, once more, again omitting Trio.

MARCH. Entrance and Tactics

Enter by marching in flank line in 24 counts to Introduction of Music.

Counts

1-4 turn L forming front rank .................................... 4

Ladies—L	LALA LALA A LALA LALA

Men—A	  —	- - - -	- - -	-

1	2 3 4	5 6 7 8 17	9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16

Rank 1 Rank 2 Rank 3 Rank 4

Mark time...................................................... 4

Ranks 15 steps forw. and close R ............................  16

1-2 turn L ...................................................  4

Mark time...................................................... 4

Ranks 15 step forw. and close R .............................. 16

1-2 turn L .................................................... 4

Mark time...................................................... 4

7	steps forw.	and close R..................................... 8

Ranks 1 and	3 -Mark time ...................................  4

Ranks 2 and 4 -1-2 turn L.......

R1

------ !

!

! R3 ! - !

!

R2 !

R4

Digitized by LjOOQle
Ranks 1 and 4 - 1-2 wheel L Ranks 2 and 3 - 1-2 wheel L. Ranks 1 and 4-3 step forw. Ranks 2 and 3-1-4 wheeL...

Ranks 1 and 4 1-2 Turn L ...............

Ranks 2 and 3 Mark time 3 steps forw. and close R forming cross figure

Ranks whole wheel L ....................

Ranks 3-4 wheel R.......................

Rank 7 steps forward and close R .......

Ranks 1-2 turn L .......................

Rank 7 steps forw. and close R .........

Ranks 3-4 wheel L forming cross ........

Figure [after 3-4 wheel L] 1

	I	9
	!	10
	I	11
	I	12 - -
	17	
5	1	16 15
6	I	
7	!	
8	!	

14

13

Nos. 1, 12,16, 6, take 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn R .............

Nos. 2,11, 15, 6, take 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn R, 1 step forw.

Nos. 3, 10, 14, 7, take 1 step forw. 1-4 turn R and 2 steps forw. Nos. 4, 9,13, 8, 1-4 turn R and 3 steps forw..................

1

2

3

Figure	4

2	5	6	7	8	17	9	10	11	12

13

14

15

16

Nos. 8, 4, 9,13 take 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn R .............

Nos. 7, 3,10,14 take 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn R and 1 step forw. Nos. 6, 2,11, 15 take 1 step forw. 1-4 turn R and 2 steps forw.

Nos. 5,1, 12,16 1-4 turn R and 3 steps forw................

8

7

6

Figure	5

3	13	14	15	16	17	1	2	3	4

12

11

10

9

Digitized by
133

Repeat last figure ................................................     8

9

10

11

Figure	12

4	4	8	2	1	17	16	15	14	18

5

6

7

8

Counts

Ranks 1-2 turn L _________________________________________________   4

Ranks 1 and 4 1-4 wheel R------------------------------------------- 4

Ranks 3 and 2 3 steps forw........................................

All 1-2 turn L _____________________________________________________ 4

3 steps forw. and close ____________________________________________ 4

All 1-2 turn left .................................................. 4

9	16

10	15

Figure	11	14

6	12	13

17

4	5

3	6

2	7

1	8

Ranks 1 and 4 1-4 wheel L ____________________________

Ranks 2 and 3 1-4 wheel R ____________________________

Figure	R3............................  R4

7	17

R1............................  R2

All 1-2 turn L ___________________________________________

Ranks 1 and 4 1-4 wheel R ________________________________

Ranks 2 and 3 1-4 wheel L ________________________________

All 1-2 turn L........Same	as	figure 6 ..................

Nos. 4,13, 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn R.......

Nos. 5,12, 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn L......,

Nos. 6.11. 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn L and 1 step forw..—....

Nos. 3, 14, 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn R. and 1 step forw,----

Nos. 2,15,1 step forw. 1-4 turn R and 2 steps forw........

Nos. 10, 7,1 step forw. 1-4 turn L and 2 steps forw.......

Nos. 9, 8,1-4 turn L 3 steps forw...........

Nos. 1,16,1-4 turn R 3 steps forw.........

4

4

4

4

4

12	11	10	9		16	15	14	13
				17				
4	8	2	1		8	7	6	5

Digitized by
134

All 1-2 turn L ............................................................... 4

Nos. 4-13, 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn R............

Nos. 3-14, 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn R one step forw...........

Nos. 2-15,1 step forw. 1-4 turn R two steps forw............

Nos. 1-16,1-4 turn R and three steps forward............

Nos. 5-12, 3 steps forw. 1-4 turn L .......................................... 4

Nos. 6-11, 2 steps forw. 1-4 turn L one step forw...........

Nos. 7-10, 1 step forw. 1-4 turn L two steps forw...........

Nos. 8-9, 1-4 turn L and three steps forw............

12	V	13
11		14
10		15
9	17	16
1		8
2		7
3		6
4		5

All 1-2 turn L ___________________________________________________

Ranks 1-4, 1-4 wheel R ...........................................

Ranks 2-3, 1-4 wheel L........

All 1-2 turn L ...................................................

Ranks 1-4, 1-4 wheel R ...........................................

Ranks 2-3, 1-4 wheel L........

All 1-2 turn L ...................................................

3 steps forw. and close R.........................................

4

4

4

4

4

4

R3	R4

17

R1	R2

All 1-2 turn L ...................................................... 4

Ranks 4-1, 1-4 wheel L ...........................................    4

Ranks 2-3, 3 steps forw. and close R......

All three steps forw ................................................ 4

Ranks 4-1, 1-2 turn L ..............................................  4

Ranks 2-3, Mark time...........

Ranks 4-1, three steps forw. and close R ...........................  4

Ranks 2-3, 1-4 wheel R...........

Ranks 4-1, 1-2 wheel R .............................................. 8

Ranks 2-3, 1-2 wheel R.........

Ranks 4-1, 1-2 turn L ............................................... 4

Ranks 2-3, Mark time...........

[Rank changes to rank of eights]

Ranks 1-2, 1-2 wheel L...........1-4	turn facing front............. 12

Open Ranks in 8 counts............................................... 8

Racket in starting position

Pause 8 counts for second Introduction of music. Introduction ------  8

Then start Tennis Drill.

Digitized by (^.ooQte
135

TENNIS DRILL

In open order—Stand erect, the racket held in the R hand, R arm straight, L arm bent, rim of racket resting in L hand, racket held obliquely in front of chest. This position of racket will be referred to as [Starting Position].

Exercise One

Count

Toss imaginary ball with the L hand................................... 1

Step L. forw. and swing R arm upw. and backw. to obliquely foreupw.

pos. and L arm to obliquely backdownw. pos.......................  2-4

Step L sidew., cross R leg in back of L, racket in starting pos..... 5-6

Bend knees deep, L arm obi. sidedownw., R arm obi. backdownw.....	7

Swing R arm obi. foredownw............................................ 8

1-4 turn L, step L fd!rw............................................   9

Lunge R forw., swing R arm over to obi. foredownw. pos...........10 - 12

1-4 turn R and step R sidew. and cross L in front of R bend knees, R

arm obi. backdownw................................................  18

Swing R arm obi. foredownw........................................... 14

Step R sidew. and close L to R racket in starting pos............15 - 16

Repeat 3 times, changing racket to L hand on last 2 counts.......17 - 64

Exercise Two [Racket in L hand]

Stride L sidew., raise L arm obi. sideupw., R arm obi. sidedownw.,

head turned up toward racket ........................................ 1-2

Lunge L backw., swing racket to striking pos. over L shoulder, R arm

obi. foreupw......................................................... 3-4

Swing L arm foredownw. to	obi. backdownw. pos............................. 5

Change knee bending, swing L arm obi. foredownw., R arm obi. backdownw................................................................ 6

Change knee bending, swing racket to striking pos. over L shoulder, R

arm obi. foreupw..................................................... 7-8

Step L sidew., swing R leg in front of L leg, swing racket over R

shoulder ................................................:.......... 9-10

Step right sidew., swing L leg front of R leg, L arm obi. sideupw.....11	-	12

Step L. sidew., swing R leg in front of L, swing racket to striking pos.

over L shoulder....................................................13	-	14

Step R sidew., close L to R, racket in starting pos. in R hand .......15	-	16

Repeat R, L, and R ..................................................   17	-	64

Exercise Three [Racket in L hand]

Lunge L sidew., raise L arm up to horizontal in front of chest, R arm

obi. sidedownw.........,.............................................. 1-4

1-4 turn L, lunge R forw., swing L arm downw. to striking pos. over L

shoulder, R arm sidew. and turn head R ............................... 5-8

1-2 turn L, raise R leg, swing racket to striking pos. over R shoulder,

R hand on hip ....................................................... 9-10

Swing R arm forw.......................................................11	-	12

Step R forw, 1-4 turn L, cross L in back of R, swing R leg in front of

L, swing racket to striking pos. over L shoulder, R hand on hip ....13	-	14

Close R to L, change racket to R hand, [Starting Position] ............15--16

Repeat R, L, and R. At finish, racket remains in R hand................17	-	64

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
136

Exercise Four [Racket in Right Hand]

Count3

Swing arms downward......................................................  1

Slide hop L obi. forw.,’swing arms upw.................................... 2

Step R obi. backw., close L to R, swing arm downw....................... 3-4

Step L sidew. and cross R in back of L, racket in starting pos.......... 5-6

1-4 turn L, step L forw., cross R in back of L bend knees deep, R arm

obi. foredownw. L arm obi. sidedownw................................. 7-8

1-4 turn R step R sidew., cross L in front of R and bend knee, circle

R arm upw. to obi. sidedownw., L arm obi. sidedownw................. 9-10

Close L to R, swing racket to striking pos. over R shoulder L hand

on hip ...........................................................11	-	12

Jump R sidew., swing arm downw. ........................................13 -	14

Raise arm to striking pos., change racket to L hand.....................15 -	16

Repeat R, L, and R ..................................................17	-	64

Exercise Five [Racket.in Left hand]

Lunge L sidew., L arm obi. sidedownw., R arm obi. sidedownw.......... 1

Close L to R, bend trunk R sidew., swing racket to striking pos. over

L shoulder, L elbow high, R hand on hip .......................... 3

Cross layout L obi. backw., L arm obi. sidedownw., R arm obi. sidedownw.............. ..................................................... 5

Lunge L obi. forw., swing racket to striking pos. over head, R hand

on hip ........................................................... 7

Change knee bending, bend trunk forw., circle L arm inward to obl„

foredownw., R	arm sidedownw....................................... 9

Lunge L backw., circle L arm outw. R obi. sidedownw., R arm obi.

sidedownw.........................................................11

Close L to R, bend knees deep, swing both arm obi. foredownw.........13

Straighten knees, change racket to R hand, starting pos..............15

Repeat R, L, and R ..................................................17

Exercise Six [Racket in Left hand]

Swing R leg over L leg, turn trunk L, swing R arm horizontally left

sidew., swing racket to striking pos. over L shoulder ............ 1

Step R sidew., swing L leg over R leg, turn trunk R, swing L arm horizontally R sidew., swing racket to striking pos. over R shoulder 3 Step L obi. forw. raise R leg backw., L arm obi, foreupw., R arm obi.

backdownw......................................................... 5

Layout L obi. backoutw., swing racket to striking pos. over R shoulder

R hand on hip .................................................... 9

Lunge L obi. forw.-inward, L arm obi. foreupw., R arm horizontally

sidew.............................................................11

Close L leg to R, racket to striking pos. over L shoulder, R hand on

hip ..............................................................13

Jump straight up, swing L arm downw., R arm horizontally sidew.......15

Lunge L sidew., L arm obi. sidedownw., R arm obi. sidedownw..........17

1-4 turn R change knee bending swing racket to striking pos. over

head, R hand on hip...............................................19

Balance stand, L arm forw. in line with body out forw., R arm sidew. 21

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

64

2

4

8

10

12

14

16

18

20

24
137

1-2 turn L, step L forw. and lunge R forw., L arm obi. foredownw., R

arm obi. backdownw.................................................25 -	28

1-4 turn R, step R sidew., close L leg to R, change racket to R hand,

starting pos.......................................................29 -	30

Pause .......1..................................................  31	-	32

Repeat to R side ...T..........................................   33	-	64

Pyramids [After Tennis Drill]

Counts

Close ranks the same as opening, ranks and mark time ................... 12

Form a circle by following the leadei .................................. 28

All 1-4 tuin R face [outside] ........................................... 4

All lunge L forward, lay racket on floor and return L to close .......... 4

Form pyiamid No.	1 and return to circle .............................. 32

Form pyramid No.	2 and return to circle .............................. 32

Form pyramid No.	3 and return to circle .............................. 42

Lunge L forward and pick up racket ...................................... 4

All 1-4 turn L and march off, following leader ..................... Finish

EDITOR'S NOTE:—The pyramids are not published here. Teachers can use pyramids of their own design, or pyramids may be omitted entirely.

Book Reviews.

Fred E. Foertsch.

“Physiology Of Muscular Activity” by Edward C. Schneider; published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1933; cloth-bound, 5 by 8 inches; 401 pages; price $2.75.

A book containing a very thorough treatment of the subject. The first thirteen chapters, including the introduction, deal with the various phases of the muscular, respiratory, and circulatory systems as influenced by physical exercises. These chapters form the basis for a more thorough understanding of the last seven chapters which include “Coordination of the Activities of Bodily Exertion, The Effects of Frequent and Regular Exercise, Fatigue and Staleness, Tests of Physical Fitness, Medical Aspects of Heavy Athletics and Heavy Industrial Work, Physical Work in Relation to External Temperature, and Adaptation and Physical Exertion at High Altitudes.

The organization of the content is a very logical one. The book also contains a very good bibliography and a well arranged index. The author presents his material in a very clear cut but simple style, yet not too technical. The book contains much material of practical value for teachers of Physical and Health Education. It may also be highly recommended as a college text for students who expect to enter the field of Physical and Health Education.

Digitized by ^ooQle
138

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

The Problem of Instruction in Mental Hygiene.

It has been said that much time and effort is given in the public schools to the detection and correction of physical defects such as infected tonsils, and carious teeth; but that little attention has been given to the mental ills of school children. This criticism is well-intentioned but reflects a belief in the old dualism that considers the mind as being one thing and the body another. Many physicians are of the opinion that the removal of physical defects in many cases is a valuable corrective and preventive measure in combatting mental ill health. They believe that we teachers are emphasizing secondary factors when we strive to prevent and correct through employing personality analyses, home environment investigations, and school counselor services. Perhaps the most outspoken of these believers in pathogenic etiology of mental ills was the late Dr. Henry A. Cotton of the New Jersey State Hospital at Trenton. In a recent article in the “American MercUry”* he states, “Teaching that mental disorders are inevitably inherited is one of the bugaboos of the race.” He claims that, “we are now in a position to say with reasonable confidence, if not with absolute finality that mental disease per se cannot be transmitted from one generation to another”.

Dr. Cotton believes, from his years of experience, that various foci of infection are responsible factors in the so-called functionally insane. Removal has resulted very frequently in improvement of mental reactions and often in complete recovery. He cites many interesting cases to prove his claims. He drops this bomb in the ranks of the mental hygienists: “If the control of insanity is to make any real headway, heredity, environmental defects, personality, and improper training must be subordinated to the study of infections which can be attacked directly by resort to surgical methods, and eliminated.”

In view of the complexity of the human organism, this solution seems too easy to be entirely true. Somebody remarked at one time, apropos of this claim, that many an innocent gallbladder has been drained because some ambitious but unintelligent medico was bent on finding a physical cause to explain abnormal behavior. But this much we must concede; that along with the study of habits, moods, impulses, play reactions, and social behavior must be included a thorough medical examination with all the laboratory trimmings in order to get a true picture of the recalcitrant organism known as the “problem child”. Teachers should concern themselves more with the general health and happy adjustment of their pupils rather than burden them with a list of rules concerning mental health such as “Don't worry,” “Be cheerful,” “Avoid emotional outbursts,” “Practice concentration,” and other maxims which, to the toxic or repressed ♦June 1988 — “The Physical Causes of Mental Disorders”

Digitized by
139

youngster, are just so many words. Mental hygiene to be properly inculcated is a matter of opportunities for practice and example rather than pages to be studied or rules to be learned. 'The wholesome school will see to it that these opportunities are provided.

Water in the Lungs of the Drowned

Old-time practice in resuscitation called for “barrel-rolling” for the purpose of expelling inspired water. Later it was realized that the water that gushed forth came from the stomach and not the lungs. Many investigators believe that choking paroxysms effectively seal the lungs in some persons, whereas a less sensitive glottis admits some water. “Time”* reports toxicologist A. 0. Gettler of New York University as advancing a new and interesting means Of telling whether the submersed person was drowned or died through other causes. Dr. Gettler claims that the only positive test of death by drowning is a comparison of the saltiness of the blood in the left and right cavities of the heart. Through experimentation with laboratory animals and examination of drowned persons, he found that the inspired water from the lungs dilutes the blood returning to the heart. Before this altered blood can be pumped around, the heart stops and the individual is dead. Thus one would find blood of normal saltiness in the right chambers, and diluted or watery blood in the left. This phenomenon is reversed when the person drowns in salt water. The article does not state whether duration of immersion is a factor in this connection.

*May 15,1933 - Science Dept; page 22.

A Note on the Calcium Content of Cabbage—Great variations in the calcium content of cabbage leaves from different parts of the plant were found during the course of feeding experiments. Samples were obtained in the market during the month of June. The heart leaf ran reasonably uniform during 5 experiments, the variation in calcium running from. 26 to 32 mg. per 100 gm. of moist leaf. The inner pale green leaf varied from 35 to 71 mg. while the outer dark green leaf varied from 476 to 1,058 mg. on the same basis. The latter figure represents more calcium than is found in any other common food, except cheese. Food analysis tables in common use do not mention the high calcium values in the outer leaves of cabbage.—Stuart Jasper CoweU, Biochem. J.,

Typhoid Took Heavy Toll Until Onset of World War.—

A government report by a board of medical officers, of which Major Walter Reed was a member, in 1904 stated that typhoid developed in about one fifth of the soldiers in the camps and that it caused 86.24 per cent of all deaths.

“It was evident,” comments Dr. P. M. Ashbum in his series, entitled “Progress in Preventive Medicine,” appearing each month in Hygeia, “that we had not been properly educated in the prevention of typhoid.”

Digitized by UjOOQle
140

In the Spanish-American ‘War many lives had been lost, and the case rate was high. There was a decided contrast in the 'World War. This was due to four major reasons: [1] lessened introduction of the disease to camps; [2] better camp installations, water supplies, waste disposal and camp police; [3] better education as to the means of preventing the disease, and [4] preventive inoculation.

Why a Seasonal Quarantine is Placed Upon Mussels and Clams—Since 1927, when an outbreak of mussel poisoning involving over 100 cases occurred in and around San Francisco, the California State Board of Health has established a quarantine on -shell-fish during that season of the year when the poison is at a maximum in the mussels and clams. The toxicity of the shellfish varies from season to season and from month to month, increasing during the summer months, and it may reach a maximum as early as June or as late as September. It has been found that 1-4 ounce of bicarbonate of soda added during cooking, for each quart of water used, destroys 85 per cent of the poison when the cooking process is continued for 20 to 30 minutes.

Occurrence of the poison in clams does not run strictly parallel to its occurrence in mussels. In both cases the poison is confined almost entirely to the intestines of the bivalve and since these organs are larger in clams they are generally discarded, hence clam poisoning is not as frequent as mussel poisoning. It is to be remembered that cooking alone, without the use of bicarbonate of soda, does not reduce the danger of poisoning. By general use of the bicarbonate of soda and by laboratory tests on the strength of the poison, it may be possible in the future to reduce the time of quarantine to a minimum.— Muller, Weekly BuU. Calif. State Dept, of Pub. Health, Get. 1, 1932.

Antimony Poisoning Due to the Use of Enamelled Vessels—In recent years there have been several outbreaks in England of antimony poisoning due to the use of enamelled vessels of inferior quality for the preparation of cold drinks such as lemonade. The first of these outbreaks occurred in the summer of 1928. Lemonade was prepared in a number of new white enamelled buckets and allowed to stand over night. Next morning they were placed in various parts of a building for employees of a local firm.

By noon, 70 of 500 employees had been served, and practically all were speedily sick. Fifty-six of the patients had to be removed in an ambulance. The symptoms were a burning sensation in the stomach, colicky pains, nausea, vomiting, and collapse. In most cases the patients were able to return to work within three hours, only two being detained in the hospital over night.

A warning is sounded against the use of low-grade enamels. The public should, therefore, be warned that enamelled hollow-ware vessels intended for other purposes may be dangerous if

Digitized by t^ooQle
141

used for the preparation or storage of food or drink.—Ministry of Health, Brit. Food, J., 35:24 Mar., 1933.

Bran as a Source of Fibrous Roughage.—A good word is said for the laxative value of bran by one who was numbered among the doubters. Except in cases of ulcerated or highly irritable colon, the authors feel now that bran is indicated in constipation. In mhny cases a diet high in green and fibrous vegetables is not sufficient.—Can gill, G. and SuUvan, J.A.M.A. [Mar. 18], 1933.

Eye Health ip the School Progrtwn.-—Many of the 26 million children in the schools of the United States are accorded the benefits of vision testing, adequate lighting and hygienic surroundings, but millions do not have the advantages of good eye care. Not only must the school child’s eyes be protected, but he must learn how to protect them and how to use them properly throughout life. The pamphlet, "Conserving the Sight of School Children,” issued by the Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education of the National Education Association and the American Medical Association, in cooperation with the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness, is informing school officials on this subject; the demand for this pamphlet was so widespread that two large editions have been exhausted. The Society must, because of the pressing demand, issue a further revised edition early in 1933, and is already engaged in its preparation.

Eye Defects Increasingly Noted in England.—There are indications of a gradual increase in eye defects in school children, according to a note in a recent issue of the Medical Officer [England]. Doubt is expressed as to whether this increase is because more attention is now paid to vision inspection, or whether the adjuncts of modem living—the movies and artificial illumination— have taken a higher toll of sight. There is no doubt, however, that in cases of myopia the general maintenance of nutrition and hygiene is of great importance.—The Sight-Saving Review.

Reading with Closed Eyes.—A new use for the small X-ray machine has been described by Dr. A. H. Pirie in the November issue of the Canadian Medical Association Journal. For his demonstration he uses a perforated film which may be read with the eyes closed when X-rays are brought close to the lids. The practical value of this new use of X-ray is shown in many ways: a metallic foreign body in the eye may be made to cast its shadow on the retina and, through the use of a brass grid, the metal may be exactly located. In cases of complete opacity of the cornea, or of cataract, the field of vision may be mapped. Bits of glass, being fluorescent, may also be seen in the eye by the examining ophthalmologist.—The Sight-Saving Review.

Digitized by UjQOQie
142

News Notes and Comments

A Quarter of a Century of Saving Sight, 1908—1933.

Twenty-five years ago a small group of public-spirited men and women met at the home of Miss Louisa Lee Schuyler, who had just learned that one of the major causes of blindness, ophthalmia neonatorum, could be prevented if a simple precaution were taken with the eyes at the time of birth. As they sat and discussed ways and means of reaching the public with this problem, this group could not have dreamed that their benevolent scheming would evolve into a world-wide movement to stamp out all blindness. At that time the immediate problem was the eradication of ophthalmia neonatorum. For that purpose they organized the New York State Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, which later became the National Society. Since then, many new terms have become familiar to prevention of blindness workers— sight-saving classes, preschool vision testing, eye protection in industry, medical social eye work.

Wichita, Kansas.—Wichita put on a demonstration that was so successful that it had to be repeated. Through shadowgraphs and with health-o-grams, the school health service was very well depicted. Superintendent Mayberry, Public Schools, stated that he felt this splendid exposition did more to convince the people as to the worthwhileness of the program than anything he knew of.

The Department of School Health and Physical Education of the National Education Association has recently published a pamphlet, “Athletics for Girls—A Digest of Principles and Policies for Administrators and Teachers in Junior and Senior High Schools.” Copies of this publication may be obtained on request from either of the following: W imen’s Division, National Amateur Athletic Federation, 303 West 42nd Street, New York City— Secretary of the Department, J. E. Rogers, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City. This is a very worthwhile publication prepared by Miss Ethel Perrin, a member of the Executive Committee of the Department.

Have you heard of many individuals going wrong while at work or while at school? A national survey of arrests showed that 80 per cent listed were for misdemeanors committed during leisure hours. Leisure is a great by-product of the machine. Are we going to make it a detriment or a blessing?—Dorothy Enderis, Director of Extension Department, Milwaukee.

Cotton Guard Rope in Swimming Pools as Source of Colon-Aerogenes Group-pPositive presumptive tests which gave typical aerogenes colonies on partial confirmation were given by water from a swimming pool after the introduction of a cotton

Digitized by
143

guard rope which was immersed in the water. Examination of strands from the rope showed the presence of the colon-aerogenes group and it was found that bacterial growth was possible upon the moist rope. Guard ropes of organic material are unsuitable for use in swimming pools.—	H. W. Leahy, J. W. Asm.,

1932,

Can a Child Outgrow Early Posture Defects?—Dr. A.

Brockway describes the child with good posture as contrasted with the child with poor posture in “Can He Outgrow It?” an article appearing in the June Hygeia.

The following resolutions were adopted in Nebraska in connection with the financing of inter-school athletics in the public schools:

1.	The inter-school athletic program to be made an integral part of the regular school program and considered a part of physical education. In no instance should the athletic program be considered a substitute for physical education.

2.	That the inter-scholastic program be financed through the regular school budget.

3.	That inter-school contests be free to pupils and public alike.

4.	That inter-scholastic athletic finances be properly budgeted and that the budget be approved by officials.

5.	That a modem system of financing be used.

6.	That all financial records be audited.

7.	That officials in charge of such funds be bonded.

8.	Coaches to be required to make requisitions for supplies and equipment, and these to be reviewed and checked by the principal and approved by the superintendent of schools.

9.	All contracts to be approved by the principal and the superintendent of schools.

10.	That tag days, school carnivals, contributions, etc., should not be tolerated either for advertising purposes or for securing funds.

11.	That the coach be employed on the basis of his profes-tional training and experience; that he be a full time teacher paid by the Board of Education, and that his salary be consistent with the salary scale of the regular teachers in the system.—News Bureau of Physical Education. News Letter.

School Promotion Rates In Physical Education. Under the heading “Subject Promotion Rates In Senior High Schools,” the Director of Educational Research, Philadelphia School District, recently issued a series of important statements applicable to all teachers and to all school subjects. We reprint the following two paragraphs as being timely and important for teachers in our own field. They deserve careful thought.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
,	144

v

“The efforts of teachers should be directed toward stimulating growth; different for each individual pupil, rather than toward the attainment of a fixed achievement level determined by grade norms, standards, or subjective opinion. This implies teaching based upon an awakened pupil interest in subject matter.

“There should be a high degree of agreement among different teachers of the same subject, both as to the objectives of the instruction in that subject and as to the details of satisfactory attainment, so that pupils will not bo confused by half yearly changes from teacher to teacher as well as from subject to subject.”

Dr. Payson Smith, State Commissioner of Education, Massachusetts, has stated that “The major transcendant aim. in physical education is to inculcate a spirit of play.”

Detroit has 32 single pools and 6 double pools, i. e., pools with folding doors which in reality makes one pool for boys and one for girls.

PUBLISHERS NOTE

We ask our subscribers’ earnest attention to what we are ; obliged by circumstances to say here. We are surprised, con- i sidering conditions of today, that we are still able to continue j publication, but here is your Sept.-Oct. number, somewhat late, j slightly smaller than usual, but still alive in spite of a lack of \ its usual sustenance. We have been and still are carrying many j on our list who have fallen into arrears. We are glad to do j this if we know it is desired for that must be our contribution i to the rslief of our fellow workers in these times. However, our i own resources are so very limited that we ask that all our sub- : scribers do as much as possible for us. Pay your subscriptions • without waiting for notice of expiration. Sending bills is very ; costly and we hope you will not require it. The address label i on your copy shows your expiration date. Look at it right now i and send us a remittance for one, two or three years, unless j you are already paid in advance. Price remains $2.00 for one j year, $3.75 for two years, $5.25 for three years.	j

Help us so that we may continue to help others less fortunate j than you and we are. Tear out this page and attach your check j and mail to us. Post date the check if more convenient. But j send it now.	Mind	and	Body,	New	Ulm,	Minn,	j

Digitized by kjOOQle