MIND AND BODY

Vol. 36	JUNE, 1929	No.	379

PUBLISHED BY BOND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦ ■■■■■ — ■ -♦

A CHALLENGE TO TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

N. Se&rle Light, Chief, Division of Rural Education, State of Connecticut.

This paper presents the point of view of one administrator who has been for years interested in the development of a physical education program which would help our boys and girls to that strength, vigor, vitality and stability essential to the full fruition of their varied capacities. I have watched the rapid acceleration of the physical education movement initiated by the war with joy and no little satisfaction. The enactment of compulsory laws, the consequent growth of programs in the schools, the rapid increase in playgrounds, the far greater interest among out-of-school youth and adults in out-door sports, all of these and more evidence the astonishing progress in this field.

This is, as I understand it, the twenty-fifth year of this, the Public School Section. It would be well worth while, therefore,

’Read at the Convention of the Eastern District Society, Ameritaij Physical Education Association, New Haven, Conn. April 17-20, 1929.	'	;»

Digitized by LjOOQle
106

to summarize the progress of that quarter century, but I am not the person to do it even were I so minded. Rather am I interested in things as they are and as they are becoming because, of late, certain doubts have crowded themselves upon me more and more insistently; and it is to those doubts I propose to devote this paper.

In physical education the Greeks are always with us. In keeping with what seems to be universal custom I begin with them, but I am not going to sketch a history of physical education. I am not even going to linger with the Greeks except for the time necessary to make one point.

The Spartans had an ideal for the attainment of which they planned a program. It was definite, specific, clear-cut. The program in keeping with its ultimate purposes was prosecuted with no little ruthlessness. The Athenians set up a very different ideal which resulted in an equally definite program. The evidence goes to show a high degree of success for both programs. The Athenians even succeeded to the point of expressing their ideals in enduring marble. The point is: We know what they, those, ideals, were in both Sparta and Athens.

Have we today in America any comparable ideals? A fairly diligent inquiry has not discovered any such in our literature. Inquiries addressed to experts in this field did not reveal any. I doubt if there are any.

I find assertions that this is an era unlike any other in history with demands upon us equally unlike those of the past; that nerve strain is greater; that there is no longer the need for the big-muscled man so essential in ancient war and more primitive economic orders; that this age is an age of rapid change and, therefore, of necessary changes in the educational program and so on for several pages if one wished to enumerate all such statements. But nowhere do I find an answer to the question of what type of man or woman, boy or girl even, should constitute our ideal in response to the conditions among which we live.

I do find that man must be intellectually adaptable to change albeit sufficiently critical to pause and select those proposed changes which are desirable. We seem also to be in a fair way to evolve standards of values which may guide us in this process of selection. Our intellectual ideals seem to be on a fair way to clear definition. The same may be said of our social ideals although there may be some in this audience who are sceptics on that point. But nowhere do I find much evidence of endeavor to solve the problem in terms of the body.

No ideal or an indistinct ideal always will lead to indefinite objectives, they to indefinite programs and so to a general lack of precision in our practice. I suspect all of these conditions are very generally present, but let us see what has been happening.

Our objectives have undoubtedly broadened. We see now as never before that to segregate any part of a general program of education from any other part or from the whole is impossible. What v?e,do in physical education programs strengthens or other-

Digitized by LjOOQle
107

wise affects the educative process as a whole. Our work in other words may be educative or it may be mere monkey-training. If the pupil must face problems, attack them and evaluate his outcomes, then his work has educative value. Acting upon this principle we have done well to begin remaking our practice, but we have at the same time been led into, what seems to me, a confusing error. We have scanned all of our activities for educative values, indeed we have introduced many and changed others, and then have listed these values as objectives. Aside from the imponderable list of objectives which we are soon to have, we have apparently lost sight of the fact that physical education has a contribution, peculiar to itself, to offer and that it is in the school program primarily to effect that end. We are shooting all over the educational landscape at everything in general and nothing in particular. We are not distinguishing between our primary and our secondary functions. Every phase of the school program must be educative in nature, but each has its special role to play. In this broadening of our vision we are both losing and gaining.

Furthermore, even the objectives set up in the peculiar field of physical education are so general that I challenge any one to determine when they have been attained. Yet there we have a tremendous advantage in the purely objective nature of this field. It is a singular fact that we have made more progress in measuring native, intellectual capacity than in measuring muscular strength.

Neither have we generally accepted intermediate achievement goals for age or grade levels, and we need such. Now the outcome of this situation is that apparently we cannot prove accomplishment except in terms of agencies increased, time increased, staff increased and the like. The problem as it confronts us on that point lies in proving that growth has taken place by reason of the physical education program. And I doubt if we are in a position to furnish proof. Before long we must do so. Our period of expansion cannot go on forever without a strict accounting.

For the success of our program we have relied upon the pupil’s normal interest in play plus the teacher’s ability to generate interest. We assume an instinct to play and any other needed for the minute. As a consequence we have banished all other elements. This may be a right outcome, but certainly the reasoning is wrong. We have omitted consideration of the fundamental fact that we must develop purpose in the pupil, a serious reflective attitude toward the development of his body.

If I am at least partly correct in adjudging ideals to be absent or too vague to be of much influence, objectives to be likewise general and indefinite, achievement goals to be absent, then we may expect to find mass programs based upon broad principles but again lacking in definiteness. We may expect, too, that the individual has not been of much concern. I submit that both conditions obtain today.

Digitized by
108

We can find special programs for the dull classes and for the out-door classes. We can find some differences, growing to to be sure, between the programs for boys and those for girls. We can find corrective work. Through no fault of the workers in physical education these groups are not as general as they ought to be or will be. But I am not concerned with these groups at present.

I am concerned with the great mass of pupils not in special groups. Among them exist great differences in body endowment and in development. These differences appear in any and every classroom at all age levels. How do I know this? Largely by observation without measurement. Here and there such observations have been confirmed by careful studies, but the facts ought to be available and in undebatable form. It ought not to be a matter of observation. Again the influence of our indefinite program appears.

I suppose none among you would question these differences. What now are we doing about them? I doubt if we are doing much if anything.

If what pupil A requires in muscular activity for muscular growth, organic vigor, nervous vitality and stability differs from that of pupil B, why should not A and B be led to discover their respective needs and to formulate programs for meeting them? Of course, somebody must guide A and B in so doing, but that is what we teachers and supervisors are there for. But to this problem I doubt if we are giving much attention. The least we can do is construct our courses of study that teachers will be encouraged to adapt programs to needs rather than to game-interests alone.

Some of you are thinking this minute that a program like that means a lot of work and a disruption of school organizations. Quite possibly it does and, if so, why not? We can face those problems when we come to them, but I hope we will approach them with bundles of facts and figures rather than with emotional storms.

In any case, it seems to me perfectly clear that we must help the pupil measure himself, lay out his program, execute it and again determine the results. That means work with the individual in so far as the examination is concerned. It does not mean individual programs exclusively because, if experience in other fields is any guide at all, we shall find that in respect to their needs pupils will tend to fall into certain groups, characterized by certain common needs, which can be best met by group programs.

That means homogeneous grouping; and homogeneous grouping we must have unless I am much mistaken. Certainly, more definite objectives and programs will inevitably lead to just that sort of organization; and the absence of such differentiations tends to confirm my doubts.

There is one more doubt with which I am concerned today. I doubt if, in our programs of work, we are giving sufficient

Digitized by ^.ooQle
109

attention to developing the ability of the pupil to solve his problems in later years. To illustrate by exceptionally clear cases I have been unable to find evidence that with vocational pupils we are considering the needs of their occupational groups in society. What sort of regimen will they require to maintain their strength and vitality? In prevocational classes I find little consideration for this problem of living the full and abundant life. In fact, with an indefinite mass program applied to all and without intelligent consideration by the pupil of his needs we are without even the hope that the pupil may be able to work out his problem in later years because he had worked it out during his school years. We again are relying on the hope that a love, let us say, for out-door games in childhood will result in participation in out-door games. Some of us, I know, are living proofs that this is not necessarily so. Some of us preach play but do not play. So much then for that doubt.

I said I had one more doubt, but reading your minds I find there a doubt which I doubt. You are thinking that this is all very well to talk about, but the type of program under discussion means reorganization in many schools, disruption of schedules and a recognition of physical education only accorded now on paper or in lip service. You doubt if the school administrators will respond to any such proposals. I doubt your doubt.

If you will set up your ideals, your objectives and your programs, if you will measure the pupils, gathering the facts about their needs in respect to specific achievement goals, and if your procedures are sane and objective, you can drive the administrators into providing for such a program. They have been driven before and will be again. Finally, let me tell you that administrators like to be driven by facts and objective evidence. They do not enjoy hunting shelter from emotional storms, let alone facing them. If you do not believe this, try it. I, for one, would like to be driven.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF GRADUATE RESEARCH SCHOLARSHIP IN THE FIELD OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

The Section of Women’s Athletics of the American Physical Education Association has offered to maintain, during the year 1929-30, a graduate research scholarship of $500 at Wellesley College, Department of Hygiene and Physical Education, Wellesley, Massachusetts. The study will involve a research along the lines of the physiological effects of different types of athletic competition for women, and should result in a thesis or publication for the benefit of those interested. It is understood that the holder of this scholarship will devote her full time to study at Wellesley College, and will qualify for a master’s degree if she

Digitized by booQle
110

does not already hold one. See bulletin Graduate Department Hygiene and Physical Education, Wellesley College for admission requirements.

An applicant for the scholarship should possess a bachelor’s degree from a recognized college or university. She should have majored in physical education either in the institution in which she took her degree or in a normal school of physical education. It is recommended that she have a strong science background, with some experience in scientific measurements and statistics. She should also have had teaching experience.

Applicants should submit complete information regarding age, education and experience before June 15, 1929, to Miss Ruth Elliott, Chairman of the Department of Hygiene and physical education, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. She should also give two names for reference concerning her qualifications and indicate her reasons for making application for the scholarship.

INTEGRATION—AN EDUCATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TREND IN SCHOOL HEALTH PROGRAMS*

Juliet Bell, Division Health Education, American Child Health Association

Integration seems to stand out as one of the most significant recent trends in school health development. Through it we are getting a “close-knittedness” as it were, a pattern, a design to which health and educational personnel are contributing through organized interrelated procedures and activities.

What evidence do we have that integration is a significant trend or tendency rather than a transient phase of health? Our chief evidence comes from education itself. If we had no further proof that integration was a trend in health programs, its growth in education would probably be sufficient to forecast its future development in health education. Health in schools must follow the guidance of education and set its lines of development in accord with educational philosophy and practices. The added proof that integration in health education is a reality lies in the changes which are actually taking place in school health.

Some Trends in Education. Let us examine the field of education to find whatever evidence we can of integration there. First, the philosophy of modem education is averse to separateness and isolation. The child is a unit and he experiences as a unit and he must be educated as a unit. Moreover he is not an isolated unit but an individual with social relationships. Into every experience goes the mental, physical, emotional and social child, and we cannot teach one aspect of the child and disregard

*Read at Convention of American Physical Education Association, Eastern District Society, New Haven, Conn., April 17-20, 1929

Digitized by LjOOQle
Ill

the others. When we teach arithmetic or health or honesty, we consciously or unconsciously develop learnings involving the whole child. Experiences can never be isolated in kind—that is, he cannot experience health and .nothing else; he cannot learn reading and nothing else. All learnings are composites. We never learn one thing but several things at once. Each experience or each learning is an integration of many learnings.

The objectives of education are themselves integrated. There are elements in each of the objectives which belong to all the others. For example, health, the gaining of command of subject matter, membership in the home, vocation, citizenship, adequate use of leisure and ethical qualities inter-penetrate. We cannot achieve one at a time as in a series or as unrelated values, but we advance toward all of them at the same time and often growth toward one means growth toward another. They are derived from life, which in all its manifestations and differentiations is an interconnected whole. One of the purposes of modem education is to aid children in growing toward all of the objectives or life values simultaneously through the provision of integrated experiences. To undertake to teach children in separate compartments and to try to teach subject matter apart from all of the values of life is fraught with danger. When the eye is focused on one objective, there are grave possibilities of thwarting or of doing violence to the others.

To reach its ends, education is endeavoring to organize the methods of teaching so that children will learn through the integration of various kinds of experiences. For example, the “child centred school” and the unit and other types of organization, offer opportunities for the child to develop habits, acquire attitudes and gain knowledge in their natural setting and as integrated experiences. The effort is to make subject matter the servant rather than the master and end of experience.

Imbedded in the foundation of the new education is the principle that continuous growth through experience applies to teachers as well as to children. With development of scientific education teachers are being given the opportunity to be “captains of their own souls.” They are “learning by doing, and are making valuable contributions to education through participation in the planning of objectives and activities in an organized curriculum based on the recognized needs of their own children. They are testing out procedures and are contributing conclusions of value. Each, however, must not lose sight of the fact that she must contribute as a member of a whole.

The School Health Program. For the clearness of this discussion I am recalling briefly the kinds of services of which the school program consists. The first is health protection of students through health examinations and control of communicable diseases and through the provision of a sanitary environment at school and provision of facilities which permit the pupils to practice the laws of personal health while at school. The second is health promotion through contributory agencies such as
112

the lunchroom and physical education activities, which have a direct contribution to make to health although health in itself is not their sole or chief aim. The third is health instruction which is a joint function of the health service, the health contributory agencies, and the curricular and extra-curricular activities of the school and the effectiveness of which is gauged by the change in the pupils’ health behavior and health attitudes rather than by their increased health information alone.

Resume of Development in Health Education. A brief sketch of the recent steps in the development of health education may help give a perspective against which to see present trends. First individuals here and there over the country caught a new vision of child health and set about to crystallize that vision in action. Sometimes it was a teacher, sometimes a nurse, or a doctor, or a physical educator, or a nutrition specialist, etc. They were isolated individuals with a trial and error procedure. As they strove to promote the health of children they discovered their own limitations and their need of guidance. Many realized that teachers needed training for the teaching of health. It was apparent that someone in the various centers of health activity must assume the responsibility of leadership if the undertaking was to grow. This brought us into a second phase, in which confusion arose as to who should assume leadership of health, who should teach and who should administer health. Some saw the nurse or doctor as the logical and best prepared person and therefore felt that they should assume the responsibility of teaching and administering the school health program. Others have felt that the physical education group were the proper ones to do it. The home economics and nutrition groups were believed by many to be the best fitted for the task. This controversy is healthy as long as the various spokesmen think of the welfare and of all the needs of the whole child rather than just of the professional claims and attributes and training of some particular department. During this period of confusion, many health specialists went into the classroom to do the teaching or else the health teaching was done in the gymnasium or in special groups by specialists. The particular work of the specialist, too, was carried on as a thing apart. The picture in tnis period suggested isolation and segregation of health from all the other educational procedures. For a brief time there seemed to be a tendency to take responsibility for the health of children from those who see the children most and who know or should know their needs best and who are the most advantageously situated for doing a unified piece of health work and placing all of that responsibility upon those who see the children infrequently, know less about their individual needs and are less advantageously placed for doing day-to-day health work. Some of these unsound practices still exist, but they are passing and new trends are developing.

The present trend of integration in health education is reshaping the educational and administrative procedures of the

Digitized by <^.ooQle
113

school health program. The three phases are being unified one with the other and are being identified with the purposes and procedures in education. The health and educational personnel are working on an increasingly cooperative footing of common ends and shared responsibilities.

Definition of Health as Integration. Health has been variously defined. Through all of the definitions, however, runs the common qualities of physical soundness, emotional control, mental balance and social adjustment. The definition itself suggests the necessity for integration.

Integration of Health with the Work of the Teacher. Although there are still some special health teachers who are employed to go into the classroom to teach health or to conduct the major health teaching in the physical education period somewhere outside the classroom, the trend is toward centering the health teaching in the regular teaching personnel. This latter procedure is educationally sound and is in line with the development of modern education. It permits, however, the physical education specialist and others to make whatever correlation they wish in specific and appropriate situations. The centralizing of health instruction in tne classroom makes for unity, continuity, and coherence in health teaching. It permits of a synthesis of the child’s experiences under the guidance of the teacher who increasingly is seeing the child as a whole. Next to the parent she is in position to observe better than anyone else the health needs of the children. She is able as no one else to aid the development of health habits, attitudes and knowledge through the direct and simultaneous health learnings which occur in all kinds of situations throughout the child’s school day.

Evidence of this centralizing of health teaching in the educational personnel is found in the fact that material containing health information for teachers is growing. Suggestions for correlating health with the school subjects is increasing. Some recently published and unpublished materials from elementary schools describe some comprehensive activity teaching units which include meaningful health integrations. This type of integration of instruction which must be for the use of the teacher alone is unmistakable evidence of growth toward coordination of health with the work of the classroom.

In a recent description* of a health program in a secondary school, which was set up by the principal, the teachers are considered an integral part of the health personnel. In this program the duties of the teachers are described as follows:

(a)	To refer individual pupils to the health administrator for examination by the physician.

(b)	To study the health records of the pupils in their classes.

(c)	To make adjustments of classroom activities to individual needs.

*Bafl«y, Edna W. A Study of the Organization and Administration of the School, i Health Program in a Secondary School, pp. 6—7.

Digitized by

Google
114

(d)	To cooperate as far as subject matter and classroom activities allow in the health instruction of the school.

Some of these duties have been assumed by teachers in the past. The significance of this, however, is that the interrelation of the duties of the educational and health personnel has been provided for by the principal—the educational administrator.

In a recent analysis of the health programs of fifty-three secondary schools,* * the data warranted the assumption that “leadership (in school health) appears to depend upon a power to integrate contributions from various departments in the interest of a child and not upon any special technical training.” There are still many problems as to what should be taught on the various levels and how it should be taught and how the curricular and extra-curricular activities can best be administered and organized for health teaching. There is a growing consciousness that health is the challenge of the educator, not just of the health specialist. As that concept of responsibility for health increases, the interweaving of health and education will be evident in more and more coordinated health programs. Teachers are aiding the health service in the discovery of health defects in pupils. In turn the doctor and nurse and other health specialists are familiarizing teachers with the health conditions of their pupils and with sound health information as a basis for their health instruction and for their better knowledge of their pupils. Full knowledge of individual pupils is basic to the whole educational procedure.

The health service is being extended to provide the teachers and pupils with proper facilities for lighting, heating, ventilation and cleanliness of environment. The development of habits, attitudes and knowledge as to how to use these facilities to the end that they are used properly by the pupils is a challenge to the teacher. An understanding is being given to teachers in some elementary schools in the proper care and educational use of these facilities so that they will have a full appreciation of them as teaching situations.* We need more study as to the extent of the educational use of hygienic facilities, but the trend of thought and the effort toward this would seem an added tendency to integrate health with the regular work of the classroom, rather than a separate instructional program.

Physical education is providing physical activities more and more in accord with the principles of “new” education. They are being tied up more and more with the work and purposes of the classroom. The physical educator and the classroom and subject matter teachers are meeting in mutually helpful undertakings. The home economics teacher or the nutritionist offers in the lunchroom opportunities for the pupils to practice the appro-

•Health Trends in Secondary Education, p. 75

*McWhorter, Fleta. Classroom Situations as Teaching Opportunities (or Health Instruction.

Digitized by Google
115

priate health teachings which have taken place in the classroom. Moreover, she is aiding the school health program by cooperating with the classroom teacher and health specialists in using the lunchroom for health instruction. The development of health in schools has brought an added meaning to individualization of pupils. Health is a factor in grouping of students and in fitting the environment to the individual pupils. Mental and social health is a resultant of successful adjustment of environment to individual.

The more familiar the teacher is with children and their needs and the more she appreciates that the child is a unit and the greater her skill in developing child purposes and activities the better able is she to develop in children self-direction and self-control in matters of health through integrated experience. Health education can progress probably only as far and as fast as the teachers can go in health and in education. More and more the school health program is feeling its dependence upon the educational training, experience and vision of the educational personnel. It becomes increasingly necessary therefore for health specialists to be prepared not only to filter into teachers sound health information but to aid them in integrating their health teaching not just with the various subject matters but with the true activities of the children.

Health and the Organization of the Curriculum. It is

familiar to all of us that in many of the health eurriculums an effort is made to correlate health with the various subjects such as art, science, extra-curricular activities, English, etc. Some experimental work is being done in the organizing of health in comprehensive teaching units as a step in curriculum making. Some experimental work is being done in developing a health curriculum in a secondary school with emphasis on the integration of health with activities of children. Only recently in a small city where general curriculum construction was initiated, health was duly considered as a possible central theme about which the whole curriculum might be developed. When that takes place we will have achieved complete integration of health and education. We are more or less familiar with the construction of health eurriculums by a committee made up of health specialists and teachers and educational administrators. As the tendency to use full teacher participation in curriculum building grows in the usual school subjects tne greater will be the impetus to employ this method in developing health eurriculums. It may slow up the developmental process temporarily but it will assure a more receptive attitude by the teachers when finally adopted, prevent many ill-adaptations in method and subject matter and will recognize that fundamental principle of growth through experience in teachers as well as in pupils. This opportunity for training of teachers in health and in the educational principles fundamental to health education and in the methods of integrating health with the children’s every day experience
116

has an incalculable value for the future soundness and growth of a coordniated school health program.

Health Integration Through Records. In a recent collection of record forms from a high school which is working toward an integrated health program, the stage of development of integration was evident in the records and other forms included in that collection assembled by the Health Counsellor. Of course, there were records which pertained only to the health examinations of children but which were available to advisers and teachers by the health counsellor and interpreted by her. There was the form for recording the pupils’ intelligence and academic achievements and his aptitudes or special qualifications. There are the attendance records and causes of absences which are kept by the advisers and analyzed by the health service. The readmittance slips after absence were used jointly by advisers, teachers and health counsellor. Letters to parents explained the result of the child’s examinations, signed by principal and health counsellor. The teachers’ report on causes of failure include in the list health conditions as possible causes. This form is used as a basis for conferences with the individual students. The cumulative record extends throughout the pupil’s high school life and includes health history, record of health examinations, academic progress and personality qualities. There is a record showing how the students are organized and are prepared to assume some of the responsibility for first aid as an extra-curricular activity. In the bulletin on suggestions for How to Study, health was given primary im-

rtance. In these records and forms a closer integration might possible, as the inclusion of health on the periodic report of the students’ progress which is sent to the homes. Doubtless this timely situation and others will be used for health integration as the principal and the school staff get a keener vision of the interconnectedness of health and education.

The interesting thing about this collection was the fact that the health counsellor was thinking of the records of the whole child rather than of health as a detached and separate part of the child’s growth and progress. It is the use of the records and the interpretation of them to the educational staff which guarantees health integration through records.

Administration of Health as a Policy of Integration. An adequately coordinated health program cannot be a one man job. It is not the property or duty of one department, however well qualified that department may be to carry on its special work.

School administrators are recognizing the importance of health and its interrelationship with education. They are making the administration of the school serve the development of the health objectives of the school in its proper relationship to all the other objectives. They are delegating the working out of-the details to others whom the administrator selects to do it.

Two growing types of administrative procedure for developing a coordinated school health program is the organization of a

Digitized by L^ooQle
117

Health Committee and the employment of a person competent to bring together the contributions of the various specialistsin health and of the teaching staff into a coordinate whole. This latter person is sometimes known as a Health Director or Coordinator when in charge of the health program of a school system or Health Counsellor when at the head of the health program of a secondary school.

Where a health committee is organized the representation is as inclusive as the health undertaking. It usually consists of principal, supervisors, physical educators, nutrition specialists, (if there is one), doctor, nurse, advisers, classroom teachers from the various grade groups, representatives from appropriate special subjects and others as the particular situation makes necessary. The duties of such a committee are usually: guidance in the development of a health curriculum, fitting of the curriculum and environment to the needs of children, modification of students schedules, regulation of extra-curricular activities in accordance with health needs, familiarizing of teachers with health information and with the health of their students, interpretation of health records to teachers and others.

In a recent study of health programs in secondary schools, one of the most promising administrative developments to meet the needs of a well-rounded health program was the health counsellor. The chief duties of the health counsellor are:* to assist in routine medical inspection and to interpret these findings to teachers, to teach hygiene classes in such a way that students make changes in their manner of living, to supervise those individuals who have special health problems, to study absences and recommend policies in this field, to be responsible for school health publicity within and without the schools, and to give advice and guidance to teachers in their health teaching, and to guide the development of curriculum in health when that is undertaken. In short, she works with the doctor, nurse, principal and teachers to develop a fully integrated health program for the secondary school, working with them individually and in groups.

The success of an integrated health program in the public schools depends upon the development of a coordinated health program in normal schools. There is a tendency, however, growing among normal schools to develop a unified health program, which articulates with the rounded program of the training school.

Responsibility for a Unified Health Program. Where will the responsibility lie in the future for a unified health program? From the practices observed at present, the placing of this responsibility will probably be determined by the attitude, interests and wide training of the individual concerned. The tendencies described above forecast the future withdrawal of leadership in school health from the narrowly trained specialist and the tendency toward broad gauged leadership based upon persona] fitness and breadth of training and experience. In other

'Health Trends in Secondary Education, pp 17-18
118

words, special training in physical education, nursing, medicine or nutrition, of itself, will not determine fitness of a person for developing a well-rounded school health program. The trained specialist, however, will continue to function as a specialist. Leadership in school health more and more seems “to depend upon a power to integrate contributions from various departments in the interest of a child and not upon any technical training.” Very probably the future development of a school health program will mark out more clearly than is done even now these qualifications for leadership in health, an understanding of modem educational philosophy, child psychology, principles of education, principles of educational administration and a capacity for seeing the health program as a unit and an integral part of education, ability to develop and to lead others and an abiding interest in health education. If that be true the leadership in individual cases may fall to physical education, to the nutritionist, to the doctor or nurse or to the general educator. But the selection will not be based upon special or technical training. Special training would be a secondary qualification and entirely subsidiary to the above qualifications, which map out a broad basis for preparation and a wide vision of interrelated values in education and health.

WHAT DOES THE EDUCATION SYSTEM OF A MODERN DEMOCRACY EXPECT FROM PHYSICAL EDUCATION?

By Jay B. Nash, New York University.

Physical education is now one of the recognized administrative arms of education. The rapid growth in importance of this phase of education since the World War has been equalled by few other phases of education. General education is looking to physical education for some specific contributions.

During the past century we have witnessed in this country one of the great educational battles of history. On the one side in this battle has been arrayed the old established educational forces of autocracy. On the other hand has been arrayed the young, constantly enlarging forces of democracy. These two great educational forces have met on many battle fields. The past century has witnessed many such clashes.

Denison, (') in a recent book entitled “EMOTION AS THE BASIS OF CIVILIZATION” claims that democracy must build up a new set of emotions in contrast to emotions which were built up in an autocracy. In this challenging treatise Denison points out that autocracy is held together by means of building into the lives of young children a certain set of emotions. Even the tribal group found it necessary to build these emotions, if it was to attain sufficient solidarity to live. These emotions were built around two things: “mana” and “miasma”. The force of life which gave strength and success; which indicated contact with the gods, was called “mana”. It was by persuading the

Digitized by Google
119

people of the tribe that the leader had this contact that he was able to retain his autocratic position. Another way of enforcing the mandates of the leader and his council was to threaten people with destruction. The forces which destroyed life were called "miasma”. They were, therefore, taboo. The only way to avoid the consequences of contact with things which were taboo was by means of intervention upon the part of one who was in touch with mana.

In this way solidarity could be attained; rules could be enforced; old customs could be imposed upon the young.

As the tribe became larger, individual contact with the leader was impossible because of the large area in which subjects lived. It was in this condition that the crown, which became the symbol for this authority, had to be divided up so that authority could be placed in the hands of many sub-officials. It was assumed that the actual crown was divided up and thus originated the badge which goes with authority. Solidarity in a group of this type was fairly simple. Children were taught early the taboos of the tribe. They were followed with little question.

Democracy, however, cast aside, to a large extent, these two ideas. No one in the democratic group is supposed to have the magic power of mana. The fear of miasma is largely removed. A new set of emotions must be built if a democratic organization is to get solidarity. These new emotions are built around the "equality of man” rather than around the idea of the subservience of one individual to a hereditary leader. These new emotions which may eventually be the determining force in connection with the permanency of the democratic form of government, are going to have to be built upon "wants” rather than upon “musts”. They must be built upon the fraternal level rather than the paternal level. The public school maintained for everyone must become the agent of democracy in the building up of these emotions. Thus, special interest is given to the forces which are attempting to build emotions in a democracy.

The autocratic forces have been firmly entrenched in many of our universities. These universities have been for the few. Their object has been the training of leaders in various cultural and progressive phases. These universities have not only trained leaders in the professions of medicine, law, architecture, etc., but they have been, to a large extent, responsible for the training of teachers for the secondary schools. These teachers in the secondary schools, having been trained in the university, naturally carried with them to the secondary schools the ideals of the university. In this manner, the subjects which were considered highly important by the university were put into the secondary schools in order to prepare for the university. These teachers in the secondary schools naturally considered the subjects taught by the university as of high importance. They had been trained in those subjects. It was quite natural then that great stress should be placed upon these subjects in the “preparatory” schools. Note that these schools were called, "preparatory”

Digitized by t^ooQie
120

schools, and that, "preparatory,” meant preparatory for university, not necessarily for life. Thus became intrenched in these secondary schools Latin, Greek, mathematics, etc. The method of instruction was largely dominated by the universities, as the teachers in these secondary schools carried over to their own class rooms, methods which they had learned in the university halls.

Whether or not as a matter of plan, or as a matter of chance, the universities and the preparatory schools touched only a small percent of the population. Probably their attitude was well reflected by a remark of Bismarck. He was once told that 98% of the students in the German universities were drinking themselves to death, and he replied "Let it be so; the other 2% will rule Germany.”

Arrayed against these powerful and well intrenched forces is the army of democracy. The schools of the democratic state have in mind education for everyone, and education as a preparation for life, not merely for a few specialized phases of life!

Cubberly(2) outlines seven battle fronts which have been fought in connection with the final victory for the elementary schools of democracy. They are as follows:

1.	An attempt to solve the problem through private benevolence or church charity, often aided by small grants of public funds.

2.	Aid granted to private or semi-private schools or social societies in the form of small money grants, license taxes, permission to organize lotteries or land endowments to enable such schools or societies to extend their instruction or to reduce their tuition rate, or both.

3.	Permission granted generally or to special districts requesting it to form a tax district and organize schools— at first often only for pauper children, but later for others.

4.	Laws requiring the education of the indigent poor.

5.	Laws requiring a certain local effort for the maintenance of schools, in return for state aid received with permission to supplement these sums with tuition fees.

6.	Elimination of the tuition fees, thus establishing free schools.

7.	Elimination of the pauper-school idea and of aid to sectarian schools, thus establishing the American common school.

Thus it was that the first great battle was won in connection with the state supported elementary schools for everyone. Since that time the battle has continued, but has been fought on different battle fronts. It has been a fight, since the first victory, for the extension of the system, and that extension meant m many directions. The school system has extended its influences down into the kindergarten period and the pre-kindergarten per-
121

iod, and even ways that involves the health of the new born babe in the home.

This system has extended upwards, so that today democracy has won the battle for free public high schools. Democracy is now girding itself for the next great battle, which seems to be in connection with the junior college. Numerous states are now making plans in connection with the junior college system, so that every child in the state will have opportunities, at public expense, for this type of schooling.

In many instances the fight has been pushed to the point when it involves the state university. The fight is largely on for the public training of public school teachers. The steps which the state has taken in connection with providing of teacher training institutions is merely illustrative of the extension of this great battle-line.

The present day sees the public school a very prominent factor in the lives of practically all the children from the age of 5 to 17.

In 1880 there were enrolled in public and private schools in this country only 100,000 children, or approximately 65% of this age group. In 1926 there were enrolled, in public schools alone, over 24,000,000 of the 29,000,000 children between the ages of five and seventeen, or considerably over 81% of the entire group. Adding to this the number of children who were enrolled in private Schools of similar rank, we find that considerably over 90% of all the children of this age group are under influence of the school.

These public schools have property valued at approximately $4,000,000,000. There are over 263,000 separate school buildings. These public schools are staffed by an army of approximately 800,000 teachers, drawing a salary of approximately $2,000,000,-000 yearly. This gives some idea of the far-flung battle line which has set as its aim the providing of wholesome educational apparatus for every child in this great democracy.

Not the least of the extensions which have been made during this past period have been made in connection with physical education. The tremendous progress which has been made will be sketched under three heads. The Rise of Physical Education, the Rise of the School Playground Movement, and the Rise of the Community Center Movement.

1.	The Rise of Physical Education.

A survey conducted in 1900 by the Bureau of Education which included 272 of the leading cities of the country indicated that only 83 of these cities had special directors of physical education. Only 11 of the cities reported gymnasiums. In 1885 the American Physical Education Association had been formed. Ten years later the Physical Education Section of the National Education Association was formed.

Following the World War great progress has been made— over 90% of all the children of the country now live in states

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
122

which have compulsory physical education laws, but have programs which have been established by the state—over 60% of the children are living in states where the provisions of the state law are administered by state directors.

The elementary schools are providing physical education periods five times per week in the great majority of our graded schools. In the junior and senior high schools, while the largest number are providing physical education but twice per week, many of the schools have three, four and five periods per week.

Many of our leading states have made remarkable advancement. New York state has had a distinct increase in the number of physical directors, and a distinct decrease in the teachers load. In Minnesota the number of physical directors has increased from 250 in 1924 to 780 in 1929. In California, the number has increased from 605 to 1102 since 1919. In Massachusetts the number has increased from 201 to 786. Maryland has fostered a program of physical education which is reaching in connection with some type of organized games, upwards of 80% of the total enrollment in many of the counties.

This progress is noted in many cities. A ten year growth in Detroit shows an increase in the number of physical directors from approximately 200 to somewhat over 600. Progress of the same type is noted in Atlantic City, Ithaca, Des Moines, Rochester, N. Y., Albany, Los Angeles, Oakland and many other cities. Philadelphia has provided an after school play program which is reaching approximately 20% of the children daily.

There has been a tremendous increase in the size and equipment of physical education plants. In the elementary school, approximately 11% of the total school plant is devoted to physical education in the junior high school, approximately 17%, and in the senior high school, approximately 23%. The investment in physical education plant is increasing approximately $80,000,000 per year. This figure is for the building plant only, and does not refer to the amount of money invested in school yards.

Based upon known reports, it is estimated that there is being expended yearly for salaries of physical directors approximately $80,000,000. Considering the time which is being devoted by the elementary school teachers, estimating the time being given to physical education as fifteen minutes of the day, thus being l-20th of the school day, over 40,000,000 hours of elementary school time is being devoted to physical education. In a recent survey by the United States govemment(3), it is indicated that approximately 90% of all new buildings in this country are being equipped with adequate play yards.

2.	Rise of the School Playground Movement.

Beginning with the playground development in Boston in 1885, there has been a steady growth in the use of the school yards for playgrounds. One of the first laws to authorize the use of the school playgrounds was passed in Massachusetts in 1888. As early as 1898 legislation was enacted in New York City which allowed the Board of Education in New York City to conduct

Digitized by Google
123

school playgrounds. School playgrounds were established in Philadelphia in 1895. Since that time there has been a constant growth in the use of these play facilities after the regular school day, on Saturday and during vacation periods. Recent surveys indicate that practically all of the cities over 30,000 are utilizing in some way their school playground facilities. The number of school playgrounds has increased in such cities as Oakland from zero in 1897 to 48 year-round playgrounds to date. It has increased from zero in 1910 in Philadelphia to approximately 140. New York City conducts in the neighbordood of 500 playgrounds during the summer. State legislation in Illinois allows Chicago to conduct a large school playground program. The Board of Education in Los Angeles maintains several hundred year-round playgrounds. Beginning with legislation in 1859 practically all of the states have passed laws for the extended use of the school plant. Suffice it to say that the largest usage which is made of these school plants is in connection with playground and recreational activities, totaling approximately 70% of all activities.

With this brief outline it is evident that general education has had faith in physical education. State legislatures have been willing to pass Enabling Acts for the wide extension of physical education. Boards of Education have allowed large budgets for the promotion of broad programs. With the tremendous amount of money invested in equipment and salaries, general education must be insistent in its aemand in asking physical education “what are your objectives?” It is right that the physical education profession should be questioned as to what contributions it can make to the fullness of life for the 27,000,000 children between the ages of five and seventeen.

In this great battle for democracy, physical education must stand in the foreground definitely committed to the extension of its benefits to every child. A wholesome program of physical education for a few in the junior and senior high schools, and dry calisthenics for all the rest of the children can no longer be allowed. The turning out of a few championship teams in order that a few coaches and local promoters may bask in the limelight can no longer pass as education. Physical education must extend its battle line to the providing of wholesome physical activities for every child in the public school system. These activities must be graded to reach the age and capacity needs of all the children. These activities must be so closely tied up with life that they dominate the leisure time of these children in nonschool hours. They must provide all these children with vigorous big muscle activities which are conducted in group organization, so that in this period of childhood can be laid, not only a basis for a vigorous physical organism, but the basis for a wholesome group life.

Specifically, then, general education is asking physical education to do two things.

First, general education is asking that physical education provide for the children in this country vigorous physical activi-

Digitized by Google
124

ties, which will make possible in the physical organism the largest amount of vitality, strength, ability to sustain effort, and ability to resist fatigue in order that life tasks may be attacked with vigor. In addition to this, general education expects physical education to make its contribution in connection with the establishment of wholesome health habits in the life of the child. These wholesome health habits are necessary to preserve an organization fitted to great tasks.

Second, general education also asks physical education to make its contribution to the building of attitudes and emotions in the lives of children which will preserve the principles upon which this democracy was founded. General education expects physical education to give all children opportunities to participate in group contests. If children are to be able to take tneir places as team members in a city, a state, a nation, or the world at large, they must have opportunities to build a capacity for such participation in connection with “face to face” play groups of childhood.

Physical education has the particular responsibility in connection with these objectives because of the fact that the activities in the program in the curriculum of physical education are the activities around which many of the wants of children are centered. Children want to participate in the stunts and the team games. Because of the fact that children want to participate in these activities, standards of participation may be set by proper leaders. Standards of health may be set because the children will realize that by following these standards they will be able to do better those things which they want to do. Likewise the standards of conduct may be set.

In order to realize these ideals physical education must be more than exercise. It must be more than inter-school athletics which touch but a small percentage of the student body. It must be more than calisthenics which are to a large extent void of the team element. Physical education must organize those activities which will dominate many of the out-of-school hours of the child.

The public school is gradually extending its influence to the pre-school group and the post-school group. It is extending its influence beyond the established hours of the school day, and to non-school days. School buildings will become more and more great community centers. General education expects physical education to stand in the front lines, extending the program of wholesome activities to the entire community. Upon the basis of our ability to meet these expectations will depend the right of the profession to grow. 1

1.	Denison Emotions as the Basis of Civilization

2.	Cubberley, Elwood—Public Education in the United States, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 19 p. 118.

3.	Rogers, J. F. Municipal and School Playgrounds Bureau of Education, U. S. Dept, of the Interior. Bulletin No. 6, 1924.

Digitized by LjOOQle
125

CHILDREN’S FOOD FOR GROWTH AND STRENGTH

By Helena Lorenz Williams

The physical strength that a child stores up for adult life may be traced, to a large degree, to the woman who presides over the kitchen stove. Certain foods make strong bones, others develop muscles, some create energy and still others are a protection against disease. This being true, one of the fundamentals of good cooking, especially for children, is a varied diet.

The most perfect of all foods is milk, because it contains all of the elements necessary for the body growth. Children between the ages of two and six should have between a pint and a quart of milk a day and later at least a quart. This quantity, of course, need not be consumed as a beverage. It may be in cream sauces or a part of desserts such as custard, junket or in puddings made from cereals.

Fruit is not only an excellent food, but it stimulates the appetite and acts as a disease preventive. To start the breakfast, orange juice, apple sauce, very ripe bananas, pears and plums are excellent. Bananas, however, must be so ripe that dark spots show on the outside skin. If it is impossible to obtain fresh fruits, then stewed prunes, apricots and peaches make nourishing substitutes.

Cereals are a very important item in the child’s diet. Some specialists prefer dark cereals such as oatmeal, wheatena or petti-john, as they contain more elements for growing and have more body than many of the commercially prepared cereals. If white cereals like cream of wheat or hominy are served, then the bread should be dark as it contains the vital materials that are lost in the preparation of the light colored cereals.

A child even of two years should have green leafy vegetables every day. As there is some confusion as to just what a green leafy vegetable is, we will name the principal ones; asparagus, beet greens, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, dandelion greens, lettuce, spinach and string beans.

Children need only a small quantity of meat. Miss Lucy H. Gillett, author of “Food for Health’s Sake,” states that the portion should be the size of the palm of the child’s hand. Veal and pork should be eaten moderately though even for younger children a crisp slice of bacon with the breakfast egg is nourishing. The bacon, however, should be fried on a rack so that the fat cab drip down. Some doctors say that one egg a day is not too much, though others believe that four or five eggs a week is sufficient for a young child. Eggs are best served poached, boiled, coddled or shirred.

Fish is good if the right kind is selected. Oily fish, such as salmon, blue fish, shad, mackerel and the sardines are rather difficult for children to digest and no fish should be served fried without first removing the outside brown crisp.

Digitized by Google
126

Some children, in order to gain as they should, require a little meal in the middle of the morning and afternoon. This should consist mainly of bread and butter, crackers and milk, or the well beloved syrup or jam from the pantry shelf.

An important item in the child’s nutrition is rest. A youngser who is over-stimulated or excited or whose mind is overburdened with studies is apt to be chronically undernourished. The digestive organs do not function as they should unless the body and mind have sufficient relaxation and restful sleep.

Good table manners aid good digestion. Children who eat three good meals a day and who are not allowed to develop a finicky appetite have a better chance for health than the pampered child. Mothers should insist that food be chewed slowly. One other thing to remember is, do not scold during meal times. Fear or anger cause serious digestive disturbances, while laughter and good cheer are Nature’s aids.

INTERNAL SECRETIONS AND SEX

By William A. Stecher

Oscar Riddle, Ph. D. a scientist at the Cold Springs Harbor,

N.	Y. Station for Experimental Evolution, in an article in the Journal of the American Medical Association, March 23, 1929, entitled “Some Interrelations of Sexuality, Reproduction and Internal Secretion” makes the following statement:

Concerning the nature of sex difference I shall sketch the evidence that the sexes are fundamentally and casually founded

on two different rates of metabolism----different rates prevailing

in every stage of existence from egg to adult. Specifically, it is a sustained increase in metabolic rate that probably has, in experiment, accompanied and accomplished the change of females into males, and it is found that the higher (metabolic) rate is characteristic of the normal male.

Conversely, it is a sustained decrease in metabolic rate that has probably accomplished the transformation of males into females; and it is found that a lower (metabolic) rate characterizes the normal female.

Chromosomal differences normally decide these two grades of metabolism throughout the early and most sensitive periods of development; and thus the chromosomes normally decide the sex of the organism; but when the experimentalist overrides this chromosomal influence, he accomplishes sex reversal.

The present evidence on the metabolic nature of sex is not rigorously conclusive, but it is carrying conviction to a growing group of the ablest investigators of the subject.

Riddle then explains all the experiments undertaken to determine the control of sex by means of influencing the internal secretions of the thyroid, pituitary, thymus, adrenal, etc., and thus increasing or decreasing metabolism.

Digitized by Google
127

A hopeful point of view, he says, is evidently near at hand in a very real redefinition of what is involved in the word heredity. It is now becoming clear that the specific conditions under which a gene or genetic factor operates and develops have an equal value with the genetic factors in the determination of anything that can be called heredity.

The factors distributed by the germ cells set limits to the nature and appearance of adult characteristics; so do specific conditions. The matter of the control of any characteristic can be approached from either of these two sides. Our experiments have adequately demonstrated the possibility of making either of many different types of individual out of identical germinal material. Heredity is controlled whenever and wherever development is controlled.

RELATION OF MEDICINE TO PSYCHOLOGY*

By Joseph Jastrow, Ph.D., LL.D., New York.

Medicine and psychology as kinsfolk in the family of the sciences may be regarded as cousins, and if “once removed” are restorable to a sympathetic kinship. They are related by the ties of a common origin, joined by nature but put asunder by the artificial caste system of academic tradition. Body and mind in their making are made one; but, as applies no less to the ritually wedded couple, the disturbing question arises: Which one? In this instance each may well take the pledge unreservedly to honor, cherish and obey the other.

The claim of possession, that the body has a mind or the mind a body, is as misleading as the allied doctrine of demon possession, which primitive explanation of disease registers the first encounter of physician and psychologist. The early medicine man was priest, psychologist and physician in one, and a bit of a faker too. If later he specialized as healer of fleshly ills, he would still be baffled by an epileptic’s convulsions or a paranoiac’s raving delusions, and turn the case over to the religio-psychologist, whose omniscience in turn was equal to devising an exorcism and increasing his prestige. Both professions seem to have retained their mental habits. The “twentieth-century limited” physician, confronted with a mental, especially a temperamental, case, follows the ancient precedent and says, “Let George the psychologist do it”; and the contemporary psychologist is easily flattered into the ambition to be all things to all men, and even more to some

•Read before the joint meeting of the History of Science Society, New York Academy of Medicine, and Section N of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, held at the New York Academy of Medicine, December 29, 1928.

•Reprint. Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
128

women, whom it is more interesting to psycho-exercise. Professional nature seems as constant as human nature.

But the far-reaching rehabilitation of the kinship of medicine and psychology, which is our latter-day heritage, demonstrates that the world does move, if we have the ingenuity to move it, to overcome its inertia, to dislodge its encumbering conservations. World ideas never move in simple progressive orbits because of the resistance of the old order that passeth, but yields only, and slowly, to a newer enlightenment. Not only body and mind, but health and disease, and particularly sanity and insanity, are one, and should be joined in hyphenated unity, not set apart in disjunctive contrast.

Neither physician nor psychologist should consider human behavior as divided into bodily behavior and mental behavior, but as united, forever joined in that organic union that conditions strength and weakness alike. There isn’t one science of health and another of disease, but hygiene and pathology are specialized perspectives of the same vista; and sanity and insanity1 derive from the normal and abnormal vicissitudes of the same career; all these assets and liabilities appear in the same statement of how and why we behave as human beings, and misbehave accor-ing to the same patterns.

That the closer kinship of medical science is with physics and chemistry as basic data of interpretation is clear enough and has been recognized in some form from the days of the glory of thinking that was Greece, onward. Hot and cold, wet and dry, were mighty words to conjure with in the majestic philosophical juggling to explain the universe, including the insistent phenomena of disease as faulty functioning of physical relations. They were set by nature in the great cosmos and the human frame alike; in the stars and planets, in the seasons, in the continents, in the bodily composition. We may sample one phase of this physical doctrine in its later currency as the “humors” in the story of Jerome Cardan (1501-1576), a learned Neapolitan physician, an amazing combination of the credulity and erudition of that pre-harveian day. Of him it was said that for all for which his contemporaries thought him wise, we should think him mad; and for what we think him wise, they would have thought him mad. Inveigled to journey to Paris there to meet a distinguished patient, the Bishop of St. Andrews (and where he gazed with awe at the horn of a unicorn as one of the major sights of the city), he was further tempted to his real destination, Scotland. The prelate’s ailment had been described as a periodic asthma due to a distillation of the brain into the lungs which left a “temperature and a condition too moist and too cold, and the flow of the humors coinciding with the conjunctions and oppositions of the moon.”

With the characteristic prestige that results from finding others in the wrong, Cardan promptly found that the archbishop’s

1. I have developed this concept of sanity- insanity in an article in Current History, December, 1928.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
129

brain was too hot and too dry. He put his distinguished patient on a cold and humid diet to resist the attraction of the brain, yet had him sleep on a pillow of dry straw or seaweed and had water dropped on nis shaven crown; in addition he presented a regimen of simple food, much sleep, and cold showers. The patient improved, and so did Dr. Cardan’s reputation and his purse.

In this wise we retain in the palimpsest of our speech the vestiges of early medical and psychologic guesses, and speak of good humor and bad humor, but are saved by our sense of humor as well as our scientific sense from taking these notions seriously or literally. We merely note in passing that humor and humid as philologic kin derive from the strange vagaries of the human mind seeking explanation in the fluid contents of the body, the blood and secretions that hold the clue to our well being.

Yet we are still divided politically and analytically into "wets” and "drys” and have the same problem of reconciling out principles with our predilections, our psychologies and our prescriptions. The battle of the wets and drys seems to have started with the flood and the bibulous tendencies of the sons of Noah and will doubtless continue until the earth is dried up in the final solar or cosmic desiccation. For this alcoholic reference is not irrelevant in that, to adjust our indulgences and our inhibitions wisely, we must still consult both physician and psychologist, and welcome their agreement.

I am also tempted to add the illuminating incident told by Dr. Singer of a Justice Holt (1642—1710) who, as a young man, finding himself near Oxford without money, secured a week’s lodging by curing a landlady’s daughter of an ague by writing some Greek words on a scrap of parchment and wrapping it round the girl’s wrist to be left there until she was well. Many years after an old woman was brought before him on the charge of sorcery, as she claimed to cure fever-stricken patients by applying a magic bit of parchment. It was his own original label. The justice confessed and the woman, one of the last to be tried for witchcraft in England, was acquitted. Combining a bit of retributive justice with an epitome of the survival and wane of the magic medicine man’s art, the incident is worthy of a place in the many glass cases that would form a museum of the psychologic early aids to medical practice.

Inviting as it is to trace the mutual relations and reflections of physician and psychologist by way of these marginal notes on the records of the past, I must not encroach on the space assigned to the central thesis, and desirable and actual relations of the present.

In the living organism the basic reactions have a functional setting and thus appear as physiologic behavior. The mental life, no less than the physiologic, may at bottom be all physics and chemistry; but that recognition offers no adequate basis for understanding, no lever of control. It simply reminds us that the technic of drug therapy, paralleling the intriguing effect of drug action on mental processes, rests on a chemical foundation

Digitized by <^.ooQle
130

in the most intricate of all chemical laboratories, the human body; and the problems of drug action, including the psychic poisons, illustrate the joint interest, with the one focus in medicine, the other in psychology. To deny either is to defy nature, to be content to recognize much less than the entire man. An irresponsible denial leads to drugless healing a la Christian science, to absent treatment and thought waves, and the absurdities of addled thinking. An irresponsible drug cult leads to the rival extravagances of “patent medicines” claiming all virtues for quack remedies— and the public chooses between ignoring and ignorance—contrasted cults of pills and wills in meeting human ills. While this adds variety to the human scene, it does little credit to human intelligence. Such are the parasitic growths attendant on the advances of the physician in controlling bodily processes and of the psychologist in commanding mental ones. Even a parody of science implies a compliment.

So here is another meeting ground where physician and psychologist may cultivate a fellow feeling and discuss whether medical follies exceed psychologic follies in latter-day or in earlier vintages. The psychic addict and the drug addict offer comparable problems and overlapping ones. For by the drug route, no less than by fasting and prayer and ascetic denial and ecstasy, have men at all stages sought to transcend their limitations and enter an earthly paradise, too commonly finding a hell of slavery. Yet by the same route have come the blessings of anesthetics, the security of asepsis, and the many delicate technics of correction of physical deficiencies from quinine to insulin; and the end is not yet, though the medical arts far exceed the medicinal one.

Yet all this constitutes their warrant and may be summarized as the physiogenic principle, the influencing of behavior from below. For its type of contribution one may consider twentieth-century wise the story of the glands, thus returning to that early Greek guess that the secretions are the critical determiners of constitution. To read into this any prophetic anticipation of our present knowledge is a mere dramatic indulgence, since the logics of the two conclusions and the resulting practices are cultural ages apart. If the thyroid is the miracle gland, it is so by virtue of the discovery that supplying thyroid deficiency converts the feebleminded cretin to a near normal. By baring the mechanisms of fear and rage, Dr. Cannon has contributed as directly to psychology as to medicine. Yet either is never the whole story; we can allay nervousness, but we cannot inject courage and calm by the veins or secretions any more than we can hope to find a drug that will make men truthful. But to recognize that nature provides for our complexity of behavior by the double route of the autonomic nervous system (the older evolutionary product closer to the vital functions) and of the later crowning mantle of the craniospinal system, the neopallium, makes that provision appear as a prophetic anticipation of the roles of the physician and the

Digitized by Google
131

psychologist. This interplay of autonomic and cranial function is nature’s own script of psychology, which ours is the first generation to read rightly.

Among its lessons is the dominance of the emotional reactions, so much more vital to the significant varieties of behavior than the rational operations that led to their discovery. The academic error of the scholastic psychologists is the enthronement of the logical robot and the neglect of the emotional reality that moves the strings. We thus reach the influence on behavior from above, for which we may substitute the more acceptable term the psychogenic principle. Though we could trace its partial recognition and misreading through the ages in trance, somnambulism, ecstasy, hypnosis, suggestion, faith cure and shrine cure and relic cure and mind cure—and even find in it the secret of what passed for magic in primitive days and what supports testimonials to modern fads—we do well to recognize its rich addition in the freudian formula. For it was a novel and fertile insight to note that the hysterical symptom could be imposed on the physiologic mechanism from above, as though elaborated by motive and reason and the cortical mechanisms of highest and latest evolution. But all this issues only on the condition of that primarily strong emotional stress that is anchored lower down, in the deeper and earlier mechanisms of our vitality.

The freudian story begins with the incapacities, the interferences with normal bodily functions through psychogenic fixation. In Freud’s first case, a young woman had a numb arm that resulted from a strained position under the emotional stress of nursing her dying father, which persisted as an hysterical paresis; so did a blurred vision; so did a difficulty in swallowing. The incapacities of shell shock, whether a general locomotor collapse, a localized tremor, or a sensory blindness or deafness, are likewise psychogenic disturbances, presenting, however, the additional freudian motivation of exemption from further danger and shock at the front. The frank, perhaps crudely frank, freudian formula makes it “an escape into illness,” yet not a deliberate or conscious malingering. The attendant in the woman’s room of a railway station in New York City who developed hysterical deafness may be said to have chosen a wise protection from the bedlam of her environment, were it not that more correctly she is the victim of an unwanted incapacity. Because the incapacity is only of hysterical depth may its relief be alike sudden and accomplished by an offsetting emotional shock. Thus were crutches discarded not only at shrines of old and at Lourdes in our day, but at the announcement of the armistice, which set free anxiety and physical incapacity in the same joyous peal of bells.

The intricacies of the freudian motivation and its mechanisms are far too ramified and detailed for even a summary reference. Observe that one need not be a thoroughgoing freudian to accept something of his version of the psychogenic principle. I find myself in a growing company of psychologists who reject a goodly, even a major, portion of the freudian structure, certainly its

Digitized by Google
132

ungainly and grotesquely elaborated features—and yet recognize in it a powerful microscope, if properly adjusted, for the analysis of human behavior. Observe that in all that I cited there is no element of sex, but there is of emotional stress, of upsetting fear and sympathy. That thwarted and strident sex urges may act both physiogenically and psychogenically to the maladjustment of the individual is truer by reason of the freudian emphasis and exaggeration. If sex is but the ramification of glandular action, it is the physician’s business; if it is a way of living emotionally and in the larger sense psychically, it is at least as much the psychologist’s affair. And moralist and sociologist and the guardians of law and order likewise claim jurisdiction, even to making illegal knowledge which the physician might on occasion prescribe.

There could be no more cogent example of the interpmetrating territory of medicine and psychology than the freudian movement. Rejected by the medical fraternity as unorthodox, not to say illegitimate, the freudian waif was deposited at the door of psychology and, when grown to a lusty youth, adopted, though with reservations. Its entire history is unfortunate. It was bom in the clinic—an unfortunate birthplace for any doctrine with so wide and so personal an application; it was reared in distracting controversy; it traveled on the vise of psychoanalysis—a procedure as open to abuse as any narrow cult, and more so. While for some patients being “psyched” may be a step to being cured, to others it may amount to being infected, and the infection may spread. Psychoanalysis is but one application of freudian psychology, and the freudian procedure but one form of analysis. The freudian psychology will be tested and found valid or wanting according to its general value in explaining human behavior, human history, human relations and human aberrations particularly. For the moment it stands as a convincing demonstration of the modem convergence of the physician and the psychologist.

For ages sharing interest in principles and academic cooperation, physician and psychologist now find themselves for the first time fellow practitioners. They have become so through the appalling recognition that in our strenuous order of living, nervous and mental disorders outnumber all other forms of ailment. Apparently this is the psychoneurotic age; and one dismal prophecy announces that, if the increase of psychoneuroses and mental disorders continues for another generation, there will be about enough mentally fit individuals in the community to take care of the mentally unfit, and the human race will have no other occupation.

To avert this disaster requires understanding and the instruments of control. What it means in terms of my major thesis may be briefly suggested. It means that the originally adequate adjustment between the autonomic urges, their stimulations and satisfactions, and the cordial control through accepted social patterns of behavior, has become violently disturbed. It isn’t so simple a matter as repression, wise or unwise, though that plays a part; it is the total intricacy of conflicting motives, the greater

Digitized by
133

anxieties, the jarring tensions, the more ambitious striving, the eager rivalries, the manifold menaces of failure, the resulting thwartings, disappointments, inferiorities, that present too violent a pace of living for the neurotically disposed to endure. They break at whatever may be the weakest point of their maladjustment; most of it (in my opinion) is inherent disposition, yet is aggravated to the proportions of disaster by unfortunate circumstances and unwise management.

The two great orders of psychoneurotics are the hysterical and the neurasthenic; the one restless, agitated, explosive, unstable, overemotional; the other crippled by fear, hesitant, distressed, with incapacitating aches and paralyzing dreads. In neither is there peace, the calm needed for living the adjusted life. There are the smaller armies of the psychasthenic and the psychopathic personalities, and more on the borderland beyond which loom the more serious so-called insanities. The inquiry as to the causes of this vast increase in the minor disqualifications, the slighter deviations from a normal state of adjustment needed to carry on under the present stressful occupations, must give way to the recognition of its existence and that to provisions for the care and restoration of this vast army of the maladjusted, of the mentally unfit. For one person who seeks medical aid there may be five, there may be ten, who do not. Yet these patients at large need help and don’t know where to turn. A sympathetic neurologist offering his services to those in mental distress could stand at any crowded crossing of a metropolis and hold a busy clinic among the passers-by. It would almost appear as though the world has become one vast clinic of nervous troubles and mental disorders. The modern Diogenes is looking for a normal man.

It is this situation that itself proposes a closer relation of physician and psychologist and a more professional one. It is true that the proposal covers but one section of human ills, yet its orbit includes the welfare of the most cherished functions and the most significant. We prize bodily health for mental vigor.

What every large community needs is a “misery clinic”—not a good name but a neutral one. The procession of the maladjusted and the incapacitated and disqualified is made up of the handicapped rather than the crippled. The largest divisions are the fear ridden, the shy, withdrawing, friendless, helpless, lacking confidence, fearing failure, never showing their best, discouraged, and always tired, weary, listless. The acute point of attack may be self consciousness, or sex consciousness, or a flushing or choking or stammering or palpitation or body ache or sense of confusion or of collapse or of impending disaster generally. They are assured that they are physically sound, but the assurance doesn’t carry. They are depressed; life has lost its zest; they live timid, introverted, worried, gloomy lives; and the morning is lead and gall, ushering in a day of anxious misery.

Under these circumstances it is intelligible that they snatch at every straw, and that those seeking whom they may devour
134

find a large crop of victims. The prize held out is health and vigor and confidence and success and command of powers. The motley advertising pages of journals claiming to remake mind and muscles and repair what nature failed to supply are one of the most characteristic and discouraging documents of the times; they defeat the combined efforts of physician and of psychologist, but their appeal is more directly to psychic failing because of its prevalence and distress. The insult of it all is deeper to the psychologist than to the medical man.

The class thus appealed to is alike numerous and appealing; theirs is the distress that seeks aid. There may be as many who need mental readjustment but do not seek it, the unstable trouble makers drifting in their jobs and drifting to the status of the jobless and the delinquents. There is the home life and the social life or the lack of it to consider; the conflicts of urges within and love relations galore from the vulgar to the tragic among the un-dersexed, the oversexed and the falsely sexed. One neurologist finds two types of patients in his misery clinic; those who come because they are not married, and those who come because they are. In view of the immensity of this population of the maladjusted, the love lorn and love tom and love worn, the queer misfits and mildly psychopathic variants and temperamentally difficult and high-strung—the neurotic and erotic and quixotic and exotic in our midst—our attempts to meet the conditions that their presence entails are pitiably inadequate, almost nonexistent. They are so because, unless marked in their abnormality, these handicapped are not regarded as requiring medical care, and the psychologist is new at the job and unrecognized. Hence the need of a further convergence of the two professions.

The conventional type of clinic doesn’t meet their needs; they can’t be handled en masse and by routine, and the personal intensity of their maladjustment—often almost delusional in its perversion—makes them recoil from the clinical approach. They are often rich in pride and sensitiveness and poor in every other resource, with financial poverty as a further handicap to their restoration.

What is wanted is a board of consultants composed of physicians, psychologists, social workers and laymen (especially lay-women) all adding to what professional competence they possess an extraordinary common sense, patience and sympathy, first to diagnose and then to assign a course of treatment; to stand by, and then to follow through the rescue work to its consummation. There may well be hundreds of such boards of normalizes, and all will be kept busy in a city of millions. The day is past when the physician is the sole healer of sick bodies or the minister the sole healer of sick souls. The ciy of the hour is a neurologic distress, and the need of the hour is the organization of the wisdom of the physician and the psychologist.

Digitized by Lj ooQle
135

♦	-	'	t

Health education notes

-----------------------------

THE PROTEIN QUESTION

Ever since the classic studies of Chittenden and his co-work-ers at Yale University a quarter of a century ago, the problem of the proper quota of protein in the diet of man has agitated those persons who are concerned with practical nutrition. The actual experiments of the New Haven group tended to demonstrate that a marked reduction in the allowance of protein then current in the daily regimen could be tolerated without signs of what the clinician might term malnutrition and without indications of any decrease in well being. There were intimations, further, that the low-protein regimen ought to be actually advantageous to the individual. The reasons advanced are not cogent in the light of present-day information. They involved the idea of “sparing” certain organs, notably the liver and kidneys, from the physiologic work entailed in the catabolism of the unnecessary nitrogenous intake and the elimination of the consequent waste products. Just how real such an eventuality is in the economy of the body has never been clearly indicated. The thesis of “sparing” important organs, including the pancreas and other digestive structures, has often been advanced only to be met by the counterargument that, in some instances at least, “work” as expressed in vigorous function is an advantage rather than otherwise. Our muscles tend to improve with use and to atrophy with disuse.

A recent reviewer1 has ventured the criticism that, in the experiments of Chittenden, the absence of control groups of subjects maintained on the usual protein intake but otherwise subjected to the same routine of life as the other groups must be keenly felt by the critical appraiser of their significance and renders questionable the deduction that the observed benefits of the experimental conditions imposed were due solely, if at all, to the reduction in protein intake. There are communities and races of men that have subsisted for generations on small amounts of protein comparable to those advocated by Chittenden and Hindhede, but their physical, intellectual and industrial characteristics are not such as to inspire confidence in the wisdom of their habits or any desire to follow in their footsteps. Among such communities, the reviewer continues, the low-protein diets in vogue are a matter not of choice but of necessity resulting from a food supply restricted by climate, geographic location or industrial backwardness.

1. Mitchell, H. H.: The Physiological Effects of Protein, Editorial Review, J. Nutrition 1:271 (Jan.) 1929.

Digitized by CjOOQle
136

Much of the experimental effort of former years to secure evidence of harm to the kidneys on a particular regimen was thwarted by ignorance of some of the fundamentals of diet. The role of the vitamins has been appreciated clearly only during the last fifteen years or less; likewise the dominating part often played by the lack of adequate, though often minute, quantities of some of the inorganic elements. Consequently, convincing research involving the long periods of observation that deterioration of bodily organs may call for was not always properly planned. Failures were often due to lack of some essential in the experimental ration rather than to an excess of some familiar food ingredient. However, the recent advances in the physiology of nutrition have made convincing research more possible and havp enheartened investigators throughout the civilized world. Among the problems arising from recent studies is the question whether, after all, dietary protein may not be a factor in the genesis of human chronic nephritis;2 whether there has not been undue parsimony at times in the feeding of persons suffering from nephrosis characterized by a lowered blood content of circulating protein ; whether the protective value of renal hypertrophy under some' dietary conditions has been adequately appreciated. The biochemists have forced on us the necessity, furthermore, of taking into consideration the “quality” as well as the quantity of the proteins ingested. Finally, the long debated question of intestinal putrefaction with its reference to undesired alimentary bacterial changes in proteins and the consequent possibilities of absorption of toxic rather than properly nutritive protein disintegration fragments has become involved by the circumstance that it is possible to alter the intestinal flora. The control of intestinal putrefaction is no longer attempted solely by reduction of protein, the pabulum of the putrefactive micro-organisms, in the diet. A more effective and practical way consists in regulating the carbohydrate intake, including such foods as dextrin and lactose, which will persist in appreciable amounts for some time in the alimentary tract before absorption and thus favor the dominance of an acidophilic bacterial flora. In some cases, actual implantation of cultures appears to be an additional successful aid.

In the midst of these manifold uncertainties it is refreshing to find a well considered judgment that has weighed the current doubts against the more dependable accumulated facts. Mitchell of the University of Illinois at Urbana, who has recently summarized the information respecting protein problems, has come to a satisfying conclusion. It appears, he writes, that, with proteins as with other nutrients, successful nutrition and confirmed health and physiologic efficiency are possible over a wide range of intake, though environmental and activity factors may contribute to the existence of certain optimal intakes for certain conditions of living, but that with proteins, as with no other nutrients, the body

2.	The Genesis of Chronic Interstitial Nephritis, editorial, J. A. M. A. 92:232 (Jan. 19) 1929.

Digitized by LiOOQie
137

is on continual guard against the potentially deleterious action of its intermediate digestion products, bacterial end-products, and intermediate metabolites. In this well phrased statement nothing is included about extremes of custom or practice. It scarcely requires more than empiric experience to teach the unwisdom of such aberrations of diet as unmistakably represent far too much or too little of any food. Even that sovereign food, milk, has its dietary limitations.

Man Wears Too Much Clothing.—Hill feels that too much clothing is worn by civilized man. He says that in winter a man carries a tenth of his weight in clothes, while a dog carries only 2 per cent in his fur. A woman in modem dress carries only half or less the weight that a man does, and there is no evidence that she suffers in health from discarding that excess which the Victorian women wore—in fact, she has gained. It is absurd to put on an overcoat when going out for a walk. It is good to go out and be braced by feeling cold and so be impelled to take vigorous exercise. It is only the old, the underfed and the feeble who require very warm clothing, those whose fire of life is weak and cannot be fanned by vigorous exercise. Those, too, in a state of shock from injury, those anesthetized and the paralyzed who have lost the power of heat regulation require careful clothing and warmth. Clothes need to be not only as light as possible but permeable to air, allowing free evaporation, becoming to the least degree wet with sweat and not clinging to the skin when wet. The cellular structure produced by weaving, whether of wool, cotton, linen or silk, secures conditions that give warmth, softness, compressibility and elasticity, permeability and evaporative power. Smooth, closely woven ana glazed materials are unsuitable, except as a protection from the sun, e. g., the pith helmet or flowing robe of the Arab. The winter and summer pelts of domestic animals, such as the horse and the cow, show the small extra amount needed to face the open-air life and the winds of winter. Thick undervests and heavy overcoats and furs are needed not by citizens but by arctic travelers and soldiers standing in freezing trenches. The Victorians were all wrong in their fear of cold, coddling in shut-up, heated rooms, with sand bags to keep air from entering by the cracks of doors and windows, wearing heavy clothing and fearful of going out in night air or rain. The better health and longer life of open-air workers, those most exposed, such as shepherds, fishermen and agricultural laborers, as compared with city folk, and the success, too, of the open-air treatment of tuberculous patients and weakly children, has shown the absurdity of such views. Girls have become much more healthy and vigorous through the freedom from a coddled and restricted life. Good appetite and digestion, prevention of constipation, good health of the respiratory organs, nervous vigor, good looks and happiness depend very largely on the deep breathing, heightened circulation and proper utilization of the food eaten which result from exposure to cold and exercise. By the taking off of clothes

Digitized by Google
138

and by fan ventilation work can be carried out even in warm factories and climates without excessive call on the sweat mechanism, and the heart saved from the fatigue of pumping much blood through the skin to cool the body. It is most important for the performance of efficient and economic work that such a simple means of cooling should be used. Fashion and custom should not prevent people from taking off outer garments when feeling too warm. On hot summer days, workers in offices, shops and factories should be encouraged to take off excessive clothing and work in shirt sleeves or light overalls. By nakedness not only is the loss of heat by convection and evaporation made easy, but also loss by radiation to cooler surroundings. If the sun shines on the naked body, there is a gain of much radiant heat, while the action of visible and ultraviolet rays on the skin is obtained. People in all classes overclothe children and confine them far too much in hot, stuffy rooms. A safeguard of the health of the poor is playing in the street; mistaken philanthropy has striven to turn them into playrooms. Babies are not delicate, but are able to withstand exposure to cold just as a naked pigling stands it, nestling among its fellows and against its mother, but exposed to the open air. Through some hundred thousand years wild men have withstood exposure before clothes were invented, and there are wild men who still withstand it naked. The baby is born with the power to withstand the environment, whether it is the child of a savage or of a citizen. A few score years of sheltered civilized life have not changed this inherent power. Babies that are well fed, and given exposure to open air and sun, naked, with plenty of kicking and crawling exercise, long sleeps out of doors, and light clothing, grow up virile, with strong muscle and firm bones. Convention keeps children hatted and clothed, and pride of race makes mothers thus preserve their whiteness. They should wear only a loincloth, tan in the sun, be in and out of water, and live open air lives. In hot climates proteins should be reduced and carbohydrates increased; on the other hand, when there is a great exposure to cold, more meat is required. In tropical climates, fruits, salads, green vegetables, rice and a little fish, bird and dairy produce afford the best diet. In the arctic regions meat and fat form the larger part of the ration.

THE NOISE NUISANCE

The British Medical Association, which passed a resolution at its annual meeting in Cardiff condemning preventable noise, has now sent an important memorandum on the subject to the minister of health. Physicians have taken up the question, according to .the memorandum, because it is becoming increasingly obvious that inability of large numbers of the community, especially brain workers, to obtain the requisite amount of rest is interfering with their efficiency, and because of the disturbance caused to those who are ill in the hospital or in their homes, to those who suffer from insomnia, and to naturally light sleepers.

Digitized by Google
139

Preventable noises are classified in the memorandum under six headings, and suggestions for partial or entire elimination are appended to each:	1.	Inefficiently	silenced motor vehicles. Offend-

ers should be prosecuted, and the maximum penalty inflicted, especially in the case of motorcycles which travel with open exhausts. 2. Signal instruments fitted to motor vehicles. Klaxons and electric horns should be vigorously suppressed, and cars should be fitted with low-toned bulb horns. 3. Barking dogs. The memorandum advocates a change in legislation to allow of easier prosecution of owners who keep dogs chained up during the night. Many dogs will bark continuously under these conditions, and are an intolerable nuisance to the neighbors. 4. Noises made by street venders. The cries of the milkman, the newspaper sellers, bells on coal carts, and the bell of the muffin man should all be suppressed. 5. Careless handling of milk cans. Deadening material should be placed on the floors of buildings in which milk cans are handled in large quantities; and employees restrained from careless handling of the cans. 6. Shunting and whistling of locomotives. The railway companies should be approached to eliminate this kind of signaling as far as possible.

The memorandum points out the difference between industrial noises and street noises. The fact that healthy persons are able to adapt themselves to continuous noises, that factory workers apparently do not suffer from inevitable accompaniment of the noise of machinery, does not improve the assertion that the effects of noise on the health and efficiency of the community are devastating. Industrial noises, which are mostly rhythmic, uniform and predictable, require only a minimum of energy for the task of inhibiting them as undesirable stimuli. Street noises are unrhythmic, discordant, extremely varied in quality, pitch and intensity, and, above all, unpredictable. They concern the ordinary citizen, the invalid and convalescent, the neurasthenic, and the brain worker. The effects, besides disturbing necessary rest, create tensions generating angry emotions, which add to the fatigue already present. All the energy of convalescents is needed to fight disease, and they have none to spare for responding to or inhibiting violent stimuli, such as those produced by noise. Many of the neuroses of the inhabitants of big cities may be regarded as analogous to the shell shock that followed deafening bombardments during the war, so that noise is in some cases the direct cause of disease. The fact that the present peak of street noises had been reached with so little protest from the public is attributed to the gradualness with which the component noises have made their appearance, to culminate in a crescendo of the unsilenced motorcycle, the klaxon, the heavy lorry, the airplane, the steam tractor, and finally the pneumatic drill.

FLATFOOT, A WIDESPREAD DEFORMITY

For a long time, flatfoot was considered only from a purely medicosurgical point of view, but in recent years the social aspects of the problem have come more into the foreground, since

Digitized by
140

it has become known that the condition is exceedingly widespread. In a recent article in the Deutsche medizinische Wochen-schrift, the orthopedist Dr. Gustav Muskat suggests that strenuous efforts be made to combat and prevent its occurrence or development. A peculiar thing about flatfoot is that both sexes of all races are affected, by it, the incidence of the deformity being much the same in all countries. There are, however, certain callings (waiters, bakers, dentists) in which the condition occurs more frequently than others, but a large number of flat feet are found even among mountain dwellers who, from early youth, carry heavy burdens and wear coarse shoes. A large percentage of persons with flat foot are incapacitated part of the time. Whereas formerly the incidence among men was approximately twice that among women, flatfoot has become, in recent years, more and more, a disorder affecting chiefly women. Formerly, the relative incidence was as 9 to 5, against the men; now it is as 3 to 5, against the women. That is explained by the fact that women today are more frequently “gainfully employed” than formerly, and by the further fact that they have heavier burdens to bear in the household; in fact, flatfoot is sometimes designated as an occupational disease of the housewife and domestics, developing as a natural result of housework. If one considers the high incidence of the condition among school children (50 per cent of all children are flatfooted or have the disposition thereto), anxiety concerning the progressive damage to public health seems justified. Even in countries with better economic conditions, as the United States, the widespread incidence of flatfoot has attracted attention, with the result that special attempts have been made to awaken the interest of the general public in the problem in order that the proper prophylactic measures may be instituted in season. Flatfoot is probably acquired in 90 per cent of cases and the resulting harm may be prevented if an early diagnosis is made and prompt action is taken to relieve the condition. Investigations in the schools reveal an increase of flatfoot in the upper classes and among the older pupils. The highest incidence, after early childhood, is doubtless found in the 10—20 and the 20—30 age groups. After 30, patients are commonly compelled to give up their former occupations and to seek lighter employment. It is imperative, therefore, that during the preschool age, in the schools, on the playgrounds, on the athletic fields, in the choice of a life calling and in all phases of economic and industrial life, all possible damages from flatfoot be eliminated. Medical science can check the development of the deformity and overcome severe changes through operation, thus restoring the ability to walk and the earning capacity of the patient.

GOOD FOOD HABITS FOR CHILDREN

Good food habits, developed in childhood under wise guidance, are the foundation of good nutrition through life. With the best of intentions parents may make mistakes in the manage-
141

ment of their children at the table, erring by over-indulgence or ill-advised strictness. With patience and careful methods children’s food habits can be retrained, but it is of course much simpler to build good food habits from the start.

A child can become accustomed from babyhood to a variety of foods, flavors, and food textures, says Miss C. Rowena Schmidt, of the Bureau of Home Economics, in Leaflet 42-L, Good Food Habits for Children, just issued by the United States Department of Agriculture. As the child grows, says Miss Schmidt, take it for granted that he will enjoy the food set before him. Don’t talk about “how good it is for him.” Let the adults of the family set a good example by eating without comment all wholesome, well-prepared foods, and let the mother make it her responsibility to see the special dishes for the child are not only suitable in kind but carefully cooked and attractively served in fairly small portions.

Meals should come at regular hours, and there should be no “piecing” to spoil the appetite. Make meals the occasion for pleasant comradeship, whether the child has his own food separately or eats with the family. Bright colored individual dishes and small table implements that the child can handle personally add interest. Encourage self-help from the earliest possible age. Playing games to get food eaten is not recommended by Miss Schmidt. Other and better means of accomplishing the same end with difficult children are suggested. The leaflet may be obtained free from the United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Influence of Tropics on Rickets.—Brooke states that about 25 per cent of children in the tropics have rickets. The disease is usually of a mild type. Severe rickets and marked rachitic deformity rarely are observed. Long wet seasons and high humidity favor the development of rickets. A diet poor in sterols is a less important factor. Proper knowledge by the layman in the tropics of the etiology of nckets should remit in the partial disappearance of the disease in all but the cloudiest areas.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Physiology of Exercise” by James Huff McCurdy, M. D.,

M.	P. E., edited by R. Tait McKenzie. Publishers, Lea and Fe-biger, Philadelphia, Pa., 1928. Clothbound, 6” x 9 1-2”, 270 pages, illustrated. Price $3.00, new (2d) edition.

As the author states he has received all the literature in this field and has evaluated it carefully. Many additions have been made to the former edition. Significant quotations, findings, and tables collected from many sources have added much to the value of the book. Of special value is the extensive bibliography, and the list of questions at the end of each chapter.

The book may be used with value as a text for normal school and college work, and will be found helpful for teachers of physical education.—Fred E. Foertsch.

Digitized by CjOOQle
142

“The Supervision of Secondary Subjects” edited by Willis L. Ubl, 673 pages; illustrated. Published by D. Appleton and Co., 1929. Price $2.40.

This volume brings together studies in the organization of supervision covering the chief secondary school subjects. Each subject is treated by a specialist.

The first chapter discusses the “Scope of Departmental Supervision” and contributes to a better understanding of the general problems of the organization of supervision.

The remainder of the book is devoted to the organization of supervision of the separate subjects, each treated in a chapter by itself.

Chapter XIII deals with the organization and supervision of a health program in secondary schools. The chief emphasis is upon health as it permeates and affects every aspect of the school situation, separately and combined. The discussion includes health service problems; health education involving the basic, specific, and contributary subjects; methods of teaching and organization of materials; physical education aspects; measurement of results; teacher training; and the integration of all the factors into one coordinated whole.

Each chapter is supplemented by an excellent bibliography.

'	—Fred E. Foertsch

“Applied Anatomy and Kinesiology” by Wilbur P. Bowen. Fourth Edition, thoroughly revised. Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia. Clothbound, 356 pages. Price $3.75.

This edition presents the most complete revision of the book that has been made. An attempt has been made to eliminate all errors of previous editions, improve the clearness of thought and description where needed, and bring the book up to date. With the latter point in view the chapter on posture has been entirely rewritten, the section on defects of the foot likewise, and some changes have been made in the treatment of certain athletic events in which the standard form has undergone development. The book is illustrated with 224 engravings.

“Public Health and Hygiene” by Charles F. Bold-wan, M. D., Director, Bureau of Health Education, Department of Health, City of New York. 12 mo. of 312 pages with 122 illustrations. Philadelphia and London; W. B. Saunders Co., 1929. Cloth, $2.75 net.

A practical, compact and comprehensive treatment of public health problems colored throughout by a most interesting and useful historical background.

The first section of this book gives the historical development of preventive medicine, starting with ancient practices and

Digitized by ^.ooQle
143

beliefs, relating many of the Middle Age practices, and leading up to modem principles and methods.

The next section treats such topics as Micro-organisms and Disease, Transmission of Communicable Diseases, Life History of Certain Important Insects, and Disinfection.

A large section is devoted to the most important communicable diseases and their prevention. Each disease is treated separately and is accompanied by a most interesting and enlightening account of early workers and their efforts in this field.

Another section covers the most important problems of con-munity hygiene.

The last Section covers “Vital Statistics” and gives many tables and graphs and also “Rules and Regulations Regarding Communicable Diseases.”

This book is written with a clearness and a directness which will make it a most useful reference for teachers of health education in secondary schools, and for normal school and college students.

—Fred E. Foertsch

“Body Build: Its Development and Inheritance” by C.

B.	Davenport, Director of the Department of Genetics, Carnegie Institution of Washington. Published by the Department of Genetics, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y. 1925.

Pamphlet 9” x 6”, 42 pages.

This pamphlet, as stated in the opening paragraph, is an abstract of a larger volume written by the same author. It presents many phases of body build from childhood up including adult stages. It gives many variable factors of heredity and environment, and the conclusions which may be drawn from the evidence thus far collected.

The types of build, the measurement of build, the sexual, racial and geographical influences on build, the regression toward mediocrity and the relationship of the glandular systems of the body to the chromosomes and somatic qualities, is but a fragment of the significant material embodied in this pamphlet.

The photographs, the many tables, and the graphic illustrations show at a glance the significance of the studies.

This and other similar studies of a scientific nature which will no doubt be forthcoming, open new avenues of approach for all those interested in the field of physical and health education.

—Fred. E. Foertsch.

“Directory of Training Courses for Recreation Leaders, Including Physical Education” Compiled by Marguerita P. Williams and Lee T. Hanmer. Russell Sage Foundation, New York. Paper cover 6” by 9”, 59 pages. Price 50 cents.

The material in this booklet is the product of a committee appointed by the National Conference on Outdoor Recreation.

Digitized by LjOOQle
144

This committee was appointed to study and report upon the opportunities which are available for those seeking training to fit them for capable leadership in the field of recreation.

The table of contents which is reprinted herewith will afford an idea of the comprehensive survey which has been made.

Contents

I.	Courses Offered By Universities, Colleges and State Normal Schools.

II.	Courses Offered By Schools of Physical Education and Other Training Schools.

III.	Courses Offered By National Organizations for Training Leaders in Their Activities.

IV.	Courses Offered By Local Agencies for Training Leaders.

V.	Other Special Courses.

1.	Camp Training Courses

2.	Nature Study Schools

3.	Schools of Dancing

4.	Schools of the Dramatic Arts

5.	Courses for Church Recreation Leadership.

“The Amateur Spirit in Scholastic Games and Sports"

by Frederick Rand Rogers. Published by C. F. Williams & Son, Inc., Albany, N. Y., 1929.

Cloth Bound. Price $1.25. 148 pages. 5x7.

This little volume of 148 small pages is an attempt by the author to present a philosophy concerning the amateur spirit in scholastic games and sports which is quite different from that underlying present day athletics. His purpose is to “undertake a summarization of goals thus far attained, to point out educational values of the new order, and to answer the major criticisms advanced by those who were unacquainted either with the theory underlying the rule or with the results of actual practice”.

Of the two parts of the book the first is used to explain “General Regulation Number One,” to discuss the values of "player freedom with responsibility,” to point out some of the deplorable conditions existing in athletics to-day, to answer the criticisms leveled at “player freedom,” and to briefly trace the history of the development of “General Regulation Number One”.

While part one is largely a discussion of a practical policy which has now been in operation in New York State over a year, the second part is primarily a philosophical discussion of “Fair Play,” “Victory,” Competition,” “Amateurism,” and of prospects for the future.

Were it not for the success that has been earned by the practical application in New York State of these ideas, the author might be accused of fanciful idealism. Seldom does such a small volume contain so much daring and challenging reasoning. Not only does it level caustic accusations against “the coach-who-is-hired-to-win” and “the championship-toumament-promoting

Digitized by Google
145

athletic associations,” but it attempts to show some of the remedies for these evils. Fortunately the style is not “hot tempered" but rather coldly logical and careful. Above all it has attempted to meet and solve a problem which has rapidly been growing worse, on the basis of sound educational principles. Without doubt this book will serve as an important step in the progress of solving the problem of making games and sports educationally valuable.—John C. Kiefer

“The Human Body And Its Care” by S. Weir New-mayer and Edwin C. Broome, published by American Book Co., 1928. Clothbound, 5” by 7 1—2”, 314 pages. Price $.96.

A nontechnical and excellent little book, presenting in admirable fashion health materials for grades 7, 8 and 9.

The authors take a sane and practical stand in the presentation of the materials. The structural and functional phases of the human body are so tied up with the habits, attitudes and ideals of healthful living, that the book will be of considerable value as a text for health teaching in the grades for which it is intended.

The book throughout contains many well-chosen pictures and illustrations. Of particular value are the summary statements at the end of each cnapter as “Facts Worth Remembering”.

—Fred E. Foertsch

A RUNNING DRILL WITH GROUPINGS

By Fred Zitta, Sheboygan, Wisconsin.

Alignment: Front Rank of 16.

Part 1—16 Measures

(Cts)

8 Running Steps forward.................................. 8

Left About Face....................................... 4

8 Running Steps forward.................................. 8

Left About Face....................................... 4

Run in Place.......................................... 4

In 4’s, Form front of 1st................................ 4

In 4’s, Form front Left.................................. 4

In 4’s 1-2 Wheel Left.................................... 8

Run in Place.......................................... 4

4’s, Form front of 1st................................... 4

Left About Face....................................... 4

Open Ranks forward, Column of front Ranks in open order.. 8

64

Digitized by CjOOQle
146

Part II.—32 Measures

A.—Step obliq. L forward. & raise arms obliq. fore upw....... 1

(Look up at hands) hold this position to ct............. 8

B.—Slowly bend knees & kneel on R. knee, (look at hands)

................................................ 9—16

C—Bend trunk forw., slowly circle arms outward & lower sideward downward, grasping hands downw. and in front

of L. ft........................................17—24

D—Slowly raise arms upw. to shoulder level and straighten

trunk..........................................25—32

E.	—Thrust arms	outw.,	(Palms up) and bend trunk backw..33

hold to ...........................................40

F.	—Clench hands, and slowly straighten trunk, and bend

arms to strike	from	head..........41—48

G.	—Quickly rise to a layout L. forw. and strike obliq. side

downw..............................................49

hold to ct.........................................56

H.	—Repeat pos. A. on ct. 57 hold to ct. 62, lower to starting

pos.............. .............................63—64

Repeat Ex. to the Right side.......65—128—32	Meas.

Part III.—16 Measures

Left About Face................*........................  4

Close Ranks.......................................... 8

Form Left of 1st..................................... 4

Left About Face.......................................... 4

Run in place......................................... 4

Run to Pyramid Pos....................................... 8

Build Pyr. (or Grouping) and Dismount................24

Run to a front Rank of 16..............................   8

Part IV.—8 Measures

Run to Pyramid Position................................ 1—8

Build Pyr. or Grouping Dismount and run to a Flank

Rank............................................. 9—32

V.—32 Measures

Rund to a Star formation.................................   8

Star Wheel Left........................................16

Run in place........................................... 4

1 Whole Wheel R. in 4’s....................................16

Run to Pyramid Position................................ 8

Build Pyr. and Dismount....................................32

Run to Pryamid Position................................ 8

Build Pyr. or Grouping Dismount............................24

Run to a Flank Rank of 16 and run in Place (4 cts).........12

128

Digitized by

Google
News, notes and comments

<1 " ■■ ■■ ■ -♦

A department of mental hygiene is included in the program of the Los Angeles schools. It comprises a psychological clinic, counselor service, special classes for different types of atypical children, special teaching material for such classes, and a demonstration nursery school.

A 3-acre playground has been set aside for use of Chinese children of Los Angeles. Parents and children cleared the lot, and the playground department installed playground equipment, including a swimming pool. The children attend public schools during the day, and in the evening receive instruction in Chinese language schools.

Supervision of the health of children from birth to 5 years of age, as well as during the school period 5 to 14 years, has been brought about in Middlesborough, a manufacturing and seaport town in Yorkshire, England, through cooperation of the education committee and the child welfare committee.

Hot lunches at noon are served in 2,286 schools in the State of New York, according to a report of the State supervisor of nutrition.

A new vocational high-school building is to be constructed in Pittsburgh, Pa., at a cost of $1,500,000; it will be ready for use in the fall of 1929.

Physical education, which usually includes health education, in public schools is required by law in 35 States., Seventeen States employ a State director of physical education.

As many as 126 special classes for handicapped children, with an enrollment of 2,800 pupils, were maintained in public schools of Baltimore during the school year 1926-27. For mentally subnormal children 71 classes were provided; for children having speech defects, 19; undernourished, 15; crippled, 12; hard of hearing, 4; deaf, 3; and for children with cardiac troubles and defective sight, 1 class each was maintained.

State athletic championship tournaments have been abolished by the central corpmittee of the New York Public High School Athlqtic Association, the body which determines and administers eligibility rules and conducts State athletic contests.—School Life.

Digitized by Google
148

More than 800 communities in the United States have established public playgrounds under trained leadership.

In a recent health examination of 2,000 working boys 15 to 17 years of age, attending East Side Continuation School, New York City, it was found that only 225 boys were without serious physical defects. About half were reported to have diseased tonsils or decayed teeth, or both, and a fourth had defective vision, in a few cases corrected by glasses. Other defects were malnutrition, nasal troubles, and heart defects, and 74 showed indications of active or incipient tuberculosis.

For the first time in the history of the Convention of the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association, there was staged a physical and health education program. A whole evening was devoted to this at the huge Cleveland auditorium. Some four thousand children from the lower grades through high school, showed in rapid order the scope of the city program. Conspicuous were the mass demonstrations of high school boys in wrestling, boxing and apparatus exercises.

Payment of $1 per month assures expert medical attention, free hospital service, and necessary medicines to teachers in schools of Centralia, Wash., under the terms of a hospital contract plan. Wives and children of teachers are eligible to participation. Membership in the plan is 85.

A school for crippled children of Belmont County, Ohio, is maintained in Bamesville, Ohio. An account of the school appeared recently in School Life, a publication of the United States Bureau of Education. Children from the county are boarded in homes in Bamesville, and remain from Monday morning to Friday evening. A modified Dalton plan is used, and work of eight grades is carried on. The school is made possible through cooperation of State, county, and local agencies. If possible, parents of the children must pay for books, clothing, and transportation.

Intra-mural games in Detroit. “In conducting intramural games out of doors, that is, soccer in the fall and base ball in the spring, we have never used officials, that is, some one boy to do nothing else but call infractions of rules, etc. Rather, we have had the games played without officials, trusting to the players to decide their own errors in play and be sportsmen enough to see that the right thing is done at all times. We do have boys who are leaders of groups. They play with their own sections and they are the natural ones to whom groups turn in cases where a decision has to be given. Hundreds of games have been played in this way without any interference from the instructor on the field. We keep posted in a prominent place all

Digitized by L^ooQle
149

scores made by teams. These scores are reported at the end of each game by the group leaders. The section securing the largest number of “wins” gets into the school finals. In the inter-section, or group games of soccer, groups up to 20 are used on a side the large field making this possible, but in the school finals the teams are kept down to 11 players. No varsity player is allowed to play in school championships. We have banners made in the school colors. We present them to the winners in any sport. These banners are held by this group until the next series of games for the championship in the sport are run off.”

TEN CITIES TEST VALUE OF VISUAL AIDS

A 10-week experiment in visual education is under way in 10 cities in different sections of the United States to determine the value of visual aids in class instruction. Elementary science and beginning geography have been chosen for demonstration. Within any given school system all classes taking part in the experiment will be selected from the same grades. In one group films will supplement the usual materials of instruction; in the other group similar materials will be used, but without visual help. At the end of the 10-week period both groups will be given the same tests to ascertain what advantage, if any, visual education has over the usual procedure.

A Municipal Stadium. The Munich City Council recently turned over to the youth of that city the first district stadium. It is of architectural beauty as well as practical. It covers an area of 47,000 square meters. It contains a 400 meter track for six, a 120 meter straightaway for ten, numerous pits for jumping and other field events, a play field 150x75 meters, and two smaller play fields 90x70 meters. Special provision is made for parking 2000 bicycles and 500 autos. The track level is three meters below the surface, surrounded by an amphitheatre seating 22,000. The interior is a gymnasium 200 square meters and completely equipped. There are four locker rooms with showers, doctors’, business, meeting, press and storage rooms. A stadium for swimming is to be built adjacent, so that the total area devoted to “public efficiency and health” will be 120,000 square meters.

Wall tennis practice. Several rather unique innovations are being used in serving for wall practice. The description for these are contained in an excellent book on tennis, by Dr. Matthias. In brief, they are as follows: Instead of the flat wall with the painted line of net level, the end posts are set forward, giving an angle to the extreme ends of the wall. Thus, a ball coming at an angle will bounce back into the field instead of going out. A second line is painted where the net level line and the entire width of the wall area is divided into six zones, which

Digitized by LaOOQle
150

offer opportunity for practice in placement of balls. Another wall is constructed so that it pivots on pins, permitting a tilt of the wall. When tilted backward the ball returns a high bail; when tilted forward the rebound is like a sharply downward cut ball. The widened range for practice, particularly with this adjustable wall is evident.

Studies in the effects of various types of ventilation will be made this year in four school buildings of New York City. The experiments will be conducted by the New York Commission on ventilation.

According to a letter to the Journal of the American Medical Association, the National Association for the Diffusion of Culture of Italy has decided to transform all of its schools scattered throughout the country into open air schools, and the Minister of Public Instruction is considering the extension of the system to all Italian elementary and middle schools.

Hygeia, the health journal published by the American Medical Association, Chicago, now has a department entitled “Health and the School,” edited by J. Mace Andreas, Ph. D.

Substitute for Oertel’s “Terrain” Treatment.— Hertzell describes a tricycle in the running of which both arms perform rowing movements while the legs make treading movements. The exercise which it provides is well suited to strengthen the heart muscle and Hertzell recommends the tricycles for use in flat districts as a substitute for Oertel’s climbing exercises. A picture of the new tricycle (Ruderrad) appears.

Animal And Vegetable Fat

To the Editor of the Am. Med. Journal:—Can vegetable fat be used for an indefinite period in the preparation of food?

Anastasio Del Rio, M. D., Barranquilla, Columbia.

Answer:—The use of vegetable fat instead of animal fat for ordinary cooking purposes for a long period of time apparently is satisfactory.

Weaving as a Mode of Employment for Patients

M. de Clerambault, chief physician of the special infirmary for the insane at the prefecture of police in Paris, has made an interesting suggestion with regard to the best light occupation for the patients of hospitals, asylums and sanatoriums. His suggestion is weaving, which is easy work, not fatiguing, and is quickly learned. By working a few hours a day, patients not

Digitized by
151

confined to their beds and convalescents would have a useful occupation greatly preferable to idleness, lounging about, visiting or reading, and, furthermore, it would bring in a little money and thus diminish the cost of their treatment. It constitutes a mild form of exercise, which has the value of active mechanotherapy. It is healthier for women than needle work. For men it permits a semisilent gathering together, which combines the advantages of social stimulation and relative isolation. These advantages are still greater for the nervous patients of asylums through the training it gives in attention, the objectivation and the polarization of thought, and the stimulation through movement and by the consciousness of producing. Readaptation to social life may be aided through the execution of a comnon task in collaboration with others. Overwork or overdoing is not to be feared, as is the case with the other diversions generally proposed, such as music or comedie de salon. An asylum having a well organized weaving shop would produce thereby a therapeutic effect of the first order, and, in addition, would save money, for it would need to buy less lingerie and could even supply other asylums or aid societies, at favorable prices. The same is true of the hotels for aged persons and in the family colonies. This suggestion would present a still greater interest for the colonies in which, as in the isolation camps, it is necessary to intern the whole fam ly of the patient.

VENTILATION OF SCHOOLROOMS

The New York State Commission on Ventilation reported six years ago that it had found less repiratory disease in schools with old fashioned window ventilation than in the more modem buildings mechanically ventilated. Many states already had outlawed the older method, and the engineers had some justifiable pride in the devices they had made to insure what seemed to be ideal atmospheric conditions for the indoor life. The engineers proposed that future investigations should take into account a conformation to a “rating schedule’' of the various physical measurements of the atmosphere rather than the morbidity rate among those who breathe it. The public health investigators, however, insisted that the health of the school child is the final criterion of success, though it is desirable to understand what are the physical conditions that promote his health. Further studies have been undertaken with additional precautions to avoid sources of error. Thus Mr. Duffield reported to the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers last year the results of a survey in Syracuse wherein careful allowance had been made for varying characteristics in different school populations. He found that American children are liable to be kept at home with a cold more than are the children of Italian parents. Yet, when all due corrections were made, the conclusion of the 1923 report was amply confirmed.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
152

Another report has been published of a survey made by an engineer of the U. S. Public Health Service in New Haven. Once again window ventilation is in the ascendant. Three schools provided with mechanical ventilation and automatic temperature control have an average rate of total absence of 6 per cent of pupil sessions as compared with 3.9 per cent of pupil sessions for the naturally ventilated group. Whether longer or shorter absences are taken into account, the mechanical ventilation comes out second best. Nor can the difference be explained as due to higher temperatures in one group than in the other, for the temperatures found in all schools were closely alike. There remain possible differences in air motion and humidity which it was not found practicable to measure in this investigation. Such measurements should certainly be made in future research as well as temperature measurements at different points in the rooms. The present advantage of window ventilation must depend on physical factors; conditions which, when they are thoroughly understood, will be imitated in artificial ventilation and may even be improved on. The need for further research is urgent. School buildings are not alone in containing expensive ventilating systems that may subsequently need to be modified or replaced.

CANNOT FORETELL CHARACTER IN YOUTH

It is not safe to prophesy the future personality of a child until he has passed the adolescent age, says Dr. Charles W. Butt, who writes of mental disease in young people in Hygeia.

The precocious boy, who is defined as one developing rapidly and one-sidedly, often becomes eccentric and not infrequently breaks during adolescence.

The boy of whom a normal, healthy future, barring the accident of brain disease, can be foretold, is he whose emotional reflexes respond healthily, who is not cruel after he is old enough to know what cruelty means, who accepts the school boy’s code of honor, lies but seldom and always with a motive, steals not at all or only incidentally as an episode of adolescence, and who develops intellectually evenly.

Digitized by t^ooQle