Vol. 8.

MARCH, 1901.

No. 85

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760—3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis,

GYMNASTICS IN THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AND THE PURPOSE OF GYMNASTIC TRAINING IN A RATIONAL EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM.

By FRANK HOMER CURTISS, Physical Director.

NEVER before, not even in the days of ancient Greece, has the physical side of education received so much careful scientific study from educators as at the present day. The recent researches in the fields of psychology, pedagogy, and child-study have demonstrated the fact that Erst of all a student should be a healthy animal, and that a high degree of intellectual advancement is seldom attained and cannot be sustained except it rest on a healthy physical basis. Recognizing this fact, nearly all of our great universities and colleges either have erected or are now erecting and equipping gymnasia for the use of their students, and are requiring a course in physical training as a part of the regular college work.

This grow th of physical training has not been one of mere sentiment nor the cultivation of a fad. Even in some institutions in which it was introduced merely in acquiescence to a popular demand it has been demonstrated that the time lost from classes by the students on account of sickness has been materially reduced ; in some instances, as at Amherst,

e

Digitized by LjOOQle
over forty per cent. Moreover, a decrease in rowdyism and destruction-<5f:p^fmy;cjil#^ partj&f Ascertain class of students has been frequently

njjjqm -The superabundant energy with which the college students give vent to the healthy animal instinct of play has beei^ iii*^ gVe^t: pleasure, diverted from personal encounters, hazings “class scraps;©Jhfr^fprms of disorder into definite gymnastic and athletic training which, while allowing the buoyant animal spirits full expression, yet turns them to the furtherance of the individual’s education.

But while physical training thus, indirectly, raises the moral standard of the student by furnishing a safe outlet for his physical energy, by giving him something to do, of far greater importance is the direct educational effect it has on the brain itself.

Modern psychology has demonstrated that we cannot consciously move a muscle without the nervous impulse actuating it first arising in a center located in one of the motor areas of the brain. Physiology asserts that “function makes structure.” That is to say, that the constant use of a certain part of the body causes it to grow and develop. Thus by constantly using the muscles they grow and become developed. But to use those muscles means also a constant use of their nerves and of the brain centers controlling them. There, therefore, * follows a development of the nerve fibres themselves, and of the brain centers as well as of the muscles involved.

Grace of movement results from the co-ordination of many separate groups of muscles. The use of a certain part of the body naturally involves the use of other parts more or less closely associated with it because of the peculiar constitution of man’s nervous system, which he inherits from ancestors that lived under very different conditions from those now confronting us. The movement of some of these associated parts may not be wanted in the result now desired, and consequently some have to be controlled and others inhibited. It may also be necessary at the same time to move several different parts not directly or closely connected naturally; so we find that a variety of impulses must come at one time, may-be from several different centers, and all must be harmonized to produce the desired result. When this harmony is attained we say that the movements were co-ordinated. Lack of co-ordination produces awkwardness.

It is only by repeated practice that co-ordinations can be brought quickly and with the least expenditure of energy, and thus control and grace of movement established. It is one of the aims of physical train-ing to give practice in making co-ordinations; for with proper co-ordinations correctly learned right action tends to become habitual, and one of our foremost authorities has said, “The ends of exercise may be characterized, in a general way, as, first, the promotion of health, and,, second, the formation of correct habits of action.”

In applying these principles in a practical way in the gymnasium the student begins with the most simple and fundamental movements. He is shown exactly what movements to make and how to make them, and is then practiced in these until they are thoroughly learned. Each succeeding lesson is progressive, and is so arranged that the student
continually advances, using the work already mastered as a foundation for the next lesson. In this manner new and increasingly difficult co-ordinations are constantly made and mastered until the student can execute with ease the seemingly impossible combinations ‘of the trained gymnast.

To execute even a simple exercise, however, demands a certain amount of will power. This may be little enough at first, but as the exercises become more complicated a greater and greater demand is made upon the will for their execution, and thus its power is gradually but definitely developed. Without further explanation it will easily be seen that along with will power goes the development of such qualities as attention, self-reliance, courage, self-control and other qualities of mind that go to make up character.

Character may be defined, in a general way, as the sum total of our habits: habits of thought; habits of speech; habits of action. Physical training drills the body and mind in correct habits of action until they become so natural as to be well nigh instinctive. These habits of action have a powerful influence and play an important part in the formation of character. And after all, the aim of all true education, life itself in fact, is the formation of character.

It may seem strange to some readers that little or nothing has been said about the development of muscle. This has been done because it is of less importance than the educational side of the subject. Muscular development does not indicate the strength or power of the individual. That depends not so much on the cross-section of the muscle as on nerves and nerve centers supplying it with energy, and back of these yet it depends upon the will power. Muscular * development is merely one of the results, you might almost say a by-product, of the physical training. It comes, to a certain degree, as a matter of course from that training, and hence is not made its aim or end. Increase in the size of a muscle amounts to little unless there comes also an increase in control and usefulness.

However great the educational value of physical training, the first and most fundamental aim must always be the promotion and maintenance of health. The exercises given are arranged with a view to increase the circulation, deepen the respiration, and stimulate the processes of secretion and of elimination. The teacher who strives to develop muscle merely, teach tricks on apparatus or special feats in athletics without knowing and keeping in mind the effect of such work on the health of the participants is guilty of negligence quite inexcusable in these days of scientific gymnastic training. It is on this very point that college athletics have been so severely criticised in the last few years. And justly so, in many cases. The average athletic “trainer” does not understand the physiological significance of his work., and therefore cares nothing about its scientific aspect. He claims to be intensely “practical.” That is, he will make his men win their races even if they do become unevenly developed, or if they are weakened for life as a result. To the scientific teacher, however, the health of the individual, present and to coire, is fundamental, and all the student’s exercises are arranged to meet his needs in this respect. In other words,

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—4—

the modern phycical trainer cares less for teaching tricks or winning races than for securing for his pupils healthy vital organs and a body subservient to the will.

Each student on entering our gymnasium here is given a thorough and detailed physical examination. Not only are his muscles and bones measured, but his heart and lungs are given a most thorough testing. His eyes are tested to see that he is not trying to carry on his studies with defective vision, and his ears are also examined, because defective hearing has frequently been the cause of a student having been misunderstood and considered dull and backward. His digestion, sleep, present health and other hygienic points are all gone over, and even his previous history is examined for any facts that may aid the director in forming a clear idea of his particular case. After examination he is given a list of exercises especially adapted to building up his weak points, and is carefully instructed how to execute each movement. He is then assigned to that section of the class which is best adapted fo his particular needs.

The general class work is designed to counteract the effects of sedentary and, particularly, student life. The condition of the chest is given special attention, and the proper poise and carriage of the body as affecting the position and condition of the vital organs and their functions is insisted upon from the beginning. In fact, the development of the trunk (and its contents) is the first and most important feature of the work. This includes instruction in correct methods of breathing and exercises for strengthening the heart and lungs and digestive system. Other exercises are given to stretch the ligaments and muscles, limber up the joints and to overcome that awkwardness which results from lack of co-ordination and muscle-bound joints. Exercises are also given to correct special faults, such as round shoulders, flat chest, weak back, and spinal curvature.

The work on the apparatus is divided according to difficulty into five grades. In each grade several progressive series of exercises are arranged, which lead up to similar series in the next higher grade. Each student is assigned to the lowest series of a particular grade, and from that point advances to other more difficult series and to the higher grades just as soon as he masters the first. In this way he can progress without waiting for the entire class to make the advance with him. In this, as in all the training, the cultivation of the powers of the individual is the idea kept in mind.

In its relation to athletics, gymnastic training should be considered as fundamental. Athletics is but a specialized branch of physical training, and on account of the one-sidedness of all specialization it should be preceded by an all-round course in body building and training in co-ordination. The trained gymnast can learn any branch of athletics more easily and much more quickly than the new recruit. Then, too, a man who is well trained gymnastically is in far less danger of overdoing in athletics, or being injured by the strain of severe athletic training than the man whose bodily powers have not been systematically and harmoniously developed. General gymnastic training should be required before participation in specialized athletics is allowed.

Digitized by y.ooQle
Recently there has been much criticism of our system of higher education because it fails to fit men and women for the real problems and tasks of life. One charge against it is that college men may be able to sit in their studies and evolve seemingly perfect theories and systems regarding politics, economics, and social science, but they have so neglected the training of the motor element in their life that they are unable to do. The very idea of work, of doing, is abhorrent to them. They have not the physical courage even to attempt to carry out their own elaborate theories. They shrink from living the “strenuous life.,> The motor areas of their brains are untrained, undeveloped; they are only half trained men. Here physical training steps in and offers at least a partial solution of the problem. Let the student, by cultivating the mind, acquire the intellectual ability that will enable him to evolve the elaborate theories and perfect the systems, but also let him, by cultivating the motor element in his brain, acquire the habit of connectr ing an idea with its physical expression through his will power and he will soon acquire a 'directness of purpose and an energy of doing that will enable him to surmount all obstacles and admit of no defeat.

But besides this, modern education fails to give the student a practical knowledge of the powers of the physical body and their right use and the dangers of their misuse. All of which are generally left to be painfully learned by the unsuspecting victim through a system of blind blundering, commonly called experience. The time is fast approaching when not to have had scientific and practical instruction in the laws governing the human body in all its relations to society and the world is to be uneducated. And it is along these lines that physical training hopes to be of great assistance, namely, in aiding hygiene and special physiology to spread abroad a knowledge of the physiological laws underlying our existence, and to make possible the time when every man and woman shall understand the meaning of the old adage, “Know thyself.”

Free March. The Italians lay great stress upon marching as a part of physical training and it is made use of in many different forms. Pietro Gallo, physical director in Venice, describes in a little booklet entitled “The Free March” (Marcia libra) a peculiar sort of marching, which in some respects might be worthy of adoption. Before going into its description Gallo states that some preliminary training in class marching is presumed; then he goes on as follows: “Every pupil must, in order to avoid disorder, take notice of and mark the one in front of him. Supposing that a hundred pupils were formed in four columns and marching in double ranks, upon the command of execution the ranks will dissolve and each individual pupil march independent of all others, changing direction at will, taking care, however, not to lose step nor to collide with any other pupil.

This marching with crossing and evading in apparent disorder presents to the observer so many new and picturesque changes that he remains fascinated throughout the performance. To reform the original formation the leaders of the respective ranks march to their places upon the command and all others aligne in the former order.

Digitized by Google
-6-

A PLEA FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE BODY.

By C. E. EHINGER, M. D.

IT was Plato who said: “To educate the mind and neglect the body is to produce a cripple.”

Theoretically, no fact is more generally admitted than the necessity of a substantial physical basis for all educational effort. The veriest tyro knows that if the organic processes are performed in a lame or halting manner, or the bodily structures fall below a certain standard, life becomes a burden and a misery, and educational effort is seriously restricted or absolutely interdicted.

Every parent, guardian or educator may glibly quote the Latin maxim which inculcates a sound mind in a sound body. The majority of our boarding schools, seminaries, and colleges, in their announcements, are careful to state that the physical welfare of its students is carefully looked after. School authorities point with pride to the gymnasium or the athletic field as guarantees that the physical intqjrest of their students is not neglected. And yet, with all these indications of an intelligent care and forethought for the physical welfare of our youth, I make plain to say that the whole subject of physical training and hygiene is still in a most chaotic and immature condition, and betokens a shortsightedness, ignorance or disregard which ill befits our vaunted claims for educational progress.

I do not wish to be understood as minimizing the good that has been accomplished, and yet candor compels the admission that little more has been done than to clear the ground for intelligent action. The popular clamor for gymnasia, athletic fields, out-door sports, and the introduction of systems of physical training in our schools and colleges is, indeed, a healthful indication; but it must not by any means be taken as the measure of what has really been accomplished, for much that passes current as physical training and hygiene is not worthy of the name. It is only fair to say that the lay and educational mind is not yet fully alive to the great need of the introduction of such branches as physiology, hygiene, and physical training into the school and college curriculum. The attempts made, and the somewhat meager results thus far attained, have been in response to the popular or superficial newspaper agitation along these lines, and not to a well-grounded and thoroughly understood need. It is because of an always dimly felt, but now rapidly-growing recognition that the home, the school, and the college have erred in this particular.

No permanent good can, however, be accomplished until a more vigorous and healthful sentiment has been aroused in favor of an early, persistent, and intelligent reverence for and care of the human body. It must be nO longer ignored, abused or relegated to a secondary place. The training of the body must become the chief concern of education.

What a travesty on education that the student may come from the school or college training not only no better physically than when he entered, but often vastly worse, and not seldom, alas, such a wreck that no amount of medical advice and treatment, travel or rest can fully atone for the physical sins committed. Such a course is not simply dermitted, it is encouraged; nay, more, it is often actually demanded.

Digitized by tjOOQle
I make bold to say that this question is not a trivial or an unworthy one; indeed, in its highest sense, it is not a material question at all; it is a religious question, and the cause of morals and religion cannot progress at a steady and adequate pace until the world pays due respect and reverence to that most beautiful and wondrous of structures, the human body. The great cause for the abasement of the body, and the chief reason for the tardy recognition of its claims to care and training has been, and to a certain extent still is, because of the religious teaching of the dark-ages, which held that the body was vile and corrupt, worthy only to be scourged and maltreated. The degradation and abuse of the body became the chief concern of religion. The most commendable and praiseworthy purpose of the religious devotee was its mutilation and maltreatment; he was most worthy in the eyes of the church who could inure himself to the most terrible deprivations and sickening disfigurements.

Self-torture, filth, disgusting surroundings, tattered garments, and the maimed body became the symbols by which the religious were distinguished. Disregard and neglect of the body was the legitimate outgrowth of such teaching. It has taken centuries to outgrow, one by one, these monstrous and degrading doctrines, and even now suspicion too often attaches to the man or woman’ who openly and with earnestness pleads for the dignity and worth of the bod}' and advocates its systematic training and cultivation. The world can never be a place of happiness and harmony until mankind is emancipated from the yoke of physical bondage imposed by the anti-naturalist of the past. Every normal instinct and wholesome appetite was put under the ban of the •church to be resisted as the machinations of the evil one. Monasticism, asceticism, and later, puritanism sought to stifle every attempt to lift naan from the dephts of physical degradation into which the church bad plunged him.

Another great obstacle in the way of this movement is the prevailing unwillingness to realize and acknowledge our personal responsibility in conditions of physical weakness, deficiency, and disease. We fail to see that much weakness and most diseases are self-imposed, and that it is not so much what others can do for us—in a medical way or otherwise— as what we can and must do for ourselves, that counts for our bodily condition and welfare. The most needful thing is the right personal attitude, the willingness to put forth individual effort in our own behalf. Physical righteousness, like virtue, must be self-evolved; it cannot be imputed or imparted.

The general superstition and ignorance is still such as to render us prone ever and again to attribute physical weakness, infirmity, and disease to some mysterious dispensation of divine providence, and not, as it properly should be, to palpable violations of well-known or easily-ascertained laws. It seems so difficult for us to learn that weakness and disease are not arbitrary inflictions or accidental phenomena due to chance contact with the specific contagium, that lies in wait for its innocent and unsupecting victim. The faith that some mysterious germicide will yet be discovered, which will put to death these lurking enemies and so forever banish weakness and disease, still persists and
-8-

influences, to a marvelous extent, both the lay and the medical mind. Such views are but vestiges of the ancient belief in magic, relics of the dark ages, when it was the function of the priest to minister to both the physical and spiritual needs of the people, and this by means of magic, charm, incantation, and ceremonials. It took ages to arrive at the belief that there could be such a thing as a natural cause for our physical infirmities, and even to-day we are reluctant to ascribe them to modes of life, vicious habits, and unnatural practices, and expect that they may be removed by swallowing drugs rather than by ceasing our evil ways. We are just beginning to see that the phvsical, to a great degree, conditions and determines the mental, the moral, and the spiritual, that all attempts to separate these or to consider the one less worthy than the other, have brought and will ever continue to brings discord and disaster. To those who would look upon this as a species of materialism and an inversion of the true oder, I reply that it is clearly the ordained course of nature, and every violation of it, even in the name of religion, has been fraught with the saddest results. “First, that which is natural, then that which is spiritual.” The physical is prior to the mental in the order of development, and must, therefore, be given the first and foremost consideration. In modern educational phraseology this is expressed by saying that the education of the senses must precede the education of the mind and the spirit. Let this not be understood as any denial of the mighty influence of the mind and spirit upon the body; such belief has my fullest sympathy and recognition.

I am merely contending now that Nature’s order of teaching be followed, and that we cease to abuse or ignore that which, though called “natural” or “material,” is still a part of and indispensable to the expression of the spiritual.

But you may ask, “What is the evidence that there is this imperative need of physical training and care of the body?” For, strange as it may appear to some of us, this question is still asked. For answer, let me refer you, first, not to the physiologist and physician, but to one who gave his chief efforts for the spiritual needs of mankind. Henry Drummond, in his “Ascent of Man,” with a clearness which is character-istic, foresaw and explained this need. He says: “Civilization—and the civilized state, be it remembered, is the ultimate goal of every race and nation—is always attended by a deterioration of some of the senses. Every man pays a definite price or forfeit for his taming. ... In an age of vehicles and locomotives the lower limbs find their occupation almost gone. For mere muscle, that on which his whole life once depended, man has now almost no use. Agility, nimbleness, strength, once a stern necessity, are either a luxury or a pastime. Their outlet is either the cricket field 6r the tennis court. To keep them up at all, artificial means—dumb-bells, parallel bars, clubs—have actually to be devised. Vigor of limb is not to be found in common life, we look for it in the gymnasium; agility is relegated to the hippodrome. Once all men were athletes; now you have to pay to see them. More or less, with all the animal powers it is the same. ... So everywhere the man, as animal, is in danger of losing ground. So great, indeed, is the advantage of increasing mechanical supplements to the physical, rather than exercising

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-9-

the frame itself, that this will become nothing short of a temptation, and not the least anxious task of future civilization will be to prevent degeneration beyond a legitimate point, and keep up the body to its working level. For the first thing to be learned from these facts is not that the body is nothing and must now decay, but that it is most of all, and more than ever worthy to be preserved. The moment our care of it slackens, the body asserts itself. It comes out from under arrest, which is the one thing to be avoided. Its true place by the ordained appointment of Nature is where it can be ignored. If, through disease, neglect or injury, it returns to consciousness, the effect of evolution is undone. Sickness is degeneration, pain the signal to resume the evolution. On the one hand, we must ‘reckon the body dead;’ on the other, we must think of it in order not to think of it.”

It will hardly be charged that this man, whose whole life and teaching gave evidence of a transcendent spirituality, was guilty of undue worship of the body.

Let us remember that it is not the inanimate body of which we speak, but the living, breathing body, pulsating with all those mysterious powers and possibilities that inhere in that marvelous thing we call vital force. In this age of machinery, when every hour brings forth some new marvel of mechanical wonder, no product of the time is even worthy of comparison with this perpetual wonder, the self-directing, self-repairing, reproducing, thinking machine.

Permit me, again, to quote Drummond. He says : “Science is charged, be it once more recalled, with numbering man among the beasts, and leveling his body with the dust. But he who reads for himself the history of creation as it is written by the hand of Evolution, will be overwhelmed by the glory and honor heaped upon this creature. To be a man, and to have no conceivable successor; to be the fruit and crown of the long-past eternity, and the highest possible fruit and crown; to be the last victor among the decimated phalanxes of earlier existences, and to be never-more defeated; to be the best that Nature in her strength and opulence can produce; to be the first of that new order of beings who, by their dominion over the lower world and their equipment for a higher, reveal that they are made in the image of God— to be this is to be elevated to'a rank in Nature more exalted than any philosophy or any poetry or any theology have ever given to man. Man was always told that his place was high; the reason for it he never knew till now; he never knew that his title deeds were the very laws of Nature; that he alone was the alpha and omega of creation, the beginning and the end of matter, the final goal of life.”

(To be concluded.)

Championat International. During the international gymnastic championship games in Paris prizes were awarded to 106 Frenchmen, 13 Germans, 5 Englishmen, 3 Belgians, 2 Swiss, one Italian and one Hungarian. Two exercises were required on each of eight apparatuses. The highest number of points that could be obtained was 320. The first three prizes were won by Frenchmen, scoring 302, 295, 293 respectively.

Digitized by Google
-10-

GYMNASIUM EXHIBITIONS, THEIR PURPOSE, AND MISTAKES TO BE AVOIDED.

By C. F. E. SCHULZ, Director Physical Training, Baltimore, Md.

SO long as physical sports have been known to the world, we have also records of exhibitions where the proficient performers gave proof of their skill. In the early days of gymnastics and athletic sports, physical culture as a science was unknown. The tendency to excel was very great; class exercises and drills with clubs, dumb-bells, and wands were not practiced. One athletic enthusiast would try to out-do another; the greater the proficiency, the greater was the temptation to show the skill on the stage or in the arena. The circus was really the place where (as was then thought) one could find all the glory and where all the fame desired. In fact this seemed to be the only desire on the part of those who were so gifted as to become experts. Actually in the circus was laid the foundation which would lead those who practiced sport to try and try again, to produce the best and most daring feats in order to receive the greatest amount of applause for their work. And it remained so for a great number of years without a change. Gymnasia and athletic clubs were started in different lands. This country was no exception and shared equally in the same state of affairs. Was not this sufficient to bring about and fully develop the prejudice that existed so long in the minds of the people and more especially of the intelligent classes? Could it be otherwise when the frequenters of those early gymnasia belonged to the sporting and professional classes, many and most instructors of such institutions were the once famous circus performers, professional athletes, pugilists, wrestlers, and specialists that had lost caste, had dropped out of the bright arena, and finally found a berth in the different gymnasia? Could it be otherwise when those very teachers spent their whole life in studying daring feats instead of education ? Yes, many of them had not even a common school education. No wonder that to these teachers it was inspiring to get up an exhibition of daring feats for their gymnasia as they had been in the custom of doing in their former life. To show off and excel was their only delight. I do not wonder that parents that witnessed such exhibitions objected to having their sons brought up in such way. Nor do I wonder that prejudices grew stronger and stronger against such clubs and gymnasia where the main work consisted of all sorts of worthless tricks. So great was this prejudice that some people cannot forget it even to the present day.

I am pleased to state that, thanks to our present physical science, that state of affairs has greatly changed. To-day physical culture is based on the science of physiology and anatomy. A continued improvement is going on. The necessity of physical development is being recognized as essential to health and is more fully understood and better appreciated from day to day by all classes of society. Schools and seminaries where teachers for this work can graduate have been established some years ago and are doing good work under a careful management. Physical culture must advance and will deserve of a great and prosperous future.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-11-

Tbe purpose of exhibitions now-a-davs, therefore, should be vastly different from that of former days. To-day we want to show principally how systematic we can grade our exercises to suit the weak and undeveloped as well as the strong frame of the body; we want to show and expound just what we teach daily in our gymnasia, from what views we arrange the exercises, how we mould the individual, how we correct faulty habits, how we select classes, what we do with our new chest weights and pulley weight systems, what we do with our light and heavy apparatus, and how we adapt the mpvements to each and every muscle. We do not need the stage to show off our movements; the proper place for an exhibition is the gymnasium where parents can observe with their own eyes^ how simple movements are learned, and for what purpose; where we teach the pupils the perfeetionment of their bodies and the development of every muscle, and how under the eye of a careful instructor sons and daughters are taught to brave or escape danger. We there teach the parent that physical culture is essential and part of all education, a branch of it as well as other branches. We can show that we scrupulously classify our exercises according to the ages of the pupils and why scholars exercising in anyone grade should not try exercises belonging to a higher grade until they have acquired the capacity for the next, again can show them that certain difficult exercises can be performed with the same ease and safety as the simpler ones, while others, on the contrary, must be learned before attempting more advanced work. We want to show by such exhibitions where we draw the line against the.professional excrescencies, which are liable to become degrading and demoralizing and which we oppose on account of their theatrical effect. We, furthermore, demonstrate that we enforce a strict decency in dress and that we are here to elevate and lift our young pupils into robust and vigorous man- and woman-hood.

I think the many mistakes and false conceptions to be corrected and counteracted in the estime of the public are clearly shown here. Let the teacher always use sound judgment in selecting his program for the class as well as the exhibition. There is an endless variety of movements to select from; many groups and pretty movements can be chosen that are attractive as well as new' and entertaining. The proficiency of the pupils can be easily shown by the grace and promptness of execution whatever the movements may be; this will do more to drive away all prejudice that may yet exist. It is to the parents to which we wish to appeal for the growth and development of the physical education of the future.

Public Playgrounds in Berlin. In the last report offered by the magistrate the following figures appear concerning attendance on the different grounds. There are nine playgrounds in all under the supervision of teachers. They were frequented during the summer month’s of the school-year on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons by an average of 2500 children. The percentage differed according to the location of the grounds. This report does not cover the students of higher schools.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Misp ftND BODY.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

— Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2uEU-w-a.-a.lcoo, •Wlecoaa.olaa.-

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Announcement of Competition for Prize-Essays.

THE editors of Mind and Body, imbued with the importance of Home Gymnastics for people who lack the opportunities for taking part in gymnastic class exercises, propose to invite our readers and all other persons interested in this subject to contribute competitive essays on home gymnastics without reference to so-called systems. Our aim is to secure a number of lists of exercises from a practical as well as from a theoretical point of view. These papers will be published in Mind and Body; they should not contain more than 1500 words and not less than 1000. The 2 best essayists will be awarded prizes in the amount of $10.00 and $5.00 respectively, to be taken out in books of their own choice and ordered through the Freidenker Publ. Co. Each essay is to be inscribed with a motto onty, without name of author, and to be accompanied with an envelope containing motto and author’s name, and addressed to the Freidenker Publ. Co., before July 1, 1901. The prizes will be awarded by a Committee of Three in the course of the month of July, and this committee, which is to consist of well-known specialists in physical training, will be named in the near future.

The Editors of Mind and Body.

Milwaukee, Wis., March 1901.

THE DUEL AT AN EXCITING STAGE.

The duel between M. Damotte and M. Athos de San Malato to settle the question of supremacy between the French and Italian schools proved to be one of the most sensational encounters ever witnessed in France; it was worthy of the days of the musketeers.

M. Damotte represented the French school and M. Malato the Italian. The former was wounded, which would seemingly give preference to the Italian system of dueling, particularly as in the case of the Prince of Turin and Prince Henry of Orleans the Italian Prince was also victorious.

The site chosen for the encounter was the Park du Prince, in the open air. Unfortunately, the rain had reduced the turf to a mud puddle, and the spectators, as well as the duelists, stood ankle deep in the mud to watch the swords play.

The challenge was sent by the French dueling master Damotte, who, as a consequence, took the position of the offended party. Professor Apat and M. Dubois acted for the Frenchman, and the Chevalier Scalisi and the Marquis Carlo Pansa for the Italian maitre d’armes. The

Digitized by LaOOQle
-13-

principal conditions were that the duel should be fought in open air, the swords used those to which each was accustomed, corpse-corps forbidden, ground gained to be retained, and each adversary was to wear an unstarched shirt and gloves finishing at the wrist. The question of the shirt raised a tremendous sensation.

When the swords were handed to the adversaries it was noticed that the Frenchman’s weapon was a little longer than his opponent’s, but, as the latter possessed the much-disputed “guard,” the weapons were declared equal. When the positions were taken Ayat gave a last command: “You will stop, gentlemen, the instant I say‘Halt.’” Then, pausing to see if his authority would be supreme, Ayat assumed a severe attitude and cried: “Go, gentlemen.”

Damotte at once fell into his fencing position, but the Italian, holding his sword still stretched at arm’s length, gracefully brought it round it a semicircular, sweeping salutation to the crowd—a theatrical bit of by-play which delighted the susceptible French crowd. A second later the Italian was ready, with his right foot advanced, his left foot supporting his body, and his left hand high in the air. The passing of the blades, the lunges, and the thrusts were fascinating in the savagery of the sport.

It is only fair to state that both showed equal courage and equal skill. Damotte gave way a little, because of his “impuissanee” to give the vital thrust. The Italian threw himself seemingly in front to receive a thrust, but the attitude was deceptive; his sword glittered everywhere with deadly menace, and the crowd held its breath. Time and again the Italian lunged at the Frenchman, and his barbaric cry of “Huh, huh,” when the blades clashed told of the fiery temperament of the man.

In the first round a final lunge from Malato blunted the blade of his adversary. The sword was changed, and the second round commenced.

The second round was short, the struggle fierce. The Italian attacked furiously; the Frenchmnn protected himself with consummate skill, but he again lost a little ground. There was no change in the methods of the attack and defence in the third round. It was in the fourth a hoarse cry of “Huh!” was heard, followed by a lightning move by the Italian and a thrust home. Then, standing straight, he stopped fighting. Damotte looked at him scornfully. Director Ayat, suspecting something was wrong, suspended the combat. Examination showed the Frenchman’s wound was serious enough to prevent the possibility of a continuation of the encounter, and the victory was declared to Chevalier San Malato.—From the “Chicago Tribune.”

Athletic Tricks. The athlete George Hanglmeier has a unique way of demonstrating his enormous strength. He has a giant toy, consisting of life size tin soldiers, weighing from 50 to 162 pounds. These he handles on the stage as though they were stuffed figures. Then he lifts a wooden horse inside of which are hidden two men, who step out after the horse has beeq replaced on the ground. Another of his tricks consists of picking up two wheelmen who come riding upon
-14-

the stage from different sides and who continue peddling while being held up. Still another, and his finale, is to lift a heavy battery with its several attendants, the battery being fired while he is holding it.

OLYMPIAN GAMES.

ANCIENT SPORTS ARRANGED FOR THE PAN-AMERICAN EXPOSITION

OLYMPIAN GAMES have been revived by the “Union Athletique Internationale” with headquarters in France. The first contest was held in Athens and the next, in all probability, will be scheduled for the Pan-American this summer.

They will be held, for the most part, in the Stadium, which is the only artificial arena ever built to rival, in size and appurtenances, the famous Colosseum at Rome.

The world moves in cycles. Thousands of years ago physical training was regarded with great favor by the most progressive nations of the age. In Greece time was reckoned by the Olympiad, the period of time between the Olmpian Games, which were held once in four years.

The Doric principle expressed in the constitution of Sparta encouraged bodily exercise by maidens that they might develop well rounded and beautiful forms. Games and dances were devised for which prizes were offered with a view of encouraging them in their best efforts.

This marked the fundamental principle of Grecian athletics. They knew, what other people have been slow to recognize, that only strong, healthy mothers have well formed robust children. Religion and beauty of form were closely allied. Man resembled his creator, therefore the more symmetrical he became, the nearer he approached the form divine.

Intellectual qualities developed as a natural sequence, evidence of which is preserved in their architecture, fine arts, and philosophy.

The Ionic race met for the purpose of holding their festival of games on the little island of Delos. This was the most ideal Grecian athletic congress as it included both sexes and was composed of the finest specimens of manhood and the most beautiful women who ever comprised the units of an assemblage.

Careful training for generations had been conducted with a view of intelligently developing the best physical qualities of both sexes. The object being ethnological in its scope exerted a powerful sociological influence. Brutal strength, was not encouraged as at Rome or in some of our latter day prize-fights and foot-ball matches, but the true aesthetic importance of a well balanced intellect, supported by a sound constitution, seems to have been well understood and intelligently sought for.

To a later mistaken religious fanaticism, in which the morbid neglect of the body was prominently marked, may be traced the downfall of Greece.

Strong athletic individuals usually hold the important positions in any country. As a nation is but a collection of individuals it naturally follows that national prominence is directly dependent upon individual capacity. A good physique is as important to the active intellect as is steam to an engine.

Digitized by GiOOQle
-15-

The science of athletics at the present time is slowly assuming the imporcance in the estimation of the better classes that it attained during the palmy days of ancient Greece. The tournament at the Pan-American is not more of an exponent of better physical development than it is a factor in the general universal movement in this direction. Physical instructors in our more advanced shools and colleges have for years not only taught but demonstrated that good health and a thorough enjoyment of life may be promoted and acquired by systematic exercise.

Athletic associations and private clubs have encouraged the movement and helped to engage the attention of the well-to-do. It has remained, however, for the Young Men’s Christian Associations to interest many of the best elements in the great army of American young men. Gymnasium work as conducted by the many branches of this splendid organization is disseminating correct principles to the lasting benefit of mankind.

Recognition of the value of this work is being met with in every quarter, though the full value can never be fully realized until the benefits are freely extended to women.	—Herbert Shearer.

DEBATE ON FOOTBALL.

Alonzo A. Stagg, head of the department of athletics at the University of Chicago, appeared before the principals of the Chicago schools at the banquet of the George Howland Club and argued in favor of football. Oliver Westcott, principal of the West Division High School, spoke against the game, while Christian Meier of the Board of Education upheld the arguments of the principal. Professor Stagg characterized football as the greatest of all games, as it required more physical, mental, and moral qualifications than any other sport.

“Better than any book of moral science or code of ethics, football develops the grand moral sense,” he said. “It develops the ability to feel and to bear responsibility. Each player on a team is a thinking link in a chain, with great possibilities for tremendous individual initiative.

“The self-control gained on the athletic field is right in line with the teaching and practice of the early church fathers. The object is not to make the body a fit temple for the indwelling of the holy spirit, but no priest or church father could have prescribed a course of dieting and regulating of living which could do more for the body than the course of training which young men undergo in athletics. It is not too much to sa}’ that the training that is undergone in football has saved hundreds of young men to purity and right living.”

The argument was heartily applauded by the principals, many of whom were at one time athletes of note, and Mr. Westcott arose to denounce the present prominent position occupied by football in the college and high school curriculum. His indictment of football was comprised within five counts. He called it grasping, dangerous, brutal, demoralizing, and unprofitable.

“If any evidence as to the brutality of football is needed, permit me to call attention to the published representations of players. I have

Digitized by CjOOQle
-16—

before me a picture of an All-American team. What is their expression? With two exceptions the faces are brutal faces. They are such faces as one would be likely to avoid in a crowd of strangers in an unfamiliar place. This result is due to a constant brutality of expression, which is the natural accompaniment of brutality in conduct.”

Here Mr. Westcott passed around the table a picture of the All-American team lor 1900, most of the members of which were- from Harvard and other Eastern colleges. Many of the principals took exception to this statement and avowed that the savageness of expression was due to the football armor in which the players were incased rather than to the faces themselves.

The meeting adjourned after expressions of approval on both sides of the question had been given by the principals.

SUMMER-SCHOOLS.

We are in receipt of a number of announcements of summer schools of physical training:

The Harvard University Summer Courses of Physical Training, begins July 5th and ends August 9th. Dr. D. A. Sargent is the director.

The Columbia University Summer Course, under the direction of Dr. W. L. Savage, Miss Jessie Hubbell Bancroft, Messrs. G. Bojus and G. R. Seikel, begins July 8th and ends August 16.

The Minneapolis Summer School of Physical Training, director Otto C. Mauthe, begins June 24th and ends July 27.

CORRESPONDENCE.

K. R., L. A.—We are sorry to say that at pieseut we must defer publishing: “pyramids” because there are more expenses connected with it than the demand for such publication would warrant.

O. My Dayton.—If we can do something for you in that respect we will gladly do so.

Dr. H. B. Boice, Trenton, N. J— You are right, Dr. A. F. Schmidt maintains that the circulation is influenced by physical exercise. It was not because we wanted to deny this theory that we took exception against certain statements of some of the “Swedish” authorities. We do not assume any authority to decide such questions but are willing to accept undisputed scientific researches and discoveries and make the best possible use of them If it can be shown that Dr. Schmidt's theories on this subject are incorrect we shall gladly accept the new thesis. Dr. Schmidt himself would certainly never lay claim to infallibility for his valuable contribution to physical education. This unscientific, quasi religious, fervor of the Swedes in continuously bringing forward their “slow-leg-movement,’ and “arch-flexion” (etc.) theory has been ridiculed time and again, and we, too, are objecting to it. We hope, dear Doctor, that you do not charge us with any asperity against undisputed authorities, or any desire of passing as authority ourselves, or of accepting Dr. Schmidt as such. We rest our judgment on no particular person but the consensus of the scientific world. We cannot comprehend your conclusion that Dr. Schmidt’s work has “something of a Swedish sound to it.” You ask: “And where did he get it?” Why, there are many other sources in the world for the study of physiology and of the physiology of exercises than the text books on Swedish gymnastics.

Digitized by

Google
-17-

PROGRAM

OF THE

BIENNIAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

To take place April 18th, 19th, and 20th, 1901, at New York City.

Thursday, April 18th, 9:30 A. M.

Hall of the Board of Education, Park Ave. and 59th St.

Organization.

Address of Welcome. Hon. Miles M. O’Brien, Pres, of the New York Board of Education.

Response and Address by the President of tbe A. A. A. P. E. Dudley Allen Sargent, M. D., Harvard Univ’y. Reports of Officers and Committees.

Business, Unfinished and New.

Exhibit of the New York Public Schools, as shown at the Paris Exposition. M. Augusta Requa, M. D., Supervisor Physical Training of the Boroughs of Manhattan and The Bronx, Chairman ..f Committee.

Library Exhibit. Luthtr Gulick, M. D., Pratt Institute, Chairman of the Committee.

Luncheon. Hotel: 1 P. M.

Afternoon Session, 3 P. Af.

Hall of the Board of Education.

Section Meeiings:	'

x. Colleges and Secondary Schools. R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., Chairman, Magill Univ’y, Montreal, Canada.

a)	Address by Chairman.

b)	Mental and Physical Culture in Higher Schools. Frederick J. Simpson, M. D., Hartford, Conn.

c)	Glossary. J. H. McCurdy, M. D., Y. M. C, A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.

d)	Effect of Athletics on Growing Boys. Watson L. Savage, M. D., Columbia Universitv.

e)	Athletics in Women’s Colleges.

f)	Athletics vs. Gymnastics in Schools and Colleges.	*

2. Elementary Schools. Miss Jessie M. Bancroft, Chairman, Supervisor Physical Training, Brooklyn.

a)	“Correct School Furniture.” Edward R. Shaw, Ph. D., Dean of New York University School of

Pedagogy.

b)	“The Importance of Hygienic Seats and Desks for School Children.” Eliza M. Mosher, M. D., Dean

of Women’s Department, University of Michigan.

c)	Presentation of New Hygienic School Furniture. Eliza M. Mosher, M. D.; James B. Fitzgerald, M. D.,

Director of Physical Training, Boston Public Schools ; Miller, Mass. Institute of Technology ; John G. Thompson, Principal State Normal School, Fitchburg, Mass.

d)	“Children’s Games in the Andover Public Schools.” Mr. George E. Johnson, Supt. of Schools, Andover,

Mass.

Evening Session, 8 P. M.

Hall of the Board of Education.

Address of Welcome. Wm. H. Maxwell, Ph. D., City Supt. of Schools, New York City.

Moving Pictures (as shown at Paris Exposition) of Physical Txaining, Manual Training, Fire Drills, Assembly, and Dismissals etc. in Public Schools of New York. Alfred T. Schauffier, Mi D., Ass. Superintendent of Schools, Boroughs of Manhattan and The Bronx.

Friday, April 19th, 9:30 A. M.

Havemeyer Hall, Columbia University, 116th St., between Amsterdam Ave.

and Broadway.

Section Meetings.

x. Anthropometry. Franz Boas, Ph. D., Chairman, Columbia University.

Address by Chairman. Subject: a) Value of Statistics to the Anthropologist.

b)	Value of Statistics to the Physiologist.

c)	“	“	**	“	“	Psychologist.

d)	“	“	“	“	“	Physical Educator.

2.	Elementary Schools.

“Hygiene of Instruction.” Stuart H. Rowe, Ph. D., Superv’g Principal, Lowell Dist., New Haven, Conn. Discussion, by Mr. Ossian H. Lang, Editor of the “School Journal.”

“How Time May Be Found in the Elementary Curriculum for Adequate Physical Training.” Prof. Samuel T, Dutton, Supt Teachers’ College, Columbia University.

Discussion, by j. M. Rice, Ph. D.. Editor of the “Forum:” C. H. Judd, Ph. D., New York University School of Pedagogy.

“Physical Examination of School Children.” George Wells Fitz, M. D., Boston, Mass., Editor of the Physical Education Review,

Discussion, by James McKeen, Ph. D.; Prof. Cattell, Columbia University; Mr. Nils Bergquist, Instructor of Physical Training, Borough of Richmond, New York City.

3.	Normal Schools. Jay W. Seaver, M. D., Chairman, Yale University “Mechanical Causes of Scoliosis and its Treatment,” by the Chairman.

Luncheon at Columbia University.

Afternoon Session, 3 P. M.

General Meeting.

Address of Welcome. Dean Van Amringe, Columbia University.

“Fatigue, Breathlessness, and Strain as Shown in the Face.” R. Tait McKenzie, M. D , Magill University, Montreal Canada.

Digitized by u.ooQle
-18-

“Effect of Maximal Muscular Effort on Blood Pressure.” J. H. McCurdy, M. D., Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.

■“Influence upon Blood Corpuscle Count, Hemoglobin, Sphygmograph Tracing etc., by Gymnastic Exercise (Swedish and Team Work). James C. Babbitt, M. D., Haverford College.

“Psychological Aspects of Muscular Exercise.” Luther Gulick, M. D., Pratt Institute, Brooklyn “Principles of Education, That Should Be Included in the Training of a Specialist ” Prof. Nicholas Murray Butler, Columbia University.

“Out-Door Gymnasiums.” J. H. Kellogg, M. D., Battle Creek, Mich.

Evening Session, 8 P. M.

Gymnastic Exhibition of Adult Work. Columbia University Gymnasium.

Turners’, Mass and Heavy Fencing.

Business Women’s Class, Savage Gymnasium, Heavy and Game.

Columbia College, Mass, Wrestling, and Pyramids.

Dancing Calisthenics, St. Bartholomew’s Parish House.

Y. M. C. A., Mass and Game.

Saturday, April 20th, 9 A. M.

Hall of the Board of Education.

Final Business Meeting.

Unfinished General Program (if any).

Unfinished Business and Reports of Committees.

Selection of Place for Next Convention.

Afternoon Session, 2 P. M.

9th Regiment Armory, West 14th St.

Gymnastic Exhibitions. Children’s Classes.

1.	Public Schools.—Primary: Bean Bags, Queens; Free, Manhattan.

Grammar: Free, Manhattan; Free Apparatus, Brooklyn.

Girls High: Clubs and Heavy, Manhattan.

2.	Private Schools and Other Classes.—Y. M. C. A. Juniors, Private Schools, Turner’s Tambourine Drill,

St. Francis Xavier Cadets, Military.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The average woman who is a wife and mother, with a home to take care of, cannot engage in profitable work outside of her home without detriment to her domestic interests. If she attempts it either the machinery of the home itself, the wisest training of her child or children, or her own mental growth or physical strength will suffer. There are exceptions, but superlatively clever women are rare—about as rare as superlatively clever men.—Edward Bok, in the March Ladies’ Home Journal.

—Of Practical Aid To Women. The March number of The Delineator is admirably suited to the various needs of every woman. There is something in it of a practical character for every woman who has household cares or who wishes to understand the tendency in modern styles. One of the most valuable articles is on “The Servants We Do Not Keep,” by Prof. Ellen H. Richards of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This is a subject that should interest every woman who has trouble with the domestic problem.

—The Fai*l of Rome, by Marcellus T. Hayes, L. L. B., New York, is a drama of three acts, introducing spectacular gymnastics.—The author evidently attempts to show that it was the physical superiority of the barbarians that caused the weak and dissipated Romans to be conquered. But when he wants us to believe that this superiority was gained by drills in gymnastics of a modern type, fitted out with parallels, horizontal bars, spring-boards, ladders etc., he tasks our imagination too seriously. We might as well imagine our Indians of the forest or the Vikings of old practicing with silver wands and dumb-bells. If the author’s idea is this, that properly conducted gymnastics is giving manhood and vigor to a nation and forms its best defense in times of war, he might have found materials for a drama in the history of Greece, where the Greeks through their physical perfection coupled with a free and independent spirit were able to defeat the Persian host, or in the history of Germany where Friedrich Ludwig Jahn after the Napoleonic wars brought about the regeneration of the German youth through his gymnastic system. The drama as such has no literary value. The characters lack their raison d’etre, they are spectral figures solely, to give setting to the gymnastic display for which evidently the drama was written.

Digitized by GiOOQle
-19-

Physical training needs no sugar-coating to engage the attention of the public. A beautiful body made strong by vigorous wholesome exercise is being more and more appreciated to-day, when the need for physical strength is felt so deeply in the performance of the multitudinous duties of daily life.

NEW RULES FOR BASKET BALL.

The Basket Ball Committee of the A. A. U. has revised the rules of that game as follows:

After the violation of each rule a foul is to be called and the official who is to call it is named in each case. Rule 11, section 18, has been changed as follows: The man who dribbles the ball with both hands cannot again touch it with both, hands until the ball has been played by some one else. Last year’s rules permitted this if the ball was touched by some one else. Further, the player who dribbles the ball cannot throw for goal until the ball has been played by another player. That player may throw for goal or return it to the man who dribbled it, who may then, if he desires, throw for goal.

Rule 11, section 27, has been changed as follows: After an attempt for goal from outside the boundary line the ball, whether the goal is made or not, must be thrown up in the center of the field, and the goal, if made, does not count.

The referee calls three fouls, namely, rule 7, section 9, and rule 11, sections 35 and 38. This adds one more foul to the referee’s duties.

To rule 12, section 4, this statement has been added: A protest must be presented in writing within forty-eight hours.

The following statement has been added to rule 11, section 1: The ball must «nter and remain in the basket until after the referee’s decision of said goal. This, of course, means that the official goal must be used in match games, and that the bottom of the basket is not to be cut out. Discussion has arisen in a number of clubs as to whether a throw resulted in a goal or not, because the ball passed so rapidly through the basket that it left the spectators in doubt as to whether a goal were made or not. This will be avoided if the bottom is left in the basket, as is intended by the rules. This was not specifically stated in last year’s rules.

EDUCATOR A GREAT WALKER.

Prof. Eugene Lamb Richards of the academic department of Yale University bas just returned home from a walking trip of two weeks, says a correspondent of the Philadelphia Press. He spent his vacation in tramping through the hills of Massachusetts and Connecticut. He is almost 65 years of age, but during the past Christmas vacation he averaged almost 20 miles a day in tramping over the roughest kind of country roads. He believes that walking is the best of all exercises for a man of his years.

Prof. Richards graduated from Yale in 1860. During his undergraduate days he was one of the most prominent athletes in the college. In his senior year he sustained an injury while doing feats in the gymnasium. He has never fully recovered from this injury, and it was in this way that he became a pedestrian. For the past 40 years he has tramped not only through the United States, but ^lso throughout Europe.

Prof. Richards, during his long tramp, has explored all the famous nooks and corners in New England. A vacation has never gone by during which he has failed to spend every day in walking unless prevented by illness. From these long trips he has recuperated to such an extent that he does not look like a man of his years.

During the past Christmas vacation Prof. Richards took a tramp through Massachusetts. On a single day he walked from North Adams, Mass., to Norfolk, Ct., making the best record known between these two points for a pedestrian. The exact distance is not measured on the maps, but good pedestrians have never before come within six miles of covering this distance in a single day.

Digitized by U.ooQte
ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Duffy of Georgetown University, after being beaten by Delgado of the New York Y. M. C. A., is credited with doing 50 yards in 5 seconds.

—“Hasten, 0 camel!” Thereupon the beast found voice. “No,” it replied with dignity, “I shall not hump myself. I do not wish by an attempt at scorching to lend color to any suspicion that I may be responsible for my shape.”

—Mr. R. A. Johnson, a Washington, D. C., banker, gave a handsome two-story boat house to the Georgetown University Boat Club. The gift represents about $12,000.

—Ride a bicycle for the pleasure of riding, for the blessing of health, and give heed to the beauty of nature around you; but ride not for mileage nor speed.

—Walter Christie, the crack trainer of the Princeton teams, has been engaged to coach the students of the University of California.

—Athletics of all kinds will be seen at the Pan-American Exposition at Buffalo. The sports will include College Baseball and Football, Intercollegiate Meet, Water Polo, Bicycling, Lacrosse, A. A. U. Championships, Lawn Tennis, Marathon Race, Cross Country Running, Roque, Shooting, Caledonian Games, Gymnastics, Y. M. C. A. National Meet, New York Interscholastic Championships, Military Competitions and Manoeuvers, Gymnastic Exhibition by New York Turn-Vereins, Cricket, Bowling, Gaelic Football, Basket-Ball, and some others not yet decided upon.

—Harvard University will boom Lacrosse this year. Their team will make a trip south in April.

—Spalding’s Athletic Almanac is replete with useful information. It contains the complete records in all branches of amateur track and field sports.

—D. K. Baxter of Pennsylvania has been declared ineligible to compete for the red and blue track team on account of failure to keep up in his college work.

—There is a strong probability that the crack eight of the Dauntless Boat Club will be sent to compete in the Henley regatta next summer. The sending of the crew is contingent upon its winning the championship at the National regatta next summer.

—While the crews of the American colleges are just waking up out of their winter sleep, reports from Great Britain show that the Oxford and Cambridge crews are in the midst of their training. The races between the English colleges always take place in March, while our college aquatic events are not rowed until June. The English method of training is radically different from the methods pursued on this side of the water, just as our methods for getting other athletes m shape differ from the routine adopted on the other side. In the morning an expert takes out two men at a time in a two-oared gig and instructs them in stroke and blade work until the men are well tired. Then, in the afternoon, the eight-oared craft is named by the men, while the coach rides along the bank on horseback, giving his instructions from the saddle, and not from a launch, as is the custom in the United States. The men are kept on the water for an hour in the eight. Very often the assistant coach runs alongside of the head coach's horse and gives advice.

WORLD'S BEST RECORDS.

(January i, 1901.)

RUNNING.

100 Yds.—9 4-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *9 4-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage,.

W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Rush, A. F. Duffy.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: M. W. Long.

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12% min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: Afc C. Kraenzlein.