PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 12.

MAY, 1905.

No. 135

Eoitorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor. Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ATHLETICS IN THE SCHOOLS

AN ADDRESS AT THE SIXTIETH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION AT BOSTON. MASS.,

ON NOVEMBER 25, 190+.

(Concluded.)

IT is all this which makes the game so well worth fighting for. But it must be said that if these things are to be gained at the expense of fifteen lives and many hundred serious injuries in a season, or, worse yet, at the cost of a widening spirit of lawlessness, the cost is too great and all these advantages wiP have to be foregone or gained in some other way.

All true and pure sport capable of use for college contests must be fought for. The better the sport the truer this is. As it becomes exhilarating and popular, the larger and meaner are the barnacles which fasten upon it. But the more quickening the struggle and the more uplifting the spectacle, the more it is worth contending for. To the voung men and women who are in our universities, who know not much of physical effort and practically nothing of physical danger, there

Digitized by
—OB-

is more legitimate leaven which makes for lives that can do things, in the rush and struggle, the strategic assault and defense of a ’varsity football on a fall afternoon than is brewed in a good percentage of the college classrooms of the world in a semester. Then the game is worth purging and saving. Of course there are enough who think the game will last without cleansing. If it should, it would distinctly lower the educational and aesthetic plane of American colleges and when that is ascertained something decisive will be done. Would it not be better to do it now?

The evils may be put out of it by authority. Students may be expected to go as far in their exitements as the authorities who are charged with the duty of regulating their strenuosity and enthusiasm will allow. They will have no difficulty in finding excuse for excesses which faculties live to see—and refuse to see. And with boys who have the stuff in them the outlook is clear or cloudy, and moral fiber becomes firm or flabby as those to whom they look for commendation or remonstrance or punishment give, or fail to give, them about what is their due.

Until all possibility of it disappears, the moral sense of America should rebel against any view of college government which leaves college boys to go to the bad without much hindrance. The theory that all a professor has to do is to be intellectually, or even immorally, scientific, may have to go in some countries, but it should never be accepted here. Fathers and mothers who give their sons and daughters over to any such intellectual leadership as that deserve the distress which unrealized hopes are likely to inflict upon them. It is not a question of college freedom. Freedom is not license anywhere. Freedom is stainless. There is no such thing as freedom to do wrong, in college any more than in the state. I am not unmindful that the point of sport and of college contests is lost if college faculties manage them. Endow American sport or American college athletics and you doubtless expel the soul and spirit of them. But students must distinctly know that their management must keep in step with good morals and in key with all the beneficent ends for which colleges and universities exist. More than the point of sport is lost if this is not so.

If in any case students run amuck, or get to running the faculty amuck, the board would well install a new faculty, and if they should be too much for faculty and board together, parents would well withdraw their sons, benefactors would well withhold their gifts, affections would well be placed somewhere else, and what is left would well go down into the depths together. The right to have free contests and exhilarating sports and the right to gain the benefit of managing these for themselves is not to be confounded with the right to carry the college into unseemly places, or to gamble under the name and colors and lights of a university. Boys are to have freedom to manage college sports only when they realize that they are managing for all and when they manage in wavs that hold out welcome to every honest man and bring no blush to any fair and modest cheek.

But let it be repeated that where the wrongs come in, it is less likely that they spring from student inclinations than from official

Digitized by

Google
—67—

inefficiency. Students sustain a government which governs. Ail they want to know is that it is strong enough to govern and that it is sane and sympathetic enough to govern well.

Whether or not tariffs are to be regulated by their friends, it is mighty true that boys are. No man is much of a friend of boys who has forgotten about being a boy, who cannot see things from the outlook of the boy, or who cannot sympathize with the activities in which every real boy must engage.

If I were a university president I would not only have part in the athletics because I liked to, but I would use the sports to make management easy. I would go to hurrah meetings as often as the crowd would welcome me, and I am confident they would welcome me as often as I Was genuine about it. I would go down into the gymnasium pretty often, and before I started I would take off my shell and leave it in the sanctum. When the university lined up for an issue, I would be with it. I would pay ray dollar and get into the crowd and yell for the flag, and if we won I would embrace a freshman quite as quickly as the professor of philosophy—who might be shocked by it. I would earn the right to have my word welcome at the athletic end of the establishment. I would not put it in very often. I would never impose it upon a boy management that was square and decent and right. But I would hold the right against the time when it was needed to bar out the vicious and temper the excesses: against the time when it would bind all the parts together and keep the whole upon the earth and rather near the middle of the road. On suitable occasions I would try to speak the word in the crowd which would marshal sentiment, set up standards and fix the pace. I would draw upon the moral sense which is never lacking in a college throng, to brace up the weak and cool off the heads that get unduly heated. If, after that, the bad persisted, I would join the issue so squarely that in a little time the air would be clearer and the outlook more encouraging,—or else the demonstration would be absolute that a new administration would be a good thing to have.

There ought to be no difficulty about the university managing the boys who manage the athletics, or settling the tone or character of the athletic work. The authority is as absolute as the responsibility is immediate. It is the common law of the schools that their authority covers everything that may aid their usefulness or stain their good name. None can use the name or fly the flag of an institution without submitting to its direction, or else being posted as a fraud. Only a sincere and authoritative word to any student should be sufficient. If students ever band together to resist the deliberate word of college authority, it is not altogether certain that they are wrong, but there is no possibility of doubt about the fact that they need a walloping that will last a student generation and be handed down to student generations that come after; or that the college needs a government that can govern. But happily be it said that such cases are so unusual as to be hardly in the reckoning at all.

Then let us hope that the great universities will serve the good cause of physical prowess and strenuous sport in all the schools by

Digitized by CjOOQle
—08-

saving this game. If they request, the rules will be changed so as to make the game more open and attractive, less hazardous and unseemly, and so as to make the maiming of an opponent under the pile impossible. A university direction that none shall represent it in an interuniversity contest but a matriculated student who has been in residence a year, would very nearly settle matters. The factors of a game are bound to square with the honor of the university, and the management of the university is bound to see that they do it. The insistence that the gate fees which are senselessly high, having amounted to $00,000 at a single game, shall be at a rate which does not discriminate against great numbers who love the sport and want to follow the flag, would be a great preventive medicine against a malady that is becoming too common and serious in university life. If, beyond this, it might become distinctly understood that there is nothing in common between a university and a saloon, and that it is a crime in the university, as it is in the state, for a boy to gamble on university contests, about all of the grounds for the criticism which I have set forth would be removed.

If it be said that these measures would take the life and the interest out of the game, I answer that I do not think so, but if so then the life ought to go. Anj' game which is not consistent with full college work on the part of the players ; any game which does not beget moral character and true manliness on the part of the truest lovers of sport; any game which must be handed over completely to professional coaches who use up boys to vindicate systems of coaching and who are strangers to the main and enduring purposes of college life, will have to go. If the enthusiasts are not on their guard, they will prove more than they would wish.

Possibly I have occupied too much time with college athletics, but it comprehends the whole matter. Children imitate their seniors; the schools below imitate the schools above. And they are more aggressive imitating the vices than the virtues. The high schools and the little boys in the primary schools and the kindergartens imitate the play and the sports of the colleges, and they copy the worst phases without appreciating the best. Put college athletics upon a sound footing and you make matters easy for all the teachers and all the parents of the country. The responsibility of college authorities concerning the purity and influence of all sport and play, of all games and contests, is obvious and weighty. The better sentiment of the country should enforce the responsibility. The colleges and universities will willingly respond, but they need the support of insistent public sentiment.

All of the responsibility is not upon the colleges. The extent to which students in the high schools are often encouraged to seize upon a freedom which is only permissible with other students, and to use it in dangerous ways, is absurd. It ssems to be going from athletics to organizations and activities of every kind. The responsibility of boards of education and faculties is immediate and the authority is absolute. It is needless to say that whatever involves the good name of the school, that whatever concerns the moral sentiment of boys and girls, is to be dealt with. We all owe something to them. I am for paj'ing what we owe.

Digitized by tjOOQle
—f»9—

Five or six years ago I had occasion to leave my home early on the morning after Thanksgiving—the morning corresponding to this one—to meet an engagement at a teachers’ association. On the way the football team from one of the central and conspicuous high schools of the country, which had been out to play a Thankgiving game, came into the car on their way home. They had been victorious, and their conduct was beyond description. Boys of the high school age, who manifestly lived in respectable homes, seemed to think it manly to indulge in profanity and obscenity with a familiarity which was shocking. They passed a bottle of liquor from one to another, and when the train stopped went out to have it refilled. The conditions were appalling and most suggestive. I think I owed those boys something: I did what I could to pay it. I think I owed the management of that high school something: I did what I could to pay that. But the supreme and controlling wrong of it all was that they should have been traveling alone and under such conditions at all. I lift up my voice against a view of athletics or administration which could make such a cross development, such a menace to young men, possible. Does one say that they are to take care of themselves, and to learn to do it by doing it? Yes, when the time comes, and gradually. Not at the high school age, nor at any other time if there is not sufficient promise of maturity and sense enough to do it. Parents and teachers are on earth to do it, and they had better not abdicate the function.

Let me, in coming to a conclusion, recapitulate. This is my physical training and athletic creed up to date. But this, like all creeds, will perhaps need rewriting now and then:

1.	Work and play are vital to the growth of physical symmetry, strength and skill, aud the rounding out of a perfect man.

2.	The more real the work and the more natural the play, the better.

3.	Where these are lacking it is desirable to create artificial means for supplying them.

4.	Mind, heart and body are dependent upon each other, but not equally dependent.

o. Physical training is not to be counted among the fundamentals or essentials of the common school system; it is not incompatible with that system : special circumstances are to determine whether the schools should assume it. There is little call for it in the rural districts and small towns, but more where the population is congested and resources are ample. There is not much call for it in the primary schools, but more in the advanced schools.

6. The main business of the common elementary schools is to initiate the correct use and expression of the intellectual faculties, with such reference to moral sensibilities as the regime of the system may impose and the opportunities of teachers, with correct moral perspective, will afford—and with such regard for health and balanced physical development as sanitary school houses and sane teachers, with a little general assistance by special teachers, in the cities, make practicable.

7.	In the secondary schools special facilities for the physical training, such as gymnasiums, are quite permissible, but here, too, the conditions of population and the neighborhood feeling should govern, and

Digitized by CjOOQle
nothing should be undertaken without a good understanding of all that is involved, or without carrying out all that is attempted in good form and completely.

8.	In the advanced institutions physical training is practicable, should be provided for, and, generally speaking, tnay well be required.

9.	Contests of strength, endurance and skill between individuals are desirable.

10.	The lowering of records is a distinctly laudable ambition, because of the bearing of individual accomplishments upon all concerned, but the highest consideration is the growth of physical proficiency in the multitude.

11.	Team contests have more distinctly invigorating influence upon students and upon the common thought of the country than individual contests, but they are encompassed with the corrupting tendencies which demand the alert oversight and more decisive protection of competent authority.

12.	Students are to manage student contests, but only when the management is thoroughly compatible with the ideals of the institutions represented. There is no school freedom not consistent with the ends for which schools stand.

13.	An institution dishonors itself when it permits one not a regular and genuine student to represent it.

14.	Any physical work or contest incompatible with regular student work bears heavily upon a few and discredits all of the serious work of an institution.

15.	A system of coaching which cares nothing for the man who is a factor in a game, which stops at no method, which cares only for success and for the prestige of a professional coach, and which is not representative of the honor of an institution, is vicious and intolerable.

16	A contest between educational institutions must be free from features which make for profligacy or corruption.

17.	The use of athletics to advertise an institution is reprehensible.

18.	No sport can stand for an institution which, by reason of the large gate fees, bars out (or ought to) a large percentage of the constituency of the institution who want to be present at its contests.

19.	The friends of college sports will have to fight for its integrity, and the more inspiring it is the more the barnacles of society will seize upon it and the more true manliness ought to content for it.

20.	Physical exercise and open-air play are very grtat factors in the development of men and in the evolution of the social health of a people. Educational administration should make use of them, and should be held responsible for keeping them clean and making the most of them. In the athletics of the school system as in everything else associated with the schools, the government of the schools is bound to govern.

These seem like commonplaces and platitudes. It is hoped they are. If they are, there is no dissent. But it is rather obvious that some of them may claim a fuller measure of enforcement.

I have discussed the physical training and athletics for boys. I am quite aware that there are phases of the question which concern the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-71-

girls. I have been glad to find very ample and grateful refuge in the fact that the next address is likely to deal with them, for it will be by the president of one of the time-honored woman’s colleges of the country.

This is no mean subject. It goes to the decline of physical vitality in the cities, and would postpone the death penalty which nature imposes upon people who are useless. It not only bears upon the character of the educational system and exemplifies the conscience of the nation, but it goes to the making of character and conscience in school and nation. The plays and sports of a people, when guided by conscience, make for toleration and forbearance; for strength which makes littleness and petulance unseemly; for world relations which are self-conscious and direct; and for an effectiveness on occasions which uplifts free institutions in the eyes of all mankind. Life in the open gave us Lexington, Concord and Bunker Hill, and life in the open must make good the assurance that “there they will remain forever.”

PHYSICAL TRAINING BY MEANS OF PLAY.

By BELLE RAGNAR PARSONS.

AFTER all dreams have been dreamt, after all the sermons have been said, after all the thoughts have been thought, the little child will lead. The pedagog may plan, the theorist may speculate, but it will be with a glance out of the side of his eye at the infant playing at his feet. And this, not because the child, but the philosopher is wise. Modern psychology is the searchiight which is being brought to bear upon edudation to-day.

For many years physical education has stood exempt from the relentless gaze of this modern child of psychology. The old readers have been frowned upon, the old spellers have been rooted out, the old discipline has been put to shame, but the gymnastic drill goes on, with its dull monotony of one two-three-four-five-six-seven-eight—nay, it grows and spreads, until it seems the one important part of the grand new scheme—“The symmetrical development of the whole child.” Bur, while pedagogy is thus pushing its latest fad, science has also been at work, and now the time is passing when this or that nicely worked out scheme of medical gymnastics can be forced down the throats of reluctant children.

Physical education itself is now being subjected to investigation, and some very definite results have already been reached. One of the most startling of these results is the cjiscovery that the gymnastic drill, as generally given, is as fatiguing, mentally, to the child, as the same amount of time spent on mathematics.

Physical education has stood a thing apart. Whereas all the work of the school has been subjected to the great psychological principles, this thing alone has stood aloof and unbending to the practical, near, and vital needs of the child.

Is there indeed any relation between physical education in general ? Do we get at the child’s keen interest when we give him muscular exercises in the old task-master style? Are we making use of his self-activity when we give every exercise to imitation or command ? Is there anything in the work to awaken his mind and inspire him to enthusiastic and independent research? Do the regular set exercises give his imagination much scope ? Moreover,—does the old drill arouse a great deal of pleasure or give recreative enjoyment to the

Digitized by CaOOQle
child? Truly, the nicely worked out systems of gymnastics were not upset by such considerations.

The open question then presents itself—how can these principles be brought to bear upon the physical work of the school? That “education is the symmetrical development of the whole child,” has come to be so much of a truism that the teacher hears it and goes back to her work unaided by its theoretic blast of trumpets. After all is done and said, when she is actually confronted by the child in the school-room, the “lessons” are the important and tangible things. How to apply this theory to the daily curriculum is the definite question she wishes solved. Given the school-room with its limitations as to space, the subject matter with its time consuming proportions, how can the child gain a fine, free physical development, a coordination of mind and muscle, an unconscious poise and carriage? How can all this be fitted into the already overloaded program of the school-room?

An attempt has been made to solve this question. It is open to the investigation of every intelligent teacher. The scheme needs to be tested, by various considerations, but the underlying princ pie is this:

First - The regular exercises already prescribed may still be used, but should be given a thought content, made vital.

Second This thought content should be drawn from the near interest and ( nvironment of the children.

Third -The formality of the drill should be done away with as far as possible, and free, actual play substituted.

Fourth—This theme should be drawn from the subject matter of the daily school program. Thus, the children will be offered an opportunity to give expression to their impressions —to do, as wel las to learn—to apply, each day, in action the knowledge gained. The mental impression will, in this way, be made, at once, more definite and clear.

FROM THE FARM.

A very' simple method of introducing this work wou'd be to review the summer experiences of the children. Perhaps some of them have been on a farm. If so, what a wealth of fine activities lies at the feet of the teacher. Let Johnny show how he could reach a branch of the apple tree by stretching or jumping. Then let all the children try it, first reaching several times with the right hand, then with the left. Or the children may stoop to pick the apples from the ground and lay them carefully into a barrel (excellent kneebending and balance work). The children will suggest many more things that they did in the orchard. The teacher may convert these activities into play, but she should watch most carefully for faulty positions, correcting the same by suggestions thit will not make the children self-conscious, nor take them out of their world of make-believe. If Mary does not stretch her arm tell her to reach a higher branch; if Tommy is listless and sunken chested, show him an apple beyond easy reach and tell him that only a strong, till boy could get it, can he?

The imitation of the horse activities always delight the child; the walking, trotting, galloping, may a’l be practiced to stir up the sluggish circulation and arouse the respiration Such vigorous activity should always be followed by some slow sustained movements.

The sowing and reaping of the farmer offer fine Urge arm anil leg movement, and lend themselves reidily to a rhythmic swing of motion.

Digitized by L,ooQle
-73-

THE SEA SHORE.

If the children have been at the sea shore instead of the country there is nothing to be regretted. What with digging in the sand, rowing, swimming and sailing, they can spend fifteen minutes a day for more than a week showing what they most like to do. The digging would give good trunk bending and arm movements, the rowing is fine arm and trunk work, the swimming develops the chest and gives good poise to the head, sailing suggests arm movements in the hand over hand hoisting. The children may’ also play the}” were small sail boats. With one arm up for a mast, another held out at the side for a yard arm, some beautiful and graceful work can be gotten in sailing, tipping, rocking on the waves, etc.

,	FOR	CITY CHILDREN.

If the children belong to that large class that stays in the city all summer, there is yet left the inspiration of the parks with their swings* and see-saws, or the vacant city lots and the advantages they offer for kite flying, or even the paved street with ball and jumping the rope.

A representation of pushing the swing offers stretching movements from tip of toe to point of finger that cannot be surpassed by any carefully worked out treatise on physical training. Standing with one foot advanced (to give a firm support), the children push the swings forward as well as upward, to avoid bending back at the waist (which is always bad when standing). Tell the children to watch the swing, thus gaining a good head upward stretch with every forward swaying of the body. This is a good exercise in rhythm, the push and return of the swing coming in strict and even time. The teacher could count for this work, or the class might sing some familiar song with good time and accent, suitable to the movement.

The see-saw may be taken in two ways, the children representing the board by holding their arms out straight and stiff, or bending and extending their knees in imitation of the up and down movement when sitting on the board. This exercise lends itself to a very pretty game, opposite rows going up and down alternately. By dividing the class into thirds, the middle row may represent the board, and the outside rows the children see-sawing. This also may be done to music.

Imitations of jumping the rope gives endless pleasure. II the children are cautioned not to jump more than eight times in succession, to always land on the balls of the feet, and to have a great deal of springiness in the knees, much of the harm that is laid up against this game may be done away with. The game is full of activity, it offers the best possible manner of developing a sense of time, beat, rhythm, and is especially good in developing a physical response to mental suggestion, of shortening the reaction period, of encouraging fearlessness and adaptability.

Playing ball—need anything be said to establish this universal plaything in the good favor of an adoring race? Surely with our football* baseball, tennis, croquet, golf, polo, it stands beyond any need of a special plea. But something may be said about the particular value of these movements to the primary child. He is sent to school and taught

Digitized by CjOOQle
-74-

to write, that is, to use the muscles and nerves of his fingers before the larger and more fundamental muscles and nerve centers of the arm and hand have become adjusted and co-ordinated. This is, of course, all wrong, but it seems that it is to be. Our duty, then, is to meet the condition and prevent its ill effects. There is nothing better fitted to train these muscles and make these co-ordinations than the simple, tossing, rolling, bouncing, throwing, batting and catching of the ball. Of course real balls in the school-room would mean confusion worse confounded. But, fortunatsly, child nature steps in to help us here, and is as happy pretending to toss, and catch a ball as in actually doing this, more so, in fact, for, while he is likely to miss the real ball, the child never loses his imaginary ball. These simple imitations, with their fine, large arm movements, may later be given with bean bags, which are easier to catch than the ball, and which do not roll when dropped.

Here, then, are gymnastic exercises rich in movement, movements chosen from the child’s natural and spontaneous play, movements which will awaken the dullest boy in the room to a sense of enjoyment and recreation, movements which will arouse the creative instinct of a child and give full scope to his self-activity.

Young America does not quickly respond to dogma, but, set his mind going in the right direction, allow him to use his recreative selfactivity, make the task vital and worth his while, and the thing you want is vours, even if it is in skeleton, very like the dull drill which he hates. “Who knows?” or “Who can show me?” are touchstones that will bring to life a whole room full of inattentive and listless children.

Nor will they leave the suggestion behind them in the school-room with their books. Once the thought is set going in their small heads, they will carry it to their play, thus, while the play enriches the school life, the correct physical position and movements given in the class-room will make more correct and valuable his free out-of-door play.

PER HENRIK LING AND HIS SUCCESSORS AT THE STOCKHOLM NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.*

ER HENRIK LING, the father of physical training in Sweden, was

born in Smaland, one of the southern provinces, November 15, 1776. He was the son of Anders Ling, a poor clergyman in the parish of Ljunga, and the youngest in a family of six boys and girls. The father died when Per was only two years old. The mother married the new pastor, but did not long survive her first husband. These early bereavements acting on the serious, sensitive, and affectionate nature of the boy, and in spite of his step-father’s watchful care, gave a touch of sadness to the whole period of his childhood, to which he rarely referred in later years, and then only in the fewest possible words. The romantic scenery about his home must have heightened this effect, besides producing others of its own. The church and parsonage stood

* Articles by the same writer on “The Stockholm Normal School of Gymnastics,” as it was in 1900-01, and on “Physical Training in the Schools of Stockholm” will be found in this Review for December 1900 (V: 301-311), and March 1901 (VI: 1-14).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

Digitized by

Google
—75—

near the boarder of a lake encircled by forests, (ind all around stretched desolute heath, a strange jumble of hills and broken rocks, swamps and reedy lakes, and forests of pine and deciduous trees with here and there a cleared space in their midst. Later he left these scenes to attend the higher classical school in Wexio, the same one in which the botanist Linnaeus had studied more than sixty years before (1724-1727). Here he gave evidence of rich mental gifts, a strong will, and a fondness for independent and original thinking and acting; but in November of 1792 some breach of school discipline led to his dismission, along with other comrades. The circumstances do not seem to reflect seriously, if at all, upon his character, and yet he felt himself in disgrace. Unwilling, therefore, to return home, and declining an invitation to remain with an older brother, the pastor in another parish, he spent only a few hours with the latter, and then the lad of sixteen set out into the world alone and on foot, penniless and among strangers, but resolved to redeem in the same way his good name.

Not much is definitely known regarding his life in the next six years and a half. The period was plainly one of poverty and struggle, and it is not strange that even the members of his own family and his nearest friends learned little or nothing of its secrets from his lips. He took his entrance examination at Lund University March 28, 1793, and his nation-certificate there—the “nations” are provincial clubs at the Swedish universities, and each student is expected to enroll himself in one of them according to his birthplace—covers the time frt>m March 19 of that year until October 5, 1796. It is said that in 1793 he was also entered as a student in Upsala University. At the latter institution he passed his theological examination December 21, 1797 and the same year wrote his stepfather from Stockholm that he was giving lessons in modern languages. May 29, 1799, he took out his nation-certificate at Upsala and left there early in the following month. By this time he was able to speak French, German and English—the first of the three with special ease—and this fact also may explain the story of extensive wanderings on the continent and in England. He possessed, however, a quick mind and undoubted talent for language and was a diligent and enthusiastic student of any subject that aroused his interest. Moreover, it was not necessary to leave Sweden in order to find natives of those countries with whom he might converse, and with the exception of a single year, 1794-95, it is definitely known where he resided during this entire period. Although there is nothing impossible or improbable in the tradition of foreign travel, very little direct evidence can be urged in its support.

In July of 1799, a few weeks after leaving Upsala, Ling arrived in Copenhagen, and remained in the Danish capital for more than five years, until September or October of 1804. According to his own statement he entered the University there March 27, 1801. Although he was voluntarily enrolled on the side of the Danes when Nelson and his English fleet, by the battle fought in Copenhagen harbor April 2, 1801, broke up the Northern Alliance, the company to which he belonged was not brought into action on that occasion. Linguistic studies continued to cross his mind at first. He worked diligently in the Royal Library,

Digitized by
—76—

took every opportunity to extend his knowledge by conversation with foreigners, and acquired complete mastery of the Danish language, both written and spoken. Afterwards his attention became transferred from language to literature. Schelling, the distinguished Jena professor and the favorite philosopher of the Romantic school of writers in Germany, was then at the height of his fame. Among his enthusiastic auditors had been a young Norwegian, Henrik Steffens, who appeared in Copenhagen in 1802, full of the new doctrines and began to lecture there on philosophy and on Goethe. Through him Oehlenschlager, soon to be hailed as Denmark’s foremost poet, caught the spirit of the Romantic movement and began to breathe new life into the old Norse mythology, rousing in the oreasts of his countrymen a feeling of Scandinavian nationality. These men introduced Ling to the treasure-house of the Eddas and the Northern sagas, whose gods and heroes were thenceforth never absent from his thought. After composing short poems in French. German, and Danish, and translating into Swedish the “Balders Dod” (Balder’s Death) of Johannes Evald, the chief lyric poet of Denmark, he wrote himself, in Danish, a three-act comedy, “The Envious Man” (Den Mistindelige), which was published ’in Copenhagen in 1804. Here also he conceived the plan of his later dramatic works, designed to set forth momentous epochs in Swedish history. “Evlif the Goth,” printed in Stockholm in 1814, was written at this period, and reveals his desire to revive in the rising generation the old Norse vigor.

Perhaps it was the opportunity afforded for practice in a foreign language that first attracted Ling to the fencing school opened by two French emigres, Beurnier and the Chevalier de Montrichard. For three years he continued to frequent the place and made such progress that Montrichard gave him a paper which certified to his great skill with the foil and. his ability to give instruction in the art. There is a story that Ling had suffered from gout in the arm, as one result of the privations to which he was constantly subjected, and finding the case much relieved by his fencing, was thus led to study the effects of exercise in general. At any rate he visited the private gymnasium which Nachtigall had opened in Copenhagen in the fall of 1799. GutsMuths’s “Gymnastics for the Young” appeared in 1793 and Hjort’s translation into Danish six years later, and two volumes of Vieth’s “Encyclopedia of Bodily Exercises” were published at this time; but how much Ling was indebted to these German sources for inspiration and suggestion is purely a matter of conjecture.

In the fall of 1804 he returned to Sweden to act as substitute for the aged fencing master at the University of Lund. The latter died shortly after his arrival, and Ling, who had applied for the position December 8, was appointed his successor at a small salary. Writing to a Copenhagen friend December 28 he says that the fencing master at a Swedish university must be able to give instruction in vaulting the horse, and he wishes therefore to have a good vaulting buck sent him. A riding school also is to be opened, and his assistance is wanted there. Though he has almost entirely lost his skill in that art he is confident that practice will to some extent restore it. At that time gymnastics proper were unknown in Sweden, but Ling soon arranged apparatus

Digitized by Google
-77-

for general exercise, and some years later, when a new university building was completed, he was allowed to use the old one for this purpose and as a fencing hall. In 1806 he began to apply himself to the study of anatomy and physiology. A year later he had worked out a system of bayonet fencing and was practicing it with his pupils. He seems to have won the respect and esteem of teachers and students alike. The new exercises became very popular, and it was not long before interest in his fencing method, a simplification of the French, and in his gymnastics as well, spread beyond the bounds of Lund. Invitations to introduce the double art were received from Gothenburg, Malmo and Christianstad, and in the first and second of these cities, at least, he gave instruction repeatedly during the course of the long summer vacations. Thus Gothenburg papers of July 9 and 10, 1807, announce his presence there for six weeks to give instruction “in all parts of the art of fencing and in gymnastics”; another of July 25, 1809, informs the public that he will remain three months to teach fencing, gymnastics, and swimming; and again July 5, 1811, he gives notice that till the* middle of August he will receive pupils in sabre and foil fencing and gymnastics. On the occasion of this last visit arrangements were also made to have him give instruction in “the art of swimming and other gymnastic exercises” to certain poor children of the city.

Ling remaind eight years in Lund. In 1809 he married Sofia Maria Rosenqvist, and a daughter, Jetta, was born April 8th of the following year. “Agne,” a tragedy of five acts, his most successful dramatic work, was printed in 1812, and a year after his death was presented on the stage in Stockholm at the opening of the new' theater. The condition of Sweden just at this time was a desperate one. Gustavus IV. had allowed intense hatred of Napoleon to draw’ him into the great Coalition of 1805 (the third formed by England, Russia, Austria and Sweden), and as a consequence French troops had occupied Swedish Poramerania and in 1807 had taken Stralsund and Riigen, the last of the Swedish positions south of the Baltic. By opening his ports to English vessls the King next incurred the enmity of Russia, whose troops invaded and conquered the whole of Finland in 1808, and so deprived the Swedes of territory which had been theirs for centuries. Gustavus was meanwhile deserted by his English allies, his armies were driven back from Norway, and the Danes invaded the southern provinces. In 1809 he was dethroned and succeeded by his uncle, Charles XIII. One of Ling’s poems, “Gyfle” (1812-1816), deals with the loss of Finland, which the Swedes bitterly deplored, and shows how intense was his patriotism and his hatred of Russia. We have here the reason for his desire to see his country strong in body and soul, and hence prepared to meet the enemy’. This was the inspiring motive of his poems and his gymnastics alike, though in the latter he saw a means of restoring health as well as developing the race and defending the fatherland. One who visited him in Lund in 1812	refers	to	his enthusiasm and to

the system introduced into his methods	of	instruction. During these

eight years he had been thinking out the principles upon which his later work was based, seeking first	of	all	to	understand the human

body and discover its needs, and then	to	select	and apply his exercises
-78-

intelligently, with these needs in view. Nachtigall, in Copenhagen, had already begun to train teachers of gymnastics for the army and the schools of Denmark, and now Ling conceived the idea of opening in Stockholm a central training school from which all Sweden should be supplied with teachers of the new art.

With this plan in mind he went up to the capital early in 1830, applying first for the position as fencing master in the Royal Military Academy at Karlberg, just outside the city to the northwest, and then, on Tanuary 29th, handing in to the recently appointed Committee on Education a written proposal of the new institution. He refers to what he has already accomplished in Lund, Malmo and Gothenburg, explains his purpose in seeking to make Stockholm a center of influence for the physical training of the young, and asks government approval and support for the project. To the secretary of the committee, J. Adler-beth, he brought a letter of introduction (dated January 15, 1813) from Esaias Tegner, at that time a teacher in the University of Lund, who had roused the Swedes in 1808 by his “War Song for the Militia of Scania,” three years later won for himself national fame and the great prize of the Swedish Academy by his patriotic poem “Svea,” and was soon to receive world-wide recognition as the author of “Frithiofs Saga” (1825). Ling was already favorably known for his own literary labors and appears to have been fortunate in his Stockholm quest from the start. He was given the Karlberg position at a salary of 250 rix-dollars and lodging; the committee received his proposal February 1st, and the same day reported the matter to the King with strong recommendation; and a royal letter of May 5th formally approved the plan. Ling was to receive a salary of 500 rix-dollars as director of the school, an annual allowance of 100 more to cover the rent of a room for his exercises, and a single grant of 400 rix-dollars for the purchase of equipment. The salary was doubled in 1830, and before his death was raised again to 2000 rix-dollars. The school was opened in 1814, and at the committee’s suggestion the King gave it some time later the name it still bears—The Royal Gymnastic Central-Institute (“Kongl. Gymnastiska Central-Institutet”).

In the northern suburb Norrmalm, at what is now the corner of Hamn-Gatan and Beridarebans-Gatan and on the site ever since occupied, Ling equipped the necessary rooms—a gymnasium, a fencing hall, and others—in some old buildings which had once belonged to a cannon-foundry. Soon considerable improvements were possible, for in a letter dated December 13, 1815, the King informed the committee that a further grant of 9800 rix-dollars had been made in order to provide for the better housing of the Institute and its Director. The next fall means were furnished for an assistant, and others were added from time to time until 1830 the personnel included, besides the Director, a head-teacher and two ordinary teachers. Lars Gabriel Branting, who had already been his assistant for a year at Karlberg, became second teacher at the Institute in 1S18, and head-teacher in 1830; Carl August Georgii was made extra teacher in 1829 and regular teacher six years later; and Gustav Nvblaeus joined the staff es assistant teacher in 1838.

Ling believed that gymnastics had a rightful place in education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-79-

medicine, and national defense, and almost from the start instruction was accordingly given in the three corresponding branches, educational, medical, and military gymnastics. He continued to teach fencing to the cadets at Karlberg until 1825, and on the 4th of December 1821, was also appointed instructor in gymnastics and fencing at the Artillery School in Marieberg, about equally distant to the southwest, in the latter capacity receiving a salary of 300 rix-dollars. In 1810 the Swedish diet had elected Bernadotte, one of Napoleon’s marshalls, to succeed the childless King XIII. He assumed the title of Crown Prince at once and from 1818 till 1844 reigned as Charles XIV. Quick to see the importance of Ling’s work for the army, he had officers detailed to complete the course at the Institute and afterwards employed to teach gymnastics and bayonet fencing to the rank and file. Soldiers from cavalry and artillery regiments in the city were also sent to the school to receive practical instruction in the same arts; and Branting and Ling were allowed to introduce them among the troops assembled in various training camps. The later order giving these exercises a place in all Swedish regiments did not meet with a cordial reception at the start; but afterwards, when it was learned that French and Prussian soldiers were being drilled in bayonet fencing, investigation and comparison led to the choice of Ling’s method in preference to either of the others, and thus won for it a tardy recognition. In 1836 he published a manual of gymnastics (“Reglemente for Gymnastik”) and another for bayonet fencing (“Reglemente for Bajonettfaktning”) for use in the army, and in 1838 a small handbook covering both subjects (“Soldat-Underwisning i Gymnastik och Bajonettfaktning”). In view of the general absence of well-equipped gymnasia and teachers thoroughly trained in the system he found it necessary to limit the exercises to simple forms and to such as require little or no apparatus.

(To be concluded.)

IS SWIMMING A FATAL SPORT?

ARE swimming and water polo exercises injurious to health ? The question has received a lot of attention recently, owing to the death of George W. Van Cleaf and D. H. Bratton of the New York A. C. and Miss Ethel Golding of Bath Beach. The two men, it is said, contracted the germs of disease while taking part in the swimming meet at St. Louis; where the water was asserted by some persons to be putrid and entirely unfit for the purpose of an equatic carnival. On the other hand, those who are always handy with empirical theories and ready to decry athletics of every form aver that swimming and water polo are detrimental to a sound physical condition and sooner or later cause trouble.

To strengthen this side of the argument, the case of Percy Dickey, who died about ten years ago, is pointed out. He passed away at an early age, in the heyday of his prowess and while in the front rank of the champions. To suit the moment his sad end is now raked up. Betwixt the two waves of criticism the swimmers and water poloists and their sport have caused a lot of talk in sporting circles, yet only a few
—80-

take pains to diagnose the real cause of the trouble among this class of athletic performers.

Dave Bratton, as he was familiarly known, died of typhoid fever rather suddenly in Chicago. He was 48 years of age, and in his time had been roller skater, cyclist and since 1900 had taken to swimming. His first attempt in the aquatic line was made as a member of the defunct Knickerbocker A. C. He joined the \’ew York A. C. in 1902 and was one of the frequent visitors to the club’s swimming tank. Only a day or two before he left for the west he spent a day in the baths in company with the swimming fraternity of the “winged foot.”

Van Cleafs history is similar to Bratton’s. He was a member of the Knickerbocker swimming team and came over to the New York A. C. when the “cherry diamond” organization disbanded. He also was a constant visitor to the club tank. Besides, he indulged in a lot of outdoor swimming at Bath Beach, where he lived. When once the air was tempered with the breath of spring Van Cleaf would- begin his daily dip and would continue until the ice appeared. Very often, maybe three or four times a week, he would engage in a lot of racing, which had an exhausting effect on his vitality.

Miss Golding lived at Bath Beach, and during the long summer months was to be seen in the water at all hours. Along with that she indulged in a series of long and tiresome swims, as well as doing some racing in events for girls. -In order to ascertain whether it was the bad water at St. Louis or the excessive indulgence in the aquatic sport that caused the death of Bratton and Van Cleaf, a reporter of the sun gathered the views of a few people competent to form an opinion on such matters.

The first to throw some light on the question was Harry E. Beur-meyer of the New York A. C., cx-champion shot putter, boxer and a man who has been a swimmer for the past forty years. For at least a quarter of a century he visited Bensonhurst, and, in company with the late William B. Curtis, swam more or less every day. Of late he frequented the Marine and Field Club, where he is member, but never forgot to take his daily swim.	(To	be	concluded.)

—Sixth Annnual Report of nhe City Superintendent of Schools to the Board of Education of the City of New York for the year ending July 31, 1904. New York, Park Avenue and 59th Street. 9X5% in., 365 pages.

Appendix H (pages 257-271) contains the Second Annual Report of Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, Director of Physical Training in the Public Schools; and Appendix L (pages 299-328) the Third Annual Report of Evangeline E. Whitney. District Superintendent in charge of Vacation Schools, Playgrounds, and Recreation Centres. Dr. Gulick’s report covers the organization and administration of his department; physical training in elementary schools, high schools, training schools, and truant schools; ungraded classes; supply of physical training teachers, and public school athletics.

-Twenty-ninth Annual Report of the New York State Reformatory at Elmira, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1904. Reformatory, The Summary Press, 1905. 9X6 in.. 48 pages and 6 illustrations from photographs.

On page 46 there is a brief statement of tlie work accomplished in the gymnasium during the year. An illustration opposite page 12 shows the Inen at their exercises, and some paragraphs in the general superintendent's report (pages 25 and 26) refer to the method followed in this phase of reformatory life.

Digitized by
-Si-

A/\lWP ftNP BODY.

8ub*crlption Price, $1.00 per Year.

u Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

TXTl®e©aajBlaa..

‘ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONVENTIONS.

THE American Physical Education Association held its annual convention at the Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York City, during April 17th, 18th*and 19th.

The convention was intended to cover the greater part of the immense field of physical training and in order to make this possible different sections were provided for; thus there were sections on anthropometry, therapeutic gymnastics, normal schools of physical training, secondary schools7 physical directors. There was also a meeting of the Public School Physical Training Society. For the first time in the history of the society “dancing” received very prominent attention in the general program, especially some interesting practical demonstrations. We are promised a special report on the meeting which, however, had not arrived in time before going to press.

Mr. Wm. Stecher, of Indianapolis, a member of the executive com- . mittee of the North American Gymnastic Union, was present and delivered the special invitation to the National “Turn/est” at Indianapolis, Ind., June 21st to 25th, 1905.

Although through a change in the rules governing the “Turnfest” the former committees on observation were eliminated, it is nevertheless expected that most of the well-known leaders in physical education from this and foreign countries will witness the best festival yet held by the North American Gymnastic Union.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

THE dumbbells are made of wood and weigh about IV2 to 2 pounds a piece. The drill consists of two groups and each gjroup of four exercises.

There are three different positions, beside the starting position, to each exercise. Each movement is executed in two counts; on the first count the position is taken and held during the second.

GROUP I.

FIRST EXERCISE.

1—2. Step forward left, raise arms forward. (Fig. 1.)

3—4-. Lunge forward left, move arms sideward. (Fig. 2.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, 3i outer arm circle to position of arms upward. (Fig. 3.)

Digitized by U.ooQLe
Digitized by Google
7—8. Return to starting position.

9—10. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

SECOND EXERCISE.

1—2. Step sideward left, raise, arms sideward. (Fig. 4.)

3—4. Lunge sideward left, outer arm circle to position left arm obliquely sideways upward, right arm obliquely sideways downward. (Fig. 5.)

5—0, Extend left and bend right knee, inner arm circle left to position obliquely sideward downward, right arm bent, upper arm horizontal, dumbbells over shoulder. (Fig. 0.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

THIRD EXERCISE.

1—2. Step backward left, raise arms sideways and bend, upperamv horizontal,* dumbbells over shoulders. (Fig. 7.)

3—4. Lunge backward left, outer arm circle to position arms upward. (Fig. 8.)

5—0. Extend left and bend right knee, inner arm circle to position obliquely sideward downward. (Fig. 9.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

FOURTH EXERCISE.

1—2. Step obliquely forward left, raise arms to right side. (Fig. 10.)

3—4. Lunge obliquely forward left with Vs turn of body to the left, swing arms downward and obliquely forward upward. (Fig. 11.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, bend left arm, forearm horizontally above forehead, swing right arm obliquely backward downward. (Fig. 12.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

GROUP II.

FIRST EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge forward left, raise arms sideward. (Fig. 13.)

3—4. Kneel on right knee, bend left arm, forearm horizontally above forehead, swing right arm obliquely backward downward. (Fig. 14.)

5—6. Extend both knees, left arm obliquely backward downward, right arm obliquely forward upward. (Fig. 15.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

SECOND EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge sideward left, raise left arm sideward and bend, upper-arm horizontal, dumbbells over shoulders, place right forearm behind body. (Fig. 16.)

3	— 4. Extend left and bend right knee, swing left arm obliquely side-

Digitized by CjOO^Ic
Digitized by Google
85-

wavs downward and right arm obliquely sidewavs upward. (Fig. 17.)

5— 6. Vi turn to the left (on heels), extend right and bend left knee, swing left arm obliquely backward downward and right arm obliquely forward upward. (Fig. 18.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

THIRD EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge backward left, swing arms obliquely backward downward. (Fig. 19.)

3—4. Extend left and bend right knee, swing arms upward. (Fig. 20.)

5—G. Extend right and bend left knee, outer arm circle (1*4 circle) to position arms sideways and bend trunk backward. (Fig. 21.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

FOURTH EXERCISE.

1—2. Full knee bend, raise arms forward. (Fig. 22.)

3—4*. Straighten body backward to the leaning rest. (Fig. 23.)

5—6. Bring left foot forward and raise right arm forward. (Fig. 24.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

IRON WAND DRILL.

The nickel plated iron wand is 42 inches long and weighs 5 pounds.

GROUP I.

FIRST EXERCISE.

1—2. Step forward left, raise wand vertically in front of bod}', right arm above. (Fig. 1.)

3—4. Lunge forward left, raise wand upward. (Fig. 2.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, swing wand to right side, left hand in front of right shoulder, right arm obliquely backward downward. (Fig. 3.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

SECOND EXERCISE.

1—2. Step sideward left, raise wand upward. (Fig. 4.)

3—4. Lunge sideward left, swing wand to right side downward to left side (% circle), left arm extended sideways, right hand in front of left shoulder. (Fig. 5.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, swing wand downward to right side, right arm extended upward, left hand in front of right shoulder. (Fig. 6.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

1 7—32. Repeat.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
Digitized by v^.ooQle
-87-

THIRD EXERCISE.

1—2. Step backward left, wand at left side, left arm extended downward, right hand in front of left shoulder. (Fig. 7.)

3—4. Lunge backward left, turn wand, left over right, elbows in front of shoulders. (Fig. 8.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, turn wand and swing downward and upward. (Fig. 9.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

„	9—16.	Same	exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

FOCRTH EXERCISE.

1—2. Step obliquely forward left, raise wand, left arm extended obliquely forward sideways upward, right hand in front of left

shoulder. (Fig. 10.)	mmm-'

3—4. Lunge obliquely forward left, swing wand downward and obliquely back of body, left hand over shoulder, right arm obliquely sideward backward downward. (Fig. 11.)

5—6. Extend left and bend right knee, raise wand, left arm sideways, right arm upward, head turned to left. (Fig. 12.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

GROUP II.

FIRST EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge forward left, raise wand upward. (Fig. 13.)

3—4. Bend trunk forward, turn wand to right side, right arm extended downward, left hand under right shoulder. (Fig. 14.)

-V—6. Kneel on right knee, raise wand upward. (Fig. 15.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

SECOND EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge sideward left, turn wand right over left, elbows in front of shoulders. (Fig. 16.)

3—4. Extend left and bend right knee, swing wand to left side, left arm extended upward, right hand in front of left shoulder and bend trunk sideward right. (Fig. 17.)

5—6 Extend right and bend 1. knee, ii quarter turn to left (on heels) bend trunk forward, wand at right side, right arm extended downward, left hand under right shoulder. (Fig. 18.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17-32. Repeat.

THIRD EXERCISE.

1—2. Lunge backward left, swing wand horizontally back ofbod^,left hand backward. (Fig. 19.)

3—4. Extend left and bend right knee, swing wand to right side, left hand in front of right shoulder, right arm obliquely backward downward. (Fig. 20.)
Digitized by

Google
—89—

5—6. Extend right and bend left knee, bend trunk backward, swing wand downward and upward. (Fig. 21.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

. 9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—22. Repeat.

FOURTH EXERCISK.

1—	2. Lunge sideward left, left arm obliquely sideward upward, right

hand in front of left shoulder. (Fig. 22.)

2—	4. Vi turn to the right (on heels), kneel on left knee, swing left arm

downward and forward to horizontal position at left side, left left arm extended forward, right hand above left shoulder. (Fig. 22.) 0—6. Extend right and bend left knee, Vi turn to the left (on heels), bend body sideward right, swing left arm downward, turn wand left over right, elbows in front of shoulders. (Fig. 24.)

7—8. Return to starting position.

9—16. Same exercise to the right.

17—32. Repeat.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

(Continued.'

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Pin Race.” As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics. Form ranks of fours or sixes by turning 1. face from a flank line in successive order and march down the center to location for drill. Open order sidew. from the center to full distance.

'	CALISTHENICS.

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. knee forw. alt. and thrust arms forw.—1, 4! b)	“	1.	41	r. 44 sidew. 4 4	4 4	“	44 outw.—1, 4!

c)	44	1.	“	r. lower leg backw. alt. and	thrust arms upw.—1.4!

Arms—down!

2.	a) Bend trunk forw. and raise arms forw. (arms in line with trunk)—1, 2!

b) Bend trunk backw. and raise arms outw. overh.—1, 2! c) a and b alt.—1, 8!

.3. Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1 ! Bend 1. knee and move arms to the 1.—2! As 1—2! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

In front leaning rest.

4.	a) Raise 1. leg backw. (in upw. direction)—1 ! Flex thigh upon the abdomen and lower leg upon the thigh—2! As 1—3! Pos. —4! Same r.—5, 8! Rise for a brief rest, b) Raise 1. leg sidew.—1 ! Flex thigh upon the abdomen and lower leg upon the thigh—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! Slowly. Pos.—stand!

5.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw. —1 ! Bend trunk sidew. 1., move armsoverh. and clap hands—2! As 1—2! Pos.—4! Same r.-l, 4! Alt—1.8!

In place—rest! Or the 1st, 3rd and 5th rows circle once around their neighbors of the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows by passing in front in eight steps

Digitized by CjOOQle
—90—

—1, 8! then the 2nd, 4th and 6th rows circle around the 1st, 3rd and 5th rows in eight steps—9, 16! All march four steps iorw. and turn 1. face on the 5th count and repeat to the remaining three sides—17. 32!

The members of the 1st and 2nd rows grasp 1. hands, those of the 3rd and 4th, and 5th and 6th rows respectively do likewise; then both % wheel 1. around the center in eight steps—1, 8! L. about face on the 9th count and grasp r. hands, then wheel r., etc., to starting pos.—9,16! All march four steps forw., starting with the r. foot, turn r. lace on the 5th count and repeat to the remaining three sides—17, 32!

6.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise arms sidew. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

7.	Raise forearms upw. (upper arms held against the sides, palms turned inw.)—1! Turn trunk to the 1. and extend arms outw.—2! As 1-3! Pos.—4! Same r.-5, 8!

8.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and raise arras forw.—1! Change knee-bending

and place hands behind head (elbows point outw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! b) Lunge sidew. 1. and raise arms sidew. 1.—1! Change knee-bending, move arms overh. and lower to sidew. r.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

In front leaning rest—

9.	Bend and extend arms 8 to 12 times. Pos.—stand!

10.	a) Stationary run and raise lower legs backw. and hold arms in

the various directions each about six or eight counts, b) As a, but raise extended legs forw. ten or twelve times.

11.	Breathing exercise—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts, then exhale and lower arms inw. (crosswise in front) in one count. Repeat six times.

Close order sidew. toward the center; march forw., the first rank turn r. face, the other ranks follow in successive order to form a flank line, then form four divisions and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Side horse.

Second	“	High parallel bars.

Third	“	Low horizontal	bar.

Fourth	41	Buck (broad).

Then clear the floor of the above apparatus and reform the class for team work on four horizontal ladders.

In case there is only one. or there are two ladders available, then the first and second divisions may practice on the side horse and high parallel bars respectively, while the third and fourth divisions work on the horizontal ladder, after conclusion of which change places as stated above.

Further, in order to gain time, whenever a division is rather large, the successive members raav follow when the preceding ones reach the center of the ladders.

First Division.—Sic/c Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Double rear vault mount r. (over neck and rest on croup); rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

2.	Double rear vault r. (over neck, then croup, alighting on near side.

Digitized by

Google
-91-

3.	Double rear vault r. swing to rear rest on near side (V2 turn r.); again V2 turn r. to front rest on pommels, feint with 1. leg and flank vault r.

4.	Same as exercise 3, continuous to front rest and feint with 1. leg; but following the feint with the 1. leg to front rest; V2 circle 1. with r. leg to crossrest and immediately scissors sidew. 1., then r. to feint with r. leg (grasp the r. pommel with r. hand the moment the 1. leg circles backw. under the same), then double rear vault r.

5.	Jump with outside grasp of r. hand on 1. pommel, simultaneously Vi circle 1. with r. leg and V2 turn 1. to crossrest, the 1. hand to grasp the r. pommel; immediately continue the turn (here turning while resting on 1. thigh), and transfer the r. hand to r., the 1. hand to 1. pommels respectively while turning and feint r., then front vault 1.

f>. As exereise 5, but finish with tripple vault r. (over neck, croup and again croup, alighthing on the far side) instead of front vault 1.

7. An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

A short run and leap to the center of the bars to upper arm hang precedes all movements and—

1.	Swing forw., flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest and front vault r.

2.	As ex. 1, but scissors backw. instead of front vault r.; place hands in front of thighs and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; turn over sidew. r. to cross-stand.

3.	As ex. 1, but after the kip turn over to upper arm balance; roll over forw. to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to front vault r. and V2 turn 1. to cross-stand.

4.	As ex. 3, to upper arm balance; then roll over forw. and pull up to straight arm rest at the backw. swing; swing forw. and rear vault r. with V2 turn 1.

5.	As ex. 1, but after the kip, swing backw., lower to upper arm hang and % turn over backw. with extended hips, swing forw., flex thighs over body; again kip to straight arm rest; circle r. leg forw. under r. hand and immediately backw. under 1. hand to front vault r.

0.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all movements 1. and r. whenever possible. Or, when repeating an exercise, finish on the opposite side.

Third Division. Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest and raise 1. leg sidew. r. and lower to half bent-knee pos.; then the same opposite. Repeat once.

2.	As ex. 1, but raise 1. leg inw. (cross in front of r.) and vice versa. Repeat once.

3. As ex. 1, but raise both legs sidew. 1., etc., then r., and repeat.

4. Jump to front rest and raise 1. leg sidew., then place foot on the bar (leg extended); circle r. leg under 1. and dismount forw.

5.	Jump to squat rest 1. (between hands); place r. foot on bar (leg extended) and stand erect, then dismount forw.
-92-

<». Wolf vault forw. 1. (squat with r., the 1. leg extended) to rear side stand.

7.	Flank vault 1.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Fourth Division.—Buck (broad).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to knee stand; dismount forw. without the aid of the arms. Same with Vi and V2 turn 1. and r. respectively.

2.	Jump to squat rest; stand erect; dismount forw. with raising arms forw. overh. in the flight to rear cross-stand.

3.	Squat vault forw. with extending both legs forw. in the flight to rear cross-stand.

4.	Squat vault forw., but the arms rest only momentarily and knees raised high, the legs to extend again downvv. the moment the feet clear the buck.

5.	As ex. 4, with V\ and V2 turn 1. and r. respectively.

G.	Squat vault forw. to rear rest; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg (backw.), then V2 circle r. with r. leg and down to front side stand, and immediately straddle vault forw.

7. Squat vault forw. to rear rest; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg (backw.) to cross rest; scissors sidew. 1. and continue the circling of r. leg to rear rest; raise both legs forw. and dismount. Same opposite.

8 An exercise free for all.

High Horizontal Ladder.

In front side hang, ordinary grasp.

1.	Travel sidew 1. with lower legs raised backw. to farther end, and down.

In rear side hang, reversed grasp.

2.	Travel sidew. 1. with or without knees raised forw. to farther end, and down.

In front side hang, ordinary grasp.

3.	Travel sidew. I. and when the r. hand advances, cross the arm over 1.

In rear side hang, reversed grasp and arms slightly bent.

4.	Travel sidew. 1. and cross r. arm over 1. as in ex. 3.

In cross-hang with outside grasp on one beam.

5.	Travel forw., advancing with 1. and r. hand alt.

G. As ex. 5, but backw.

7.	As ex. 5, and raise 1. leg forw. when the 1. hand advances, and vice versa.

In front side hang, ordinary grasp.

8.	Raise knees upw., circle 1. leg under ladder, then over rear beam to outside knee hang 1.; Vi knee circle forw. to rest; circle r. leg forw., then lift 1. leg over far beam, both lowering to side seat on far-beam; lower backw. to back hang (feet downw.), then down.

♦ 9. As ex. 8, but double knee hang outside of hands with toes under farther beam or nearest rounds; extend trunk and arms downvv.,
then rise to sitting pos. without the aid of the arms; lift 1. and r. leg alt. and lower to side seat on far beam; V2 turn 1. to front leaning rest, hands on front beam in reversed grasp; slowly lower forw. to straight arm hang with or without extended legs forw. to r. angle; lower to hang, and down.

Clear the floor ot all the apparatus and form a front line for “Pin Race.”

Place four or six rows of Indian clubs on marks as shown here, the clubs to be about lour or five feet apart	.

in the respective rows and same distance from the other	j[	+	+	+	+	+	+

rows and about six clubs to each row. The same num-	|	+	+	^	+	+

ber of members advance in their regular order and stand -J* in readiness on the starting line, which is about three	x	+	+	+	+	+	+

feet distant from the nearest club.

The collecting of the clubs occurs in the same manner as in a potato race, however, the clubs must be placed on the starting line close to one another. If a club falls over, then the same must be placed into position before another can be collected. This order continues until the heat has been finished and a winner declared.

The clubs are again placed in position as above shown by those who finished the heat for the next set of six members.

The above order to be repeated until all have had their turn. Then a final heat is run by the members of the different heats in order to determine the winner of the entire class. At the conclusion form a front line, clap hand once and

NORMAL AND SUMMER SCHOOL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

ANNOUNCEMENT FOR 1905—1906.

HE executive committee has issued a pamphlet which is a decided

improvement upon former announcements of the school. In fact, it is the most complete publication of its kind we have seen in many years; it is a credit to the institution.

Anybody can at once realize what may be expected from, and what is being offered by the Milwaukee Normal School of Gymnastics.

Requests for copies of the announcements are to be addressed to Director George Wittich, 558 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

FACULTY.

George Wittich, Director of Normal School, Gymnastics, Fencing and Swimming.

Max Griebsch, Director of National German-American Teachers’ Seminary, Pedagogy and Vocal Music.

Run. C. Teschan, M. D., Hygiene, Physiology of Gymnastics, and First Aid to the Injured.

Paul Gerisch, Anatomy and Physiology.

H.	A. Sifton, M. D., Wisconsin College of Physcians and Surgeons, Anatomy.

R. G. Sayle, M. D., Wisconsin College of Physicians and Surgeons, Anatomy.

John Eiselmeier, History of Civilization.

C. W. Babcock, English Language and Literature.

Oscar Burckhardt, German Language and Literature.

Two summer schools are making special efforts for the coming season. The one is the Chautauqua Institution, which has been well known for years, and where Dr. E. H. Arnold and Mr. Bolin have taken the place of Dr. W. G. Anderson, and the other one—a new

dismiss.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by
venture—is the Summer School of Physical Education of the Yale University, under the direction of Dr. Wm. G. Anderson. Both are supplied with an efficient corps of teachers and instructors to cover the entire subject.

In our next issue we shall publish the members of the faculties of each of the respective schools.

PRESENT STATUS OF ATHLETIC CLUBS IN BROOKLYN.

(Concluded.>

The Ariel Club is practically of the same order, has sixty members and holds an annual regatta or picnic.

The Brooklyn Rowing Club is much cheaper and the club house is located on the “Narrows” near Fort Hamilton.

Twelve yacht slubs are also reported and five report 1,092 members. Canoe clubs are also located in this vicinity, but no facts have been obtained.

Ice Hockey is a game that is popular in Brooklyn and several teams, notably the Crescent Athletic Club team, play in tournaments during the winter at the skating rink on Clermont Avenue.

Two Cricket clubs are reported, one of which reports one huqdred members. Ground is provided at Prospect Park and games are played on Saturday afternoons. The Brooklyn Cricket Club has forty-five members and uses Park grounds; fee $10.00. Formerly connected with the Central Branch, but left because of non-support.

The Eagle Almanac reports six golf clubs, but there are many more than these, as golf is very popular. Most links are located outside of Brooklyn. One club has twenty members; Brooklyn Golf Club has two hundred and twenty-five, Eastern Parkway Club two hundred and fifty, and the Crescent Club has beautiful links. There are two public golf links.

There is one fencing club in the borough which has a rented room in the Pouch Gallery, which is an outgrowth of the Central Branch. It has fourteen members, many from the Central, who organized because of no suitable place for fencing in the Association Building. The fee is $20.

Brooklyn has what is known as the best hand-ball court in America, where most of the National Tournaments have taken place. It is owned by a man named Casey, who for twenty-five jears was the national hand ball champion. He managed the court for a number of years personally in connection with a hotel.

Two other courts are managed by saloons. Men using the court are expected to patronize the bar. There are several less pretentious courts in the city. Most of the gymnasiums in Brooklyn have courts, but few are regulation. The Central Branch has one of the best in the city, but it is not a regulation court.

About twenty tennis clubs are reported, but there are many more. The Crescent Club has twenty courts, all of which are in use on Saturday afternoons during the tennis season. The Kings County Club has five courts and seventy-five members.

The Knickerbocker Field Club is one of the most successful in the city, having a membership of two hundred and eighty-five, and specializing more largely in in tennis than in any other sport. It is located at Flatbush and has a building with social rooms, bowling alleys, and billiard tables, and a public hall for dances and entertainments, besides a field with a number of tennis courts. There are about one hundred and fiftj beautiful Courts in Prospect Park, which are crowded in the season.

The Public Playgrounds conduct athletic sports in connection with the physical work schedule, but as this article has already become so volumuious, these will be included in the studies of Gymnasiums, to be made later. I have not included in this report Riding, Driving, Automobile, Shooting and Polo clubs because these clubs usually appeal to a class of men of more means than those found in our membership and therefore are not so vitally related.

Geo. J. Fisher, M. D.

Digitized by C-ooQle
COURSE OF STUDY OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

(Last Quarter 1904-1905 )

Since it may be of interest to the readers of “Mind and Body” to learn what the students of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Unioji are doing during the last quarter of this scholastic year, we submit the following program. The schedule will demonstrate that it is the aim of the faculty of the school to educate broadminded teachers both of theoretical and practical gymnastics, who are qualified to arrange their programs in a logical and sequential manner and can adapt physical training to the special demands of time and environments. The program will furthermore show that much attention is given in the last quarter of the scholastic year to the arranging of programs for the various grades of the primary, grammar and high school and to their practical execution in order to achieve the above named end.

	MONDAY	TUESDAY	WEDNES-  DAY	THURSDAY'	FRIDAY	SATURDAY
8—8.45	German Language. (Elective)	Same as Monday	Same as Monday.	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	History of Civilization
8.45—  9-30	Anatomy and Physiology.	Method of teaching gymnastics. Underlying principles. Comparison of syst.	Same as Monday	Pedagogy	Same as Monday	Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics. Floor-work and Athletics.
9-45“  10.30	Advanced work on the various apparatus and in club-swinging MEN.	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	
10.30—  11.15	Advanced work on the various apparatus and in club-swinging LADIES.	Same as Monday	Same as Monday.	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	Fencing with j foil and sabre.
11.15—  ia.00	Gymnastics of the pupils of the 1st to 3rd Grades of the G. E. Academy under the direction of the students.  Gymnastics of the 6th Grade of the 7th Ward Public School under the direction of the students.	Gymnastics of the 7th and 8th Grades of the 7th Ward Public School under the direction of the students.	Same as Monday.	Same as Tuesday	Same as Monday	Out-door  games.
Noon						
1.30—  2.30	Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics. Floor-work —Athletics, Games.	Same as Monday	Same as Monday	^Same as Monday	Same as Monday	
2.30“  4.00	Gymnastics of 4th to 8th Grades of the G. E. Academy under the direction of the students.	Fencing with foil and sabre.	Same as Monday	History of Gymnastics	Same as Monday	
4.00—  4.45	Gymnastics of the sudents of the German-Am. Teachers' Seminary under the direction of the students.	Dissecting at Wis.Coll. Phys. and Surgeons up toApril ist.aftci that wrestling fur the men.	Same as Monday	Visiting other gymnasiums of the city.	Same as Monday	Dissecting at Wis. Coll. Physicals and Surgeons.
4.45“  5.30	Boxing—Men.	Swimming	Hygienic and physiological effects of ex.	Swimming.	Swimming.	

Digitized by G.ooQle
-96-

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co.. Milwaukee.)

—Gymnastic Nomenclature of the Young Men’s Christian Association of America. Third Edition, Revised and Edited by the Nomenclature Committee of the Directors’ Society of the Young Men’s Christian Association. New York, The International Committee ol Young Men’s Christian Associations (3 West 29th St.), 1905. 7*4X5 in., 14+39 pages and 7 plates.

The committee, appointed in 1903, consisted of Henry E. Kallenberg. M. D., (Chairman), of Chicago; William E. Day, of Dayton, and George H. Martin, of New Haven. Its report was presented in August of last year at the St. Louis conference of the Physical Directors’ Society, and by that body was unanimously adopted as the official nomenclature and recommended to all associations.

—Physical Training. By Theodore Toepel, M D. Program of Exercises, First to Eighth Grades. Educational Publishing Company (Boston, New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Atlanta), no date. Eight bound pamphlets 7%X5in., each containing 36 lessons for one of the eight school grades. The number of pages varies from 16 to 31. There are no illustrations.

In his preface the author claims that all the exercises are based on physiological principles and long years of experience, that they are intended to secure harmonious development, are progressively arranged, and furnish sufficient variety to maintain interest throughout the course.

—Teacher’s Manual of Physical Training. By Theodore Toepel. M. D., Atlanta, Ga. Educational Publishing Company (Boston, New York, Chicago), no date (copyrighted 1903). 794X5% in., 46 pages of text and 40 full page figures illustrating the exercises.

This book is published for use with the pamplets above mentioned, in order that the teacher may “instruct more intelligently and with greater confidence. It contains the necessary theory together with a number of illustrations and a full explanation of all fundamental exercises.”

—Festordnung des Nordamerikanischen Turnerbundes. Auf Grund der Beschliisse der Zwanzigsten Tagsatzung im Auftrage des Bundesvororts neu-bearbeitet und erweitert von Robert Nix. Indianapolis, Hollenbeck Press, 1903. 9VhX6 in., 8+73 pages.

A collection of official regulations concerning 1) the general arrangement and direction of a national gymnastic festival, participation in it, costume, the festival procession, distribution of prizes, rights and duties of the various committees, etc.; 2) the mass exercises, model exercises, society competitions, and individual competitions on apparatus and in popular exercises, including wrestling, swimming, and fencing, with detailed tables for determining the number of points to be allowed for each performance; 3) the festival play and song, prize singing and the mass chorus, prize declamations, prizes for literary productions, etc.

—XXIX. Bundesturnfest des Nordamerikanischen Turnerbundes. Indianapolis, Indiana, 21 bis 25 Juni 1905. Uebungen und nahere Bestimmungen. Indianapolis, 1905. 9X6 in., 20 pages, illustrated.

A general program of the coming National Gymnastic Festival is followed by detailed descriptions of the series of marching exercises to be executed by the active members in society competitions, the dumbbell exercises selected for society competition and mass exhibition by two of the four sections of active members, wand exercises* for similar use by the remaining two sections of actives, Indian club exercises for the mass exhibition by classes of seniors (men over thirty-five), and barbell exersises for the mass exhibition by women’s classes. Each movement of the dumbbell and wand exercises is illustrated by cuts made from photographs.

—Pubescence—A Preliminary Report. By C. Ward Crampton. Reprinted from the American Anthropologist (N. S.), Vol. 6, No. 5, October-December, 1904. 9%x6Ya in., 5 pages.

The tentative results of a study based on observations of more than 1200 students in the first year of the High School of Commerce in New York City are presented in order that the method outlined in the paper may become available for general use.

Digitized by

Google
9 *J> MX9AJH9MM&MMXA 9.-9.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

mm id mirnm

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

658-568 BROADWAY

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars address

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D., DIRECTOR.

GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

Ofiers

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

The MOLINE Platform.

Bag punching as an exercise has many advantages over other forms of exercise. OurMo-line platform is adjustable in height, readily attached to any wall,

and the side brackets so arranged that it touches three rows of studding, and is the most serviceable, practical platform used.

Each platform is supplied with everything necessary for attaching to wall, and crated ready for shipment.

Ho. 1. iiloltnc platform, $10.00.

Rag is not included in above price. HANDSOME CATALOG SENT FREE.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

New York, Chicago, Denver, San Francisco.

YALE UNIVERSITY.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

JULY 6th to AUG. 10th, 1905

-FACULTY.---€*t

Arthur T. Hadley, L. L. I)., Pres.

E. Hershey Sneath, L. L. D., Ph. D., Director Central School.

Harky B. Ferris, M. D., Yale. Lafayette B. Mendel, Ph. D.t Yale. Yandell Henderson, Ph. D., Yale. Charles H. Judd, Ph. D., Yale.

Wm. B. Bailey, Ph. D., Yale.

Cloyd N. McAllister, Ph. D., Yale. Sir P. Vollrath Tham, G. D., Sweden. Herr M. Wegener, Berlin, Germany. Chas. W. Hand, Yale.

Wm. L. Anderson, Yale.

Henry S. Anderson, Cleveland. Josephine Beiderhask, N. Y. Schools. Gertrude Dudley, Chicago University.

Marien F. Carter, N. Y. School Gymnastics.

RobertNohr, M.D., Fort Wayne Schools

Hon. Wm. T. Harris, Ph. D., L. L. D., Washington, D. C.

Hon. Ciias. D. Hine, Hartford, Ct.

Frank H. Beede, Supt. New Haven Schools.

Clarence F Carroll, Supt. Rochester Schools.

Wm. G. Anderson, M. A., M. D., (Director) Yale.

Ten additional Instructors. Illustrated Catalogues.

William C5tlbcrt Sluberfcm, M. D., Director,

YALE GYMNASIUM. New Haven, Ct.



Digitized by L.ooQle
PLAYGROUNDAPPARATUS

NEW CATALOG - JUST OUT !

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. ^^GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERStli^

PROVIDENCE, R. I.f U. S. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teachers, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. Wc have filled vacancies in some of the largest universities* colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boyB in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boy*. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Auglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book.

It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure j to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

A

i

s