University cf Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	JUNE 1921	No.	299

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mian.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 18/9.

FUNDAMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN PHYSICAL EXERCISES.

BY JAMES KERR, M. A., M. D., D. P. H.

(Chief Medical Officer to the L. C. C. Public Health Dept.)

The aesthetic or purely educational aspects of physical exercise have not the same importance for public health as certain more fundamental considerations. Ling was a practical genius who saw ways of doing things far better than his contemporaries; his practical methods have stood beyond their theoretical explanations and are not outworn yet, for experience during recent years has shown that no system of physical exercise has stood as well as the Swedish. Its effects on recruits during the war were wonderful; it is well thought out, and does what is wanted for those who by choice or compulsion use it, but unfortunately it fails to attract the average adult. The movement to specialize teachers for physical

Note. This paper was read at a meeting of the Ling Association, a society composed of physical training teachers in London. Dr. Kerr is one of the foremost hygienists of England, and it is interesting to note the stand he takes upon what he calls “fundamentals”. The italics and underscored lines are his. The article is reprinted from the “Journal of Scientific Physical Training” Editor.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
610

training in the elementary schools will make the task heavier for the children, but may do good if it accelerates the call for re-casting the whole subject on natural lines.

Many intending teachers seem to have little idea of what is necessary, not merely for the sake of their charges, but for their own personal safety. On questioning such teachers lately, some were found to hold the impression that it is easy to go through tables of exercises with the class, to pick up a few “tips” as to how this should be done, and how that should not be done, as if these things were fundamental and of vast importance to the average individual instead of being technique. Such technique is of value to a small percentage desiring specialist and intensive educational training but is destructive of interest and of litde importance as a factor in the public health.

The purpose of physical education, like all other education, is to make for efficient adaptation to the circumstances of life, and to make up not only for the deprivation of many natural opportunities, which results from civilization, but also to compensate for an inheritance through long ages, of activities which we have not yet adapted ourselves to doing without. Exercise and movement are still necessary for healthy living. The want of rapid and extensive movements in daily life, especially sedentary life, is responsible for a great part of our mental and physical ill health. Structures only maintain their potentialities with use, and developing structures require at times the fullest possible use. Fortunately few structures, especially in youth, work up to their possibilities except on rare and extreme occasions. For educational development, however, the full call on the powers must be made now and then. This is why for young children play is demanded which brings out the occasional use of the most sudden and violent movements that can be got. Without these here and there in the child’s life, its physical education and development suffer, until in middle age the elasticity of the child is lost, and quick movements have to be worked up to, or a sprain or even ruptured muscle fibres may occur in the first active turn or twist.

POSTURE.

The full development of the brain called for the upright position to liberate the hands, and co-ordinate their work with the eyes. The upright position is one of the last acquirements in animal history, and consequently still imperfect. All have to acquire it by slow education. Well-developed individuals with plenty of nervous energy have the recently-acquired powers of the extensor muscles well developed also, and forcibly expressed in their upright attitudes, whereas the feeble and debilitated, the weak and wanting, tend to flexed positions; they give at the knees, have rounded backs and the general slouch which is so familiar.

The Long Narrow Thorax. These weak flexed positions are, however, sometimes almost the result of congenital formation, the long narrow thorax, for instance, seems to predispose to this. There is poor respiratory movement, because the crowded position of the ribs diminishes the pull of the rib muscles, placing them at mechanical disadvantage. A person with such a thorax also has a long narrow heart of poor staying power. The diminished respiration means diminished abdominal move-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
611

ment, hence the poorly-developed abdominal walls. Constant pressure from the weight of the organs leads to yielding of the lower part of the walls, and the want of regular alternation of muscular action has a serious effect on the circulation in the veins, leading to congestion and dilation with resulting haemorrhoids and varicose veins of ail varieties. Once visceroptosis begins, the efficiency of the man or woman is seriously discounted, not merely as regards physical exercise, but for all health conditions. Such individuals, with their weak attitudes giving the hall-mark of debility, always suffer in nutrition if only from defective blood circulation. In marked degrees the ill-nourished heart scarcely supplies sufficient blood to the brain. Under any unfavorable conditions, such as heat, fatigue, or merely standing still, they easily feel shaky, and may even faint, through the blood tending to accumulate and stagnate in the abdominal viscera—a recognized cause of failure among recruits during the war.

The drag on the mesentery also involves the network of the sympathetic nervous system and generally leads to slight, but sometimes to serious nervous symptoms, such as neurasthenia and depression with inefficiency for almost any form of work. The child with a long narrow chest and a broad pelvis, often also presenting undue flexibility of the cartilages between the lower end of the breast bone and the two last ribs, needs particular attention. Like the young myope it appears doomed to progressive change for the worse, in this case to enteroptosis from the downward and forward displacement of the abdominal viscera; and the outlook (unless careful treatment, sometimes including actual abdominal support, is given) is the probability of an inefficient life of semi-invalidism. “Floating Kidney” as it is called, is another manifestation of the con-ditioh, where the displacement which interferes with the position of the kidney, also stretches or twists the sympathetic ganglia, so that hysteria and hypochondriasis are usually very marked and almost un-relievable.

There are then weightier reasons than the aesthetic for demanding habitual good postures in growing individuals and through later life. Any system of exercise which does not produce and habitually maintain good attitudes all the time is failing in one of the chief purposes of physiological education, and it is by this that the efficiency physically of any school system can be judged at a glance. One might write many chapters on posture, not only as an adjunct to health, but as a remedy in itself. The remote results on life of the septic effects of abdominal stasis now coming to light are extraordinarily varied. They seem to be at the root of half the mental miseries and ills of teachers after middle life, and the effects of posture on future efficiency are so important that certainly no scholarship should be awarded without due weight being given to it as a vital factor.

The value of posture aesthetically and from the trainer's point of view is identical with that of the health standpoint. It may be judged as shown by symmetry of form whether at rest or in function. As Luther Gulick used to say, the way to assure yourself of good posture is to “hold yourself so that you feel the collar stud at the back of your neck, and to look at everyone you meet as if he owed you a dollar.” The erect position should also be insisted on during sitting, by seeing that the body is pushed as far back on the seat as possible. Improper modes

Digitized by ^ooQle
612

of wearing clothes may also affect posture. Clothes are best worn with the weight supported at the root of the neck and not from shoulder straps, that is of course when the clothes have any weight to speak of. Corsets wihch limit abdominal breathing are harmful in proportion to this hindering effect. Satisfactory posture is impossible where compensation has to be made in the trunk for disturbed ankle position, resulting from wearing high-heeled shoes.

Records of Posture for Judging Efficiency. It is not easy* to keep records of posture. If the height standing is equal to the length when lying down, there is not much wrong. Much ingenuity has been spent in recording curvatures of the spine. For lateral curvatures the readiest way seems to be to use a broad strip of adhesive plaster down the back, marking on it the spines of the vertebrae and the angles of the scapulae. Later improvements or alterations are determined by re-applying it and re-marking the points. Formerly my own rough method was to stand the child against a board or wall ruled with vertical and horizontal lines, to note by eye the heights of the shoulders and any deviation from the vertical. For most purposes the attitude in profile is the most important since alterations in the antero-posterior plane best express the conditions affecting physical efficiency. For demonstrating purposes some excellent charts of the profile attitude have been made of secondary school boys by tracing with chalk round the silhouette of the shadow thrown in sunlight on brown paper. In America where apparatus seems abundant, a more elegant method is to draw a pencil line round a picture, a foot or more long, thrown on paper by a long focus lens or concave mirror.

TRAINING AND THE CIRCULATION.

The physiological reserves of the various powers which have already been mentioned can be focussed as it were and brought into regular use temporarily, by practice. This is the purpose of training. What exactly is accomplished in training is not quite known, but we know that fatigue is not so readily felt, and that for a short time trained persons can use themselves up more fully where the untrained would be knocked out by exhaustion. The trained man however has no further reserve powers and many have sacrificed some in the process of training; for instance, the trained person easily suffers from slight skin troubles and get boils where another person has nothing wrong. If he gets "flu” or pneumonia he is in for a more serious time than the untrained man. High training is then not a condition to be looked on as desirable from the health point of view. A child cannot be trained in this sense. A child in a race will run off at top speed but cannot last; if he tries to keep it up he will drop in seconds rather than minutes, but is soon all right again. Ten years later he may be a Marathon runner. The secret probably is that the heart of the child is small compared with its blood vessels and cannot respond, indeed it dilates easily and fails instead of increasing its work sufficiently, although it soon recovers.

On the other hand the heart at puberty becomes not only absolutely but relatively much larger and should be able to pump all the blood demanded. By regular exercise it gains in this power, indeed becomes trained. The heart with muscle that is not healthy, that is poisoned even in slight degree by toxins (due either to rheumatism or to chronic

Digitized by (^.ooQle
613

septic foci like inflamed tonsils, teeth with pyorrhoea, or from chronic intestinal stasis) has not the capacity for ready and sufficient response. Its muscle is weak and tends to yield under increased work so that it dilates and fails to keep up the necessary pressure; exercise may make the owners of such hearts get pale or even feel tremulous and faint. If in addition to a chronically poisoned heart there is also a tendency to abdominal ptosis the brain is bound to be poorly nourished, so that faintness results from continuance of even slight muscular effort. The integrity of the heart is of enormous importance and the development of power of response to exercise is one of the purposes always to be kept in mind.

Unless plenty of blood is freely circulated to the tissues they get clogged and poisoned by the fatigue-producing toxins, the result of their own action and vitality, hence the necessity for free ventilation and the value of fresh cool air which can take up much heat. The destruction of the fatigue toxins by oxidation is also a necessity. Respiration has to be free, every movement of the lungs and diaphragm and abdomen helps to circulate the blood in the great venous trunks and aids the heart in this effect. It also helps to circulate the lymph in the lymphatic vessels, and it is through the lymph carrying toxic matters from the tissues to be destroyed in the lymphatic glands, that the body is scavenged.

Circulation Tests. Twenty years ago in Bradford the pulse rates were used to compare the fitness of boys, girls and a football team all of the same ages. Each one did a measured run; the girls took on an average 35K seconds, and the boys 29to do it. Whilst the girls took a long time to regain their previous pulse rate, the football team did so almost at once. Twenty seventeen-year-old girls who had no school exercise were tested half-an-hour after running down and up 62 steps, and had an average pulse rate still 12 per cent in excess. The men of the London Fire Brigade, specially selected for what was called “helmet work” during the war, when tested by exercise showed no marked alterations in pulse rate or blood pressure half a minute later, whilst other L. C. C. employees always showed changes. The exercise used here was, stretch standing trunk forward bend to touch the toes then raising upward, this being repeated ten times rapidly. Such exercise tests should not make any great or lasting difference in the pulse rate of a healthy person who is to be regarded as fully efficient for all the strains and stresses of life. Certainly an increase of more than 15 to 20 beats in the pulse rate a minute later should not be exceeded.

Additional Factors. Another way of determining fitness is by measuring the amount of energy expended in merely supporting life; this is known as the “basal metabolism,” and can be estimated indirectly as the amount of heat given on from a square meter of surface. When in excess the person does not do well with exercise. Excess is chiefly due to action of some of the ductless glands. Excessive action is common and almost physiological during the adjustments of puberty, but after this age, more especially in girls, fulness of the neck, rapidity of the pulse over 100 and fine tremor of the fingers of the outstretched hands should be taken as an indication for avoiding exercises till these symptoms are abated.

In the second half of life a condition occurs which may be partly

Digitized by CjOOQle
614

due to the results of stasis, and partly to over-stimulation of some of the ductless glands; it is frequently associated with sedentary but anxious overwork. A continuous rise in the blood-pressure takes place, wearing out the heart and blood vessels in the so-called arteriosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. Such a person may merely appear a little irritable and nervous, and yet be on the verge of a catastrophe.

The body-cells themselves may be generally debilitated so that they do not fully benefit from exercise. Anaemia and ill-nutrition are not rare in large towns from want of sufficient freshness and vitality about the food, in other words, the well-known vitamines are absent.

The main purpose, then, of exercise for the promotion of national efficiency is its influence on respiration and circulation, which can be judged to some extent by quickening of the pulse, or the onset of breathlessness. The physical trainer must always have in mind the fundamentals of fresh cool air to remove the heat of metabolism, fresh food in diets to promote healthy nutrition, and exercises to stimulate circulation and respiration. These are essentials for healthy living and efficiency; without them exercises, however educational or aesthetic, are likely in the long run to be exhausting and possibly harmful.

THE OUTLOOK.

How are we to get people to save their bodies by exercises with the same keenness that they are supposed to go to church to save their souls? Only by making it desirable and interesting. The deadly monotony of Ling’s system and its imitations, based on the anatomy of muscular units rather than on the central machinery of emotional and physiological movements, must be replaced by units with purposive aims and emotional content, towards which one can always strive, although he may never attain, and in which notable improvement is to be seen or expected. The need of such emotional or psychical element as takes the stockbroker to the golf course is urgent. Whatever forms of exercise, dancing, or games ultimately replace the present, they must have interest for all. They must have the sporting chance in them, and add excitement that will flush the cheek, and quicken the breathing. They must not be merely of individual interest, but also arouse the herd instincts, so that regular exercise will become socially desirable.

Much greater space should be publicly owned for games and recreations, not remote from homes, but near at hand; no child under ten years should be without a playground within half a mile. This is a public health measure of the first magnitude. It is :n the continuation schools that the reality of all public education is soon to be tried, and mostly found wanting. There the Ling system is likely to be unsatisfying, and may be expected to fail until there comes a new scheme which will socialise exercise, make it desirable for everyone, a recreation, satisfying and available through life.

Digitized by

Google
615

CLASS-ROOM VENTILATION.

BY KONRAD MEIER.

In this paper Mr. Meier discussed at length the report on classroom ventilation and respiratory diseases among school children, made by Dr. S. Josephine Baker, for the New York Department of Health, which made such a stir last year when it was published. Mr. Meier cited a number of points on which the tests were not conclusive. He admitted, however, that present practice in mechanical ventilating is not yet meeting all the reasonable expectations and offered a number of suggestions for avoiding the faults of past and present practice.

“It is a fact,” he said, “that currents of excessively hot and dusty air from the older types of direct-heating apparatus will be dissipated and relieved by open windows, while mechanical ventilation is less efficient in this respect. A fair inference would be, that the heating is at fault, rather than the ventilation, which must bear the criticism, as a rule. Even the best of steam-heating apparatus as now installed is hardly fit for class-rooms, because of the locally intense and intermittent radiation. It is difficult to distribute and place the heating surfaces in such manner as to avoid disagreeable and excessive radiating effects for the nearest pupils.

Any shields and screens used to prevent this turn the direct heat into indirect hot-air heating. This raises the air temperature for equal comfort, because of the missing radiant heat, which does not require the medium of air to be effective. The highest air temperatures mean excessive dryness and increasing dust nuisance. If, in addition, the fresh air supply is tempered by indirect steam-heating surfaces without previous cleaning this dry and dusty condition is not likely to be relieved by it. It may even be aggravated where the air is introduced above room temperature in order to asist heating or to avoid draughts. In such cases the satisfying effect of opening the windows lies not only in the stimulation due to the momentary cooling, but in the lower air temperatures maintained while fresh and cooler air is admitted. On mild winter days when there is a tendency to overheating, this will naturally be found more pleasant and beneficial so long as the walls are not chilled and excessive draughts are prevented. But for average winter weather and especially in city schools, fair conditions are most difficult to maintain by such means, that is, by open windows. It is here that mechanical ventilation must step in. It will only be successful, however, if conditions are secured with it similar to those secured with open windows in pleasant weather. The air must be sweet and cool with gentle barely perceptible motion.

The requirements of classrooms therefore might be better met by direct water heating, which must, and can be, just as responsive as steam, while providing radiant heat in milder form, gradually decreasing during

* Read at the Convention of the Am. Society of Heating and Ventim lating Engineers. June 12, Pittsburgh Pa.

Digitized by
616

the sessions and as the rooms are tending to warm up. The heating surfaces should be underneath the windows and outside walls and distributed for their entire length. This will avoid the need of screening against intense radiation, which is undesirable with any system. Heating surfaces should be easily cleanable and the dust should be seen so that it will be removed. Piping forming dirt corners should not be tolerated within the classrooms.

It is preferable on the whole to have the heating sufficient in itself and independent of the air supply. The ventilating plant may then be designed and operated to better advantage, that is, more strictly for its own particular duties, which lie more in the direction of cooling. It must carry off an excess of heat generated by a room full of pupils, sometimes increased by the sun or other heat sources. This cooling is difficult to accomplish by an air supply that is first called upon to heat, because the changes from hot to cold in themselves increase the liability to draughts, owing to the higher air temperatures at the beginning of the sessions. Even with gradual regulation through double ducts and mixing dampers the results are doubtful and the uncertainties are increased by the difficulty of permanently adjusting the distribution between several rooms under varying delivery. Heating with well-distributed and moderately hot surfaces, which creates the fewest hot-air currents and tends in itself to lower the air temperature, also allows a constant supply to be introduced at lower and more even temperature, that is, with the least danger of draughts. But even then, air below room temperature cannot be introduced safely through one large register with open meshes, as now most frequently used. It is advisable to provide two or three flues for classes of normal size with openings divided into several vertical slots, separated so as to split up the stream of incoming air and to mix it before it reaches the breathing zone. Since smaller flues are easily placed in the division walls, such layouts are not impractical and not unreasonably expensive.

A further cause of poor results is often found in the failure to provide proper means for the removal of the foul air. Any plenum system, depending on the pressure of the supply fan to crowd out the air somehow, is bound to be unreliable, because the renewal will then be largely affected by wind pressure, tcinperatue and a number of conditions beyond control. Moreover, the distribution is always difficult to adjust where delivery rs governed by accidental leakage. In rooms with leakage overhead where the outward pressure is greatest, a larger part of the fresh air will never reach the breathing zone, which means reduced efficiency of ventilation. But a good exhaust system is not only desirable for the handling of the proper volumes, it is also more effective in removing the school dust and stuffy air resulting from it, just as smoke is cleared away better under suction. From this point of view a slight excess of exhaust capacity would seem to be desirable and should do no harm in other respects.

Mechanical ventilation can only meet the requirements, if the volume temperature and purity of the air supply are under perfect control. If owners are not willing to pay for the equipment necessary to that end, it is better to desist. In most cases, however, it is possible to economize

t

Digitized by CaOOQle
m

by boiling things down to the simplest form without sacrifice, of capacity or essential parts. In fact, the plant is often improved in the process of working it over.*

Another- factor bearing on the results, to an extent not generally appreciated, is the correct design of the air conduits. To plan and build these on sanitary and true aero-dynamic principles is not only practicable, but advantageous in more than one respect. It gives assurance of distribution and delivery with the least power and the fewest chances of noise; in short, it makes for an efficient and smoothly working system. To obtain the best resVilts is not a matter of following any particular set of rules in calculation, but of intelligent treatment of the individual problem. As guiding principles may be mentioned, that the ducts should always be as short and straight as possible and that the air supply ducts in particular should be made self-cleaning, which means a design with fairly high velocities and avoiding sudden enlargements and contractions, sharp turns and all unnecessary losses of motion in general. Even if self-cleaning, at least the horizontal mains should be accessible for in-spection and adjustment, if need be. The necessity for the latter, however, should be avoided by proper calculation on the basis of even total pressure losses for all points of delivery. The design must go hand in hand with such calculation. While the shapes must be suited to the material and be easy to build, it is always possible to find a solution assuring an easy flow and avoiding such features as are uncertain in effect.

Even complicated systems, when accurately sized and installed under intelligent supervision, should distribute the right volumes at the first trial without any deflectors or other adjustments. Dampers should not be required, except at the main intake and outlet on roof. Such plants are preferable, because they will handle the air with the least resistance and power, require moderate speed and mainly also, because they are less likely to be tampered with. Every opportunity for throttling and shutting off increases the chances of disturbing deliveries, hence also of complaints of interference by incompetent parties, which is a frequent source of dissatisfaction. Since the process of adjustment after installation is uncertain at best and we are never sure of its being carried out right, owing to wind, weather and the personal factor, it is best to forestall by accurate planning. This means painstaking work and experience in laying out and supervising, but then, mechanical ventilation is a complex and difficult matter presenting certain problems that cannot successfully be accomplished by thumb-rule methods.

If mechanical ventilation is to have a future in schools and other public work, it seems necessary:

i.	To limit installations to cases within the legitimate field, that is, where natural methods, owing to particular and unquestioned conditions cannot satisfy.

a. To design new plants strictly on sanitary lines, paying more attention also to the heating apparatus. Heating should be independent of ventilation. Classes should be warmed mainly by radiant heat in mildest form and well distributed. The air supply must be pure and cool, its temperature but slightly lowering during sessions, which means
618

careftil distribution and diffusion. Positive means for exhaust are necessary to assure the proper change of air and desirable for die effective removal of dust. Careful design of ductwork is essential to avoid irregular delivery of air in classes through tampering or throttling in other rooms.

3.	To go over the earlier plants, that have given rise to complaints and improve or rebuild them in the light of present experience. This task is most difficult and can be entrusted only to thoroughly competent and trustworthy parties, but it seems important to remove at least the worse and, so far as possible, all of the just causes of complaint.

4.	To obtain numerous records of air conditions for entire seasons secured by various systems of ventilation and heating in actual use, accompanied by accurate plans and descriptions of the plants.

5.	To start research as to the methods of heating, and ventilating, that will produce in the long run and with the least difficulties the most desirable air conditions, measured by accepted standards as well as by daily impressions.

THE HYGIENE OF EXERCISE.

BY FRITZ KRIMMEL, NEW YORK CITY.

Your committee asked that my address* be delivered in the English language. This suggestion indicates the change that has taken place in our Turn Vereins recently. Members with a clear vision predicted such a change years ago, and the World war has accelerated the process.

' Many of our customs which were and still are dear to us, will perhaps gradually disappear, but we, the older members have nothing to regret, provided the younger element endeavors to carry on the work as faithfully as we did.

Your Turn Verein is one that succeeded in attracting and retaining the membership of the younger element. These young people may not, at the preesent time, realize the great responsibility that awaits them; they may not even know the history, the purpose and aims of the American Gymnastic Union, but will, when properly stimulated, interest themselves in your affairs as well as in the history and the principles of the American Gymnastic Union.

There are two causes that induce us to take physical exercise—First Necessity, Second, Desire.

Physical exercise is necessary because the structure and composition of our bodies require physical activities in order to keep us healthy. The body, in a broad sense, may be compared with a complex machine that receives its motive power from the boiler room. The food we eat produces the motive power for the human body, and like the furnace in the boiler room, which must receive careful and minute attention, just so carefully must we attend to the human furnace, namely, the stomach* the bowels and the excreting organs. Where in the furnace a clogging-up stops the burning of the coal, so in the human body an accumulation

* Address at the Turn Verein Vorwaerts, New York City, November 7, 1920.

-1

Digitized by
619

of waste matter will endanger the working of the machine, or bring it to a standstill. Consequently this waste matter must be removed if illness and early death are to be avoided, for constipation, the mother of all diseases, will invariably set in. It is the inevitable result of improper digestion and lack of exercise. Medicine taken in any form will only give temporary relief for this condition.

We do not fully grasp the fact that the most frequent cause of disease may be traced, directly or indirectly, to disturbance of digestion and the absorption from decomposing food in the intestinal canals, preparing them as a soft bed for germs and rendering the subject an easy prey to disease by infection through weakened resistance. In time of great excitement, or where there is a tendency to a nervous condition, the food does not digest unless there is a thorough cleanliness maintained in the intestinal canal (colon). Daily exercise, or at least the right kind of exercise taken several times a week is the only sure remedy against the dreaded constipation.

Lack of vigorous exercise, insufficient drinking of water, the eating of soft-cooked food, etc., and the neglect of the bowel functions are the chief causes of the disturbance. It is, therefore, a condition which can be prevented by the use of proper exercise and diet.

The right amount of water taken at the proper time is one of the greatest preventatives of constipation. The weak, feeble, or those suffering from heart trouble or dropsy, should not drink water excessively, neither should one drink water excessively at meals, as this is also constipating. But water taken freely when the stomach contains no food, particularly before breakfast, is essential for good digestion and proper digestive functioning. Pills, mineral waters, and patent medicines should be strictly avoided as these tend to enslave the bowels. Too much water, however, affects the kidneys and renders the intestinal functions still more sluggish.

We know that upon food depends the growth of the body. Of the right food combinations, however, we know le$s than the farmer knows of the food of his crops. He knows, for instance, that certain minerals in the soil will produce a certain result in the plant life. A race horse must have exercise, but back of that its trainer sees to it that the horse receives proper food, and if the training of a horse requires a well regulated diet, surely we must see the necessity of prescribing for ourselves the proper diet in training our bodies for the greatest event, the battle of life.

If exercise alone would produce health, then we who take physical exercise regularly should never be ill. It is our business to deal in addition with those conditions which keep the body in health. In other words we must combine Hygiene and Physical Training.

After we know the value of physical exercise and the necessity of such, the desire for the proper exercise enters our minds and we begin to wonder just where we can go for the proper training. For those of us whose time and leisure is limited the answer would be, at home. But only a few take the proper kind of exercise at home, and soon the work becomes uninteresting and they discontinue the home exercises. A number of professors have compiled sets or series of exercises for home use and those who are willing and able to pay the price can have such a set

Digitized by Google
620	.

for all occasions. I must admit that these exercises if taken regularly would prove beneficial, but for the above stated reasons they are not taken seriously. We have then our athletic clubs, and I may not fail in my assumption that most of their members join with the intention of participating in the various physical training exercises or activities. But a survey at their gymnasiums will prove that as soon as the novelty has passed, their interest ceases and the gymnastic instructor, who is usually well, paid for his services, devotes his time to training a few specials for coming events or for' championships. These conditions prevail in most athletic clubs. Their conception of exercise is not to train the weak, but to train the stronger and capable ones with the one object in view to come out as winners at competitions, and if possible, win the championship. Those members not engaged in this training simply hang round the club house and serve only as rooters at the athletic meets. I shall not speak of the more detrimental influences often produced in this atmosphere. There may be exceptions to this description but this is the rule.

Long ago we, the Turn Vereins, realized that physical training must be made interesting as well as beneficial for all. We have therefore, opened our gymnasiums to both sexes, to girls and boys, men and women of all ages. Our aim is to develop the whole body, and competition is only introduced for the purpose of an occasional test of all the members, not as a test of naturally gifted individuals. Our annual exhibitions have a national reputation, and there is no other organization in the United States that can compare with us in this respect. We have carefully refrained from giving valuable prizes, and if at times we must accede to this demand by the younger element, they must in return take the consequences and pay for the same in an indirect way by an entry for every event, thus following the custom of the athletic clubs and similar organizations.

At our gymnastic tournaments, (Turnfeste) we give everyone an opportunity to compete, and through our revised Turnfestordnung, (rules of competition) which will be placed on trial in Chicago next June, everyone may specialize and by doing so may help to bring a leaf to the laurel wreath which his Verein will eventually receive. But there is one reservation—every member must also participate in the obligatory free exercises, (Frei-Uebungen) and the mass exercises. This is of vital importance and distinguishes us most favorably from other organizations. While their aim is of a competitive, ours is of a co-operative nature.

Whatever we may do as individuals, be it in business or in family life, sometimes we have to act to-gether as a unit. This is of great significance. A group of people who for a time can forget their personal superiority and who can act as a unit, even at a sacrifice, will do more for the progress of an organization and for their country than all the champions combined.

We include in our methods all forms of exercises from the most simple to the highest and most difficult feats. We divide the competitors into squads according to their ability, encourage the weaker ones, make necessary promotions, and appoint the more capable ones as leaders. The value of these leaders should not be underestimated. The assistance they give has an educational as well as an altruistic value. It diminishes self—

Digitized by v^ooQte
621

ishness, the enemy of all natural progress. It will instill comradship in both leaders and pupils if the former possess the patience and the latter the proper sense of appreciation.

The Turn Verein Vorwaerts has a reputation in the American Gymnastic Union not only for being one of the foremost competitors at the gymnastic tournaments, but also as a branch cherishing progressive ideas in political and social life. Your society has with rare care guarded the principles of the American Gymnastic Union. It has kept its home under the most depressing and difficult circumstances, and I hope that neither the after effects of the World War, nor the influences of prohibition will endanger the existence of the Turn Verein Vorwaerts.

You, the younger element have great and responsible duties before you. Coming to the gymnasium and paying your dues regularly is not sufficient. More duties are awaiting you. The older members who as passives are performing most of the routine work at the present time need assistance and encouragement. Therefore do not decline, when you are asked to serve on a committee. Remember that the time is spent for the good of all. No one expects you to do the impossible. Do what you are able to do, and remember every one has a gift and last, but not least, do not forget the obligations you assumed by subscribing to principles of the American Gymnastic Union. Spend your lesiure hours in reading progressive literature even if some do perhaps call you a radical. Every thinking person to-day must become a progressive if he wants to improve the conditions in this world. Combine all this with your physical exercises. Keep your mind clear from all improper sex thoughts and desires. Remember that there is nothing more beautiful than a well-controlled body and a well-balanced mind. Do not feel discouraged when things do not come your way, and do not consider everyone who has a different opinion from your own, as your enemy. Remember that we are parts of this world, each with different faults and virtues, and that one of the most precious virtues is to get along with those who seem to be our enemies. Try to make them your friends. If possible, prove by your actions and deportment on all occasions that you belong to an organization that has a high function to perform, to an organization in which there is room for all who desire to promote physical, mental and moral education, not only among its own members, but to all peoples in the world and especially in our country, the United States of America.

BUFFALO EASTERN DISTRICT CONVENTION.

The Eastern District Convention came to a close on Saturday, March 19th, at noon. This was the second convention of the District, the first being held in Boston two years ago. Both the program committee and the local committee may justly lay claim to a most successful convention. The attendance was large and the majority registered on the opening day of the meetings. Those who visited schools on Thursday were well repaid, for both in buildings and equipment as well as in calibre of work, Buffalo occupies a conspicuous position in Physical Education. Such may be the results when the superintendent is convinced of the significance of Physical Education and is willing to fight for it.

At the opening meeting Dr. Woods Hutchinson was the main speaker.

Digitized by CjOOQle
622

His appearance on that occasion marked his return to the lecture plat-form after an absence of two years. A master both of his subject and language, he gave a clear-cut lecture on “The State and the Health of the Child”. Dr. Hutchinson was present at all sessions and entered into discussion frequently.

All the subsequent meetings took place at the Hotel Statler. The sessions were all general and in every case brought together all delegates. The program in each session was carried through prompdy so that the scheduled discussions could take place. Dr. Mahoney emphasized that while exercising in the open was highly desirable, we nevertheless were obliged to do a great deal of work indoors of the organized or formal type. Also that the negative attitude held by many regarding the worth of formal work was frequently coupled with utter inability on the part of those taking >such attitude to present that type of work with the necessary understanding.

Dr. Arnold, in presenting the Normal School view point, gave expression to the view that graduates from Normal Schools should prepare to teach Physical Education in its entirety without being expected to carry on specialization and responsibility along lines which require experts and specialists.

The afternoon session on Friday was devoted to “Physical Education and the Health of the Community.” There was general agreement as to the importance of this phase of our work. It was considered mainly a matter of organization in order to secure the best functioning of all agencies. The demonstration on Friday evening given before a large audience and under splendid conditions must be considered an important part of the convention. Three thousand boys and girls took part and acquitted themselves nobly of their tasks. A splendid spirit prevailed and in spite of the large number participating and the scope of the pro-gram, the performance consumed but an hour and forty-five minutes, certainly a creditable piece of work. Every phase of the work was presented and it was a delight to see those children, representing twenty somewhat different nationalities living out the ideals of most of our earlier Physical Education advocates. There was more Americanization accomplished for the foreign children in their preparation for this demonstration, and for the parents on the evening of the exhibition when they saw their offspring a part of such a magnificent spectacle than hours of talk on our national achievements could bring about. We may doubt the value of some of the work shown, but the fact remained that it was a display of work of which any city would have reason to be proud.

The last session opened with Dr. Sargent’s new Test, which was published in the last number of Mind and Body. In the absence of Dr. Sargent, his son Ledyard Sargent read the paper. It was the consensus of opinion that in this test we were for the first time getting valuation of the unknown. Some one called it a test for “pep.” With the general interest aroused, we should accumulate ample data in a short time in order to see whether or not those whom we feel to be physically superior rank high in this test. The device for taking the test will be rapidly improved as there will be many suggestions forthcoming.

Dr. Leary’s “Physical Education and Human Behavior” emphasized the importance of Physical Education aside from the health point of

Digitized by <^.ooQle
628

view. "We will not raise the intellectual level of man until we raise the physical level.” "As the tone of physical condition is of a people so will be its standard of art.” He also correlated the freedom of women with their greater physical vigor.

During the business meeting the following officers were elected for the ensuing year:

Carl L. Schrader, Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass., President.

Lawrence S. Hill, Albany, New York, Vice President.

Bessie L. Barnes, Brookline, Mass., Secretary and Treasurer.

The following resolutions were passed:	*

WHEREAS, the Mallen-Hutchinson Bill now in hands of Education Committees of New York State Legislature would so amend the Physical Education Law as to take out all the mandatory features—and thus practically return, as far as legislation is concerned—to the condition obtaining before the passage of the original law in 1916,

We, the delegates in attendance at the Eastern District Convention of the National Physical Education Association, representing 20 states, respectfully call attention of these committees to the following facts:

1.	18 states have followed the lead of New York in passing similar laws and 12 states are now considering such legislation and the national leaders have endorsed the principle of National Physical Education.

2.	The progress made in promoting this program for the physical welfare of the boys and girls of the Empire State has been most satisfactory, in the opinion of experts, and the example of the State has been, a great inspiration and assistance to other states.

3.	This amendment will seriously affect the morals of all teachers^ in the schools of this state and other states who believe that as long as the state requires children to attend school it should require boards of education and trustees and teachers to give some attention to the physical condition and development of these children while in school, that they may attain the highest development possible both in mind and body.

4.	That physical fitness is the best part of Preparedness, a preparation for the highest citizenship needed by the nation in peace as well as in war.

5.	That it is false economy to try to save money at the expense of welfare of the children of the state.

We therefore urge your committees to approve no measure that would weaken the laws which now contribute to the health and physical welfare of the children of the state and nation.

RESOLVED, That the Eastern section of the American Physical Education Association approve the activities of the National Physical Education service in its efforts to establish National aid for Physical Education in the various States and recommends the organization in each State, of such representation as would further aggressively the program of this movement. Each state organization should provide working funds to sustain its own activity.”

"RESOLVED, That the Eastern District Conference of the American Physical Education Association urge the United States Government to

Digitized by
624

remove the 10% tax on Athletic supplies; that this Conference believes that children and adults sho.uld not be taxed for equipment related so closely to the health and vigor of the nation.”

"RESOLVED, That the Eastern District of the American Physical Education' Association extend a vote of sincere appreciation to the City of Buffalo, Hotel Statler, and to the Local Committee for the cordial hospitality extended to it, and it is futher

RESOLVED that special mention be made of the untiring and efficient management of MR. CARL H. BURKHARDT.

REPORT CARDS FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING WORK.

H. S. DE GROAT, PUBLIC SCHOOLS, NYACK, N. Y.

The average public school pupil does not consider Physical Education on a par with his other school subjects unless it is given a place on the report card and credit given for good work done. This one little item endows Physical Education with a percentage of dignity and respect due all subjects listed on the report	card.	If	no credit is given	and the

pupil happens to be one who does	not care	especially for the	type of

work, he naturally questions the idea of spending energy and time for which there is no credit. If a subject is	not	important enough	to hold

a place oh the report card it cannot	be of	much importance.

Numerous methods and systems of marking and giving credit for the numerous activities of the Physical program have been worked out by as many people. Most of these systems however appear as parts of the systems of the larger cities and schools where the work has been long established. Some of these systems are very elaborate and give credit for most every phase of Physical Education.

Such systems are too cumbersome to fit what is fast becoming the average of school systems that are now promoting Physical Education. In these schools there are innumerable handicaps, little equipment and no gymnasium or possibility of ever having one, and here the matter of giving credit for work done and conducting such work falls on the shoulders of one or two overworked instructors.

After three years experience with such a school system, here the Grammar grade classes were conducted during the regular school day but the Junior High School and High School classes were conducted after the close of school, and the coaching of special teams after that; the writer has devised a Physical Education report card in two forms to fit these conditions and has found it satisfactory both to the pupils and teachers and finds it a promoter of good work and better posture-For a long period only one mark was given based upon attendance, posture, effort and skill as displayed by special tests conducted but that was found unsatisfactory because the pupil did not know from such a mark just where he failed if his mark was low. On the new report card each division of grading has its own mark and then the total shows the monthly mark which does not need a personal explanation. In arranging the divisions which were to make up this total monthly mark it was necessary to confine the same to such items as would fit the local conditions without being cumbersome or elaborate but including the essentials for which we were to strive. In the Junior High and High

Digitized by Google
625

School, attendance had to hold the highest place because of the late period which caused emphasis to be placed upon attendance at class especially when the classes are not held in the school building itself but at the distant athletic field or Y. M. C. A. which gave many pupils a chance to cut class. Posture as displayed in the average graduate of High School was a cause for decided emphasis upon better posture during the school activities. Attitude as displayed by the attitude toward the two minute drill periods between classes was required to keep the pupil constantly alert as to their Physical needs, and that the two minute or relief drill is important and must be well done. Effort and skill seemed necessary to give more to those who try hardest and become more skillful in the phases of work taught. True sportsmanship needs teaching and practicing as much as anything else worth while if the pupil is going to develop into a good sportsman in his every day life. More divisions than these except a space for the marking of any special test was considered as unnecessary in our striving toward our goal of Health, Happiness and Character.

In dividing the card the possibility of making it an indicator of the physical condition of the pupil was also considered and it resulted in the use of one side for the marking of the monthly standing and the reverse side for the setting down of the physical condition of the pupil as found upon examination by the school physician and physical instructors. In this it was considered better to go on record as to normality of very few parts of the body but rather to use the examination more as an opportunity to talk personally with each pupil as to the care of the various parts of the body and to detect and report only the defects found. Marking as to the condition of the teeth gave opportunity to advise upon care of same. With the feet the pupil was made to realize the necessity for good arches as well as the use of good shoes. The marking of the posture and the explanation of their defects if such were found was one of the main factors of the examination by the instructors. The adoption by permission of the charts of the Department of Hygiene of Harvard University which were so well explained by Professor William H. Geer, at the Annual meeting of the American Physical Education Society in New York last Spring was considered the best that could be done and has done more to teach better postural habits among the grade pupils than any method tried.

The taking of height and weight gave data from which to compute the condition of the pupil as to weight according to height and age. That with the general condition of the pupil as found upon examination and as displayed in the Physical classes would give an estimate as to general condition.

In the grade classes the report cards are taken care of by the class teachers themselves and some features are added or left out from the card used in the Junior High and High school. Here the marking of health points from their Health Clubs was possible and also the marking down of the monthly weight along with the normal weight was included. The attendance and two minute drill divisions were not necessary. The following are the forms used and the method of marking each pupil. The forms allow for the changing of points possible for each division of grading if upon trial the division should prove unsatisfactory.
Student's Name Amount of Work

626

PHYSICAL EDUCATION REPORT CAM

NYACK HIGH SCHOOL

AND REGENTS GRAB

GRADING DIVISIONS  Attendance 		Possible Pts.  SO  10  10  10  10  10  100										
Effort 												
'Skill												
Two Minute Drill												
Posture												
Sportsmanship												
Total or Mark												
Special Teet 												

NOTESi

ATTENDANCE—Each student doing full work must attend two classes each week under the Physical Director. Absence from two of these classes during the month, without excuse, will fail for that month.

EFFORT—Proper effort to execute all exercises. Proper effort displayed in drill periods in class rooms "IH try," ana not "I can’t ’’ gives more credit always.

SKILL—Skill means ability to do and do with ease. The physically efficient student is the better student in everything and deserves more points than the awkward and unskilled student.

POSTURE—Excellent posture is deserving of credit. Excellent posture means good mechanical use of the body no matter what is being done; posture while reciting, walking, exercising, sitting and at the board. Students who have poor posture will be given credit for striving to correct their faults until they have better posture. (See reverse side of this card).

SPORTSMANSHIP—True sportsmanship means honesty, fair play, good loser and good winner in games; smiling, happy disposition in all circumstances, sympathetic and helpful to others, BOOSTING and not KNOCKING m the game of life.

OUTSIDE REQUIREMENTS—Each pupil must spend three hours each week in outside activities of physical nature. Helping about the home is one of these which the parent should take advantage of. Reports on these activities will be called for at various times during each term.

Method of marking:

Amount of work..marked “Full” or “Partial,” according to physical condition of pupil.

Attendance, points possible 50; if absent from class without good excuse deduct 10 for each class missed; deduct two points for each time late and each time excused for absence. (Sick pupils who are unable to attend class do not deserve the same credit as pupils who do full work, therefore some points are deducted if excused for such cause.)

Effort: This is dependent upon all the other divisions and is marked

last.

Skill: This division depends upon the work displayed in classes and upon the mark given by the teacher for “two minute drill”.

Two Minute Drill: This is marked by the class teachers on the following basis, excellent 10, good 8, fair 5 or less, poor 2 or less. (If the mark is fair or poor repeatedly less points are given for this division and also for Skill.

Posture: This is marked by the class teachers on the same basis as the two minute drill.

Sportsmanship: This depends upon the other marks and the knowledge of the instructor as to the conduct of the pupil in everyday life.

Special test In case of a special test of any kind the mark is given here and considered in the division of “skill.”

Pupil’s Name---

Amount of Work

PHYSICAL EDUCATION REPORT CARO

NYACK PUBLIC SCHOOLS

GRADS CLASSES

GRADING DIVISIONS  Effort		Points  Possible  15  15  20  20  20  10  100  Should Weigh	Sept.  Oct.	Nov.  Dec.	Jan.  Feb.	March  April	Map  June	Average
Skill								
Posture								
Sportsmanship								
Health Points ....							
Outside Work 								
TOTAL 								
WEIGHT 						. i...	..i...	
							

NOTESi (Same as High School Card.)

Digitized by LjOOQLe
627

Method of marking:	Same	as the high school card but a different

division of possible points for the various divisions and all divisions are marked by the class teacher and none by the instructor.

Pupils who are poor in their class work under the instructors are reported to the teacher and their cards marked accordingly.

Health points:	Marked	on	a basis of total points made and total

points that were possible to be made.

Outside work:	Marked	by	teacher	after	asking	how	the pupils spend

the after-school hours. The State requirement being three hours per week of such exercise.

NAME........................Clan

PHYSICAL CONDITION

..............Weight..............

Clean	Dirty	Decayed

Feet............................................

General Condition...............................

POSTURE

State Teet Height.... TEETH*

!

A	B	C	D

(Hyg. Dept. Harvard)

A Good Mechanical use of the Human Body.

1.	Head straight above chest, hips and feet.

2.	Chest up and forward.

3.	Abdomen in or flat.

4.. Back usual curves not exaggerated.

B Fairly Good Mechanical use of the Human Body. Note changes from Group A.

1.	Head too far forward.

2.	Chest not so well up or forward.

8. Abdomen very little change.

4.	Back very little change.

C Bad Mechanical use of the Body.

Note changes from Group A.

1.	Head forward of Chest.

2.	Chest flat.

8. Abdomen relaxed and forward.

4. Back curves are exaggerated.

D Very Bad Mechanical use of the Body.

Note changes from Group A.

1.	Head still farther forward.

2.	Chest still flatter and farther back.

8. Abdomen completely relaxed “Slouchy”.

4. Back all curves exaggerated to the extreme. Defects Reported

OUR GOAL - HEALTH - HAPPINESS - CHARACTER

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
628

✓

REPORT OF PHYSICAL DIRECTOR.

Pennsylvania Industrial Reformatory, Huntingdon, Pa.> January /, 1921.

To the Board of Managers.

Gentlemen:—

The report of the work performed in the Physical Training Department is herewith most respectfully submitted.

The examination of hundreds upon hundreds of young Americans for the army disclosed the lamentable fact, that they were physically unfit for military purpose, hence the War Department was not long in determining the necessity for training the body to cope with the rigorous duties a soldier must encounter in the trenches, and as a result physical training was one of the prominent features in all cantonments here and overseas.

The benefit to be derived from properly directed physical exercises is evidenced by the vast sums of money expended in the erection of great Stadia in all parts of our broad land, in schools, colleges, athletic dubs, etc.

It is the purpose of this department to develop the physique of those placed under its care, so as to make strong vigorous bodies of those which in the majority of cases were neglected during the early years of life, the value of which most of them are ignorant.

After a thorough physical examination has been made, the first step taken is to acquaint the inmate with the fundamental principles employed in building up the various parts of the body, not the least of which is the art of breathing, which is employed every day, in the various calis-thenic drills, resulting in the enlargement of the lung capacity, which in time provides a greater aeration for the blood, thus materially aiding in throwing off the waste material the body is constantly developing.

In arranging the system of exercises it is with a view to avoid specializing, rather to employ such movements as will bring about an all-round development. For this purpose a large variety of standard gymnastic apparatus is employed in addition to the various calisthenic drills. The apparatus exercises are changed daily so as to avoid the monotony of the work—then too, the work is graded so that the more simple movements are taken up at first, gradually following with the more intricate and complete exercises, thus keeping up interest in the work.

All of our apparatus and gymnasium clothing are in good repair, and kept so by our own labor performed by inmates of the carpenter shop, tailor shop, and other departments of the Reformatory.

A record of the physical examination of each inmate is filed and those who fail to attain the standard of strength and development are re-examined at frequent intervals. In this way we are able to keep in touch with each individual inmate until he is paroled or discharged. With very few exceptions substantial gains in strength are shown while some of these gains are exceptionally large.

Much time during the summer is given to the practice of outdoor athletics, two track and field meets are held in which the inmates participate; much interest in this work is shown, as from thirty to thirty-five per cent of the inmates enter the various events for a tryout from which the most proficient are taken and trained for the events. In running off the program of events a full corps of athletes from Huntingdon

Digitized by CjOOQle
629

are secured, who are equipped for officiating in these sports. Suitable printed badges are presented the winners of each contest. Special events are arranged for the younger inmates, thus affording some of them opportunity to win a prize. These sports are greatly enjoyed by those who witness them. The following statistics are self explanatory:

Average daily	attendance .........................................134.5

Total number	of classes held ....................................3,243

Total number	taking gymnastics .................................71,232

Total number	physical examinations...............................1,517

Ever since the Physical Training Department has been organized in the Reformatory, it has conducted this work on the third floor of factory building number one, which is not adapted to produce the results in the highest efficiency of Physical Training that is desired, but we have sought to make the best of the facilities at hand. A structure especially erected for this purpose would greatly increase the result for good in the lives of many young men committed to the Reformatory.

This department acknowledges the co-operation and assistance of various other departments and likewise of the officers of the Reformatory.

Very respectfully,

J.	W. Marquardt,

Director of Physical Training.

LEST WE FORGET.

In these days of preventive medicine, nurses* follow-up-work, tests for posture, tooth brush drills, mimetic exercises, etc., there appears to be great danger of forgetting several facts, or of over-emphasizing things that are not fundamental. For instance, while no sane teacher will minimize the importance of posture, it ought not be forgotten that posture should be a by-product of all physical training that is worthy of the name. If posture isn’t the result, then the physical training work (or the teacher) was at fault. Again, no one would minimize common sense precautions against infections. But, after all, the main thing is to make the body so strong by vigorous muscular exercise that its vitality is increased, so that it will not succumb to the ordinary unfavorable conditions it comes in contact with.

Work, hard, muscular work, should be the first aim of all physical training. If the exercises indulged in do not make your bones and muscles ache (if you aren’t used to such exercises) their value may be great so far as posture is concerned, or they may be splendid so far as co-ordination is concerned; such exercises may even be superb so far as quick reaction is concerned, but so far as the development of the great muscle groups and the increasing of bodily vigor are concerned, they may have been useless. Therefore, let us not forget that if we want healthy pupils, the first thing that muscular exercise must do is to give a goodly dose of hard physical work.

We were prompted to write the foregoing by receiving the attached report upon the results of the draft in the Pittsburg district of the American Gymnastic Union. The results appear to bear out the assertion that so far as physical fitness is concerned, the young men of this organization rank high when compared with the young men of the country as a

Digitized by CjOOQle
630

whole. And, furthermore, we should not forget that hard muscular work characterizes the physical training of this organization.—Editor.

A report showing number of men who volunteered and those who responded to the various drafts during the late World War, from the societies constituting the “Pittsburg District” of the “American Gymnastic Union,” giving number of men that were accepted, also the number of men rejected on account of physical disability, together with the nature of their disability.

Name of Society and location	Volunteered

and drafted Accepted Rejected

1. Wheeling	T. V. Wheeling, W. Va.	1	1
2. Mt. Oliver	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	7	7
3. Allegheny	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	7	7
4. E. Pittsburgh	T. V. East Pittsburgh, Pa.	10	10
6. Troy Hill	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	10	10
6. Allentown	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	16	16
7. South Side	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	17	17
8. Central	T. V. Rochester, Pa. T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	19	19
9. Lawrenceville		19	19
10. Birmingham	T. V. Pittsburgh, Pa.	25	25
11. Eintracht	T. V. Homestead, Pa.	27	26 1
12. Beaver Falls	T. V. Beaver Falls, Pa.	28	28
13. Eintracht	T. V. Monongahela City, Pa.	28	28
14. Monaca	T. V. Monaca, Pa.	29	29
15. Johnstown	T. V. Johnstown, Pa.	29	28 1
16. Charleroi	T. V. Charleroi, Pa.	31	31
17. Steubenville	T. V. Steubenville, Ohio	38	36 2
18. Braddock	T. V. Braddock, Pa.	45	45
19. Monessen	T. V. Monessen, Pa.	53	53
20. McKeesport	T. V. McKeesport, Pa.	62	58 4
21. Central	T. V. Pittsburg, Pa.	85	85
22. Jeanette	T. V. Jeanette, Pa.	105	103 2
23. Altoona	T. V. Altoona, Pa.	109	107 2
Total Nature of disability. Under size 1 Weak Heart 1 Broken arch 1		809	797 12
Flatfeet	2 Per-centage of men rejected		
Faulty hearing Weak eyes  Total	3	to number of men examined,  4  12		1.49 per cent.
		Richard Tumt, Aspinwall, Pa.	

PHYSICAL TRAINING TESTS vs. PROMOTION RESULTS

Statistics from the Lea School of Practice, Philadelphia.

BY OTTO J. FISCHER, PHILADELPHIA.

For the past three years the Philadelphia Schools have had certain physical tests as a required part of the course of study in physical training. These tests consist of the following track and field events:	Stand-

ing broad jump; basketball farthrow; running fifty yards; chinning for boys and knee-raising for girls. Every class, grades four to eight inclusive, is organized into teams and records are kept of the results in

Digitized by Google
631

these events. Age aim standards based upon average performances of Philadelphia boys and girls are used as a basis for this work. The passing of these standards in jumping, throwing and running has been used in finding the number successful in the following table.

In finding the number successful in school work the promotion results of the past term were consulted.

In the third column only the pupils not promoted are considered. The physical records of every child not promoted were consulted and if it was found that the boy or girl failed in two of the physical tests it became a clear case that such a pupil was below par physically and mentally. Sixty-four and six tenths of those not promoted were found physically below standard.

Clan	Per	Cent	Successful	Per	Cent	Successful Study of the Unsuceessfuls

Number	in	in	in	School	Work With

Physical Tests	School	Work	Relation	To	Phyiscal Tests

	Tried*	Pawed** Percent		Number	No.	Per	Number *♦*		Per cent
	Jump	Jump	Pawed	Belong-	Prom.	cent	not	Not Prom.	Not Prom.
	Throw  Rim	Throw  Run		ing		Promot-  ed	Prom. Not passing Phy.		Not paw-i inf Phy* Testa
								Testa	
12	123	104	84.5	46	40	83.3	6	4	66.fi
13	132	114	86.3	47	41	83.7	6	4	66.fi
14	147	121	82.3	50	50	100.	0	0	0
15	147	139	94.6	54	50	92.5	4	0	0
16	149	138	92.6	54	48	88.8	6	2	33.3
17	152	137	90.1	52	49	94.2	3	2	66.6
19	140	135	96.4	52	47	90.3	5	3	60.0
20	140	103	73.6	48	40	83.3	6	5	83.3
21	159	118	74.6	54	43	79.6	11	9	81.8
22	159	128	80.5	53	47	87.0	6	5	83.3
23	142	115	80.9	53	47	87.0	6	3	50.0
24	132	99	75.0	48	41	83.7	7	4	57.1
25	141	126	89.3	48	42	87.5	6	4	66.6
26	162	132	81.5	54	44	81.4	10	7	70.0
27	150	133	88.7	53	45	84.9	8	5	62.5
28	120	93	77.5	42	37	88.1	5	4	80.0
29	135	120	88.8	45	41	91.1	4	3	75.0
School	2430	2055	84.5	853	752	88.1	99	64	64.6

* Tried—No. tested in the jump and No. tested in the throw and No. tested in the run.

** Passed—No. passed inthe jump and No. passed in the throw and No. passed in the run, *** Not passing phy. tests means that these pupils failed in two or three tests.

The above tabic shows:

(1)	A direct relation between the physical tests and the promotion or scholastic results.

(2)	The high classes physically are, in general, the high classes mentally or scholastically and the low classes physically are, in general, the low classes mentally or scholastically.

(3)	It is a fact that 64.6% of those not promoted were unable to pass two of the prescribed physical events of even an average performance aim.

Generally speaking the results tend to show that scholastic deficiency goes hand in hand with physical deficiency. There are exceptions however and many teachers have said to me, “I do wish Johnnie Jones could do his classroom lessons as well as he can play that game.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
Gymnasium and playgrouni^

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.	X—J

INSIDE BASKET BALL.

GEORGE F. MILLER, MENOMONIE, WIS.

* Illustrations from Miller and Chandler s book, “Inside Coaching

The question often comes up in the minds of high school and other coaches as to how college and university coaches are able to select five men for a basket ball team out of an enrollment of from five to ten thousand students.

To begin with, candidates as they report are picked men; that is, they come to college with a reputation made in high school or the prep institution. The freshman coach takes hold and thru a year of intensive work puts the athlete thru a course that leaves him in condition for the polishing process by the head coach the following year. Interclass, inter fraternity, inter department and other leagues give great numbers of young men the opportunity to play basket ball and any man that shows to advantage is immediately invited to the freshman squad.

Initial Qualifications.

The coach looks for certain marked traits which appear in almost all first class basket ball players. The first and probably the one most desired is that which we might call Shiftiness. The ability to move lightly, fast and handle the feet cleverly. The knack of appearing to start in one direction and ending up in another. Ability to hit the basket is not as most would think, one of the prime requisites. Any number come with uncanny knacks of dropping the ball thru the basket from any angle and from almost any position. Almost any high school team has one or more men that can do this, which will lead these young men, later as they enter college, to think that they have a good chance for the team. The fact of the matter is that the poor shot is the exception rather than the rule.

A first class basket ball player plays quite as much with his feet, as with his hands. Ability to get away from an opponent, get into an open space ready to make or receive a pass is quite if not more important than that of being able to shoot. The latter comes naturally while the former is one of the hardest things we find to develop.

A man in order to have any consideration at all must be of good size physically. Occasionally a small man gets on to the squad but if he does you may be sure that he is head and shoulders above the others in some one respect or else he would not be retained.

In the higher institutions of learning a senior would have to be good enough to make the team right away. No college coach would carry a

Digitized by CjOOQle
633

senior along as a substitute. If he is good enough to make the team, well and good; otherwise he will give way to the junior or more likely sophomore. The fact is that the coach is always looking ahead. He is building for the future as well as the present and the longer he can have a man under his wing, the more likelihood is there of developing him into an exceptional man.

The actual coaching technique of the college coach is no different from that of a good high school coach. The only difference is that his material is better and that he goes at the whole coaching proposition in a more business like way. He must turn out winners or win a good portion of his games or another is ready to step into his place. He spends hour upon hour in the drilling of fundamentals. He has a chart on which he follows each man's development. He notes the poor pass, the inability to pivot, the fumble, the hurried or poor shot. Watching the whole team in practice leaves a coach with a hazy idea that something is wrong. By concentrating on one man at a time, following him thru an entire half or more, and then moving on to the next, he learns to know the good as well as the bad points.

Right here let us correct an erroneous impression that all shooting must be done with the loop shot. There are today about as many good basket ball players on big teams who use the underhand or swing shot as the other.	A coach does not	bother a man or try to	change his form

in shooting if	he is making the	baskets. Many a good	basket ball man

has been spoiled by a coach insisting that his method of shooting be changed. Instead of changing the method, the wise coach lets well enough alone and polishes off the rough spots.

The college man brings his team evenly and smoothly to a degree of perfection that spells success. He plans ahead, not for the next day or week, but for the whole season and other seasons to come.

Contrast	this method with	the one very commonly	seen among the

high schools.	The coach here	has no particular idea	as to what the

practice will consist of until he is on the floor. Once over, the matter is dismissed from his mind until the next day. He stands on the side lines and alternately praises or else heaps vials of wrath upon the heads of his unfortunate charges. Seldom does he say a thing of a constructive nature. Frankly his idea is to appear a driver of men. His coaching technique consists of three divisions. Shooting practise wherein his men run under and around the basket making a goal occasionally. Second, he believes in having a great number of plays and spends considerable time on this. Finally he spends hours in scrimmage in the hope that his men will develop. The result is that the men are often stale, overworked but no better off as far as the fine points of the game are concerned.

On the other hand there are some high school coaches who do realize the value of preparation and a businesslike procedure. These man do not long remain in the high school. This season three coaches of the Western Conference have thru sheer ability pulled themselves out of high school class and are coaching in the great Universities.

Patience, enthusiasm, a willingness to go slow at the start and,
634

finally, the Know How will pay big dividends in the progress of the team and the consequent satisfaction to yourself that goes with a piece of work well done.

the force with which the ball is thrown, will determine whether or not the ball seeks the basket. It is assumed that the ball will be tightly inflated and that the backboard is rigid and of solid construction. A glass board will react differently. Zones are lanes from which most baskets are made, when thrown from an angle. Generally speaking, the more acute the angle, the higher in the lane the ball will have to strike. As the foul line is approached, the ball strikes lower, until we get into zones 4 and 5. These two zones represent the close-in, bank shots and should always be made when the opportunity for a shot presents itself. The closer in towards the board, the more english required to whip the ball down and in. Zone C represents a lane the width of the basket and extending up a distance of eighteen inches. High arch shots which are overshot and striking within this lane will glance off and into the basket. Shots in line with the basket and yet short will bounce up and allow the thrower a follow-up shot. Most players unconsciously locate these zones in practise but become wild in the game. It is well to have an extra board located on the side of the floor, with these zones painted or chalked in. Practise on this board will enable the men to hit the regular scoreboard with more accuracy which means added points in the games.

The long high arch shot should be practised often. It is used not only for scoring, but as a method of getting the ball thru a tight defense and within scoring distance without being intercepted. A man then has two chances as the result, the initial try at the basket and a follow-up

Digitized by

Google
685

shot which should not be neglected.

Short Pass.

The short pass is the one most frequently used by the best teams and consists of working the ball down the floor whenever a group of three can get together. The principle of success employed here is that the ball is traveling on angular lines, while the men are going down on the lines of a curve. Frequent change of course will throw the most determined guard off his course. There is little difficulty in stopping a, player who travels on straight lines, parallel with the sidelines.

member of the combination. This practically every Big Team, altho

The passer ALWAYS swings in behind the man to whom he has passed the ball, then breaks IN, ready to get a pass from the third member of the combination. One mistake that is likely to occur when the men first start this method of passing, is that there is a tendency for them to spread, turning out after the ball has been passed. This will allow an opponent to get between the passer and receiver. The pass seldom travels over six feet and quite often is handed from one player to another..

Some times a fourth man is added to this combination, his duty being to follow up and in case no more. progress can be made ahead, a back pass is made to this safety man.

Method.

In teaching this, take it thru first on the walk. Take plenty of time until the principle is well grounded. The tendency is to speed up on about the fourth trial. Go slow. Speed will come later. Line A-B-C on a line. A cuts across and gets a pass from B. C swings forward ready to get pass from A. B now swings around A. getting ready for pass from C. A swings around C and is ready for pass from B. The ball is thus worked up the floor, the passer ALWAYS going behind the man to whom he has passed, then cutting IN, ready for a pass from the third short pass, rolling offense is used by there may be slight variations. It.

Digitized by
636

is worth trying and teams using it show all the ear marks of a well-•coached, finished team.

Pivoting.

The ability or inability to pivot at once shows a players class. Any «dub can run into an opponent or stop and try to dodge, but it takes a finished player to smoothly pivot around and away without materially slowing his advance.

No one thing in individual technique of playing gives the coach so much satisfaction as seeing his men neatly and effectively slipping around a would-be blocker or guard. A well-executed pivot in basket ball is as pretty an exhibition of skill as a perfect tackle in football.

Note.

It is more effective to pivot towards the sidelines. When pivoting to the right, stop on the left foot and vice versa. At first your men will become confused, stopping on the wrong foot. This will throw them directly into the man they have been trying to avoid. Always pivot away, never towards your man. Do not start the pivot too early. Wait until you are nearly on top of the man, never at a greater distance than three feet.

Starting too early gives the blocker a chance to shift and meet the man after the pivot has been completed.

Remember after the pivot is made, the man must shoot or pass if the dribble has been started. Otherwise a double double dribble would ensue.

sidelines, wner

V



Technique of the Pivot.

As the left foot is advanced, slap the foot smartly to the floor, pivot on the ball of the left foot, right shoulder going backward. The back is now presented to the opponent.

Pivot on heel of right foot, take a step forward with the left foot and continue.

If dribble was being made at time of	Q

pivot, ball must be passed or a shot

taken. Be sure that the left knee is	q

kept straight when pivot is first started.	V

The one great difference between a	^	0

well-coached team and the ordinary is

the ability of the men to pivot. College men are never considered for a team unless they are adept in pivoting.

Defense from the Tip Off.

Quite often too much time is devoted to the offense and not enough

Digitized by CjOOQle
637

to the defense with the result that should your team later meet a stifF offense and your center be unable to control the ball, the team promptly goes up in the air and begins the long wild shot which too often is the beginning of the end. If your center is unable to control the ball, a prompt shift is necessary in order to break up plays that may follow.

Here we have the usual two guards -O- playing inside their forward and a little to the rear. In addition we have brought one of our forwards down and placed him just behind center. We now have a triangle with the apex directed towards the center. Our other forward has moved in midway between the opposing guards and just behind the center. The opposing center -X- will hardly tip the ball forward, for this region is well guarded. His best bet is to tip it back to his guards. The forward -O- may move to either side to intercept and in case he misses, he will come down and drop into< a five man defense, almost already completed. In case the ball is re-covered by your men, the whole team at once swings into the offense. This system is recommended when your center is being regularly out-jumped. It should be born in mind that the best defense is a stiff offense, so when in possession of the ball, start a snappy movement down the floor. More than one prominent Western Conference team has used this system the entire season with success. Plays from this formation may be made as easily as any other and in addition, you have the element of safety should things go wrong.

Five Man Defense.

The five man defense with slight variations, is used by every good team in the country. As an air-tight, anti-scoring system it is hard to improve upon. The great danger is that too much reliance may be placed upon this device and not enough attention given to the offence. Unless the team can shift rapidly from the defense to the offense, it had: better be left alone.

A tall man as back guard is almost indispensable. He should be a good judge of basket ball conditions, a cool player and one not easily excited. From his vantage ground, he should follow the progress of the game and J whenever the opponents get the ball and start down the floor in a combination of three or more, he should call out DEFENSE.

On hearing this warning, the team drops back, the men drop back, the center taking an advance position slightly ahead of the first line of de-

Digitized by t^ooQle
638

'fense, the secondary defense, drawing in a little. Your men are now ‘Set to stop further advance.

Methods.

One method of procedure is to allow the first two men of the offense >to go thru the first line of defense where they are coupled up by the secondary defense and stayed with. This allows only two other men ^on the offense and against them you have three defensive men waiting. These two men will almost always have the ball in their possession. These should be rushed, each defensive man picking one man and STAYING with him. Thru the law of averages, the offense will be smothered almost every time. Watch out for any opponent who darts down the side of the floor and then cuts in, ready for a pass and a shot. These are the men that cause trouble.

The second method and one frequently employed is for each man on

•	the defense pick up and stay with the first man that comes thru. If this ■is done, there is little possibility of a successful sequences of passes.

One common fault of teams employing the five man defense is that they draw back too far, allowing the offense to open up with long shots -and shoot baskets over their heads. The lead off man on the defense should be about in the center of the floor. Another fault is that the shift from the defense to the offense is not rapid and allows the opponents to get set. As soon as the opponents lose the ball swing instantly into the offense.

When the men have selected an offensive man to guard they should stay with him. In case two men come thru at the same time, the player ♦should couple up with one and warn his teammate of the other. Watch -out for the bounce pass. This is one of the most effective ways of -working thru the defense. By sticking to one man, he will have little

*	opportunity however of keeping up the play. Also rememberr that at most, the offense can send down but four men, while you have five for

, guard duty.

MAY SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS.

'‘GERTRUDE LEFLER BRA MAN, SUPERVISOR OF NASSAU COUNTV, NEW YORK.

FIRST PERIOD.

Drill on Direction, etc.

Action Song

All the birds have come again.

First line hop forward - bow in - bow out - 4 measures*

Second line Skip - 4 measures.

Third line - run forward, pick up dew and remain poised - wings Afield out - 4 measures.

Breathing.

SECOND PERIOD*

Gymnastic Story.

1.	Pick May flowers, arrange in bouquets, (children mention flowers.)

2.	Simple May Pole Dance.

Digitized by Google
639

Skip around in twos - Skip toward center - Skip out from center.

Skip around in single circle.

Music: “Bluff King Hal” may be sung.

3.	Queen may be chosen and children bow to her as they pass.

4.	Queen returns bows.

5.	Represent sunbeams.

6.	Birds flying.

7.	Breathing.

Game Period - “Round and Round the Village.”

THIRD PERIOD.

Duck Dance.

Keep moving.

Oats, peas, beans.

FOURTH PERIOD.

Rhythmic Period.

Marie R. Hofer’s “The Cuckoo is Calling.”

Review and perfect “Shoemaker’s Dance.”

Imaginary plays,

Sweeping - dusting - garden activities.

GRADE TWO.

Action Song

“My Brother,” Stecher’s Games and Dances to the tune of “Muffin Man.”

Flower Game from Newton’s Graded Games and Rhythmic Exercises. “We’re Looking for a Buttercup,

“A buttercup, a buttercup,

“We’re Looking for a buttercup,

“And find one here.”

The game is played like London Bridge; instead of child choosing gold or silver, a flower is chosen, sides are taken, and a tug ends the game.

Breathing.

Gymnastic story “Coming to This Country”:

1.	Row out to large boat. Sitting on desks, facing back of room, feet on seat.

2.	Climbing ladder to get into boat. One hand reaching up, and opposite knee bent high, bend arm and put foot on floor, stretch arm and raise other foot.

3.	Pulling up anchor. One foot forward, stoop and pull first with one hand and then with other, leaning over desk.

4.	Hoisting sail. Reach up with one hand, pull down and at same time put up other, etc.

5.	High waves make boats go up and down. Rising and sinking on toes, and when it gets very rough bend the knees.

6.	Row to shore.

7.	Breathing after hard row.

Games:

“Did you ever see a lassie?” - using all the mimetic exercises that suggest Spring; Sweeping, dusting, scrubbing, blowing wind, pattering

Digitized by L^ooQle
640

rain, sunbeams, birds, garden activities, jumping rope, rolling hoops, spinning tops, jack stones.

Review March Games.

Rhythmic work.

Simplified arrangement of May Pole Dance, using skipping movements to the tune of “Bluff King Hal.”

Counting out rhyme:

Anery, twoery, tickery, seven, Aliby, crackiby, ten or eleven. Pin, pan, muskidan, Twedlem, twodlum, twenty-one. (From Bolton’s Study in Folk Lore.)

Hygiene.

Breathing.

How to breathe, shoulders not raised; chest raised upon expiration, as used in singing.

Fresh air.

Play and exercise, relation to health.

Call attention to extra air breathed caused by running, hopping, jumping, skipping, best forms of breathing exercise.

JUNE MONTH OF REVIEW.

Preparation for Entertainment.

Song games are from Stecher’s Games and Dances, Sperling's Playground Book, Bancroft’s Games, Newton's Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Grade.

Hofer, Dances.

Crawford’s Dramatic Games.

Rhythm Work:

Crampton’s Folk Dances; Burchenal's Folk Dances.

Michigan Syllabus of Physical Training.

Miss Newton’s Graded Exercises, and Rhythms for Primary Grades;

Riley and Gaynor’s books of Child World, I, 2, 3 and 4.

Holiday Book by Paullson.

Gymnastic Stories; some from Rebecca Stoneroad's Gym. Stories, and original ones to suit conditions.

Mimetic exercises.

New Jersey Syllabus; New York syllabus.

Imaginative plays.

Laurence Hill’s syllabus.

•Thanks is due to all my teachers for helping to work out, eliminate and simplify the above plans.

FRENCH CHAMBER FOR ENFORCING PHYSICAL DRILL FOR

BOTH SEXES.

The Chamber of Deputies unanimously adopted a bill March 22, 1921, making physical training compulsory for young people of both sexes in France.

Boys over 16 years old must continue physical training, consisting of gymnastics, running, tennis and other athletics, according to choice, until they are incorporated in the army or navy. Girls in the primary and secondary tuition grades must also adopt physical training, according to special rules to be issued by the Ministry of Public Instruction.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
©■

641

«p

Physiology and hygien

A	D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

....... -Hi

bathing as a social amusement.—Many persons at the present time look on baths and bathing in the light of hygienic necessity. A study of the history of the bath, however, would reveal this institution as having many other aspects. Its various alleged remedial values are conspicuous in the practices and traditions of hydrotherapy. Bath resorts are proverbially medical centers in many parts of the world. In the ancient days the various modes of bathing and bodily inunctions acquired an immense significance in the life of the elite in particular, as is attested by the elaborate ruins still extant, giving silent evidence of the place of the bath amid the domestic institutions of other times.

The counterpart to a visit to what is left in Rome of the baths of antiquity may be suggested by a trip to the Hot Springs or Carlsbads of today, even though the functions of the modern establishments may appear to be somewhat different. Lest it be assumed that our own continent is devoid of old records of bathing pavilions of a specialized sort, we quote the observations of the pioneer American explorers Lewis and Clark. In the diary of their memorable expedition up the Missouri and across the divide to the Pacific coast in the years 1804-1806 they give a unique description of the sweating baths of Indians they encountered. The vapor bath or sweating house was a hollow square six or eight feet deep, formed in a river bank by damming up the other three sides with mud and covering the whole completely except for an aperture about two feet wide at the top. The bathers descended through this hole, taking with them a number of heated stones and jugs of water; and after being seated around the compartment they threw the water on the stones until the steam became sufficient for their purposes. This mode of producing vapor appears to have been common.

From the social standpoint it is interesting to learn through the account left by Lewis and Clark that among many of the Indian tribes it was very uncommon for a man to bathe alone. The bather was generally accompanied by one or sometimes several of his acquaintances. Indeed, according to the explorers' information, bathing was so essentially a social amusement among these peoples that to decline going in to bathe when invited by a friend was regarded as one of the highest indignities that could be offered to him.* The Indians on the frontiers nearest civilization generally used a bath which was formed of a wickered work of willow about four feet high, arched at the top, covered with skins, and adapted to a single person. In this the “patient” sat until, by means of the heated stones and water, he perspired sufficiently. Almost always these baths were in the neighborhood of a running stream, into which the Indians plunged immediately on coming out of the vapor bath, and sometimes returned again to subject themselves to a second

* History of the Expedition of Captains Lewis and Clark, 1804-05-06, reprinted from the Edition of 1814, Chicago, A. C. McClurg & Co. 2: 2. 79/7.

Digitized by (^ooQle
642

perspiration. “This bath/' we read, “is employed either for pleasure or for health, and is used indiscriminately for rheumatism, venereal or, in short, all kinds of diseases.” The same sentence might quite as appropriately be written today.—Editorial: “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.” Aug. 14, 1920.

PUBLIC HYGIENE AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.—The Council of the

League of Nations recently discussed the report of M. da Cunha, delegate from Brazil, on the formation of an international organization of hygiene as provided by the treaty of Versailles. The purpose of this organization is principally to advise the League of Nations in matters of hygiene; to communicate promptly recommendations designed to combat epidemics and diseases in general; to conclude international agreements bearing on hygiene and to revise existing treaties; to protect the workingman and to co-operate in this endeavor with the international labor organization and the Red Cross, and to organize medical missions on the demand of the League of Nations. This constitutes, in fact, an amplification of the first Office international de Thygiene publique, which was created by a conference held in Rome in 1907, and an adaptation of the latter organization to the League of Nations.

The new organization will be formed (1) of a general committee of survey composed of the delegates of all the states which adhered to the Rome conference in 1907, (2) of a permanent committee consisting only of delegates of countries represented in the Council of the League of Nations, and (3) of a secretarial office. The permanent committee will consider all projects which will be submitted to the approval of the general committee, and the latter will transmit the proposals to the respective governments who will have final decision in all matters. The expenses of this new organization will be borne by the general budget of the League of Nations.—From Paris Letter of Aug, 6. 1920 to “The Journal A. M. A.” {Aug. 28, 1920.)

rest as a therapeutic measure.—When Weir Mitchell proposed the “rest cure” for the neurasthenic, he propounded no new principle in therapeutics but made of rest a ritual and thereby secured the patient's co-operation. It is interesting in this connection to read an extract from a letter written to Sir Philip Rose in 1846 by Benjamin Disraeli, later Earl of Beaconsfield and prime minister of England. Both great men suffered at times from what is commonly called “nervous breakdown”. Rose had just returned from a trip abroad to recover from one of these attacks. Disraeli says:

“My present condition of health and career may convince you that there is more of distress than danger in these exhaustions of the nervous system. But if not duly checked, the trial they inflict is severe. Repose is the best medicine, and we should guard against the belief that there is any cure for them but a gradual one. Repose, however, is a rare medicine, and impatient suffering is too apt to take refuge in quacks.”

If all laymen were intelligent—if all could realize that processes of repair in human tissues are not miracles but gradual evolutions in natural processes, which the physician assists and augments—the task of the physician would be less difficult.—“The Journal A. M. A., Sept. 4, 1920.

\

Digitized by Google
643

better conditions for children.—A striking development in the* movement to obtain better conditions foe children is described in a pamphlet issued by the Children’s Bureau of the United States Department* of Labor entitled “State Commissions for the Study and Revision o£ Child Welfare Laws.” Nine years ago, Ohio appointed the first commission to study conditions surrounding children in the state, and to^ codify and revise laws relating to children. Since that time, sixteen other states and the District of Columbia have appointed similar commissions, and almost two thirds of the states have now taken some definite^ action toward state legislation as it affects children. In almost every one of these states a carefully planned educational campaign has been< carried on, covering the safeguarding of health, school attendance; regulation of employment, protection against exploitation or corruption ofi morals, special provision and training of dependent and neglected children* methods of dealing with delinquent children and the state supervision o£ agencies and institutions.—Med. News from “The Journal A.. M. A.'\n Aug. 28, 1920.

muscular work during hypnosis.—In order to determine the effects, of suggestion on muscular efficiency and record the findings objectively,, a Mosso ergograph was used by Dr. C. N Nicholson as the instrument best adapted to fulfil these requirements. Only those subjects were used who could be placed in the deepest hypnotic sleep—the state characterized by cataleptic rigidity. The records secured show that a very definite increase in muscular efficiency can be obtained by suggestion ia-the hypnotic state and that suggestions given even while the subject is> fully awake influence muscular efficiency to some extent. The increased, efficiency during hypnosis shows itself in three ways:	(1) By an increase*

in the actual amount of work done. In fact* during the hypnotic sleep> the capacity for work seemed practically endless. (2) by an increase in endurance. (3) By a decrease in fatigue* both subjective and objective-After work in the hypnotic sleep the subjects never complained of any fatigue, nor could questioning elicit any signs of fatigue, whereas after-performing a much smaller amount of work in the waking condition they frequently complained of being quite tired and exhausted and always on being questioned stated they were fatigued. The records show the absence of any objective fatigue.—Original article in Bulletin Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

PREVENTION OF NORMAL DISSIPATION OF HEAT AS FACTOR IN THE.

pathology of children.—A. Czerny expatiates on heat stagnation as an important element in the pathology of older children, the same as it has long been recognized in the case of infants. He states (Therapic der Gegenwarty January, 1919), that children used to overcrowding at home do not suffer from the heat stasis in school as much as children used to good hygienic conditions at home. The possibility of heat stasis must be borne in mind not only for well but for sick children as an element in the clinical picture, and the advantage of our-of-door living and sleeping should not be restricted to tuberculous children.

Digitized by ^ooQle
644

A. A. U. GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE Y. M. C. A., GREENSBURG, PA. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1921.

Team Score All Events.

New York Turnverein...................

Philadelphia Turngemeinde ............

Sokol Gymnastic Society, Chicago......

New York A. C.........................

Greensburg Y. M. C. A., Greensburg, Pa.

Newark A. C., Newark, N. J.............

Jeanette Turnverein, Jeanette, Pa......

Side Horse

Parallel Bars

Total

Points.

30

.18

l5 . 8

5

5

4

Long Horse

Flying Rings

Horizontal Bar

Tumbling

Indian Club Swinging

Free Exercises

Digitized by *

Avr.	Total
•9417	■S6 5
•9317	559
.92.5	•555
•9°-	.540
.89.66	538
.87.17	• 523
•94-17	•565
.92.5	•555
.83.67	.502
.96.	•576
.94.67	.568
•93-67	.561
.92.67	556
.88.	.528
.82.	• 49*
.92.5	•555
.72.5	•434
•45.	.270
•47-67	143
.46.	-138
•39 67	•1 *9
46.	>3«
•40.33	. 121
•37-3	. 118
agle	
645

All Around

1st—Curtis Rottman, New York Turnverein N. Y.......92.75	.2783

and—W. C. H. Wanderer, Philadelphia Turngemeinde .. .88.43	.2653;

3rd—John Kristufek, Sokol Gymnasium Society, Chicago 82.07	.2462

Rope Climbing—22 ft.	Best	Time

1st—George Taylor, Y. M. C. A., Greensburg, Pa..........7	4-5

2nd—George Petz, Central A. A., Pittsburg, Pa...........8

3rd—George W. Vesley, Sokol Gymnasium, Chicago, 111.....8	2-5

WORLD’S RECORDS IN SKI JUMPING BROKEN.

Harry Hall, of Detroit, broke the world's record for professionals when he jumped 229 feet at the annual ski tournament at Revelstoke, B. C. Feb. 10. The previous record was 214 feet, set by Andre Houghen at Dillon, Col., last year. Henry Hansen also broke the previous record by jumping 221 1-2 feet. He attempted to beat Hall's record and cleared 235 feet, but fell and injured his arm.

Nels Nelson, of Revelstoke, beat his own world’s record for amateurs of 185 feet by jumping 201 feet.

Ivind Nelien, world's boy champion, aged sixteen, broke the record of 120 feet he made on Tuesday by jumping 122 feet and 133 feet today.

Norman Ross broke his own world’s record for the one-mile swim and also smashed six intermediate records during the course of the race in the Central A. A. U. championships held at the Illinois Athletic Club pool Feb. 3. Ross stroked the distance of 22:38 1-5, beating the old mark of 23:23 2-j.

Miss Sibyl Bauer broke her own record of 37 seconds for the 50-yard back stroke for women by winning in 36 i-j seconds.

Sydney, New South Wales, Feb. 19.—Ethelda Bleibtrey, of New York, created a new swimming record for women for the 100 yards at Sidney, New South Wales, Feb. 19, covering the distance in 1:04 2-5-She clipped four-fifths of a second from the old record of 1:05 i-j, made by herself in Philadelphia in July, 1920.

Ludy Langer, the California swimmer, lowered the world's records, in the 300-yard and the 300-meter swim, Feb. 14 at Hobart, Tasmania^ In the first event he clipped 2 1-5 seconds off the old record and in the latter event 9 i-j seconds.

The record for the 300-yard swim in a tank was 3 minutes 16 3-5; seconds. It was held by Norman Ross. The 300-meter swim, also made in a tank, was held by F. E. Beaurepaire of Australia. The figures were 3 minutes 50 1-5 seconds.

Plans for a stadium to be erected on the University of California Field were recently announced by the Regents of the University. The Stadium will seat 60,000 persons and will cost approximately $1,000,000. The structure will be completed for the 1922 football contests. Ground will be broken for the stadium as a feature of this year's commencement exercises.

Construction of a new athletic field at Dartmouth College has been> decided upon as a memorial to 90 Dartmouth men who were killed in the

Digitized by v^ooQle
646

'World War. The expense of the undertaking, amounting to $360,000, wrill be paid by undergraduates and alumni.

The chief item in the plans for the memorial field is a concrete stand vwith space for 5,000 spectators. Additional wooden stands will increase 'the total seating capacity to about $5,000.

In all there will be three football fields, three baseball fields, three <hockey rinks, and 15 tennis courts. An addition to the gymnasium is ♦proposed also.

PERMANENT OLYMPIC BODY TO BE FORMED.

Organization of the American Olympic Association as a permanent tbody to carry on, in the interim between the Olympic games, the work <of American preparation for the international classic will be effected at 4in assembly of athletic officials in the New York A. C. Dec. 28. This imeeting will be attended by representatives of every amateur sports governing body affiliated with the American Olympic Committee, and the ttask of keeping abreast of developments associated with the Olympic .games will be formally assigned to the new organization.

This latest development was disclosed at the meeting of the American ‘Olympic Committee held in the trophy room of the New York A. C. The recommendation for such a body was contained in a report submitted iby the American Olympic Committee's Committee on Reorganization. This report, drawn at a meeting of the committee, was unanimously • adopted with but little alteration.

The idea back of the plan is to perpetuate the work of the American ^Olympic Committee. Under existing arrangements the activity of the American Olympic Committee ceases almost with the conclusion of the 'games held every four years. In the new order of things there will be a •permanent body functioning for the purpose of carrying on Olympic .activity between the games. The campaign for financial support for American Olympic teams, the work of organizing tryouts and selecting members of the team, of arranging transportation and accommodations wherever the games are held, and other important details will all be systematically arranged and planned from year to year, and, as a result, •the responsibility and labor of the Olympic Committee will be considerably lessened.

In the formation of the new organization the Amateur Athletic Union will have the greatest power. Under the provisions of the report adopted, the A. A. U. is permitted thirty-three delegates at the December assembly, three for each of the sports on the Olympic program over which it has jurisdiction—track and field, swimming, boxing, wrestling and gymnastics—and one additional delegate for each of its eighteen territorial members. This representation more than doubles the number of delegates invited from the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which is permitted sixteen. The other amateur sports governing bodies affiliated with the American Olympic Committee are each permitted three delegates to the December assembly. In addition President Harding will be requested to appoint nine delegates to the assembly, one from each of the .Federal Reserve districts.

Digitized by CjOOQle

A
647

By winning five individual championships and the all around championship Curtis Rottman of the New York Tumverein has set a precedent which will be the goal for many a gymnast to equal or better for some time to come.

The annual Cambridge-Oxford (England) boat race was won March 30 by Cambridge in 19 min. 44 sec. The distance was 4 1-4 miles. The race was considered one of the most gruelling ever contested on the Thames.

The following physical education compositions have just been published by the Normal College, American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Indiana, and may be purchased from them at the price of joc each. They consist of:

The Jolly Coppersmith Dumb-bell Exercises.

Suitable for boys of junior and senior high school age and over. Arranged to an old popular melody. Not very difficult.

Bow and Arrow Free Exercises.

A gymnastic composition requiring considerable skill for young men. Arranged to La Zingana by Bohm (Mazurka rhythm).

“Southern Roses Waltz” Reed Exercises.

For girls of high school age and over. Springing over the reed with dance steps predominates. Arranged to one of Strauss* beautiful waltzes. Humoresque Free Exercises.

Suitable for girls and boys of junior and senior high school age and over. Not very difficult. Good setting up values. Arranged to Dvorak's Humoresque.

“Tales from Vienna Woods” Club Exercises.

Suitable for girls of high school age and over. Of average difficulty. Free exercises and dance steps are interwoven. Arranged to one of Strauss' waltzes.

These compositions have all been tried out and found successful and it is to meet the many requests for copies of them that they are published in music sheet form. The music has been specially arranged to suit the exercises. The description of the drills is very thorough and complete. It should offer no difficulties to any one for correct interpretation.

This is the first effort made to publish physical education compositions in this form and it, no doubt, meets a great demand. Few instructors have the time and many have not the ability to arrange well thought-out compositions that have at the same time physical value and artistic beauty so that these compositions will be welcomed by many.

Digitized by CjOOQle
648

Wc have received an interesting letter from Mr. Daniel Chase, Super-visor of Physical Education of the State of New York that will interest our readers because it sets at rest so many rumors stating that New York had “ripped out its whole physical education program/* The letter, in part, is as follows:

“In view of the interest you have shown in our legislative matters, you will be glad to know that in spite of a good deal of talk, we have not been seriously hurt. Our law will remain practically as it was and all schools with twenty or more teachers will be required to have a special teacher of Physical Education * The smaller schools may have special teachers, with the state continuing to contribute one half of the salary up to six hundred dollars ($600.)

““Schools that do not have the special teachers are required to sec that the children receive the work of the Physical Education program at the hands of the regular class room teachers, carrying out as nearly as they can the complete syllabus of the Regents. We want the Physical Education world to generally know that New York State is not taking any serious backward step.

“In the interests of economy the legislature has dropped our staff of 18 state instructors for Rural Schools so these schools will be deprived of state supervision and assistance for the present. Yet we are assured that many of these rural districts will unite and engage regular Physical Education teachers and supervisors as they were required to do when the law was first enacted and which the law now permits*

It is with regret that we note that the Posse Gymnasium Journal will cease to be published. While originally devoted only to the happenings of the Posse Normal School, the journal gradually widened its scope and later took in the whole field of physical education, paying special attention to Medical Gymnastics. Baroness Rose Posse certainly can feel proud of the work done by her as editor of the journal during the last twenty-eight years.

U. S. CIVIL-SERVICE EXAMINATION SPECIALISTS IN RURAL SCHOOLS, $2,260 A YEAR.

RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS TO CLOSE JUNE 7,1921.

The United States Civil Service Commission announces open competitive examinations for the position listed above.

Bonus.—Appointees whose services are satisfactory may be allowed the increase granted by Congress of $20 a month.

Citizenship and sex.—All citizens of the United States who meet the requirements, both men and women, may enter these examinations; appointing officers, however, have the legal right to specify the sex desired in requesting certification of eligibles. For the present vacancy in the position of specialist in rural schools a woman is desired.

Subjects and weights.—Competitors will not be required to report for examination at any place, but will be rated on the following subjects

Digitized by LjOOQle
649

which will have the relative weights indicated:

Subjects.	Weights.

I.	General education and training........................................ io

a.	Special training in theory and practice of	education................. 20

3.	Practical experience in educational work............................. 40

4.	Publications or thesis (to be filed with application ................ 30

Total................................................................100

Basis of ratings.—Under the first three subjects the ratings will be based upon competitors’ sworn statements in their applications and upon corroborative evidence.

Duties and requirements.—The duties of these positions and requirements for eligibility are as follows:

Duties.—Appointees will be employed in the investigation and promotion of health education in the rural schools in the United States, and in the furnishing of information and advice to education officers in the United States for the betterment of health conditions in rural schools. The work will include personal visits to schools, addressing teachers and pupils on health topics, conferring with school officers and others in regard to plans for health education, addressing prospective teachers in normal schools on health topics, and preparing material on health education.

Requirements.—Applicants must have graduated from a college or university of recognized standing with major work in home economics or school hygiene, and have had at least three years* practical experience in teaching or demonstration work, which must have included experience as a public speaker on educational or health topics.

Writings.—Under the fourth subject applicants must submit with their applications publications or thesis such as would demonstrate their qualifications for this position. If a thesis is submitted it must deal with some phase of rural school education, home economics, or school hygiene.

Age.—Applicants must not have reached their seventieth birthday on the date of the examination. At the request of an appointing officer certification will be made of eligibles who are within reasonable age limits.

Retirement.—Classified employees who have reached the retirement age and have served fifteen years are entitled to retirement with an annuity. The retiremont age for railway mail clerks is 62 years, for mechanics and post-office clerks and carriers 65 years, and for others 70 years. A deduction of 2 per cent is made from the monthly salary to provide for this annuity, which will be returned to persons leaving the service before retirement with 4 per cent interest compounded annually.

Photographs.—Applicants must submit with their applications their unmounted photographs, taken within two years, with their names written thereon. Proofs or group photographs will not be accepted. Photographs will not be returned to applicants.

Residence and domicile.—Applicants will be admitted to these examinations regardless of their residence and domicile; but only those who have been actually domiciled in the State or Territory in which they reside for at least one year previous to the examination, and who have the county officer’s certificate in the application form executed, may become eligible for permanent appointment to the apportioned service in Wash-

Digitized by CjOOQle
660

ington, D. C.

Applications.—Applicants should at once apply for Form in 8, stating the title of the examination desired, to the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.; the Secretary of the United States Civil Service Board, Customhouse, Boston, Mass., New York, N. Y., New Orleans, La., Honolulu, Hawaii; Post Office, Philadelphia, Pa., Atlanta, Ga., Cincinnati, Ohio, Chicago, 111., St. Paul, Minn., Seattle, Wash., San Francisco, Calif., Denver, Colo.; Old Customhouse, St. Louis, Mo.; Administration Building, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone; or to the Chairman of the Porto Rican Civil Service Commission, San Juan, P. R.

Applications should be properly executed, excluding the medical certificate, and must be filed with the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C., with the material required, prior to the hour of closing business on June 7, 1921.

The exact title of the examination desiredy as given at the head of this announcement, should be stated in the application form.

Preference.—Applicants entitled to preference should attach to their applications their original discharge, or a photo-state or certified copy thereof, or their official record of service, which will be returned after inspection.

Issued April 2iy ip2i.

THE 32 NATIONAL TOURNAMENT OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

Chicago, 111. June 29, 30, July 1, 2 and 3.

We would like to call the particular attention of our readers to the next national festival of the American Gymnastic Union. The entries to date show that 64 societies will participate coming from cities located from the extreme east to the extreme west. The character of the work to be shown at Chicago will be better understood when we say that at least 1100 young men will take part, also 450 seniors and 1000 young women. This latter part is an innovation as so far women have only taken part in model exercises. In Chicago they for the first time take part in team games and in individual work.

The entries are as follows: Men’s relay races 42 teams, Men’s Volleyball 44 teams, Men’s Tug of War 33 teams; Senior’s Volleyball 15 teams, Tug of War 11 teams; Women’s captainball 28 teams, making a total of 173 teams.

In addition to the above 65 model exercises will be shown, and anyone who has ever attended a previous festival of the Turners will know that among these there will be rare treats for all who are interested in our work.

NOTICE TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS.

There will be one more issue of Mind and Body for the present school year, the July number. This issue will be mailed between the 5th and the 10th of June. If you are leaving your present address before the 15th of June be sure to drop us a card NOW telling us where to send

Digitized by (^.ooQle
651

the July number. You do not want to miss that number. We hope to> be able to give you another complete pageant, one that you will almost surely want to use during the coming year. You can not afford to miss; this issue but if you do not notify us of your change of address we cannot replace the copy you fail to receive. Be sure also to tell us at the same time, if possible, what your September address will be.

SPECIAL ATTENTION TO DETROIT PLAYGROUNDS.

The board of education of Detroit established within the department of architectural engineering a division of landscape architecture. It was. realized that the proper development of the area surrounding the schools is a distinct asset in the education of the boys and girls of the city.

It is the task of the division of landscape architecture so to develop the school grounds that the highest point of efficiency and beauty will, be reached. It is aimed to give every school a properly surfaced playground, so constructed as to drain easily and quickly, t.o be resilient,, to be free from dust and sharp cutting particles which tend to destroy the children’s shoes and clothing and cause scratched faces or hands whem by chance the children fall upon it. Wherever possible a lawn will be-constructed and appropriate shrubs, vines, and trees planted.

BOOK REVIEWS.

“the cure of imperfect sight by treatment without glasses*' by W. H. Bates, M. D. 313 pages 5 1-2 by 8 inches, fully illustrated.. Price $5.00 postpaid. Published by Central Fixation Publishing Co.* New York City.

In this book the author, who is well known for his discovery of the: properties of the suprarenal extract (commercilaized as adreanlin) as well as for a lifetime of ophthalmological studies* presents evidence to> show that most of the accepted theories about the eye are wrong. It contains: A RESUME of animal experiments and clinical; observations; which demonstrate that the lens is not a factor in accommodation and that all errors of refraction (nearsight, farsight, astigmatism and even, old-age sight) are functional and curable.

The book also contains METHODS OF TREATMENT whereby such cures have been effected in thousands of cases. BY MEANS OF* THESE METHODS not only physicians, but parents, teachers and others, who themselves have normal vision, are said to be able to cure children, under twelve who have never worn glasses and many children and adults, who have worn them, while persons with minor defects of vision can often, cure themselves.

We have shown the book to a number of physicians. They all say “it can’t be done.” But Dr. Bates surely does present numerous proofs that it has been done.

The book certainly should be of interest to all teachers of physical! training, and it should be of unusual interested those^ teaching personal! hygiene.

Digitized by Tooele
662

“old at foaty. oa young at sixty” by Robert S. Carroll, M. D. 147 pages 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Price >2.25. MacMillan, New York.

Dr. Carroll tells us that the great mass of pre-infirmity, and presenility is not based in defective physical inheritance, but in ignorance of the right way of life or the deficiency of character to pursue that way. He tells us that unless some vital organ is disabled, that the average man of affairs and his wife can double, yes, often treble, their vital capacity, as late as sixty.

He asks, How do we grow old? Not the exceptional man or woman, but just you and I. Early, thru deficiency in our spiritual responses; later, by becoming satisfied with dulling mental reactions, and only finally, by the inevitable but too often unseasonable loss of physical adaptability.

Each chapter is filled with interesting facts and materials that will be an inspiration to give serious thought to mental and physical and spiritual fitness. Whether we shall deteriorate at 40, or whether we shall grow old gradually and comfortably, shall be determined by well formed physical habits. Ignorance of the laws of well living or, in the face of knowledge, the soul’s acceptance of comfort and ease of days or decades, - of pleasure-bearing indulgence, tells the tale.

Dr. Carroll has given much space to the care of the body, the right and wrong kinds of food, the pleasure and profit derived and the blending of work and play. Even before 40, he says, we are paying the price of too much “eat” and too little sweaty work.

“Old at 40 or young at 60” contains interesting, readable material, with helpful, simple recommendations along physical, mental and spiritual lines, that should help all who read it to so plan Life’s activities that the Biblical promise shall be theirs, “By reason of strength, the number of thy days shall be four score years.”

“a textbook of gymnastics” by K. A. Knudsen. 347 pages, 5 by 8 inches, profusely illustrated. Published by J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. Price $2.50.

Im. Knudsen is chief inspector of gymnastics for Denmark and he has written a valuable book showing how he would like to have physical training taught. The book is well illustrated by line engravings and halftones. It was translated by Miss Ruth Herbert, England and H. G. Junker, Denmark. Before being printed it was revised by Frank N. Punchard, master of method, College of Hygiene and Physical Training, Dunfermline, Scotland.

The volume starts with a short history of gymnastics. It next takes up the aim of physical education, exercises and their classification, tables of exercises, progression, teacher and teaching. In part II the separate parts of a lesson based upon the Swedish system are gone into detail with a wealth of suggestions of how to accomplish results that are worth while.

The book ends with a short terminology, a summary of technical terms and a short bibliography. It should be a great help not only to all who conduct their work on the basis of the Swedish system but to all teachers of physical education.

WANTED:	A	few	more	February	1921	copies;	also	March,	1919.

Digitized by CjOOQle
663

Send in your renewal order now if the date on your addrtos label reads April, May or June 21. Don’t miss the July copy. It will not be^ sent if your subscription has expired.

SWORN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY THE POSTAL LAW.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT, ETC.* Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND5 BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1921. STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid* personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Co., New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia Pa.,

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—Alb. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	• That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 30th day of March, 1921.

L. B. KROOK,

Notary Public, Brown Co., Minn. (SEAL)	My	commission	expires March 7, 1923..

Digitized by L^ooQle
The

Recognized Textbook on Playground Planning--

This 128-Page Medart Catalog is recognized everywhere as a textbook on Playground Planning and Installations. It shows in detail just what apparatus is best suited for boys, for girls and for smaller children. It shows ideal playground layouts, where cost is secondary to service and it shows, too, what combinations are most desirable for smaller communities or centers where only a limited appropriation is available.

And, of course, it points out convincingly just why you should always specify Medart Playground Equipment.

Add this elaborate book to your library—it is an actual help to anyone interested in Playgrounds and Playground Planning. Sent promptly on request.

FRED MEDART MFG. CO.

Potomac & De Kalb	St.	Louis,	Mo.

New York	San	Francisco

52 Vanderbilt Ave.	Rialto Bldg.

. j

Digitized by v^.ooQle