Vol. 5.	APRIL,	1898.	No.	50

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal school, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, 8ec*y. or the Technical committee of the n. A. Gymnastic union, Con. 3rd a Chestnut 8t*8, St.Loui8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M.-O., managing Editor, 780 thir6 8t., Milwaukee, Wi8.

RHYTHMIC MOTION AND MUSIC AS FACTORS IN EDUCATION.

By ANNE ELIZABETH ALLEN, Head Kindergarten Dept. Chicago Normal.

(Concluded.)

MAY I describe to you, minutely, our daily first half-hour in our Kindergarten ? Even at the risk of boring you I shall try to do so, as I feel that it will give you a better idea of why I value it so highly, than anything else I may say.

The children sit in their chairs around a large circle, and during the first weeks of school we chose four or five children at a time w^ho came to the center and selected partners, asking them, with a little bow, for a simple skip. The piano making a change in time for taking partners and returning them to their places from that of the skipping, which, of course is faster. After awhile they were given the opportunity of finding, without being chosen to do so, five marked places in the circle, thus getting the freedom which alertness would give them to find one of these places, and the self-control to wait their turn.

Many movements, expressive of the thought we are working with in the Kindergarten, set to appropriate music, make directly for and build in the child a grace such as may never be gained in any other way. And through the plays he loves best with the piano accompaniment he gains an insight into the relation of time to movement and the musical changes which suggest corresponding changes in rhythmic motion, an ease and grace of body, a courtesy of manner towards others, built upon the sure basis of kind feeling and desire to have all share alike in this pleasure which after all is the best.

Digitized by ^ooQle
' -26-

I was once asked by a college professor, if in the Kindergarten we ever insisted upon accuracy and definiteness. If, in their hand-work, we kept them at a piece of work until they had made it accurately ?

“No, most decidedly not,” I said, “but we present, I believe, the best conditions for its growth in our exercises in rhythm which many of them persistently work over at home until they succeed in perfectly acquiring them.”

Herbert Spencer in his article on rhythm in Vol. Ill of his First Principles makes one feel the magnitute of its scope in all nature, and Emerson in his “Monadnoc” practically expresses the same thought, when he says :

“For the world was built in order,

And the atoms march in tune;

Rhyme the pipe and time the warder,

The sun obeys them and the moon,

Orb and atom forth they prance,

When they hear from far the rune ;

None so backward in the troop,

When the music and the dance Reach his place and circumstance,

But knows the sun creating sound,

And though a pyramid, will bound.”

One of the strongest characteristics of a little child is, we all well know, that of imitation. We steadfastly keep our children away from any bad moral or mental influences, because of this strong innate faculty, we might call it, and still we surround him with bad physical forms which he unconsciously imitates. His nurse may be a good woman in many ways and admirably adapted to supply his needs in most ways, but do we ever look at her physically ? Is she awkward, cumbersome, and clumsy in her movements, or quick and jerky ? If so, what a terrible example of ungainliness she sets before him, and how the constant presence of -such ugliness must tell upon his whole life, for nothing is uglier than awkwardness.

What I should like to say on the subject of children’s parties and dancing schools) has been so much better said by Jean Paul Richter, that, with your permission, I should like to quote it at length. It is taken from his “Levana” and may be found under the head of Children’s Dances as follows :

“I know not whether I should most deprecate children’s balls, or praise children’s dances! The former—before the dancing master—in the society of lookers-on and fellow-dancers, in the hot temperature of the ball-room, and among its hot products—are, in the highest degree, the front ranks and leading steps to the dance of death. On the contrary, children’s dances are, what I will now commend, more at large.

“As the first speech long precedes grammar, so should dancing precede and prepare the infant for the art of dancing. A father who has an old piano, or fiddle, or flute, or an improvising singing voice, should call his own and his neighbor’s children together and let them every day for an hour hop and turn by his orchestra, in pairs, in rows, in circles, \ery frequently alone, accompanying themselves with singing, as their own grinding organ, and also in any way they like. In the child happiness dances ; in the man, at most, it only smiles or weeps. The



Digitized by v^ooQle
-27-

mature man can in dancing only express the beauty of the art, not himself and his emotions; love would thereby comport itself too widely, joy too loudly and boldly before the stem nemesis. In the child body and soul still live united in their honeymoon, and the active body dances after the happy soul, until afterwards both separate from bed and board, and at last entirely leave one another. In later times the light zephyr of contentment cannot turn the heavy metal standard to point its course. * * * *

“Dancing is the easiest of all movements, because it needs the least space and is the most varied ; hence joy is not a runner but a dancer ; hence the indolent savage dances, and the wearied negro slave rouses himself by dancing to fresh exertion; hence the runner—all other circumstances being the same—has more frequently fallen down dead than the dancer. Hence camels, armies, and oriental laborers continue their laborious marches for a longer time and with more ease to the sound of music ; not principally because music produces cheerfulness, that might easily be attained by other pleasures, but because music rounds off the straight movement into the circling dance and its still returning rhythm ; for it is only in a circular, not in a straight, line that everything returns in thirds. * * * *

“What better movement, then, can there be for children than this revolving one ? The gymnastic of running, going on stilts, climbing, etc., steels and hardens individual forces and muscles, whereas dancing, on the contrary, like a physical poet, exercises and equalizes all the muscles. Further, the harmony connected with it imparts to the affections and the mind that metrical order which reveals the highest and regulates the beat of the pulse, the step, and even the thoughts. Music is the meter of this poetic movement and is an invisible dance as dancing is a silent music. Finally, this also ranks among the advantages of this eye and heel pleasure, that children with children, by no harder canon than the musical, light as sound, may be joined in a rosebud feast without thorns or strife.

“In short, dancing cannot come soon enough, ‘but the dancing master may more easily come too soon than too late.’ ”

I believe that giving time and thought to this subject and watching a thorough experimental test of the value of daily rhythmical exercises with little children, as I have found, will be ready to acquiesce to Richter’s enthusiasm and conviction of its value in the training of little children.

There are a few words I should like to add with regard to our choice of music. I believe that “the best is good enough” and only the best of all art for our children. How to find suitable music, simple enough for our mothers to play in accompanying their children in song or rhythmic motion and yet good, not violating the principles of true musical composition, has been and still is a problem. Our great musical composers have not been students of little musicians, so their compositions have not been adapted to them. There is a great field open here for a master hand who will be willing to follow for a little while the miniature child’s yearnings for music.

James Sulley in his new book “Studies of Childhood” says : “The

Digitized by Google
-28-

first likings for musical composition are based on the instinctive feeling for rhythm. It is the simple tunes, with well-marked, easily recognizable time-diversions, which first take the child’s fancy, and he knows the quieting and the exciting qualities of different rhythms and times. Where rhythm is less marked or grows highly complex, the motor responses being confused, the pleasurable interest declines. It is the same with the rhythmic qualities of verse. The jingling rhythms which their souls love are of simple structure, with short feet well marked off, as in the favorite ‘Jack and Gill.’”

The best music in most instances lacks the simplicity in thought necessary to make it an avenue of expression for the activity of children. Flippant, enlivening music, such as is full of fire and passion, or that is of a highly intellectual character, is not suitable. The three former would cultivate a reaction of such emotions or qualities, as good, appropriate music should be most potent to overthrow, and the latter is as much out of place in a nursery as “Locke on the Understanding. ’ ’

There is nothing that has the same soothing, quieting influence upon children, and we may add grown people, too, as the right kind of music* I have seen a Kindergarten of eighty children calmed and harmonized by a few simple strains of a familiar melody, or even a a succession of rich, full, melodious chords. Again, I have felt the potency of a sweet, sympathetic voice to unify discordant members of a small community, and have seen them unconsciously drop and forget the bone of contention as they became absorbed in, and subdued t>y, its sweet spell.

Ruskin says : “Music, in her health, is the teacher of perfect order, and is the voice of the obedience of angels and the companion of the course of the spheres of heaven.”

I have heard Miss Eleanor Smith, the composer of some of our best primary songs, say that the little savages in one of the settlement districts in Chicago became so infatuated with the music she was able to give them as to beg her to give them more and more, pleading with her not to send them away.

Emerson says : “The sweetest music is not in the oratorio, but in the human voice when it speaks from its instant life tones of tenderness, truth, or courage/’

I think he must have had specially in mind a mother’s voice which, in her soft lullabies to her little one, is one of the* sweetest sounds in the world. The mother’s influence over her baby may be enhanced tenfold, is she but able to sing to him and does sing and play for him from his earliest infancy.

And hand in hand with her music should go the little embryonic rhythmical movements. She may help his limbs to take in time with it until he gradually grows strong enough to follow alone.

The next and more mature interpretation of music is that of reading the thought expressed through its medium by the composer. This may be cultivated through the constant hearing of good music, and explanations and interpretations by good musicians. You may learn to hear the tramp of the soldiers and horses that bear away to battle the

\

Digitized by v^ooQle
-29-

beloved of Lenore in Raff’s exquisite Symphony, that so plainly tells its own story as one follows it in its simple, exquisite unfolding. The Ride of the Valkyries may bring vividly before you, as you listen, the picture of the wild, rugged mountains, with the battle maidens on their hery steeds searching for the slain and carrying off the dead bodies of the heroes to Walhalla.

The Sonata Pathetique of Beethoven will speak to your heart in its mature sorrow as will nothing else, and soothe and harmonize its disserting rebellion.

If these wonderful musical expressions reveal themselves to you after years of neglect, in learning to read their secrets, how simple a matter it will be to gradually build unto the life of a child, through his earliest insight into musical expression, the ability to grasp the meaning of the messages the masters have written for him as his maturity demands assistance and his intellectual and spiritual life nourishment for their growth.

In conclusion allow me to repeat, let us give our children music, the best of music, and free, full scope for rhythmic motion, and many things will be added. In the rounding out of his individuality I believe it to be one of the essentials, and experience will, I believe, bring you to the same conclusion.

On the Value of Athletic Exercise as a Counter Agent to the Sedentary Pursuits of Urban Population.

By SIR DYCE DUCKWORTH, M. D., LL. D., Physician and Lecturer on Medicine, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London; Hon. Physician to H. R. H., the Prince of Wales.

(Concluded.)

I MAY next try to point out how, as citizens, you may avail yourselves of this athletic institute in this town. I have already stated that men over forty years of age become gradually disinclined for any but moderate exercise of their muscles. It has been said on good authority that no one after this age should run to catch a train, lest he should dangerously strain his heart. I much fear such risks are ventured upon every day. But such a warning by no means implies that exercise should be materially curtailed. Only violent forms of it should not be practiced. The natural disinclination should not be quite disregarded, but athletic feats must not be expected or encouraged after forty years of age in the average man.

If a professional athlete is capable of these, it is because he is in constant training, and must needs lead a careful, wholesome life. He can follow no sedentary pursuits entailing confinement in close rooms for many hours. There is a natural tendency to stiffness and a loss of resiliency in the textures which renders it hard to compete with younger men when middle-life is passed. Albeit, there may be remarkable agility and great muscular power at this period in healthy men who have followed some athletic pursuit in early life. The danger attaches

Digitized by Google
-30-

to the practice of athletics for the first time in middle-life without previous training in earlier years. Such men should begin very gradually, and for short periods. Light clubs and gentle exercises which expand the chest are best at this period. No heavy work, such as lifting weights, or exercise entailing sudden spurts of energy are advisable. Ordinary drill with precise and smart movements will well correct the stooping gait and slovenly slouch of many citizens, setting back the shoulders, and giving an uprightness of carriage much to be desired. Our citizen volunteer army bears efficient witness to the benefits derived from this. For graceful carriage and poise of the body I know of no exercise better fitted than that of fencing, one too much neglected by Englishmen, and the earlier it is begun the letter. The perfection of military drill is that of the lance-exercise, which secures the finest and most accurate agility. All exercises tending to expand the chest are of great value, and must be allowed to give to those who follow them many chances in warding off diseases of the lungs.

If only a moderate amount of athleticism is permissible, though very advantageous to men in middle-life, it is certain that younger townsmen may by degrees attain to the highest excellence and developments in it. Hence I may very strongly urge younger men to carry on here every form of muscular activit}', for they will thus be equipped to carry on such exercise far into their future lives without the risks attendant in case of older persons.

Another point I would lay stress upon, and it is this, that all such exercises should be regular, and not carried out by fits and starts. Those who enter here should arrange the time-table of their lives so as to secure leisure for the work they purpose to do.

For the average entrant here, I would further state that I look with disfavor on all attempts to do very extraordinary feats. The word athlete signifies one who contends for excellence or for a prize. We must use the word with some special reservation as applied to city men in general. These are times in which every one strives to “break the record,” as the expression goes, to jump further or higher, to lift heavier weight, to cover the ground in less time than has ever been done before. All this may and can be done ; but not by the average man ; and remember, most of us are average men, and are not designed for extraordinary performances in perhaps any walk of life. Such attempts can only irijure the average man, and do him more harm than good. They are ill-adapted for dwellers in towns who have their bread to win at the desk, in the shop, or in the factory. When I give this warning I by no means wish to discourage the man blessed with extraordinary muscular endowments; but he is exceptional, be it remembered, and the aims of average citizens had better be rather less ambitious. I doubt not you could give me an array of examples which controvert my teaching, and would say I think too poorly of the potentiality of the average citizen. But I am not speaking without full knowledge of what is best in the long run for such a person, with his peculiar mode of life and environments. Young men at the universities who are well fed and live in pure air may well be subjected to higher tests and strain than city men who follow sedentary pursuits. It is not in accordance with my

Digitized by Google
-31-

experience that boys or young men should be coddled in town or country. I believe in the value of active muscularity for all not positively delicate or disabled by actual infirmities, and know well how the general standard of health may thus be raised for the majority of average youths by enforced efforts in this direction. I do not fear the frequent occurrence of the recent lamented result in the case of the somewhat notorious “Rugby run.” You will never make an omelette if you are afraid of breaking your eggs. I feel sure, however, that all who enter upon a course of athletic exercises will do well to be medically ' certified as fit in all respects to perform them and profit by them, and I would add that prolonged runs demand especial fitness, and are only to be practiced by men under five-and-thirty years of age.

We hear much of regulating hours of work for people in these days.

I am not afraid of work. I believe in plenty of it for the best health of mindsand body. It is worry that kills people. It is idleness that xots hody, soul, and mind. It may be well to regulate the hours of worlfc done under unwholesome conditions, as in mines and ill-ventilated workshops; and this reminds me that many shops and offices and chambers are occupied, even in these days, with scant attention to proper ventilation by people who should know better. Little, if any, harm will come to those who pursue sedentary business in well-aired places, provided sufficient regular exercise be taken. I have no fear for the average outdoor laborer overworking himself. I often watch him -at work, and envy his lot, cast all day in the open air. I watch him leaving his work just when I am getting very busy, and envy him his leisure. I envy him his half-holidays, too, which I cannot get, and I have watched him spending them too often wasting his wages on himself, and converting himself into a besotted and defaced image of a man, stumbling home to sleep off his orgies well into the next Sunday afternoon. We doctors know these things, and the really industrious man has no better friends than among us. We shall tell him the truth, however, and npt fill his head with nonsense, flattery, and discontent, but urge him to avoid scamping work, and to share his earnings soberly and righteously with his wife and family.

I feel very sure that until the laboring man has learned to spend a sober and domestic, or profitable, half-holiday, he had far better be without it, and doing something useful. Your athletic institute, however, is not for them. Their muscles are sufficiently exercised, and we would urge them to cultivate their minds by visits to museums, picture galleries, and well-ordered reading-rooms, to social clubs where the professional agitator cannot enter, and where beer and tobacco may be used and in no degree abused.

But I fear I am wandering into paths where I have no right to stray. My thoughts were centred on urban life, with its hard problems, its snares and pitfalls, and I bethink me now of a passage in one of the sermons of that great prophet of modern times, Charles Kingsley, who delivered himself twenty-two years ago of the following burning words, which I will read to you :

“I can conceive a time/’ said he, “when by improved chemical science every foul vapor which now escapes from the chimney of a

Digitized by
—32—

manufactory, polluting the air, destroying the vegetation, shall be seized, utilized, converted into some profitable substance, till the black country shall be black no longer, the streams once more crystal clear, the trees once more luxuriant, and the desert, which man has created in his haste and greed, shall in literal fact once more blossom as the rose. And just so can I conceive a time when by a higher civilization, formed on political economy more truly scientific, because more truly according" to the will of God, our human refuse shall be utilized like our material refuse ; when man, as man, down to the weakest and most ignorant, shall be found (as he really is) so valuable that it will be worth while to preserve his health, to develop his capabilities, to save him alive, body, intellect, and character, at any cost; because men will see that a man is, after all, the most precious and useful thing on earth, and that no cost spent on the development of human beings can possibly be thrown away”

I would fain let these be the last words I uttered before you to-night, but I must not conclude without first offering you my hearty congratulations on the most excellent means you have instituted in this building for combating the ill-effects of sedentary and town lives. Here, at least, is an unalloyed source of good and benefit. Who can declaim against this institution ? Who dares to decry your efforts ? When the local historian comes to describe the deeds of those who have worked with a public spirit for the best requirements of the people of Birmingham during the last quarter of this century, my belief is that he will not fail to mark the very important part played in that great work by the wisdom and shrewd good sense of those who devised and perfected the athletic institution in this town.

TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, ST. LOUIS, MO.*

Providence, R. I., September, 1887.

Gentlemen :—I feel in complying to your request for some expression of opinion on the great 27th Turnfest at St. Louis in May last, I should first extend my many thanks for the honor you conferred upon me in asking me to be your guest. Its appreciation on my part was of the highest, and the courtesies extended so lavishly from Turners and the citizens of St. Louis were such that the debt of hospitality can never be balanced. It is difficult to be a critic when there is little to criticise in the usually accepted sense of the word, and when, too, one feels loaded down with debts of kindly courtesies.

Believing fully in both thought and execution of the German system, I was prepared, before witnessing the actual work of the participants^ to endorse its performance and results and to prophesy a success. That the latter would be of so marked a nature as came to pass even under the adverse weather conditions was, however, a surprise. Any body of educational workers, drawing together thousands upon

* The members of the COMMITTEE ON OBSERVATION for last year’s National Contest in St. Louis, have sent in their individual reports, which by order of the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE shall be published in Mind and Body.—Eld.

Digitized by c.oogle
-33-

thousands of men, women, and children, enthusiastic for a common cause, deserves the highest measure of praise. This strong feature of the Tumerbund as a body, its whole-souled purpose towards a well pronounced goal, is a lesson to other organizations not filled with as unselfish principles in the promulgation of that which they profess to teach. Praise should be given to each individual worker, no matter what the capacity, in that each person appeared to subordinate self and apparently felt the success of the Fest depended upon the individual part being performed to the highest limit of his powers. An association infusing this thought and being so manifestly able to execute it, is one from which all other bodies could profitably copy.

The choice of exercises for school children, it seemed to me, was of a better nature and gradation and more on the higher principles of educational gymnastics than I had seen formerly at similar gatherings. The substitution of the divided skirt for misses and young women for the shortened dress skirt, formerly in vogue in German gymnasia, is one to be commended. Of the execution of the public school work no criticism could be made. The rythra was admirable and the strength and power were manifest qualities of expression, not always maintained in a memorized drill given to music. If a suggestion were allowable, it would be that a megaphone could be used to good advantage in giving commands to so large a body as was present during the school children’s drill. This device would, I believe, prove of value in announcing events, if of a competitive nature, and their winners at their close.

The work of the Actives, being the major part of the Fest, merits commendation on all sides. The fine discipline of this army of young men, their belief in and respect for their leaders, their evident love of the work for the good thereby resulting, were features which stood out prominently and refuted many of the ideas attributed to the average young American.

If the members of the Tumerbund, familiarly known as the “Bears,” would not act as gymnastic missionaries, repeating their Tumfest events throughout the country, it is probable a different conception of the value of systematized, regularly continued gymnastic work would be the result. Gymnastic work which ceases both with women as well as men at 40 years of age, is one of the errors of all systems but the German, except in desultory cases, and the fact that the Seniors of the Tumerbund can and do continue their regular practice to their own good advantage, is a feature that should be known outside their own circle and system of exercises.

While the newspaper accounts of the Fest in St. Louis and vicinity were of a graphic and truthful nature, it is to be regretted that the eastern press and that of New York city gave but a few lines to what was truly a great affair. In a certain sense I consider it the equal of the Athenian games and it deserved as great recognition. It was the carrying forth of a hereditary idea and followed to a great extent the Greek conception of a great national outpouring. For this reason I believe it should have received more than local notice. Writers and illustrators from leading magazines might have been invited, and as a result the public would have seen more than a ten line description of the culmination of four years’ effort. When a college football match, or

Digitized by v^ooQle
a prize fight, occupies pages of space to the exclusion of good literature, or the world’s championship skating races in Canada calls into action dozens of well known writers and illustrators upon matters bearing upon out-door sports, the outgrowth of the interest in bodily development, certainly it is not egotistical to assume that a national Turnfest is of equal if not of more importance than the subjects referred to.

The compliment bestowed in my being asked to serve as the only woman upon the Observation Committee is fully appreciated, but I regret that I had good reason, while in St. Louis, to feel that other women might have been equally honored. My German-American confreres seem slow -to recognize the fact that this is what Victor Hugo has aptly termed “Woman’s Century.” If the Turnerbund admits women as students to its Gymnastic Normal School, why does it not show some of the classes taught and led by women on its Turnfest field ? The percentage of women teachers and leaders in this country is growing, and I regret that other instructors, far my superior, are not placed upon your committees. This I think is particularly desirable in exhibition of work done by young women. But a small proportion of women instructors throughout the East understand the principles upon which the Turnerbund maintains its success. This is due possibly to the feeling that the German Turners have not, until very recently, made any advance of welcome towards women as a whole. Personally I have not felt this, and from the courtesy shown me in believing that my opinions were worth recognition, I would ask that hereafter women teachers of your own and other systems be more generally recognized, that they be given a place on committees, and that they be asked to attend in official or unofficial capacity, in order that the German-American system may grow as it should, and not be confined as it will be, unless some such step is taken to those of German-American parentage. Women to-day are the best speakers for the advancement of any phase of educational thought, and the cause of physical education would be materially advanced if the thought which has deterred turners from asking women to openly response their cause were relegated to the Dark Ages. The German-American system may need no defenders, but it does need a trifle less conservatism as regards its attitude towards my own sex. It takes some courage to make this statement after having been the only woman guest of your body, but when one has thoroughly at heart the wish for your unrestricted future success, the knowledge that this is a drawback permits the fullest expression of an adverse opinion held by many admirers of your system.

That the 28th Turnfest may be the equal of that in May last, is my heartiest wish. That it will be is a foregone conclusion when it is considered how every Turner works towards that end, preparing for years. I trust that your committee will decide upon a city in the East, that educators generally may be able to witness the wonderful results you reach.

That the Gymnastic Union will always possess its present unity and enthusiasm is the sincere wish of

Yours very respectfully,

Ellen Le Garde,

Director of Physical Training, Providence, R. I., Public Schools,

'	and	Editor	of “The Gymnasium.”

Digitized by tjOOQle
MilSP ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly,

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

StCll-w’aLVLleM, Wiaconaln.

If Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

SUMMER SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

ONCE MORE.

WE must again defend the summer schools against narrow-mindedness and short-sightedness. We do so because we consider them not only valuable helps in the propaganda for physical education, but also because we think them absolutely necessary. Where, we would like to ask, can the instructor of gymnastics increase his practical knowledge of the subject ? Where find new ideas ? Where should he become acquainted with systems other than his own, or methods new to him ? The graduate of any institution, in any line whatsoever, is a mere beginner in his calling at the time of graduation ; he is anything but finished. If he is progressive (and we should have none other) he will, in the course of time, find himself rust}' in some theoretical things and in need of studying subjects and methods yet unknown to him.

Summer schools serve the same ends as do post-graduate schools, without which an efficient corps of teachers cannot be formed.

Another class for which we need the summer schools are the teachers of the public schools. The schools of the smaller country places should have instruction in this branch of education, but cannot afford to employ a special teacher. If we have the cause at heart, should we not give such teachers an opportunity for at least acquiring an elementary knowledge of the subject. Will not these teachers become the warmest advocates of physical education and of the school where they have received their instruction ?

In the minds of those opposed to summer schools of gymnastics the principal danger is said to lurk in the possibilit}' that such summer school graduates will accept positions, which they are not capable of filling, and by crowding them, injure the chances of the better trained normal graduates.

This argument is not valid, for thousands of schools in this country are as yet without a special teacher of physical training, although willing to employ the right individuals. No routine-teachers or drill-masters are wanted there, but scientific teachers, who are governed by true pedagogical principles. A goodly number of the graduates of the normal schools are found to be lacking.—The faction or system that does the most for its summer-school, will in the end be the dominating one in the country.	_____

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by
-36-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By W. A. OCKER, M. D.

—At the next German Gymnastic Tournament at Hamburg some 6—7000 participants are expected. The customary calisthenics will be replaced by exercises with the iron wand, and the class competitions will give way to mass-exhibitions presented by each district separately. Not only will there be individual competitions on apparatus, but three athletic events have been added, thus making the next Turnfest in Germany very similar to our own enjoyable festivals.

—The Berlin District claims, by its last report, a total membership of 3915, consisting of 1556 active members, 681 apprentices (corresponds to our juniors), 1369 boys, 162 ladies, and 147 girls.

PHYSICAL TRAINING OF CHILDREN.

IT is now coming to be generally recognized that the physical training of a child is of equal importance to, and in many instances of greater importance than, mental training. Up to the last few years this necessary branch of education has been almost ignored, especially in the schools of the poorer classes, but it appears now that the people are awakening to the necessity of caring for the body as well as for the mind. “A healthy mind in a healthy body” is surely as much to be desired in these days as when the words were written by the great Roman poet many hundred years ago. The Ancients at least fully appreciated the value of these two most precious of human possessions, and their efforts to attain to a high standard of excellence in both were more thorough and judicious than those of the men and women of these times. The Greeks, probably the most highly cultured race the world has ever known, in the gymnasiums paid as much attention to mental as to physical education. The Germans of all the civilized nations of the present era have followed most closely in the foot steps of the Greeks, and their educational system, allowing for the difference in time and ideas, is mainly modelled on that of old Greece ; but even they, it is believed by many, lag behind Rome and Greece. In this country, in 1889, only twelve cities, mostly in the west, had introduced gymnastics as a part of the course of a public school education. Since then physical training has been introduced into almost all the large cities of the east. The report of the director of physical training in public schools of Washington, D. C., has lately been published, and the results appear to have been satisfactory, although, as the report says, “it is impossible to test the full measure of success or failure of our efforts. It is in the remote future with school days long past that the lasting influence of such work will be felt by the individual child. That the bodies of our children in school are better formed, better carried, and more gracefully used there is no doubt.” That part of the report which refers to school medical inspection is particularly deserving of notice, and is in brief as follows: “I wish to assist in urging systematic daily medical inspection



Digitized by ^ooQle
-37-

as a means of improving the physical condition of the child in school and reducing the possibility of contagion. It needs the critical eye of the medical expert to detect cases of nervous disorder, low nutrition and diseases in their incipient stages. At intervals of at least one year examinations should be niade to discover imperfect vision or defective hearing.” Many of the American cities have adopted this plan, and it would assuredly add to the well-being of the children if their example were followed all over the country.—Pediatrics.

SKIPPING-ROPE ROUNDEL.

ARRANGED FOR 16 GIRLS-AGE 12 TO 16 YEARS.

By A. E. KINDERVATER, St. Louis Turnverein.

Music:	March	and	gavotte,	alternating.	The	rope	used is the

common style, handles reaching above hips when standing on rope.

A. INTRODUCTION.

The class is arranged in two flank lines of eight files each, one line on each side of platform, facing to rear, the taller girls in front. Each line is subdivided into two ranks of four files each. The girls carry their ropes around their waists, like sashes, handles on left side.

B. ENTRY.

1.	Angle-march forward inward, form two’s at centre, and march forward to front of platform, forming a column of two’s or double line.. 16 counts.

2.	All face outward, grasp neighbors’ hands, and

Each line wheel (8) outward



-L2

J.3

-L4

a. s

-L W -L 7 JL 6

f PONT

forward right, small steps, half circle about its centre (8). This brings the taller girls to the rear,

all facing inward..... 16	counts

All forward 8 and backward 8 steps.......... 16	“

In ranks of two wheel % circle forward to front, open ranks back-

3

i

*

sh

fa

fa

/•ft’

til /I«

ward and files sideward to proper distance (8), unfasten rope and hold in rear of back with arms sideways at height of shoulders 4‘starting position” (8)....

16 counts.

4 x 18 = 64 counts.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—38—

C. EXERCISES WITH ROPE.

Group X.

Theme : Swing rope forward, backward, sideward, and in circle/ adding touch-step, lunge, and trunk movements.

1.	a) Swing rope forward with touch-step backward left and

incline trunk	forward.................................. 1—2

b)	Swing rope backward with touch-step forward left and

incline trunk	backward.................................. 3—4

c)	Swing rope forward with touch-step backward left and

incline trunk	forward.................................. 5—6

d)	Swing rope backward	and close heels .................. 7—8

Repeat a, b, c, d, using right foot................... 9—16

2.	a) Swing rope forward and to left side with touch-step side-

ward left, and incline trunk to right..................... 1—2

b)	Swing rope forward to starting position with touch-step

forward left, and incline backward...................... 3—4

c ) As a ..................................................  5—6

d) Return to starting position............................   7—8

Repeat a, b, c, d in reverse order...................   9—16

3.	a) Swing rope forward and to rear on left side with lunging

backward	left........................................... 1—2

b)	Swing rope forward and back to starting position with

touch-step forward .......*............................. 3—4

c)	As a.................................................... 5—6

d)	Return to	starting position............................. 7—8

Repeat a, b, c, d in reverse order.................... 9—16

4.	a) Swing rope forward in a circle at left side four times (hold-

ing hands close together) while standing with left foot backward	and right knee bent....................... 1—4

b)	Swing rope forward in a circle at right side four times and

reverse foot position with a hop........................ 5—8

c)	As a................................................... 9—12

d)	Return to	starting position..........................  13—16

4X16 = 64.

D. INTERMEDIATE MARCHING EXERCISES, SET ONE.

1.	The files 7, 8, 3, and 4 of

ea<?h original line face left about and form little circles with their rank-mates 5, 6, 1, and 2 in 4 steps, grasping each other’s hands, arms ex ten ted sideward, ropes in rear. All follow-step sideward left 4, sideward right 4, and return to places 4................

2.	As 1—follow-step in reverse

order .....................

3.	As 1—the four files forming little cross left by grasping

Digitized by

Google
-39-

^	hands across, marching for-

ward 8 steps with ropes x, in rear, outside hands rounded over head, and returning to places in 4

steps.................... 16

4.	As 3—forming little cross right by grasping right

hands across...........	16

j	4 X 16 = 64.

^ E. HOPPING AND EXERCISES WITH ROPE.

Ir	Qroup XI.

Theme : Swinging rope under feet with hopping on both at same

time, alternating with the exercises of Group I.

1.	a) Swing rope forward four times, hopping over it in the odd

counts 1, 3, 5, 7 with both feet (so-called double hop) and

face to left, Ys at each hop.................................. 1—8

b) Repeat exercise ol Group I with alteration of only using the touch-step backward left, return and backward right and return................................................. 9—16

2.	a)	Swing rope	and	hop	as	in	1	a,	with	again	facing left......	1—8

b) Repeat exercise 2 of Group I, only using touch-step sideward

left and return right and return............................;.	9—16

3.	a)	Swing rope	and	hop	as	in	1	a,	continue facing	left............ 1—8

b)	Repeat exercise	3 of	Group	I,	only	using	the	lunge backward left and right	   9—16

4. a) Swing rope and hop as in 1 a, continue facing left............ 1—8

b) Repeat exercise 4 of Group I, only changing position once... 9—16

4 X 16 = 64.

Remark : After the last hop at the counts 7, 8, the rope is returned over head to rear, starting position. By “double-hop” we hop twice swinging rope once. All have completed a whole turn and stand facing front again.

F.	INTERMEDIATE MARCHING EXERCISES, SET TWO.

1.	The inner, or odd, files close ranks outward by hopping galop

sideward 4 counts, the now closed ranks of two wheel backward and into line 4 counts, and all march forward 8 small steps.....................................................

2. In ranks of four circle-wheel forward around files 4 and 8  

3. In ranks of four circle-wheel forward around files 1 and 8.

4.	In ranks of two wheel 14 circle forward to front, open ranks

backward and files sideward to open order, 8, and pause 8 counts ............................................ ......

4 *X 16 = 64.

Remark: During marching girls carry ropes as in starting position and grasp each other’s hands at height of shoulders.

16

16

16

16



B

Digitized by Tooele
-40-

G. HOPPING AND EXERCISES WITH ROPE.

,0-ro-u.p XXX.

Theme: Skipping rope single footed on place alternately with

fancy steps from place.

1.	a) Swing rope forward and skip over single footed, left and

right................................................... 1—4

b)	Swing rope backward, hold in starting position, cross right

foot backward, bend and straighten both knees, and hop polka-step sideward left.......................... 5—8

c)	As a.................................................. 9—16

2.	a)	As a in 1.............................................. 1—4

b)	Polka-step sideward left, place right foot in front of left

and rock on toes, raising both arm in a circle over head  5—8

c)	As a.................................................. 9—16

d)	As b, in reverse order.

3.	a)	As a in 1.............................................. 1—4

b)	Polka-step sideward left, cross right foot, and twist left

about................................................. 5—8

c)	As a.....................................-............ 9—16

d)	As b, this time also left.

4.	a)	As a in 1............................................   1—4

b)	Side-step left, cross right foot forward, twist a whole turn

left on right foot, placing left sideward again, then close right to left .......................................... 5—8

c)	As a.................................................  9—16

4X16 = 64.

Remark: Arms and rope in starting position, when noc otherwise used.

H. INTERMEDIATE MARCHING EXERCISES, SET THREE.

Repeat intermediate marching exercises of set one adding galop sideward in the little circles of four, and schottish hop forward in the little crosses of four......................4	X	16	=	64

I. HOPPING AND SKIPPING OVER ROPE.

Q-ro-u-p ITT.

Theme:	Swing	rope	forward, hopping over with both feet on

place, alternating with schottish hop forward, and skipping over from place.

1.	a) As a in Group II, without facing, only from................... 1—4

b)	Schottish hop forward left and right (rope in starting pos.) 5—8

2. a) As a in 1...................................................... 1—4

b)	As b in 1..................................................... 5-8

At the beginning of the second exercise the four front files

face about (describing half-circle), swing rope forward, skipping over forward single footed, and passing on to

rear, taking places for final posing.............................. 8

3 and 4. As 1 a*nd 2—repeated until all files have passed to rear, forming a half-circle or any other figure in which they

stand, kneel, or sit in a graceful and suitable posing group....

........................................................4	X	16	=	64

Digitized by LaOOQLe
-41-

Remarks : The whole roundel contains 8 X 64 = 512 counts and its uninterrupted execution takes about eight minutes.

The intermediate marching is arranged and placed here more for the purpose of resting the girls than for variation, because continued hopping for that length of time is too severe and tiresome.

As gavotte music is the most appropriate for the hopping exercises, but a little slow for marching, I. change off, selecting a march and gavotte written in a harmonious key, with the most happy result. The exercise, grace, and skill displayed in this roundel are of a high order and the time used for its practice is well spent.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Dr. Luther Gulick is preparing an article on the different normal schools of gymnastics in this country.

—The National Council of the A. A. A. P. E. announces that the national meeting for the year 1898 will take place in Boston on June 28, 29, and 30.

—We are in receipt of the 1898—'99 announcement of Temple College, Philadelphia. The college has a Normal School of Physical Training with the following faculty : C. M. Williams, Director of Men’s Department ; Mary E. Schetky, Director of Women’s Department ; Eugene C. Foster, M. S., Physics ; Seneca Egbert, A. M., M. D., Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene; Rachel Williams, M. D., Medical Examiner.

—A meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union is to be held in New York, the object of the session being to consider and possibly to revise the registration rules—especially the basket ball rules—which govern the association. It is thought by some that the requirement of registration of basket ball players will be done away with, while others are of the opinion that the registration fee will be reduced from $1 to 50 cents. The session will also mark out the line of work to be taken up by the

A.	A. U. during the ensuing year.

—The “Deutsche Turnerschaft” (German Gymnastic Union, Germany) has now enrolled 5547 societies, about 88 per cent, of all the German gymnastic societies. The membership has increased to 578,103, or one per cent. of the entire population. Subtracting the female population, children and the aged, we can say that at least 4 per cent, of the Germans are active members of a Tumverein. How far below this percentage are all the other nations ? Physical training is obligatory in all the schools of Germany. The number of those receiving physical training in them will far exceed the membership in the societies. Beyond this, physical education is an important part in the general training of the immense Army. Millions receive the benefit of a physical education in Germany. Has our father Jahn ever dreamed of such a fulfillment of his aspirations ? What has Sweden, with its few societies, and what have the followers of the Swedish system to show in comparison with these figures ?

—Mr. Carl Betz, director o£ physical training and singing in Kansas City, Mo., is, as in former years, again preparing for commencement

Digitized by L.ooQle
-42-

exercises, i. e., a gymnastic exhibit and test, at the end of the school year for all the schools of that city. The rules of the gymnastic test are:

1.	The exercises are to be conducted by the teacher. The supervisor will neither ask questions nor drill the class. All will be left to the judgment of the teacher.—2. The time, including the arrangement and dismissal of the class, is not to exceed 10 minutes.—3. The exercises, as far as practicable, are to be taken in the following order: a) The arrangement of the class (taking the apparatus), b) Some positions and exercises by word of command, c) Breathing exercises,

d)	The prepared exercise, e) The dismissal of the class (replacing the apparatus). —Points of Criticism : I. Good carriage of body in sitting, standing, and walking. II. Taking and replacing apparatus quietly, orderly, and quickly. III. Correct gymnastic positions and quickly. IV. Stillness of person and steadiness of features. V. Difficulty of exercises (grade work).

CORRESPONDENCE.

A. Kindervater. — Our thanks for the roundel. — Your invitation for a trip to the German festival in Hamburg this summer is tempting indeed. Perhaps there are colleagues outside of the Turner organization who would like to join you. We shall forward to you any correspondence that may be sent to us on the subject. But,—beware of torpedos !

Herman J. Boos.—We heartily congratulate you on your new undertaking. We will say more about the Riverside Recreation Grounds in our next issue.

Dr. Wm. A. Ocker.—We have ordered copy sent to you. You should not demand too much in regard to that index.—Income and expenditures of summer schools have been carefully compared. Balance very slightly in favor of the latter, hence the excusable desire of cutting down expenses, especially so in view of the San Francisco convention. These are war times, you know! The editor of the Milwaukee “Gut Heil” can give you all the information you desire.

Wm. Friedgen, Jr.—We publish your Fencers’ League Rules in this issue. Thanks !

SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION AT THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

<A Six Week’s Course, from July 5 to August 13,1898, for Public School Teachers and Teachers of Gymnastics.)

This is the only summer school in the West for such training and the only school in the country that expounds the theory, method, and system of German physical training.

This summer school comprises a Regular Course on the principles and practice of gymnastics, with special reference to school gymnastics, i. e., tactics, free exercises, exercises with apparatus and on apparatus, field sports and games, and related subjects,—and a Special Course, including fencing, boxing, wrestling, and swimming.

FACULTY.

DR. WILLIAM A. OCKER, Director. (Director of Physical Training, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.) Theory and Practice of Gymnastics. First Aid to the Injured.

EMIL DAPPRICH. (Director of National Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.)

Anatomy and Physiology.

DR. WILLIAM O. KROHN. (Professor of Experimental Psychology, University, Champaign, 111. Editor of “The Child-Study Monthly.”) Psychology.

DR. C. HERMAN ARNOLD. (Director Anderson Gymnasium, New Haven, Conn.) Comparison of Systems of Gymnastics. Applied Physiology. ALBERT NATHAN. (Director of Physical Training, Y. M. C. A., St. Louis, Mo.) Wrestling and Boxing.

DR. HANS RASMUSSEN. (Milwaukee, Wis.) Fencing.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—43—

For information regarding the regular gymnasium work write to the Director, Dr. Wm. A. Ocker, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, 0. For application blanks and all general information write to the Secretary, Wm. A. Stecher, 214 Chestnut Street, St. Louis, Mo.

THE LANSDOWNE (ENGL.) GYMNASTIC CLUB.

This club held their Gymnastic Competition at the Bruce Grove Board Schools, Tottenham, on January 5, when 13 names appeared on the program for the Gymnastic Competition, of whom 11 men competed. The competition consisted of set and voluntary exercises on the horizontal and parallel bars, and horse. The brothers Welch, who ran each other very close, were much ahead of their opponents, both as regards the quality and style of the work shown by them, Messrs. J. Anderson, the brothers Woodcock, and G. Woods also performed some good work. The final results returned by the two judges, Messrs, G. H. Willett and F. Graf of the Orion G. C., were as follows: F. Welch, 98%; R. Welch, 94y2; H. C. Woodcock, 62^; J. Anderson, 63%; G. Woods, 60V£ ; H. S. Woodcock, 55Vfe. We have pleasure in publishing the voluntary exercises shown by Messrs. F. and R. Welch, which will be seen were a good deal above the average class of work shown at club competitions. The high jump resulted in a win for W. J. Phillips, of the Highbury G. C., with 5 feet; J. B. Woodcock coming second with 4 feet 11 inches. For the tug-of-war, which was an open competition, five teams entered ; the Orion G. C. team being the easy winners, but owing to this team having been persuaded by the secretaries of the L. G. C. to compete, notwithstanding their protest on account of being 3 lbs. overweight, they declined to accept the medals offered to them, suggesting, in a sportsmanlike manner, that they be handed over to the losing team of the final round. Mr. W. H. Garrud, the instructor of the L. G. C., set the exercises.

SELECTION OF VOLUNTARY EXERCISES.

Abbreviations: R = Right ; L — Left; Cr. — Croup; N = Neck ; S = Saddle.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

Slow.—Hang ; ordinary grasp; rise to front rest; drop behind bar to hang; raise toes to bar ; squat under bar to back lever; sink to back hang; release grasp of L hand; complete left turn around R arm, legs irl y2 lever; circle to front rest; y2 L turn to back rest; reverse grasp of both hands ; sink to bent arm back rest; % R turn to cross bent arm rest on R arm; further % R turn to bent arm hang; sink to straight arm hang, alight with y2 L turn.

F. A. Welch.

Slow and Fast Combined.—Jump to hang with arms crossed L over R (R hand reversed, L ordinary); rise to front lever; y2 L turn in front lever; squat under bar to back leaning hang; sink to back lever; % L turn to side lever on R arm ; rise to cross bent arm rest on L arm ; % turn to bent arm rest; press to rest ; drop back; short under-swing ; back-up ; clear short circle; push out behind ; long under-swing; squat R leg under bar; y2 mill circle forward ; y2 R circle L leg ; 1 y2 clear seat circles backward; squat under bar; short upstart ; forward circle ; short under-swing to ground.	Roland	Welch.

PARALLEL BARS.

Slow and Fast Combined.—At ends facing inward ; hang with legs in y2 lever, rise to cross rest; hollow back lift to straight arm hand stand; march to middle of bars; sink to double shoulder stand ; roll forward ; upper arm upstart; forward pump; ^ L turn with legs in y2 lever (during the turn the R hand is placed on original L bar, and L hand on original R bar); swing to double shoulder stand ; roll forward ; back-up ; hollow-back back pump ; push out behind to upper arm swing; back roll with open arms; upstart to straight arm hand stand ; % L turn to hand stand on original R bar; squat off.

F. A. Welch.

Slow and Fast Combined.—At ends facing inward, forward straddle to legs in y2 lever; sink legs to cross rest ; slow hollow back rise to hand stand ; walk 4 paces in hand stand; sink to double shoulder stand; slow forward roll to bent

Digitized by (^.ooQle
arm hand stand ; sink to double shoulder stand; forward roll to outside side seat ; *4 L turn to R elbow lever; *4 R turn and rise to bent arm hand stand ; swing forward and back to double shoulder stand ; hollow back forward roll to shoulder stand; roll forward; upstart; back pump; back roll with hollow back; upper arm upstart; swing forward ; back pump and drop back to hang below bars ; long upstart between bars at end of forward swing; Vfc R circle of both legs over R bar with *4 L turn to cross front leaning rest; squat over both bars to ground.	Roland	Welch.

HORSE.

Sideways with Pommels.—Run ; take ordinary grasp on both pommels \ indicate free lront lever ; squat to back rest; L circle R leg; R circle L leg; Y2 L circle both legs ; R double feint; front vault L.	F.	A.	Welch.

With run ; R hand on N pommel reverse grasp ; L hand on N; L circle of R leg with Y2 L turn of body to rest astride R arm ; L circle of L leg to double feint R ; swing to front lever; squat over S to back rest; L circle R leg; V2 L circle both legs ; Y2 L circle of R leg; front shears L ; back shears L; V2 R circle R leg; feint L; V2 L circle both legs; L circle R leg to rest astride R arm ; R circle of R leg with Y2 R turn of body; R circle both legs over N and S with ^4 R turn to ground (/. e., rear vault backwards.	Roland	Welch.

The “Gymnast," and Athletic Review.

AMATEUR FENCERS’ LEAGUE OF AMERICA.

FENCING RULES.

Adopted at General Meeting, January 6, 1897.

FOILS.

1.	Foil competitions shall be conducted by three or five judges (one of whom shall act as director) for each bout, who shall be experienced amateur fencers,, selected from different clubs, if possible, and whose decision shall be final and without appeal. There shall also be a timer, who shall time the bouts in accordance with Rule 3.

2.	Each contestant shall fence a bout with every other contestant.

3.	Each bout shall consist of four minutes actual fencing, and contestants shall change positions after two minutes. Contestants shall come on guard, in the middle of the space, at the command of a judge.

4.	Each judge, without consulting his fellow judges, shall award 100 points or any part thereof to each contestant at the end of the bout. The score shall be the average of the sum of the points obtained.

5.	Touches shall count only when made upon the body, within the limits bounded by the collar of the fencing jacket, the median line, the hip, and a line drawn from the hip to the posterior limit of the armpit, around the front of the arm and along the crest of the shoulder to the collar. A touch on any part of the boundary lines shall count.

6.	The competitor attacked should parry; if a stop thrust be made it shall only count in iavor of the giver, provided he be not touched at all.

7.	A touch, whether fair or foul, invalidates the riposte.

8.	A touch is of no value when the point is twisted on to the body after the slap of the foil.

9.	The judges must stop a corps-a-corps as soon as made.

10.	A disarmament is of no value. A touch immediately following a disarmament counts.

11.	A point scored from a thrust started with the elbow behind the body (jab thrusts) shall not count.

12.	Each contestant shall fence with the same hand throughout the bout.

13.	Competitors shall wear white fencing jackets.

14.	Contestants shall fence within a marked space twenty feet long and thirty-six inches wide, with a mark plainly indicating the middle. When a contestant ^overslips these limits a judge shall stop the bout; and the director shall start the contestants again in the middle of the marked space. If a

Digitized by CjOOQle
-45-

majority of the judges agree that the contestant has overstepped a boundary line, five points shall be deducted from his final score for each offense.

15.	Foil blades shall not exceed thirty-four inches in length.

DUELLING SWORDS.

1.	Duelling sword competitions shall be conducted by three or five judges for «ach bout, who shall be experienced amateur fencers, selected from different clubs, if possible, and whose decision shall be final and without appeal.

2.	Each contestant shall fence a bout with every other contestant for an aggregate of three touches. Each touch shall count one point.

3.	A judge, upon seeing a touch, shall stop the bout, and thereupon a vote shall be taken. A touch shall be awarded only upon the agreement of a majority of the judges. Neither judges nor contestants shall discuss the touches made or •claimed, nor shall any comment be made upon them.

4.	Sword tips shall be chalked merely to aid the judged in arriving at a decision ; a chalk mark is not conclusive evidence of a touch.

5.	The contestant scoring the highest aggregate of points shall be declared the winner, the next highest second, and so on.

6.	A touch on any part of the adversary counts.

7.	A disarmament is of no value. A touch immediately following a disarmament counts.

8.	If both contestants are touched by simultaneous lunges, the judges shall deduct one-quarter of a point for each offense from each contestant.

9.	The diameter of the bell-guard shall not exceed five inches, and the blade shall not be more than thirty-four inches long.

10.	Each competitor shall wear a dark fencing suit and dark gloves.

SABRE.

1.	Sabre competitions shall be governed by the same rules as the foil competitions, except that a cut or thrust on any part of the body above the hips shall count and the limitation of space shall not be imposed, nor shall there be any restriction as to color of costume.

2.	Sabre blades shall not be more than thirty-three inches long.

3.	The jury shall have the power to prohibit the use of any unusual guaid which may give a competitor an advantage over his adversary.

RULES GOVERNING COMPETITIONS.

1.	A championship meeting shall be held annually, and at suclj a time and place as may be designated by the Executive Committee of the A. F. L. A.

2.	Division meetings shall be held at such time and place as may be designated by the Division Committee. Each division shall hold a meeting at least two weeks prior to the National Championship, which shall be considered a preliminary to the Championship Meeting.

3.	No fencer shall be eligible to enter the National Championship (except as provided in Rule 5 following), unless he shall have attained a score in foils, swords, and sabres, of at least 55 per cent, of the possible number of points to obtained at such meeting.

4.	A medal man of preceding years shall be privileged to fence for championship honors without qualifying in the preliminaries, provided he has not been defeated at any intervening championship.

5.	The judges and scorers shall be appointed by the Executive Committee, and a record kept of all fencers at championship meetings.

6.	At the division contests (preliminaries) the judges and scorers shall be appointed by the Division Committee, and a list of all fencers qualifying in the preliminaries, properly endorsed by the Division Committee, shall be transmitted to the Secretary of the League within seven days after such meeting.

Office Secretary, 53 Broadway, Philadelphia, Pa.

—Archibald Wright has been selected to coach the Pennsylvania Freshmen •crew. Mr. Wright was a student at the university from 1885 to 1889, and was stroke and captain of the crews during the last two years of his college career. In 1895 he was stroke of the Minnesota (St. Paul) Boat Club senior eight, which rowed a famous race with the Titan and Bohemian crews.

/

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—46—

ATHLETIC MEET IN PUBLIC PARKS.

Men who take a prominent part in athletics in Chicago have expressed their approval of the plan to have a big meet in one of the public parks this summer. In their opinion something should be done to stimulate interest in athletics and they are confident that if the leading clubs would take hold of it a most successful meet could be held. One obstacle, and one which will be difficult to over-come, is met with at the very start. It is that in none of the parks is there a suitable track for foot racing. Some of the most enthusiastic are confident that if influence is brought to bear on the park commissioners they would have a cinder track built.

“The more I have thought of the scheme,” said W. L. Shepard of the Chicago Athletic Club, “the more I am impressed in its favor. It has long been a puzzle to me why the attendance at athletic meets in this city is so small, and I can only account for it in one way. In my opinion the people are not educated up to the point where they can enjoy athletic games and it is our duty to teach them. A meet on the plan suggested would go a long way in that direction. At the C. A. A. we are heart and soul for athletics, and I feel sure that the club would lend its assistance. When we think of the huge crowds which were attracted in by-gone days to games in Rome and Athens, and compare them with the attendances of to-day, we are forced to think we are falling behind in that respect.”

“When I read the article in The Inter Ocean,” said Dr. George K. Herman, president of the First Regiment Cycling and Athletic Club, “I felt that it would be a grand thing if it could be carried through. Interest in athletics is dead in this city, as is evidenced by the poor attendance at our indoor meets. Mv club will gladly assist in any way it can to make such a meet a success.”

“It is a capital idea,” said George K. Barrett, in his day one of the best athletes in the West. “Larger crowds turned out to see games in the '80s than is the case to-day. It seems to me that Chicagoans are so engrossed in business that they have no time for recreation of that sort. Past experience has shown that free exhibitions will attract crowds and I have not the slightest doubt that if a meet is given the attendance will be enormous.”

“I am afraid,” said Professor Ehler of the Central Y. M. C. A., “that the scheme is not feasible. Not one of the parks has a proper track and the turf is so uneven that runners would be risking much if they ventured to go at full speed on it.”

LADIES’ COLUMN.

DRESS REFORM FOR WOMEN.

A female medical practitioner who has ridden the wheel since 1888, has expressed herself as sanguine that a healthful and comfortable dress will be the outcome of the extension of the bicycle habit among females. She states that she has modeled one for her own use, which satisfies her as preferable, on a variety of occasions, to the dirt-collecting long skirt. “I frequently shop in my bicycle costume, and, while much staring ana often audible comment greet me, yet I think if the costume were universally adopted it would soon cease to be notice-able. As to its merits there can be no doubt, and no woman who has experienced the freedom £nd comfort of the short, light skirt will willingly return to the long, heavily lined skirt which fashion now prescribes. Women are slaves to fashion, and it will be a difficult matter to bring the most approved style or short skirt in vogue, for it is detrimental to the interests of the mercantile trade. Many furbelows would follow the long skirt if it were discarded and in its stead a modification of the bicycle costume adopted, for the latter only lends itself to the severest adornment. I object to bloomers,” she continued, “because they create unfavorable comment and are often immodest. I think it is a great mistake for women to walk around and sweep up the dirt with their skirts, and I am in hearty sympathy with any movement to get rid of them for a more sensible style of dress. I do not wear corsets, and I have used my pen and voice equally to persuade other women to discard them. In some cases I have been

■ X

Digitized by Tooele
—47—

successful, but in nine cases out of ten a woman clings to her corset as the drowning man clings to a straw. The long skirt is equally reprehensible, and there is no garment so ungraceful, so suggestive of untidiness as a long, rain or dirt bedraggled skirt. Especially is this the case in stormy weather, when a woman requires all her strength and the free use of both hands and limbs to battle with the elements, and is generally so encumbered with umbrella, bag, and parcels that her skirts are allowed to trail unnoticed through wet streets. Any dress which it will not be necessary to hold up and will be comfortable and useful, will be welcomed by all sensible women. The bicycle costume, when the skirts are of graceful length and not too light about the hips, seems an ideal costume for a rainy day and adaptable to walking and outing generally. I shall be most happy to advocate its use. A learned gentleman once told me that women would never attain the same power intellectually and physically as men until they freed themselves from hampering clothes. Men will not submit to uncomfortable fashions in clothing, and consequently do not suffer from the nervous disorders that are produced by the unhygienic and irritating clothes that are worn by women.”—Journal A. M. A.

BOOK REVIEW.

—The April number of Outing, the authority on all matters pertaining to amateur sport, presents a choice variety of well-chosen text and handsome illustrations. The contents are: “A Tiger Shoot in India”; “Columbia’s Athletics,” by J. Parmley Paret; “Camp and Cycle in Yellowstone Park,” by Wade W. Thayer; “Taxidermy for Sportsmen,” by Ed. W. Sandys; “Trouting on the Bushkill,” by Percy Stanford ; “Canoeing on the Iowa,” by L. B. Robinson ; “How the Moorhen Became Humpbacked,” by Wm. Bleasdel Cameron ; “The Last Aztec,” by Therese Guerin Randall; “The Building of Lawn-Tennis Courts”; “Mallard Shooting in the Timber,” by Frank E. Kellogg ; “A Dash for New York” (yachting), by E. C. Jewell; “Summering in an Ola Italian Castle,” by Jean Porter Rudd; “A Springtime Ramble” (birds), by Lynn T. Sprague; “With the Canadian Mounted Police,” by H. Christie Thomson, and the usual editorials, poems, and records.	_________

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Chicago University will send a relay team to compete in the invitation meet arranged by the University of Pennsylvania, to take place in Philadelphia on April 30.

—Northwestern University is to have a new $100,000 gymnasium in autumn.

—The Chicago University’s football team will make an eastern trip next fall.

—The League of American Wheelmen now has a membership of 92,600, but has had a falling off of over 11,000 since January.

—The Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors of Pennsylvania are planning to hold a conference June 6—11 at Philadelphia. The program will consist of indoor work, such as apparatus exercises, fencing, wrestling, tumbling, jnarching, and gymnastic games ; out-door athletic events of all kinds, including, golf, cricket, etc. Dr. H. L. Chadwick is chairman of the indoor work committee and H. S. Wingert of the out-door work committee.

—Leo Ware won the indoor lawn tennis championship of the United States at the tournament of the Newton (Mass.) Tennis Club.

—Oxford was an easy winner in the annual boat-race with Cambridge. This was the forty-fifth time the race has been contested, Oxford winning thirty-two, this being its ninth consecutive victory. The time over the 4V& mile course was 22 minutes 15 seconds.

—“To swim with ease, confidence, and grace

Should in every country have acknowleged place

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
-48-

Of recognition, by law decreed,

Be taught as freely as we are tanght to read,

Forming part of education’s rule In every college and in every school.”

—Dr. Allen, the amateur golf champion, is dead. He graduated last year from Edinburgh University. He won the amateur golf championship last May at Muirfield, representing his university. He was only 22 years old.

—Bonner, the famous Australian cricketer, is the hardest batter that country has ever produced.

—Yousouf, the Turkish wrestler, is now trying his metal with American wrestlers.

—An English team of cricketers will visit America next summer.

—Yale is making a vigorous protest against the A. A. U. registration law.

—It is proposed to change the name of the Football Rules Committee to that of the Intercollegiate Football Union, giving this body absolute jurisdiction over this line of sport throughout the country.

THE AMATEUR GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

The Knickerbocker Athletic Club kindly came to the rescue of the champion-ship meeting this year, and consented to hold the contests without cost to the Amateur Athletic Union, the club generously paying the deficit which always follows the meeting. The competitions were held March 9 in the Knickerbocker Athletic Club gymnasium, Madison Ave. and Forty-fifth Street, New York City.

Rope Climbing—B. Sandford, New York City, 6 4-5s.*; E. Kanuth, Anchor Athletic Club, 7 2-5s.; W. E. Sheer, Pastime A. C., 9s.

Club Swinging—J. D. Harris, P. A. C., 11% points ; F. Metz, Jr., Newark Young Men’s Christian Association, and H. Lang, New York Turn Verein, tied at 10% points.

Tumbling—W. Haas, P. A. C., 39% points; G. Steier, P. A. C., 32% points ; P. Steier, P. A. C., 31% points.

Side Horse—0. Steffen, N. Y. T. V., 40% points; J. Bissenger, N. Y. T. V., 40 points; H. W. Hess, N. Y. T. \., 33% points.

Long Horse—J. Bissenger, N. Y. T. V., 35% points; H. W. Hess, N. Y. T. V., 35% points; 0. Steffen, N. Y. T. V., 34% points.

Horizontal Bar-J. Bissenger, N. Y. T. V., 42% points ; C. Berndt, A. A. C., 40% points ; 0. Steflfen, N. Y. T. V., 39 points.

Parallel Bars—0. Steffen, N. Y. T. V., 41 points ; C. Berndt, A. A. C., 39% points ; J. Bissenger, N. Y. T. N., 34 points.

Individual All Around Championship, on four styles of apparatus, side horse, long horse, horizontal bar, and parallel bars—O. Steffen, N. Y. T. N., 155% points; J. Bissenger, N. Y. T. V., 151% points ; C. Berndt, A. A. C., 138% points.

%

Digitized by