library

University of Montana-

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	APRIL	1921	No.	297

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Etfiteriftl communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered at second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

THE PHYSICAL TEST OF A MAN.

D. A. SARGENT, M. D.

One of the strongest of the natural forces with which man is constantly contending is gravity - or the tendency of his body to be attracted and held to the surface of the earth. The infant first crawls, then creeps on its hands and knees and finally by the aid of cribs, chair and mother’s assistance, gets onto his feet. The raising of the head, the straightening of the spine, grasping with the hands and feet, and striking out and kicking with the arms and legs are only preliminary movements necessary to prepare for the standing position. All the twisting, rolling, wriggling, squirming, crawling, creeping, and occasional stiffening and straightening of the trunk and limbs an infant can be induced to do, the better it will be for his future development.

A child must first get a footing in the world and be able to move in the erect position before the adult may properly function as a human being. In other words, the child must pass in a few months from the animal stage of its existence where all its organic inheritances for thousands of years had fitted its body to resist the force of gravity in a horizontal plane, to a vertical position where gravity acts in a perpendicular plane. Is it any wonder that over 75% of our youth of both sexes have a bad posture, and that so few ever attain the ability to meet this comparatively new strain — the ability to sit and stand erect?

If there is any doubt as to the seriousness of failing to measure up

Digitized by CjOOQle
498

to this test of young manhood, ask your physician as to the fundamental causes of the following list of physical imperfections: spinal curvature, knock knees, bow legs, flat feet, drooping head, round shoulders, weak backs, varicose veins, hernia, sagging of the abdominal organs, misplacement of the pelvic organs, and many other physical weaknesses and defects which afflict mankind.

These prevailing weaknesses are mainly due' to the failure of the body to make provision to resist this constant force of gravity to pull us down from our top-lofty, vertical position to a horizontal plane. We pay our respect to this natural force by availing ourselves of every opportunity to lean, sit and recline at our work throughout the day, and we finally yield to it completely by assuming a horizontal position for sleep at night.

Many of these bodily weaknesses and imperfections to which I have referred have arisen largely from civilized man’s neglect to care for the form and strength of his bodily mechanism as an African Zulu or Sandwich Islander would do. Instead of priding himself upon his ability to sit straight without support for his spine and legs as shown by many of the savage tribesmen, civilized man luxuriates in upholstered chairs and lounges moulded to his physical defects, - and then wonders why he has a weak back and cannot stand in a vertical position.

Yet the ability to stand erect, thereby relieving the arms and hands from supporting the body, and conserving their strength to be directed into self-chosen activities constitutes man’s supreme inheritance.

How is this ability attained? By gradually strengthening and developing the muscles all up and down the front and back of the trunk and legs that hold the body balanced in perfect equilibrium over the two feet, which in length and breadth taken together average about one-sixth the perpendicular height. When the body is thus accurately balanced on the bones of the legs and spine, gravity is acting parallel with these bones and consequently the strain is taken largely from the muscles and thrown onto the bones and ligaments

If one relaxes from this vertical position, and stands with the body flexed or bent forward at the knees, hips, back and neck, the strain is then brought upon the muscles and after a little while the effort of standing becomes intolerable. But strain or pain means loss of power and energy. This is the reason why a perfect poise in standing or sitting is the most economical position that can be maintained.

Although the ability of a man to stand on his feet and maintain perfect poise is of vital importance, it is not the only requisite. He has other things to do. During the growing period of youth, while one is acquiring his stature, gravity should be used so as to stimulate the growth force, not to retard it, as is often done by keeping children too long on their feet either in working or playing. It is better to continually fall and try to rise again than to remain standing too long.

A young man having acquired full stature, and learned to stand and sit correctly in defiance of the laws of gravity, must generate still more force and let gravity act in harmony with his physiological necessities and his mental and physical desires. In other words, he must add to his weight as well as his height before he can cut any figure in the world, bear his own burdens, fight his own battles and render service to others.

Digitized by y.ooQle
499

This means that he must extend his growth force and developmental energies into body breadths, depths, and thicknesses as determined by given measurements, as well as in lengths or vertical directions. The only way of adding effective weight is through the development of the muscles which constitute nearly 50% of all the tissues of the normal man, and determine to a large extent the size and function of the other organs. By this use of the term muscle, I do not refer to the large superficial voluntary muscles only, - but to the muscles of digestion, circulation, respiration, glandular organs, special senses, etc. The only way that any muscle tissue may be developed is through the activities; and our responsibility for the proper training, nutrition, and consequent development of this part of our anatomy in great indeed.

The primary object of all the efforts of physical education through athletic games, sports, plays, and general gymnastics, is to add to the power and efficiency of mind and body through the agency of the muscular system. This efficiency is determined largely, I shall hope to show, through the intimate relation of body — height and weight. These two factors are always taken into consideration in publishing the names of players on the great football teams, boat crews, and in other athletic organizations. Why? Simply because in a vague way, there is thought to be a correlation between the height and weight and a man’s physical efficiency. Up to the normal limit, a man’s strength is supposed to increase with his height and weight. Men are matched in boxing, wrestling, and tug-of-war contests according to their weights, such as light weights, 135 lbs., middle weights, 160 lbs., heavy weights, 175 lbs., etc. In boxing and wrestling at least this weight classification is further refined by having a bantam weight class of 115, a feather weight class of 125, a welter weight class of 145, and a heavy weight class for all men over 175 lbs.

No team, crew or individual contestants would be considered well-matched if they had to give or accept much difference in weight from their opponents. So we find in studying the characteristics of different types of athletes and gymnasts that variations in stature or total height, sitting height, height of knee, and relative length of trunk and limbs tend to favor different classes of athletic performers. As a rule, the oarsman is favored by having a long body and relatively short legs, the middle distance runner, jumper, and hurdler by having long legs and a relatively short body, the gymnasts by having short arms and the heavy lifter by having short thighs. And so through the whole range of athletic specialists each gains some mechanical advantage from the development that is peculiar to him.

Woman’s incapacity for certain kinds of physical activities as compared with man’s, arises largely from the fact that she is on the average 25 lbs. lighter and five inches shorter than he is. The whole Japanese race averages only 5 ft. 4 in* in stature, due largely to their relatively short legs, that have undoubtedly been made so by their long-continued racial habit of sitting on their Keels with their legs sharply bent under them. These facts and many more have come to us through our studies in anthropometry and the classification of physical measurements.

Age, sex, and race are rightly considered the dominant factors in evaluating any body measurements, and the height, weight and chest

Digitized by
500

girths are admittedly the most important of these measurements. Moreover, there is a probable standard of height, weight, and chest girth for every age, each sex and all the different races. These facts are known in a general way by those whose business it is to make physical examinations, such as surgeons in the army and navy, life insurance examiners and physicians who examine school and college students, candidates for civil service and employees in all the different trades and industries where physical conditions are now being taken into consideration.

So, in theory at least, it may be well said in support of the relationship of bodily measurements and vital functions “that the greater advance we may make in inquiries of this nature, the more perfectly is the law of proportion that governs the typical man demonstrated, rendering it equally apparent how undue or imperfect development of any one organ or function, throws the remaining organism out of gear, and constitutes a greater or less tendency to disease.”

In popular estimation it takes so many inches and so many pounds and a certain size chest girth to make a man, and this estimation is borne out largely by experience. Hence, the universal interest in the physical measurements of the human body. However, those of us who are engaged in making physical measurements of men by the thousand soon learn the limitations of the information which comes to us from this source alone. While it is true that the strength and functional capacity of a part generally increases with the size of that part, other things being equal, the number of cases where other things are not equal is so numerous that the generalization should be greatly modified.

The measurements alone do not tell us anything of the texture and quality of the parts covered, i. e., how much is fat or bone, and how much muscle, nor do the measurements alone give us any information of innervation of the parts, upon which power and efficiency so frequently depend. Even if we accept the physical measurements of a man as an indication of his potential power, as so many of us almost intuitively do, we are soon taught by experience that there is in many men an unknown equation / which makes for power and efficiency which has never been determined and which can only be measured by an actual test.

The important question is, what is this unknown equation and how can it be simply and practically tested and numerically expressed? With a good many others, I have been wrestling with this problem for years by the way of strength tests, endurance tests, speed tests, etc., but have never come across any one that satisfied me or quite met the demands of the situation. It is said that every pioneer or inventor or discoverer, if he lives long enough, goes through three stages in his career. The first one is where his propositions are unfounded and absurd; the second stage is where if proven true, they are not original; and the third stage is where they are so self-evident that any fool ought to have thought of them. I have now arrived at the third stage in my career and want to share what seems to me the simplest and most effective of all tests of physical ability with the other fools who have been looking for one. I have dwelt at some length upon gravity as a constant force to be overcome and its relation to the height and weight and other

Digitized by Google
501

measurements of the body. The new test that I offer consists of using the constant factors of height and weight which one always has with him, in a little different way than is commonly thought of. It is so simple and yet so effective for testing the strongest man or weakest woman or child that one feels almost like apologizing to the general public for mentioning it.

THE NEW TEST.

The individual to be tested stands under a card board disk, or paper box cover, heavy and stiff enough to hold its form, about twelve inches in diameter, held or suspended from ten to twenty or more inches above his head. He is then requested to bend forward, flexing the trunk, knees and ankles, and then by a powerful jump upward, straightening the legs and spine, to try to touch the cardboard disk with the top of the head. Swinging the bent arms forward and upward at the time the legs, back and neck are extended, will be found to add to the height of the jump. When the disk has been placed at the highest point above the head that can be just touched in jumping, this height is measured. The difference between this height and that of the total stature is of course the height actually jumped.

Now, if this height is multiplied into the total weight of the body at the time of making the jump, it will give one some idea of the amount of work done in foot pounds as usually calculated. But it will be observed, no credit is given for lifting the full weight of the body from the deep knee or squatting position to the perpendicular standing position, which difference represents about half the height. The total work depends upon how heavy and how tall the individual is. Thus, if a man weighs 150 lbs. and is 70 in. tall, one-half of that height would be 35 in., which, multiplied into the full weight and divided by 12 (to reduce inches to feet) would equal 437 foot pounds, thus:

Weight x Half the Height Formula A:-------------------------------=	437 F. P.

12

In estimating work done outside of the body, this amount of energy expended is not always taken into consideration as power expended. In the new test, however, an individual must not only do a certain amount of work in physical effort in rising from the crouching attitude to the perpendicular position, but he must generate force enough to project his body 10, 20, or 30, inches into the air, above the height attained in the standing position. If this person weighing 150 lbs. should jump 20 in. above his height, this weight multiplied by 20 and divided bv 12 would equal 250 F. P. thus:

Weight x Height jumped Formula B:---------------------------------' 250 F P.

12

This amount of work done would be acceptable according to the usual methods of estimating man power Both the A and B formulae are frequently used for tests of the physical basis of efficiency. The height jumped will depend a good deal upon the length of the legs and trunk that make up the total stature, the tall man being favored, -therefore an exact ratio of the height jumped to the stature would seem to make the test more equitable. Thus, if the man weighing 150 lbs.

Digitized by CjOOQle
502

was 70 in. tall and jumped 20 in. above his head, the ratio of 20 to 70 would account for this advantage in height. This ratio may be obtained by the following formula:

Height jumped x 100

Formula C:	  *	.285

Total Height

Although the formulae A, B, and C are interesting in enabling one to account for his efficiency or deficiency in the test, these formulae may be dispensed with in favor of one including the three important factors which we are considering. If then in the new test we multiply the total weight by the height jumped and divide this product by the total height of the person in inches the result will give a fair index of the effort made in the smallest number of figures. This is always an advantage in making a test and handling the data for statistical purposes.

Thus if the individual tested weighed 150 lbs. and jumped 20" above his head and was 70° tall, - the formula for his efficiency index would be as follows:

Weight x jump	150 x 20

Index:	  s	--------- =	42.8

Height or stature	70

As an example of the way this formula works out in practice, I have selected the first ten pupils graded according to this test from the Sargent School of some four hundred pupils. It must be borne in mind that none of the girls had any preliminary practice for this particular test, other than that which comes to them in their regular school work. With the freshmen at least it was largely a question of natural ability. (See Table I.)

TABLE I.

FIRST TEN OUT OF FOUR HUNDRED TESTED AT THE SARGENT SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

	Class	Age	Jump,	Height,	Ratio	Weight	F. P.	
Index			Inches	Inches	Jump to Height .300	Lbs.	of  Work	Index
								
1. L.V.M.	Jun.	20	20	67.6		152	258	45.0
2. M.N.G.	Sen.	20	20	61.	.328	182	220	43.2
8. M.E.W.	Sen.	20	20.5	65.5	.312	182	226	41.8
4. M.J.O.	Jon.	20	18.8	60.2	.312	182	217	41.0
6. H.W.	Sen.	22	16.3	64.2	.288	176	224	40.6
6. M.E.F.	Fresh.	19	16.9	60.6	.260	145	204	40.6
7. J.I.J.	Fresh.	28	14	68.	.206	196.	240	40.3
8. E.M.B.	Sen.	28	20.5	61.5	.388	117.5	200	89.1
9. HAB	Fresh.	23	16	68.	.236	168	217	88.2
10. B.S.	Fresh.	18	17.5	64.6	.271	146	218	38.0
Average		20.5	17.9	64	.279	1 148	221	40.96

No. I is a vigorous athletic girl, being 67.5 inches in height and 152 lbs. in weight. She jumps 20 inches above her head which is .300 of her height, does 253 foot pounds of work (as shown by multiplying her weight by the height jumped and dividing that product by 12) and has an energy index of 4J.0.

No. 2 has an energy index of 43.2. Although she is shorter and lighter than some of her mates and does less foot pounds of work than four others in the group, she lifts her weight higher in proportion to

Digitized by LaOOQle
her height, and therefore gets a high score. She is an earnest student and a good all-round athlete, but not a star.

No. 3 is the star athlete of her class, excelling especially in running and jumping. In this test she jumps 20.5 in. above her height, but she is 4.5 in. taller than No. 2 and does not lift her weight as high in proportion to her height.

No. 4 although of the same weight as Nos. 2 and 3 and jumping the same proportion of her height as the girl above her, does not jump as high and therefore gets a little lower index.

No. 5 jumps nearly five inches less than those who have preceded her, but she is a strong husky girl weighing 176 lbs. and to raise this weight a less height requires a high index.*

No. 6 has the same index as No. 5, although she is 3.6 in. shorter and weighs 31 lbs. less. She makes up for this difference in weight and height by jumping an inch and a half higher, and jumping a greater per cent of her height.

No. 7 is the heaviest girl in the school, weighing 196 lbs. and is 68 in. in height. As might be expected she jumps the least height of any in the group, and the least percentage of her own height. But she projects 196 lbs. fourteen inches above her head and thereby does 240 F. P. of work, which makes her the second strongest one on the list.

No. 8 although she lacks the mechanical advantage in height that a girl 67 in. or 68 inches would possess, and has the least advantage in weight of any in the group, still manages to project her 117.5 lbs. 20.5 in. above her head, which is the highest ratio of her own height of any in the group (.333). This girl is quite strong for her height and weight' and very energetic - she also has the distinction of being the highest ranking scholar in her class. The records of Nos. 9 and 10 are self-explanatory. They are girls of fine natural physiques, good athletes^ superior to the average in height and weight, and will show a much higher index after a little more training.

I have commented upon the variations in physique as shown by the height and weight in these seven individuals, because these variations illustrate the compensating nature of the test. With a variation of 7.4 in. in height and 78.5 lbs. in height, there is little difference in their physical ability as shown by the test, as all were able to make the first ten in the school. What one lacks in height and length of limb, she makes up in strength, speed and energy, what another lacks in weight she makes up in height and energy, what still another one lacks in energy and speed she makes up in superior height, strength and weight, while still another who lacks both in height, and weight has to make up for this deficiency by greater determination, will power, nerve force, or some other unknown quality, that makes for physical efficiency. If any one of the factors chosen for the formula had been adopted as a standard, it would have brought a little different type of girl to the front. This is shown by the following table:	See	Table	II.)

It will be observed by referring to table II that, if the height of thr jump had been the only factor considered M. E. W and E. M. B. would have come to the front as 1 and 2, or if height and weight had been* the prime factors, J. I. J., who was 10 in the jump, would have been put in the first place. If the height jumped in proportion to her own
RELATIVE STANDING OF FIRST TEN ACCORDING TO OTHER FACTORS, AS JUMP, HEIGHT, WEIGHT, ETC.

							Ratio of				
	Index		Jump		Height	Jump to Hfft.			Weight	Foot Pounds	
1.	L.V.M.	1.	M.E.W.	1.	Jl.J.	1.	E.M.B.	1.	J.I.J.	1.	L.V.M.
2.	M.M.G.	2.	E.M.B.	2.	H.A.B.	2.	M.M.G.	2.	H.W.	2.	J.I.J.
3.	M.E.W.	8.	L.V.M.	3.	L.V.M.	3.	M.E.W.	8.	H.A.B.	3.	M.E.W.
4.	M.J.O.	4.	M.M.G.	4.	M.E.W.	4.	M.J.O.	4.	L.V.M.	4.	H.W.
5.	H.W.	5.	M.J.O.	6.	B.S	6.	L.V.M.	6.	B.S.	5.	M.M.G.
6.	M E F.	6.	B.S.	6	H.W.	6.	B.S.	6.	M.E.F.	6.	M.J O.
7.	J.I J	7.	M.E.F.	7.	E.M.B.	7.	M.E.F.	7.	M.M.G.	7.	H.A.B.
8.	E.M.B.	8.	H.A.B.	8.	M.M.G.	8.	H.W.	8.	M.E.W.	8.	B.S.
9.	HAB	9.	H.W.	9.	M.E.F.	9.	H.A.B.	9.	M.J.O.	9.	M.E.F.
10.	B S.	10.	J.I.J.	10.	M.J.O.	10.	J.I.J.	10.	E.M.B.	10.	E M B.

height had been accepted as the final test, E. M. B. would have reached first place, though she ranked 10 in weight and strength. Then again, if foot pounds of work done, as usually calculated, had been adopted as the standard, J. I. J. would have come up from loth place in height really jumped and ratio of height jumped to second place. The foot pound formula is perhaps the best test for rea’ strength and gives the taller and heavier girls a decided advantage.

It must be admitted however that the three girls who come the nearest to the front in all the factors that make up the test are those that stand i, 2, and 3 according to the index adopted. What this index as thus obtained really indicates is a question that may well engage our attention.

First, no one would deny that the ability to project one’s weight 20 or 30 inches into the air, against the force of gravity requires strength on the part of the muscles engaged in the effort. No one would deny that the effort would have to be made with a certain degree of velocity or speed in order to create impetus enough to carry the body twenty inches above its own level in the standing position. Further no one would deny that back of the requisite strength of muscle fibres and rapidity with which they are made to contract there must be energy, “pep,” “vim,” vitality, or whatever it may be termed which drives our internal machinery. Overlapping all of course is the skill or dexterity with which the jump is executed.

I think, therefore, that the test as a whole may be considered as a momentary try-out of one’s strength, speed, energy and dexterity, combined, which in my opinion furnishes a fair physical test of a man — and solves in a simple way his unknown equation as determined potentially by h is height and weight. It will be observed that the parts tested, namely, the muscles of the feet, calves, thighs, buttocks, backs, necks, anterior deltoid, chest and biceps, are the muscles most used in ail forms of athletics, sports, track and field games, setting up exercises, posture drills, etc., and are of fundamental importance in all the active industries. For this reason, 1 think it should precede any other all-round physical test in basic value.

In presenting this paper for discussion, I have intentionally narrowed myself down to a consideration of the factors involved in making the test, omitting the experience that has led up to it, and the application that may be made of it, and the method of conducting it.

Digitized by V.ooQle
505

To those who wish to try the experiment, I would suggest that the jump be made in gymnasium slippers, or at least in shoes with low heels, and as the factors, weight, height and height jumped are to be multiplied and divided in the calculation, - that all the measurements be made with the greatest accuracy.

If the test is of any value, then the standardization of it, and the collection of different data concerning it will of course be of the greatest importance, and follow natura ly for the benefit of those who want to make use of it.

THE RELATION OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE SCHOOL

CENTER.

BY THEODORE J. SMERGALSK.I, SUPERINTENDENT OF RECREATION CENTERS,

CHICAGO

Nowadays, when we think of the school, we invariably think of the neighborhood in which it is located and seek to establish some connection between the two, and when we think of the benefits of the school, we naturally think of social opportunities. The identity of the school is merged, somehow, into that of the community it serves, and what it does is interpreted and judged by standards that have to do with the actual life of the people. The thought of the school having something to do with what goes on in a community, its problems, its desires, its activities, its occupations, and its moral, social, intellectual and physical conditions, is today impelling. This association is, however, of recent experience. It is but a few years since the school was regarded as a place of mere learning, unrelated to community activities, individualistic, conservative and static. Learning was a matter of lessons, and education was judged by standards of reading, writing, discipline, etc. But today, the school is a training force in methods of living and the function of education is dynamic, progressive, universal — it finds its expression in purposes of life.

It is unnecessary to review here in detail the history of this change in view point. The average person is familiar with it. Suffice it to say, however, that this enlarged perspective of the modern school is the recent product of an altered condition — industrial, geographical, economic, political and social — and at present the marvelous social changes in life occupy most forcibly our serious attention and effort. And the school, along' with its preparation of persons for economic productivity, is beginning to fit itself into this changed situation by recognizing in its curriculum an element of “mores”:—of a social mind, and of social adaptation.

Of the many institutions and forces which have appeared of late to provide a medium for the expression of social interests and evolution, the “extended school,” with its social center activities, commands earnest recognition. It offers not only intellectual but social opportunities as well—-the new basis upon which we are founding our education, our

* Read at a conference of teachers interested in social center work, Chicago.

Digitized by L^ooQle
506

advancement. For our purpose, special emphasis may be placed upon the community center activities. Their nature is known but their appropriateness, application and value to community life are not always fully appreciated. Let us, therefore, inquire into the cause and need of these activities and their force and effect; from this we may obtain a glimpse of the unity between thft neighborhood and the school.

For lack of time, it is assumed that we all possess more or less knowledge of the great moral, social, physical and many other complex problems, which confront every community. Mere mention of some of these problems, as they apply to what might be said, will have to suffice, in support of what is to be said in the light of what these problems give rise to, or what they produce.

Four avenues of contact between the neighborhood and the school suggest themselves.

FIRST:	Leisure and education are today the two great oppor-

tunities for the improvement of mankind. The emotional nature of man, distinct from the intellectual, and which we seem to have but recently discovered as a vital constructive force, is in control during leisure. We recognize that the emotional nature is a composite of man's interests, passions, social demands, desires — therefore, the form of expression we give these elements of nature either hinders or increases his improvement.

The problem, therefore, is to marshall and conserve our social forces for good and make the most judicious use of our leisure time, of which all of us possess more than we fittingly utilize. The magnitude of this opportunity becomes apparent when we consider the fact that there are six million adult illiterates in the United States today; that only ten per cent of the whole school population ever complete the high school course; that barely a third ever finish the elementary grades; that half of them never reach the sixth grade, and only one in every hundred achieves a college education. Further improvement of these people depends solely upon the manner in which they spend their leisure time. This being true, the time must be spent well. But the family, which is gradually ceasing to be a social unit, can provide only a little of this human and social education; the complex modern life is robbing the family of its rich traditional function in this respect. The church, a former creative force, is also losing its influence over mankind. The theatre and the dance are tainted with commercialism. The saloon, with its atmosphere of fellowship, is of destructive influence. Machine industry stands blind to humanization, or the social life of society. The negative effect of commercialized amusement needs no mention. The forces for negative leisure are many. They stand in array before us. We cannot think of our leisure problem without them. Therefore, positive and organized forces are necessary for the care of man’s emotional nature, his “spontaneous” interests.

Here it is, therefore, that the social center, with its manifold physical, social and educational activities, takes its place as an institution for the improvement of mankind during leisure moments. In the “extended school,” the child and the parent, through wholesome and constructive activity, may safely spend their creative energies toward self and community improvement.

SECOND:	Americanization	is a four-fold process:	declaration,
607

education, assimilation and naturalization. Of these four, education and assimilation interest us; the other two are incidental. Here again the school center plays a very important part.

The war has revealed to us the enormous number of persons in the United States who neither speak nor read English. We have been suddenly made seriously conscious of the fact that a large per cent of our population is alien, a population which we relied upon our public schools to Americanize for us but which we now find have not been of sufficient force—why? because we have been incurable worshippers of the letter process of education—still thinking that ability to read the Constitution will make men good Americans! The problem of Americanization is by no means solely a question of language, even though language is a necessary tool. The deeper and intimate relationships in life and the aspirations of the soul of these people must be tapped by a different method of approach, a method which permits of education and assimilation through the expression of their best qualities in wholesome, social activity, healthy community contacts, and leisure interests. The many school center activities provide for such expression. The process of adaptation of learning, standards of cleanliness, hygiene, public safety and order, understanding of our history, ideals and institutions, are operative in these numerous school center activities. It is the spirit that quickens Americanization, not so much the letter. For example:	Major	General

Crowder, in his report to Congress, spoke of an instance in which thirteen hundred so-called “aliens” out of a group of fifteen hundred, chose to fight for our flag in preference to being exempt from service under our treaties.

THIRD: Our short cuts to material progress are also short cuts to physical weakness' and deterioration. What has the stuffy factory, with its subdivision of labor, in stock for physical growth and development of the body of the average factory boy or girl, young man or woman, if the occupation involves the movement of one or two muscles only? The answer is self-evident. The gymnastic, athletic and game activities of the social center offer opportunity for normal physical exercise. Opportunity for real play and recreation is also offered at a center—two means of social, mental and physical education. Quite so. Play and recreation have today a new meaning. Play was once regarded as a luxury and recreation as idleness! Modern psychology and physiology prove that play is a biological law of growth and training, recreation a physiological law of relaxation, rest, and storage of energy. Aside from the physical benefits of play, ideas and habits of co-operation, of honor and responsibility, are formed, which are indispensable in serious life. Play is the child's preparation for practical living. It is likewise a most effective means for social and moral training. The concrete value of play is inestimable—our daily practical experience makes no further analysis necessary.

Organized recreation, which pertains to the lesure activities of adults, is of equal importance. We suffer not so much from overwork as from a lack of sufficient change in activity. Medical science teaches us that it is a change in activity which enables us to store up energy. Rest is only one form of this change; recreation is the active form and hence its power of storage is greater; and it goes without further saying that

Digitized by

Google
508

good fellowship is the handmaid of recreation. Character is poured into both play and recreation, and molded character is taken out. Sane play and recreation make for sound work.

FOURTH:	Education for industry and social life must be supple-

mented by training for public affairs. Ours is a government of public opinion, and public welfare requires that that opinion be informed and educated. Public discussion that is open and fair-minded renders this service. At the assemblies, meetings and lectures held in a school centre, one may witness the promotion of the exchange of ideas and experiences, of co-operation, tolerance, and a sane difference of opinion; one may also observe the promotion of common aims and interests of action, mutual understanding and “community-wise” thinking. Here, personal interests give way to community interests, civic interests; here, neighbors find they have much in common, that their weal is interdependent, and that a common spirit and united action make for achievement. Here, the average man’s outlook upon public affairs is supplied with new windows!

These are the main avenues of contact between the neighborhood and the school. Too much must not be claimed for the present, as the school centre is stiH in its pioneer stages of development. Yet its limited experience warrants the statement to be made that it is becoming the school of the masses. Verbal speculation is past. The school has suffered too long from the mediaeval concept of education as “charity”. The present concept is that of service to the people. It remains but to organize the forces of this new “education through action” and appreciate its full meaning. The whole process of this new education is about us everywhere but its place of acceleration is the school centre. Youth must have recreation and joy and freedom of action and these it must have during leisure hours, but youth must be protected in this joy by sympathetic supervision. The same is true of the adult. Think of the value of concerts, debates, dancing parties, socials, entertainments, and other programs conducted at a centre; the incalculable social intercourse, the intelligence, enthusiasm and interest which are generated.

Think of the active citizenship through a day-by-day contact with the things which organized society is doing, through a constructive piece of machinery. Who can say that America does not need the contributions which the often misunderstood “foreigner” at the centre can give? May his genuine and serious interest not be a force in the development of democratic ideals and an American character? America’s greatest asset is her thinking power. What of the thinking powers at the assemblies at a community centre, where self-responsibility, a “spontaneous” life, and a proper relation of man to man, are being inculcated — where a liberal education is obtained—where life reacts on a community? Are not these worthy of conservation?

The school centre is not the Temple of Democracy. It is but one of the many forces which is vital to it. In it, the storage batteries of the people are connected to make circuits of current which represent a combined voltage that is a vital force in the making of a richer and nobler life.

Digitized by Google
509

PUBLIC SCHOOL BATHS.

BY ROBERT F. KELLEY, SUPT. PUBLIC BATHS, BALTIMORE, MD.

For a number of years, in its Annual Reports, and by public agitation, the Free Public Bath Commission of Baltimore had endeavored to have a system of shower baths installed in the Public Schools of their city. As early as the year 1900, with the opening of its first indoor shower bath house, facilities were provided, and efforts were made to encourage bathing among school children. In 1902, a letter was addressed to the School Board, offering to give free baths to any children sent by their teachers at any time, and this offer was accepted, and many children were sent.

In its report for 1903, the Commission suggested to the School Board, the advisability of establishing, in certain crowded sections of the city, baths in the public schools but through lack of finances this could not be done then. In 1904, at the request of the School Board, the Commission prepared and submitted plans for school shower baths but nothing was done by the Board to put them into effect at that time.

In its report for that year, the. Commission stated that “One of the gravest problems in school sanitation in the larger cities, and especially in schools situated in the poorer sections, has been not only to keep the schoolrooms in a clean and sanitary condition, but also to secure cleanliness in the dress and person of the children coming from houses which are but poorly provided with facilities for bathing.”

Year after year, in its Annual Reports, the Commission stressed the need of these baths but were unable to persuade the School Board to install them until about the year 1913, when ten showers were installed in Public School No. 6, on S. Ann St., a neighborhood consisting of people largely of foreign birth. It was not until the year 1916, however, that these baths were put into use and then only by the Bath Commission agreeing to pay all expenses in connection with their operation.

With the co-operation of the Principal and her efficient corps of workers, a schedule was made by which each pupil was allowed twenty minutes a week for a bath. Care was taken that the attendants, one man and one woman, should be of the type that would encourage and help the children.

From the beginning the baths were a success, and at the close of the school year they were opened for the use of the general public. The attendance was very large during the summer months, and for the first year of their operation over 50,000 baths were given.

After a year and a half of operation, the Principal of the School wrote as follows:	“Bathing,	an important adjunct to the health, com-

fort, and happiness of school children, occupies a place on the time schedule of each class in this school. The children go back to their rooms refreshed and alert for work and no ill effects have resulted. Enormous benefits have been noticed. At first, the condition of some of the

* Read at the convention of the Am. Assn, for promoting Hygiene and Public Baths. October 1920, Philadelphia.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
510

children was found pitiful, their clothing soiled and torn, their little bodies unclean. But, ere long, there was marked improvement. Everyone here is awake to the vital importance of the baths as a means of character building and social improvement. In many instances, the good influence has reached into the homes.”

The success of the baths in this school was so marked that the School Board installed them in two other schools, in crowded sections of the city. These were operated by the Bath Commission under the same conditions prevailing at the initial one, with like results. As an evidence of their great popularity, at these three school baths, during the months of July and August of this year, when the schools were not in session, they were used by the general public to the number of 36,392.

As a further development of bathing among school children, at one of our small portable baths, opposite a public school, the experiment was tried of closing it during school hours to the general public and using the same plan pursued at the school baths, the children being allowed twenty minutes each week for a bath. This plan also was successful and at least 75 per cent of the pupils used the baths. Our experience at this school showed us that it was possible for the children to leave the school building, and bathe without disarranging the school schedule, providing the distance was not too great.

Acting on this the plan was given a further trial at another of our schools. This school, an old one, but with a Principal and a corps of efficient workers who, under many handicaps, have been working along modern lines, is located in a section which has few bath tubs, and the children come from homes where they have not been able to receive much personal care. Two portable baths with seven showers in each, were erected on a lot in the rear of this school and a schedule was arranged by which each pupil could bathe at least once each week. The results here were very satisfactory, and at the present time, in an enrollment of over nine hundred, practically all are using the baths.

The Principal of this school recently wrote us as follows:	“Since

your portable houses have been in operation, the children in this school have been decidedly'cleaner. We think they are giving us better general school work. We also believe that the baths are reacting on the general health of the children. The baths prove to be as necessary to a school as to a home. I hope no school in which I work will be without them”.

For the year 1919, at two of the schools and the three portables mentioned, the total attendance was 159,966, a large proportion of which were school children.

Aside from the beneficial effects derived from the mere matter of cleanliness, a very important feature of the work at the school baths which has developed through the interest taken by the attendants, is a general inspection of the physical condition of the children patronizing the baths. The attendants have taken a deep interest in this phase of their work and have rendered a very valuable service to the community by personally treating minor abrasions or eruptions of the skin, or, where conditions are too serious for them to take the responsibility, by seeing to it that proper treatment is secured for the children at the hands of family physicians or at public dispensaries. The average number of cases treated at each school, has been about twelve hundred a year.

Digitized by
511

In many instances, children have been taught the proper way to wear their clothing, and to keep them in repair. Many cases of destitution have been relieved, which would not have been known, had it not been for the baths.

We feel that the remarks made by Dr. Baruch, President of the American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths in his address at the Baltimore Convention in 1916, cover our Experience. We quote as follows:

“Baths exercise a vital influence indicated not only by the appearance of the little ones, but by their alertness in study after the bath. The children return to their classrooms more refreshed and alert for work than they would after a half hour’s exercise in the gymnasium. We believe that the bathing habit formed in school will continue through life. On the moral side, a child, when clean has more respect for himself, and is more responsive to law and order.”

In conclusion, we would emphasize the importance of selecting proper attendants for the work, as much of its success depends on them.

A HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF THE PLAY MOVEMENT IN AMERICAN CITIES.

BY HENRY L. CURTIS, PH. D., OBERLIN, OHIO.

Joseph Lee in speaking of the play movement in Boston, mentions the case of the school boys who appeared before General Gage and complained of the interference of the soldiers with their playground, thus maintaining that the commons was theirs by right to play in without annoyance, when they chose. Thus he says:	“Boston	may claim to have

a playground dating from the Elizabethan era”. All of the commons of New England towns seem to have been used in this way.

According to Mr. Lee the first organized and directed playground for children during the summer months was maintained by the Old South Church of Boston, which started a vacation school in the summer of 1866, and a playground in one of the school yards near by in 1868. This did not attract much attention, however, and I am unable to see that it had any influence in causing further developments either in Boston or elsewhere.

The vital beginning of the movement in Boston, however, was in 1886. “In that year Dr. Marie Zakerzewska wrote to the chairman of the Committee of the Massachusetts Emergency and Hygiene Association, saying that in the public parks of Berlin, there were heaps of sand in which the children rich and poor were allowed to dig and play, as if on the seashore. That year three piles of yellow sand were placed in the yards of the Children’s Mission on Parmeter Street. The next year there were ten heaps in the courts of tenement houses, and one heap in the yard of a school house to be used in connection with a vacation school.” These sand gardens were intended for small children and were open three hours a day in charge of a kindergartener. Mr. Lee styles Miss Ellen M. Tower, of Lexington, who had charge of the Boston sand gardens from the beginning, “The Mother of the American Sand Gardens”.

The gymnasium at Charlesbank, which was planned by Dr. Sargent,

Digitized by L^ooQLe
512

of Cambridge, and Charles Elliott, the landscape architect, was opened the same year and was the first outdoor gymnasium in America.

In Mayor Quincy’s administration, a law was passed allowing Boston to spend $ 1,000,000.00 in sums not to exceed $200,000.00 in any one year in acquiring playgrounds. This money was wisely expended, as very many of the Boston playgrounds have been made by filling in marshes and ponds, and so, for a system over 200 acres in extent has been moderate. By a law passed in 1907, the conduct of games in the municipal playgrounds was placed under the charge of the Board of Education.

I know of nothing to show that New York is indebted to Boston for the playground idea. Certainly it has been no servile imitator. I have never seen any reference to Boston in the words of the organizers of the movement in New York.

In the year 1887 the late Samuel Bowne Duryea of Brooklyn gathered together a group of interested people, in order to consider the project of establishing playgrounds for children. The result of the conference was to cause a bill to be introduced into the legislature of the state of New York, which on May 15th, 1888 became a law, known as Chapter 293, Laws of 1888, entitled, “An Act for the Incorporation of Societies for Providing Parks and Playgrounds for Children in the Cities, Towns and Villages of this State.” “The Brooklyn Society for Parks and Playgrounds for Children” was incorporated the following year by the same gentlemen.

The New York Society for Parks and Playgrounds was incorporated in 1890. Some of the charter members were Bishop Potter, Abraham S. Hewitt, Andrew H. Green, Felix Adler, Charles Parkhurst, and many others. Bishop Potter presided at its first regular meeting, which occurred October 28, 1890. On the 8th of January, 1891, it opened its first regular playground at 99th Street and Second Avenue. This was a lot 200 feet square. It was provided with swings, see-saws, small wagons, wheelbarrows, shovels, footballs, flags, drums, banners and a heap of sand. It was the idea at first to have very little supervision, but it was soon found that the children did not know how to play many games, and that the big boys monopolized the grounds to the exclusion of the smaller children. This caused more attendants to be provided.

Most of the organizers in New York were clergymen or Rabbis, and the first great impetus the movement received was from the pulpit. On Sunday, November 22, 1891, one hundred prominent New York clergymen preached on the need of playgrounds for the children of the poor. This followed a similar plea made by 27 prominent Jewish Rabbis on the preceding Saturday. These addresses aroused great interest and it appeared as though the movement had been launched on-a high tide to success. Most of the effects of this first start were lost, however, through the jealousy of the newspapers. Still three or four more playgrounds were opened. In 1898 when the work was taken up by the Board of Education there were six or seven in the city. Here the inspiration for the action of New York came not from Boston, but from Philadelphia, where the Board of Education had already assisted in maintaining playgrounds.

One of the interesting figures at the beginning of the new movement

Digitized by v^ooQle
513

in New York was Stoyan Tsanoff, a Bulgarian, who had been instrumental in starting a movement for a so-called ‘‘Model Playground” in Philadelphia. He came to New York in 1897.

Probably the one who has done most to interest the country at large, however, has been Jacob Riis, whose widely read books and articles have reached nearly every one. Charles B. Stover, the president of the Outdoor Recreation League, was also one of the most efficient workers during the early years.

Before the schools and yards could be opened for play, a law had to be passed at Albany permitting the use of school property for purposes of recreation. Superintendent Seth T. Stewart introduced a resolution before the Board of Education in 1897 asking that $25,000 should be set aside for the establishment of vacation schools and playgrounds. Following this the Outdoor Recreation League waited on the Mayor and secured from him a promise that he would endeavor to secure the appropriation of such a sum as the Board of Education should deem necessary to carry on the Playgrounds. As the result of this $15,000.00, which was afterwards increased to $25,000.00 was set aside for vacation schools and playgrounds in the Borough of Manhattan and $5,000.00 for Brooklyn.

The year 1898 was an epochal one for the new enterprise and became almost a new beginning. Superintendant Stewart, who was at once able, original, and interested, was placed in charge. The enterprise was maintained on such a wide scale that it attracted a great deal of attention in the papers throughout the country, and the seeds of the new movement were sown broadcast.

Twenty playgrounds in Manhattan and ten in Brooklyn, mostly school yards, were maintained from July sixth to September fifth.

A law was passed at Albany in 1887 authorizing an expenditure of $1 ,000,000 a year in the acquisition of playgrounds. Nothing was done about this, however, for several years, as a million dollars was not sufficient to purchase the ground for anything but a very small playground as most of them have been made by demolishing five and six story tenements and the cost of some of them, (Seward Park, which is 2 5-8 acres in extent and cost equipped $2,500,000.00) was nearly a million dollars an acre. Jacob Riis was largely responsible for securing Mulberry Bend and Seward Park, which were the first two of these parks to be obtained. The price of land in New York has been well-nigh prohibitive, and there has been too much politics. They are mostly situated in sections where the streets are always crowded.

There are recreation piers around New York where band concerts are given and where dancing and games are sometimes conducted during the summer. There are floating baths in the river and a number of municipal baths, some of which have gymnasiums as well. The great development has been in connection with the schools. Here the problem has been difficult on account of the prohibitive price of land. Most of the schools have the area that corresponds to the first floor of the school in other cities for play, a very small exterior court ofttimes less than one quarter of the area of the building and, the newer ones have roof playgrounds as well. These buildings are four or five stories high and hold from fifteen hundred to five thousand children, who probably have about half as much room on the playground on an average as in the class rooms.

Digitized by LjOOQie
514

One of the most interesting and important developments along play lines has been the organization under Dr. Gulick in 1905 of the Public School Athletic League, an institution that has since been copied in more than a hundred other cities. The most important work of this league has been the promotion of the standard athletic test.

Courses for the training of Playground workers are being given at Columbia, at the school of Philanthrophy, at Savage's Gymnasium, and, in the summertime, at the University of New York.

Two summer playgrounds were started by philanthropically inclined people in Philadelphia in 1893. In 1895 t^le city council in response to a petition from the Civic Club and a large number of other organizations opened four of the most available school yards, which were equipped with sand and apparatus. $ 1,000.00 was appropriated to maintain these grounds. The work was carried on by and under the Civic Club. The Board of Education took control of the playgrounds in 1898.

Besides the playgrounds a number of large children's gardens are maintained. Until Mr. William Stecher took charge in 1907 the playgrounds were subordinated to the gardens. The new municipal field houses are fine and better attended than the ones in Chicago. The first endowed playground in America was the Children's Playground and Playground House in East Fairmount Park, which was built and endowed by the will of Richard and Sarah Smith in 1896.

Baltimore was one of the early cities to make a beginning. Playgrounds have been carried on in the school yards since 1896, by the Children's Playground Association. They received their first appropriation from the city, ($3,000.) in the summer of 1907, on the condition that the Association would raise an equal amount.

The municipal gymnasia were equipped, and were maintained during the first years, by Mr. Robert Garrett.

The first playground to be opened in Washington was opened in connection with Neighborhood House in 1901 by Mr. Charles F. Weller, Head Resident of the settlement and General Secretary of the Associated Charities.

The playground movement was organized in Pittsburgh in 1895 with Miss Beulah Kennard as president. Until 1906 the work was carried by the Civic Club, and the associated women’s clubs of the city. Each of the larger clubs became responsible for a playground, while the smaller ones united by twos and threes for this purpose.

The first beginning in Rochester was made in 1900, when pupils of the Columbia School opened a playground with the proceeds received from their annual fair. This playground was in the yard of school No. 18. The Children’s Playground League was organized in 1902. Rochester has been better known for its social centers than it has been for its playgrounds, because in Rochester under President Forbes of the Board of Education and Mr. Edward J. Ward, the social center with a civic trend was first started. These centers were essentially civic forums for the discussion of public questions and largely managed by the people who lived around them.

The first vacation playgrounds in Chicago of which I have seen an account, were those started by Jane Addams in connection with Hull

Digitized by v^ooQle
515

House in 1892, and the one started by Prof. Zeubiin in connection with the Northwestern Settlement, at about the same time.

A summer playground was started by the conference of the Associated Charities in the year 1897. In 1899 and again in 1900, there were six carried on for eight weeks by women's clubs, all of them in school yards. The city council appropriated $ 1000.00 toward the expense of their* maintenance. Miss Sadie American was in charge.

The municipal playgrounds were begun in 1901. They are under the Special Parks Commission. They are small and meagerly equipped, as compared with the newer system of Chicago, which are the park playgrounds first started by the South Park Board in 1904.

There are three systems of park playgrounds in Chicago, besides the municipal system. Nearly all of them contain outdoor swimming pools and field houses as well as the most varied facilities for play. The Field house in Fuller Park cost $318,000 and the cheapest one in the South Park System cost $70,000. All of the playgrounds are well lighted and are kept open until ten o'clock at night.

The first summer playgrounds of St. Louis which were opened in 1900 were an out-growth of the work of the social economic section of the Wednesday Club, and of the Civic Club of St. Louis. These were all on vacant lots. Seven were maintained by a Vacation Playground Association (which is an out-growth of the Wednesday Club) in the school yards. In 1906 these two organizations united to form the St. Louis Playground Association. The work was taken up by the city in 1906.

CORRECTIONS VERSUS COMPENSATION OF PHYSICAL

DEFECTS.*

BY ROGER I. LEE, M. D., PROFESSOR OF HYGIENE, HARVARD UNIVERSITY, AND LLOYD T. BROWN, M. D., F. A. C. S. CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

The inauguration of a program of required physical training for Freshmen in Harvard College necessitated a survey of the general methods already in use. A scrutiny of the multitude of methods employed in many places readily showed there is no generally accepted agreement as to the fundamental principles involved in physical training. There was, of course, a common agreement that physical training is generally beneficial. Most people accept the dictum that the human body is definitely benefited by regular physical exercise. It is also generally agreed that the benefits of physical exercise can be traced to the mind as well as to the body. There is, however, no agreement as to the proper methods to be pursued in attaining this end. As a matter of fact the discussion and also the practice of the procedure to attain the general end of improved bodily condition is very largely concerned with a discussion of methods and fails to take into account the underlying principles. One finds that calisthenics, special gymnasium work, military drill and every form of sport are each heartily recommended as the best method of achieving beneficial physical effects from physical training.

* From the American Journal of the Medical Sciences November, 1920.

Digitized by L^ooQle
516

It has seemed to us that methods were entirely secondary to the underlying principles. It has seemed to us that muscular exercise represented by so many foot pounds of work could be performed in a wide variety of ways. It also has seemed to us that the delivery of muscular exercise was in a sense a prescription which should be based upon an intelligent examination of individuals. In other words, there is probably no blanket prescription, even though one may have to utilize, wlftn dealing with large numbers of individuals, what may be called group prescriptions. The ideal method would be, of course, to base a prescription upon each individual case, and like- any medicinal prescription, such prescription takes into account special factors as convenience, palatability, etc. Physicians do not write prescriptions for pills of such a size that they are too large to swallow, nor do they write prescriptions in fluid form for drugs which have a very bad taste which can be concealed under an appropriate coating. A prescription for physical training therefore may justifiably be governed by convenience and palatability as well as by other considerations.

As a preliminary to our prescriptions for physical training we have made a complete medical physical examination. This examination naturally revealed a certain amount of organic defects, some of which were capable of being corrected by standard medical procedures. A certain number of these organic defects, however, might be benefited by physical exercise, even though they were permanent and not capable of correction by ordinary medical therapeutics or by physical training therapeutics. Such defects were at once classified as permanent defects not capable of correction but capable of adequate compensation. In connection with the medical physical examination the individuals were also examined from the point of view of bodily mechanics which took into consideration two factors, namely, the use of the body in the standing position and the use of the feet. The discussion of the classification of bodily mechanics and the general outline of the subsequent procedure has been made in another communication.* In summary it was found that 20 per cent of Harvard Freshmen had satisfactory use of the body, while in 80 per cent the use of the body was classified as being unsatisfactory. It is evident, therefore, that in the case of 20 per cent of the individuals the immediate problem was merely that of delivery of physical exercise in order to maintain the satisfactory use of the body. To our minds the method of physical training is of no importance as an immediate problem in those individuals. The method of physical training is of some importance as a life problem looked at from the point of view that it is desirable to encourage individuals to develop satisfactory habits of physical exercise. From that point of view there is a definite choice of methods. It is obviously desirable to encourage some habit of physical exercise which can be maintained at least throughout the early part of adult life. But, as we have said, the immediate problem in those individuals does not particularly concern methods. In the 80 per cent of individuals who use their bodies in a more or less unsatisfactory fashion there are

* Browny L. T.: Am. Jour. Orthop. Surgery, 79/7, xv, 77^. Lee R. /., Brown, L. T.y and Geery fV. H.: In press. American Physical Education Review.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
517

definitely two problems, (i) the problem of correction, and (2) the problem of furnishing physical exercise.

It is noteworthy there is no positive relationship between the muscular strength of the individual and the participation in physical exercise on the one hand and good bodily mechanics on the other. In other words, .while those who use their bodies properly tended to have participated in some form of physical exercise and to have well-exercised muscles, nevertheless very muscular a;id very athletic individuals were also found who used their bodies in a very poor fashion. The general, though not the universal, tendency has been to accept powerful musculature and the habit of physical exercise as approximately equivalent to a satisfactory use of the body. Our investigations have failed signally to establish this contention. At the very first we were impressed with the fact that only a small portion of those who use their bodies in an unsatisfactory fashion had symptoms from this unsatisfactory use. i At that time the employment of the term “compensated defects” began. It was evident that there was a definite comparison between a heart lesion and a bodily lesion. There are many individuals with heart trouble who are in the stage of a compensated heart defect. Nearly all individuals with heart lesions have an early period of compensation and a goodly proportion continue their compensation throughout life. This compensation may be of a greater or less degree. The comparison holds true of bodily defects. It is possible by food musculature to compensate for bodily defects and to maintain this compensation throughout life. This compensation is likewise of varying degree. A concrete example may be given:	C.	W.	had	infantile paralysis in early life, with a resulting

marked deformity of his back. He enlisted early in the war, was accepted and served throughout the war without difficulty. He had big muscles and gave the external appearance when dressed of a large, powerful young man. After the war he came to college and took up football, which he had played in preparatory school without difficulty. Hard scrimmaging, however, brought on very definite symptoms in his back. Despite his powerful muscles it soon became apparent that he had adequate compensation for the routine work in life, even for army life, but the compensation of his back defect was not adequate to enable him to play college football. Inasmuch as his defect was structural it was not capable of correction but was merely capable of compensation. It is therefore in this instance necessary to accept compensation as the sole program. The case of F. R. may be utilized as a further illustration. F. R. is a powerful youth with big muscles who has participated in all forms of games and exercise. On examination he is classified as “D,” or as having very bad mechanical use of the body, because he has very unsatisfactory position of his body in standing, and he furthermore uses his feet in an unsatisfactory fashion. The young man has built up an excellent degree of compensation for his functional defects. When he first presented himself he was inclined to be indignant with his classification. It was of course to be expected that he had had no trouble with his back or with his feet. He was put in a group for special instruction in regard to bodily mechanics. In the meantime he continued his usual vigorous athletic activities. He appeared one day complaining of his feet. To be sure, he had poor boots which in our experience is often the determining

Digitized by t^ooQle
518

factor between compensation and failure of compensation in individuals who use their feet poorly. But the fact remains that despite vigorous athletic exercise and despite his powerful muscles his bodily mechanics failed because he did not use his feet correctly. He has now had his intensive instruction in bodily mechanics, and it is hoped that he will have his bodily mechanics corrected. Upon the foundation of corrected bodily mechanics he will have physical training which will not compensate for his defects, but will establish more firmly his corrected bodily mechanics.

It has been our experience that back defects are usually fairly well compensated throughout young adult life. We believe this to be almost unfortunate because it gives a false feeling of security, and it permits a bad habit to be very firmly fixed. Consequently, when in later life with a diminishing muscular power compensation fails, correction is often difficult and the fixation of the corrected bodily mechanics by habit and by physical exercise may be next to impossible to achieve.

In the case of the bodily mechanics of the feet the question of compensation and correction is somewhat different. It is decidedly more simple to compensate bad mechanics of the feet by the use of tight shoes or by plates than it is to correct their bad mechanics by sheer muscular power. Consequently when compensation for the mechanical defects of the feet has been lost the individual is often led to try out a large variety of shoes and plates, with the hope of restoring it. Compensation thus restored is always a potential of future trouble unless it is followed by the fixation of correct mechanics by education, habit and physical exercise.

We believe that it is because the results of bad use of the feet are relatively so promptly evident that, on the whole, sounder opinions prevail in regard to correction versus compensation in the feet than in the back; but to our minds the same fundamental principles underlie every form of bodily mechanics. In our program we emphasize correction of all defects when present. Compensation is reserved for irremediable defects such as structural changes of the back. Following correction we insist upon the fixation of correction by physical exercise in the corrected position, and following this stage we encourage general, all-around physical exercise in order to fix more firmly the corrected habit. In other words the stages are, I, correction; 2y fixation of correction; 3, the habit of exercise in the corrected position; 4, firm fixation of corrected habits. Our experience has confirmed this theoretical consideration because we have not found that faulty habits of bodily mechanics tend to be corrected to any extent by simple exercise. Therefore in the required course of physical training we demonstrate to each individual separately the proper method of standing even if he stands correcdy. The class, as a whole, is given lectures demonstrating the principles of bodily mechanics. So far our program for further work has only embraced those who presented very bad bodily mechanics. These individuals are divided into small groups and receive intensive instruction. The result of this instruction has been very satisfactory, as will be seen from the accompanying illustrative charts. Fig. la, 2a, ja, positions assumed by three students at the time of their first examination. Fig. \by 2by 3^, positions assumed by same students after receiving instruction in bodily mechanics when told to stand as well as they could.

Digitized by Google
519

These tracings were taken at random from a large series and bring out the fact that although the student started with no knowledge of correct bodily mechanics, at the end of his course of instruction he not only understood the theory of it but could give a practical demonstration.

It is not always possible to achieve satisfactory success with each individual, but it is exceptional that we have not been able to change those classified as “D,” or very bad mechanical use of the body into a classification of “B,” which means good mechanical use of the body. It will be noted that we have concerned ourselves mainly with the 25 per cent who presented the very bad mechanical use of the body. Since the program was tentative and experimental it was decided to await the result of a year's experience in order to see what a single personal demonstration and general lectures would do for the big group of young men classified as “C” who had moderately unsatisfactory mechanical use of the body. While it is true that a considerable number of these were energetic enough to correct themselves, nevertheless the general error of preferring compensation to correction was the more common. We now

believe that it is necessary to broaden the intensive instruction so as to include the “C” group as well as the “D” group. This will be put into operation in another year.

We would like to emphasize the importance of a proper nomenclature in any system of physical training. A discussion which involves nomenclature has certain obvious advantages and disadvantages. In general the disadvantages far outweigh the advantages. After all the purpose of nomenclature is to clarify one’s conception. Nomenclature per se has no particular value. It is only of use when utilized as a means to an end. Too often nomenclature becomes the end and not the means, and a discussion of nomenclature becomes distasteful because it is synonymous with quibbling. Also, it not infrequently suggests that a knowledge of nomenclature is a knowledge of the subject-matter concerned. In the present discussion it is believed that the nomenclature as outlined

Digitized by ^.ooQle
520

in the title, corrections or compensation of physical defects, is of some real assistance in the understanding of the subject-matter concerned.

In order to be really successful a physical training program must be based upon careful examination, and this careful examination must be directed toward bodily mechanics with as much care as it is directed toward the heart. Actual structural defects which cannot be corrected and which require compensation are just about as frequent as organic disease of the heart, which likewise cannot be corrected and must be compensated. Judging by our statistics we may assume that the majority of individuals have habits of poor mechanical use of the body, and if left to themselves these individuals may increase compensation but will not correct their defects. It is important that the actual program of physical training be based upon an examination of bodily mechanics. It is possible to give prescriptions for groups of individuals as a result of this examination. All individuals who have poor mechanical use of the body will require as a part of their prescription a preliminary correction. One may expect to see fairly quickly the demonstration of the advantage of correction over compensation in the mechanical use of the feet that is fairly well explained. The same general principle holds true of the mechanical use of the back, but because compensation usually persists for a number of years the untoward effects in the form of definite symptoms from the bad mechanical use of the back are usually slow in coming. It is possible, however, to correct bad mechanical use of the back, and it is possible to fix rather firmly good habits even in the most unpromising individuals.

We are not prepared at this time to support the theory that many ailments of the nervous system or of the gastro-intestinal system are related to bad mechanical use of the body. We can, however, state that there is a frequent association of such symptoms with the mechanical use of the body. Our investigations have shown that albuminuria of young men which is not a true nephritis is associated almost exclusively with very bad mechanical use of the body. We believe that a sufficient case can be made out for correction as against compensation on the basis of actual ailments of the back and feet, generally conceded to be due to faulty use of the body even without the addition of possible symptoms connected with other organs.

We believe that physical training can only accomplish what it is expected to accomplish when it is based upon satisfactory fundamental principles and when bodily mechanics is regarded in a similar fashion as the disturbances of any other stysem of the body are regarded.

THE FALLACY OF ABDOMINAL BREATHING.*

BY CAPTAIN ERNEST KINGSCOTE, M. B., C. M., L. R. C. S., EDIN.

Proper Chest Excursion. It is all important to have a freely moving chest. Movement is more important than actual size. The fixed pouter-like chest of the well-turned-out soldier (he is proud of being able to “chuck a chest”) is showy enough from a spectacular point of view, but

* From the Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham.

Digitized by
521

is all wrong as regards stamina and efficiency. The fixed chest may go as far as Emphysema of the lungs (which will be discussed further on), and, indeed, does so, in many instances. This also is the hapless case of many youths trained in the gymnasium who because, perhaps, they had not sufficient chest movement to start with, have been subjected to strain which they were physically unable to support, and so the seeds are sown of heart and lung trouble in later life.

On taking a forced inspiration a normal chest should expand 2 yi to 3 inches at the level of the nipples, and about i inch at the level of the lower ribs. The man with a fixed chest may have little or no movement at the nipple level and perhaps 2 to 3 inches at that of the lower ribs, according to the degree of fixity. The one is a chest-breather and the other a belly-breather with all the tendency to the acquisition of disease and premature old age. Exercise and ordinary deep breathing exercises only tend to augment the abnormal condition. In the War the belly-breather was found to be inferior to the chest-breather (they were easily to be distinguished) in the air-service and in the trenches, both as regards stamina and effectiveness. While working at one of the Army Hospitals for those suffering from shell shock, all the patients I examined were found to have diminished chest excursions and were belly-breathers.

The belly-breather stoops, gets easily tired and out of breath, and feels a tightness across the chest on exertion, whereas the chest-breather cannot help “holding straight/' and feels light and active, partly because the apices of his lungs are fully filled with air, and therefore his balance is correct. How shall the poor belly-breather be changed into a chest-breather, if this be possible? And how shall the raw recruit and the youth about to undergo a course of physical training in the gymnasium be absolved from the possible evil consequences thereof, viz.: fixed chest, strain and dilated heart?

Doctor William Ewart, M. D., F. R. C. S., Consulting Physician to St. George’s Hospital, in his contribution under Emphysema to “Progressive Medicine,” Vol. III., 1914, writes:	“A most successful method

has recently been published by E. Kingscote,* of London, after demonstration in New York under the heading of “Selected Breathing Exercises for the Reproduction of Chest Excursion and the Restoration of Lung Elasticity in Emphysema and Allied Conditions.” The following is an extract from the said paper descriptive of the exercises in question.

The Kingscote Selected Exercises. “The patient is instructed to place a towel, or other band, around the free ribs (which are usually everted), and to exhale forcibly through the mouth to get rid of the subsidiary air. While doing this the towel is gradually tightened, and at the termination of the expiration twisted to fix it in position. The lungs are now nearly empty, and the lower ribs fixed by the constriction of the towel. The patient now closes the lips and inhales by the nose. As the lower part of the chest cannot expand owing to the constriction of the towel, the upper part is forced to do so, so powerful are the voluntary muscles of inspiration; and the chest being formed of living bone is not a rigid

* N. B.—Twenty-third meeting of the American Electro-Therapeutic Association, September 2nd and 4th, /?/?, at New York and Boston.

Digitized by CjOOQle
box, but a very adaptable cage, which, by means of these exercises, recovers its normal movements in a varying number of weeks.

In diseased lungs, or imperfectly employed lungs, there are millions of disused air vesicles between the diseased portions of the lung. These disused air vesicles have their elastic tissue intact, and, as they are gradually brought into use by such selected breathing exercises as described, they expand and squeeze out the diseased tissue, which is either absorbed or coughed up. In cases of Emphysema or allied conditions, these exercises should be performed three times in succession on three occasions in the day, that is to say, nine times in all, not, of course, immediately after a meal. In cases of simple fixed chest without disease, three times in succession on one occasion in the day should suffice for recruits or youths undergoing physical training/’

Results. I have seen as much as five inches of chest excursion produced in six weeks where there was, previously, no chest movement at all, at the level of the nipples. One hundred cases of consumption were treated in this way, together with the administration of antiseptics, and they made good recoveries. If such things can happen to diseased lungs, how much more may healthy lungs, which are only fixed by strain or by faulty breathing habits, be made to reproduce their movements? Short of Emphysema, a certain degree of fixed chest is very common amongst those who lead a comparatively sedentary life. In such cases a considerable portion of the lung remains unemployed, leading to diminished vitality and sub-oxydisation of the blood. On the application of the breathing exercises, these cases improve very rapidly, as also do those of the various chest deformities. Cases of dilatation of the heart nearly always show diminished chest excursion, and after the heart dilatation be reduced, it will probably re-appear in about a year unless the chest be made to move.

Of course in the Army and in the gymnasium we should not ostensibly be dealing with diseased chests, but in some cases there may lurk a dilated heart under a distended lung, and every case whose chest excursion on forced respiration does not reach 2>£ inches at the level of the nipples, should be examined medically. These exercises induce the habit of nose breathing, the desirability of which was so ably emphasized by Mr. Somerville Hastings in No. 35 of the Journal of Scientific Physical Training.

The Physics of Respiration. The idea of artificial abdominal breathing which was formerly, and in some cases, I believe, continues still to be taught to singers, was conceived in ignorance of the Physics of respiration. Owing to the elasticity of the lung tissue, the lungs, at the end of a deep inspiration tend to draw inwards, thus producing negative atmospheric pressure in the chest, and the diaphragm, instead of being pressed downwards into the abdomen, is drawn upwards in the form of a cone. This has been frequently demonstrated by the Rontgen Rays. At the end of a deep breath, then, the upper chest should be fully expanded, and the lower, or free ribs drawn inwards, whereas in belly-breathers they tend to protrude, and constitute an ugly deformity.

If a normal breather stand before a looking glass, and take a deep breath, first of all the lower ribs and abdomen expand owing to the depression of the diaphragm, then the upper chest expands, and as the
latter becomes fully distended, with air, the lower or free ribs and the abdomen contract on account of the suction action of the extended elastic lungs. This is the more so as there is the positive atmospheric pressure of 15 pounds to the square inch exerted on the abdominal wall, whereas there is negative pressure inside the chest. All this goes to show that there is no gain in artificial abdominal breathing, because it is contrary to nature. The diaphragm is an automatic muscle and can be trusted to look after itself.

Voice-Production. Voice-production depends largely on upper-chest movement. For instance—a singer, a tenor, consulted the writer, complaining that his voice had become woolly, and that he had lost two of his top notes. He had become, from various causes, a belly-breather. On the reproduction of his upper chest movements his voice became clear, and he not only regained the two high notes that he had lost, but even had another two added to the number.

The Tubercle Bacillus. We have already noticed that a fixed upper chest pre-disposes to disease, especially to consumption. The apices of the lungs being fixed, they form a convenient nidus for the tubercle bacillus to generate in. This tubercle bacillus has no aversion to fresh air (indeed tubercle bacillus cultures have been made in an atmosphere of pure oxygen gas), but it has a great objection to movement. Free movement of the chest then is an essential to health, not only for the above reason, but because it assists the heart’s action and the arterial and lymphatic circulation.

Emphysema (from the Greek emphysuma, an overstretching) is caused by the lungs being stretched beyond their power of elastic recoil, and they become pressed against the inside of the chest wall and against the diaphragm, thus fixing the chest. It is produced by strain such as whooping-cough, chronic cough, chronic constipation and over-ex ertior\. Emphysema frequently accompanies and pre-disposes to asthma, chronic bronchitis, angina pectoris, chronic dyspepsia, chronic heart condition, goitre, diabetes and other conditions. We have seen that Emphysema may be modified by the selected breathing exercises, and this somewhat opens the door to the successful treatment of the above diseases.

To sum up, then, want of chest movement and consequent abdominal breathing diminishes vitality and pre-disposes to flat chest and stooping, tendency to catch colds, liability to be attacked by certain diseases, disturbance of body balance, obesity, etc. All of these conditions may be making the chest move. The consumptive patient with a freely-moving chest can obtain more air in the slums of a big city than can the fixed-chest martyr at the top of Mont Blanc. referendum:—

1.	“Selected Breathing Exercises” read before the American Electro-Therapeutic Association, New York and Boston, September 2 and 4, 1913.

2.	“Treatment of Asthma and Hay Fever” read before the Annual Meeting of the British Medical Association.

3.	Paper on “Emphysema and its treatment by Breathing Exercises” read before the International Medical Congress at Buda-Pest, 1909.

Digitized by Google
624

THE OBJECTIVES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION*.

BY FRANKLIN BOBBITT, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO.

In most discussions of the objectives, certain shortcomings are painfully evident. To mention one, the objectives are usually too general for the guidance of actual procedure. For example, the National Education Association Commission recommends the following seven:	(i)

health, (2) command of fundamental processes, (3) worthy home membership, (4) vocation, (5) citizenship, (6) worthy use of leisure, (7) ethical character.

This is a geniune contribution; but it can have little value in the guidance of practical labors until these general terms are broken up into their specifics. To aim at health, for example, in a vague, general way is scarcely to aim at all. We need an itemized statement of the specific habits which condition good health and which, therefore, are to be developed in men and women during their formative years; an itemized statement of the attitudes and valuations which lie back of and support these habits; equally specific statement of the definite powers of judgment to be developed; statement of the bodies of information needed for guidance, control, and the intellectual support of habits, valuations, etc.; statement of aspects of physical development in which the individual’s pride should be awakened; and a number of other things.

Let us illustrate by presenting a sample list of specific health abilities at which education might aim:

1.	Ability to make one’s food contribute in maximum measure to one’s physical well-being.

2.	Ability to keep the body mechanism properly oxygenated.

3.	Ability to utilize muscular exercise as a life-long means of developing and maintaining a high level of physical vitality.

4.	Ability and disposition throughout life to engage with pleasure and profit in a varied repertory of games, sports, athletics, dances, outdoor recreations, etc., such as swimming, skating, hiking, rowing, riding, tennis, golf, ball games of various kinds, running games, fencing, folk dancing, fishing, hunting, canoeing, motoring, camping, athletic events, etc.

5.	Ability to engage in a variety of unspecialized productive labors which contribute diverse and needed elements to one’s repertory of physical experiences.

6.	Ability to make one’s various mental and emotional states and activities contribute in maximum degree to one’s physical well-being.

7.	Ability to make one’s sleep contribute in maximum measure to the development and maintenance of a high level of physical vitality.

8.	Ability to protect one’s self from micro-organisms; and to deal with them and their products effectively in case of attack.

9.	Ability rightly to control the factors involved in the maintenance of bodily temperatures.

10.	Ability to dress in ways that promote the physical well-being in maximum degree.

* Extracts from a paper printed in “The School Review.”

Digitized by Tooele
11.	Ability to maintain bodily cleanliness, external and internal.

12.	Ability to provide the most favorable conditions for the elimination from the tissues, organs, and body in general of all harmful or needless substances and agents.

13. Ability to control one’s relations to sunlight so as to secure maximum benefits therefrom.

14. Ability to maintain postures conducive to the best physical functioning.

15.	Ability to secure that variety or diversity of physical experiences necessary for maximum well-being.

16.	Ability to maintain that proper balance between excessive regularity and excessive irregularity which is necessary for maximum physical well-being.

17. Ability properly to utilize painful experiences as elements in one’s repertory of necessary physical experiences.

18.	Ability to work hard for long periods and still keep physically fit-

19.	Ability to draw up an individual program of work, play, rest, sleep, meals, etc., best suited to one’s physical nature and capacity; and currently to keep that program of work adapted to the ever-changing conditions of one’s situation.

20.	Ability to protect one’s self from preventable accidents.

21. Ability to deal with conditions produced by many kinds of common accidents.

22.	Ability to protect from dust, smoke, noxious gases, etc.

23.	Ability to care for the eyes.

24.	Ability to care for the teeth.

25.	Ability to care for nose, ears, and throat.

26.	Ability to avoid or to prevent the conditions which bring on or sustain colds.

27.	Ability to keep the heart and blood vessels in normal working condition.

28. Ability to care for the skin.

29. Ability to care for the hair and scalp.

30.	Ability to care for the nails.

31.	Ability to care properly for the feet.

32.	Ability to control sex functions in the interests of high physical vitality.

33.	Ability to keep reasonably well-informed, in the degree to be expected of a layman, as to the progress and discoveries of science in the fields of health conservation and promotion.

34.	Ability to recognize the symptoms of many kinds of ailments in their incipient stages.

35.	Ability to take the protective, precautionary, or remedial steps necessary to protect one’s self or family from a considerable number of common ailments.

36.	Ability within one’s occupational field to co-operate effectively in providing wholesome working conditions.

37.	Ability wisely to utilize the services of specialists in health and physical upbuilding and maintenance.

38.	Ability to perform one’s civic functions in co-operating with

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
526

and in the social support and control of all public agencies engaged in promoting the general physical welfare.

If the educational objective agreed upon by the profession is simply the general matter of health, it is possible for the curriculum-maker to miss a considerable or even a large portion of the field without even knowing it. If, however, we have a full and detailed list of the abilities required, then the curriculum-maker is guided in the formulation of a complete and well-proportioned program. The foregoing list will probably not require many additions to be relatively complete. It was formulated from the suggestions of several hundred experienced professional workers. It is the judgment of the writer that our profession should draw up cooperatively as early as practicable an authoritative list to be used for guidance in curriculum-making.

An ability is a complex or composite thing. Each of the foregoing objectives can be broken up into further specifics. Each one of them requires certain habits, valuations, attitudes, interests, tendencies, desires, items or bodies of information, powers of judgment, impelling faiths, social sentitiveness and responsiveness, pride of physique, etc. We are not ready really to formulate the curriculum until we have taken each several ability and thus broken it .up into its specifics and laid them out before us for our guidance in formulating pupil-experiences. Education will not aim at the development of the abilities in a merely general way. It must aim definitely and accurately at the development of each of the specific ingredients which make up the abilities. Let us illustrate by presenting a series of the specifics involved in the first of the list given above. The limitations of space preclude any attempt to present here a complete series.

ABILITY TO MAKE ONE’S FOOD CONTRIBUTE TO ONE’S MAXIMUM WELLBEING.

1.	Habit of selecting a balanced dietary adapted to one's nature, size, age, character of work, the season of the year, etc.

2.	Good judgment in making adaptations of one’s dietary to meet ever-changing conditions.

3.	Impelling and effective desire to make one’s food contribute in maximum degree to one's well-being.

4.	Impelling desire for that level of physical energy which can be had only through obedience to the dictates of dietetic science.

5.	Effective desire for the things which one can usually have only when one maintains a high level of vitality.

6.	Willingness to forego dietetic pleasures of the moment for the sake of maintaining physical efficiency.

7.	Willingness in the care of one’s dietary to take trouble, and when necessary to endure pain and privation, for the sake of maintaining physical efficiency.

8.	Automatic habit of refraining from foods known to be unwholesome, however attractive or tempting they may be.

9.	Habit of self-control in the matter of one's appetite.

10.	An effective interest in dietetic science and the physiology of nutrition.

11.	A good knowledge of the chemical composition of foods.

12.	A knowledge of the physical values of foods of different kinds.

Digitized by VoiOOQLe
527

13.	Knowledge of variations in amount and character of food needed according to the age of the individual, his size, character of his work, the seasonal temperatures, etc.

14.	Knowledge of kinds of food contaminations to be avoided.

15.	A habit of noting the sanitary characteristics of one’s food supply.

16.	Habit of avoiding all foods of questionable sanitary character.

17.	A disposition to obey the dictates of physiological and dietetic laws.

18.	An enduring faith in the efficacy of the dictates of dietetic science.

19.	A detailed understanding of the relation of one’s food supply to one’s vocational efficiency.

20.	A habit of choosing one’s diet with a sufficient view to one’s vocational efficiency.

21.	A detailed understanding of the relation of one’s dietary to one’s ability to enjoy and to profit from one’s leisure occupations.

22.	A detailed understanding of the relation of one’s food supply to mental clarity and general mental efficiency.

23.	A full understanding of the relation of one’s food supply to general social efficiency, civic efficiency, etc.

24.	A full appreciation of the degree to which one’s general efficiency is dependent upon right food habits consistently maintained.

25.	A habit of considering the effects upon one’s general physical efficiency as one currently selects one’s food.

26.	Such a valuation of and desire to perform with pleasure and profit the entire round of desirable human activities that one is impelled to obey the dictates of hygienic science.

27.	A full knowledge of the relation of muscular activity to normality of digestion and assimilation.

28.	Knowledge of the ways in which digestion can be interfered with and deranged through excessive activities during or immediately after meals.

29.	Habit of avoiding excessive nervous or muscular activity during or immediately following meals.

30.	Habit of mental and physiological serenity at the time of and immediately after one’s meals.

31.	Consistency in holding to regular times for eating; avoidance of irregular eating between meals.

32.	Habit of eating with sufficient slowness.

33.	Knowledge of values of thorough mastication of one’s food.

34.	Habit of thorough mastication of one’s food.

35.	Knowledge of the relation of surrounding temperatures to normality of digestion and assimilation.

36.	Knowledge of the kinds of harm that may result from improper balance in the ration.

37.	Knowledge of the kinds of harm that result from insufficient food.

38.	Knowledge of,the kinds of harm that result from excess food.

39.	Knowledge of the symptoms of improper functioning in any portion of the alimentary tract.

40.	Skill in detecting the symptoms of improper functioning.

Digitized by
41.	Knowledge of the measures to be taken when symptoms indicate improper functioning in any portion of the alimentary tract.

42.	Skill in judging, planning, and promptly taking proper action in cases of improper alimentary functioning.

43.	Knowledge of the physiological conditions best for moving the food normally through the alimentary tract.

44.	Specially full knowledge in one's individual case of the specific food ingredients, etc., which are specially helpful in producing normally rapid and complete movement of food residues through the alimentary tract.

45.	A full knowledge of the specific conditions, influences, ingredients, etc., which tend in one's particular case to produce sluggishness of movement through the alimentary tract.

46.	Knowledge of the ways in detail in which the form of dress may interfere with alimentary functions.

47.	Consistent habit of dressing so as to avoid interference with alimentary processes.

48.	Such confidence in one's ability to choose his dietary that it is done, and satisfactorily done, without that introspective concern which may easily become excessive and morbid.

Many other items should be added to the list before it is even reasonably complete. Enough are here given to illustrate the professional task which lies before us. It seems that not only should we co-operatively formulate a full and authoritative series of abilities to be developed, but we should likewise co-operatively formulate for each one of them a reasonably complete and authoritative series of the specific ingredients to be aimed at. With such lists before the curriculum-maker in any specific situation, he has full and secure guidance.

Such a list is imperative because of professional prejudices and predilections relative to the so-called content of education. Theoretically, we value much besides information; but practically, leaving aside fundamental processes and certain language abilities, emphasis everywhere is upon information and informational technique. The foregoing list shows information to be a necessary component of the educational structure; but equally evident are habits, attitudes, valuations, desires, interests, tendencies to action, sense of responsibility, etc. In spite of what we say relative to the values of these latter things, we do not actually aim at them with the precision and persistence that we employ in the case of information. For most of them we have no properly developed and actually operative technique. W’e are not likely to have such until we have more fully clarified our ideas relative to objectives of non-informa-tional type. When we realize that they are as important as information, then we shall develop the necessary technique of training.

Let our profession co-operatively develop these general and detailed lists of objectives of physical efficiency, and we shall have performed the first task in the development of scientific education in this field. As a matter of fact, we are not prepared rationally to perform the other tasks involved in physical education until this has been done. It is the objectives and the objectives alone, as conditioned by child-nature and opportunity, which dictate the pupil-experiences which make up the curriculum. It is then these in their turn which dictate the specific methods

Digitized by CjOOQle
529

to be employed by the teachers and specific material helps and appliances and opportunities to be provided. These in their turn dictate the supervision, the nature of the supervisory organization, the quantity of finance, and the various other functions involved in attaining the desired results. And finally, it is the specific objectives which provide standards to be employed in the measurement of results. We are trying to introduce scientific methods into every aspect of the field; but, quite clearly, the interrelationships of these factors are such that we can never develop scientific procedure throughout the field until we have laid a secure foundation in the careful determination of the objectives. The later educational procedure cannot be regarded as very scientific if it must all be based upon initial vague and fragmentary guesses as to the objectives.

The first step of scientific procedure is predetermination of the outcomes.

To avoid misapprehension, we must say that there can be no series of physical education objectives applicable^ equally everywhere and to all individuals which can be the basis of universally uniform courses of training in the field. The objectives actually aimed at within any school system must differ from region to region according to the specific needs of the population; they must differ from individual to individual according to the specific nature and needs of the beneficiary; they must differ according to the teaching, supervisory, and material resources of the community; they must differ in some measure according to the social character and attitudes of the laymen in different communities; they must differ according to the degree of parental and community co-operation which can be secured; and for other reasons.

There is probably little or no danger in the co-operative task here recommended resulting in the uniformization and mechanization of the physical-training program. It is when we are aiming in vague and general ways that it appears possible to have a uniform program. When we reduce our objectives to specifics and look at the children from the point of view of those specifics, then not only the undesirability but the impossibility of holding to uniform programs of training becomes clearly evident.

The absurdity of our uniform courses of training has long been theoretically evident; but practically our technique of curriculum-making has tended to encourage and retain this vicious uniformity in our courses of training. Before we can eliminate the evil, we must change our technique of curriculum-making and find methods which encourage the exact adaptation of the curriculum to the needs of individuals, classes, and regions. The particularization of our objectives is undoubtedly one major feature of such individualizing technique.

We have now sufficiently illustrated the health-group of educational objectives. The question that now arises is, What are the various other groups of objectives which should in the same way dictate the entire round of human education? Different methods of classification are employed by different individuals. No one series of categories yet stands out as demonstrably the best yet suggested. The profession has not sufficiently considered the matter for any authoritative pronouncement. Such an official pronouncement, even though tentative and merely a basis
530

of further effort, is now greatly needed. The National Education Association Commission’s series, above presented, is a valuable contribution. The present writer would suggest consideration of a somewhat more inclusive series, as follows:

1.	Education for general physical efficiency. Play-level and work-level.

2.	Education for general mental efficiency. Play-level and work-level.

3.	Education for unspecialized activities of production, distribution conservation, and consumption. Play-level and work-level.

4.	Education for one’s specialized calling.

- 5. Education for citizenship.

6.	Education for general social relationships and contacts. Play-level and work-level.

7.	Education for social intercommunication. (Languages and other modes of intercommunication.) Play-level and work-level.

8.	Education for religious attitudes and activities.

9.	Education for parent|l responsibilities.

There are two details about this list which may not be entirely clear. The first is the omission of “Education for leisure occupations” as one of the series. After long consideration of the matter, however* it seems desirable to the writer to take care of the leisure occupations as the play-level in each of these nine divisions. It appears that in every one of them it is desirable to utilize and to train for experiences on both play-level and work-level. Obviously, the experiences on the play-level are very abundant in the case of some of them as, for example, the first and second; while experiences on the work-level are most abundant in the case of certain others as, for example, the fourth and fifth. But even in the case of these latter, it appears that there should be a large play ingredient throughout life.

The other thing likely to be misunderstood is the second general category, namely, “Training for general mental efficiency”. The phrasing sounds remarkably like that of an ancient and outworn doctrine which, when accepted, may provided excuse for an educational program which is the negation of everything else in our list. The term, however, does not refer to the dusty doctrine of formal discipline. If the reader will note how general physical efficiency is the outcome of the many specific physical abilities enumerated in the first list above, he can, by using this as an analogy, arrive at the meaning intended by this second term. He must, however, look at it from the point of view of behavioristic psychology.

COMPETITION IN DANCING AT THE CHICAGO NATIONAL

TOURNAMENT.

The following suggestions and explanations are given to help our young women who intend to prepare themselves in the arrangement of dance combinations for the national festival.

Combinations are divided into (a) alternations, (b) series, (c) enchainments. When the word “combinations” is used in the following it will always apply to enchainments.

We speak of a two-, three- or four-part combination when the par-

Digitized by

Google
531

ticular enchainment contains that many different kinds of steps, as will be illustrated in the following. The requirements limit the contestant to combinations, whose parts will not total more than ten.

Two-part combination—A single step joined to another, as a polka hop and a balance hop would be a two-part combination regardless of whether it is executed left or right or four or eight times.

(2) Three-part combination—If a step is repeated in a combination as polka hop, balance hop, polka hop (repeated) and cross step turn, this particular step is not counted as an additional part. This combination has three parts to it; i. e. (1) a polka hop, (2) a balance hop and (3) a cross step turn, regardless of how many times it is executed.

Usually a combination is executed four times; i. e. beginning left, right, left and right.

A combination should be adaptable to music; it should require two measures or the geometrical progression of 2, i. e. 4, 8, 16, 32, etc. measures for its execution. It will then be suited to the usual musical phrases and strains.

The time set for the presentation of the dance (one minute) does not mean that only one combination should be shown in that time. Two, three or even more combinations may be shown. This is determined by the nature of the combination.

The following are the most suitable rhythms to which dance steps may be arranged; they are the standard rhythms; viz, polka, mazurka, waltz (of different speed), schottische, two step, one step, minuet and gavot. The most common times are 2-4, 3-4, 4-4, 6-4, 6-8, 12-8. The national technical committee has decided to have victrolas and some records in the four most commonly used rhythms (polka, mazurka, schottische and waltz) on hand so that each competitor may perform her combinations to music. Each competitor will also be permitted to bring her own victrola selection.

The following steps and classification of them as to difficulty may be of assistance to many of our young women athletes.

(a)	Gallops, glide gallop, skip steps and variations, jumping and hopping.

Step hop and variations, glide hop, touch step, (pointing) step courtesy.

Draw (closing) step, balance step, change step, swing hop, waltz balance step.

(b)	Stepping and pointing (include Pas de Bonne), balance hop, rocking step, three step swing hop.

Simple cross step turn, polka hop, heel and toe polka hop, stride jump.

Cut hop and cuts (lateral and front and rear), schottische step, three step turn (simple turn), mazurka hop.

Lame step (pas Boite), cross side stride jump, squat stride jump on heels, squat stride jump.

Glide polka, leap hop, Polish Eschuppe.

(c)	Balance hop cut, cut swing hop, front and rear cross change step, redow polka.

Hop balance hop (Pas Chasse), click step (Hollopicz), flying turn (Tour jete).

Digitized by v^ooQle
Jump step, squat jump foot placing, Pas de Basque (all directions), Tour de Basque.

Pas de Sissonne, waltz step, waltz turn, Pas de Ciseauz.

Pas de Ballone (hop closing step), Renverse, Pirouettes (one foot turns), spinning step.

The following examples of dance combinations we trust will probably aid in original arrangements. The terminology of the Russian arm positions is used.

Waltz Rhythm.

1)	Two-part combination.

Balance step left obliquely forward, arms to 5th, right obliquely backward, arms in second, trunk forward, and step courtesy, arms 2nd to lateral left sideward - 4 meas.

2)	Three-part combination.

Waltz step turn left sideward, arms 2nd to 5th to 2nd (2 meas.), two swing hops in place, arms 3rd to 3rd (2 meas.); a waltz step turn left sideward, arms to 2nd to 5th to 2nd (2 meas.), and a balance hop left obliquely forward and hold, arms in left 3rd, palms forward (2 meas.) Total — 8 meas.

3)	Four-part combination.

Swing hop left forward, arms to 3rd; a waltz step right forward, arms to 2nd, (2 meas.); a waltz turn left sideward arms 2nd to 5th to 2nd (2 meas.); a balance hop left forward, arms to 5th; a swing hop right backward arms low 2nd (2 meas.); flying turn, (tour jete) left sideward arms to 5th with a leg swing backward, arms low 2nd (2 meas.) -Total — 8 meas.

Polka Rhythm.

1)	Two-part combination.

One three step swing hop forward, arms 2nd to 3rd on leg swing, and two step hops forward, arms lateral, (4 meas.); repeat to right -Total — 8 meas.

2)	Three-part combination.

Polka hop left and right, arms lateral to lateral (2 meas.); a balance hop left forward, arms to jth, and a cross step turn right sideward, arms 2nd to 1st to 2nd (2 meas.) Total - 4 meas.

3)	Four-part combination.

Heel and toe polka hop left and right forward, arms: left hand over foot on heel placing and raise to Jth on toe placing, right arm in 2nd; same right (4 meas.); pas de basque left and right forward, arms in 4th to 4th, a balance hop cut left forward, left arm in 3rd and a step hop with a knee swing left forward, arms in 2nd (4 meas.) Total - 8 meas.

Schottische Rhythm.

1)	Two-part combination.

Two triple balance hops forward beginning left, arms 3rd to 3rd, and four swing hops in place, arms from 3rd to 3rd, 4 meas.

2)	Three-part combination.

Two schottische steps forward beginning left, arms 2nd to 3rd; a
533

front and rear cut hop, arms in 2nd, left forward, and a cross, stride close jump and pause, arms cross in front on i to 2nd on 2 and 3 - 4 meas.

3)	Four-part combination.

Schottische step left sideward, arms in 2nd, and two leap hops forward, arms right and left lateral (2 meas.); repeat to right (2 meas.); a schottische step forward left and right, arms 2nd to 3rd (2 meas.); two front and rear cut hops and four front and rear cuts, arms in 2nd, left forward (2 meas.) Total - 8 meas.

Mazurka Rhythm.

1) Three-part combination.

Two mazurka hops left sideward, left hand at waist, right arm in 5th; a double balance hop turn left, arms in left 3rd, and a cross step turn (tour de basque) right sideward, arms 2nd to 5th to 2nd - 4 meas. a) Four-part combination.

Four pas de basques forward, arms 4th to 4th; pas de bourre to right (rear cross step left, side step right, front cross step left), arms 2nd to 1st; point right, arms 2nd with right hand over foot; pas de bourre to left, arms 2nd to 1st, and double balance hop left, arms in left 3rd - 8 meas.

3) Six-part combination.

Leap rocking step left and right forward, arms 4th to 4th (2 meas.); balance step left forward, arms in 5th, and right backward, arms to 2nd, (2 meas.); a double balance hop left forward, arms to left 3rd; a cross step turn right, arms 2nd to 5th to 2nd, (2 meas.); a mazurka hop right sideward, right hand at waist, left hand in 5th, and three stamps in place, arms in 2nd (2 meas.) Total - 8 meas.

Note: The Dance combination is part of the work in the octathlon and is to be performed in the regular gymnastic costume, i. e. bloomers, middy, stockings, and slippers.

It is proposed to have the dancing either on a board floor or upon canvas stretched upon the ground.	—Emil Rath.

A remarkable thing about winter sports is the fact that practically all records are held by Americans—and America is not an ice-bound country like Holland, Denmark, and Scandinavia.

Here are some of the amateur marks set on the snow and ice:

Fifty Yards—4 4-5 seconds; Fred J. Robson, Toronto, 1916.

One Hundred Yards—7 seconds; Harley Davidson, Red Bank, 189J.

Four Hundred and Forty Yards—28 seconds; John S. Johnson, Red Bank, 1895.

One Mile—2 minutes 26 1-5 seconds; Arthur Staff, Pittsburgh, 1917.

Five Miles—14 minutes 55 seconds; Edmund Lamy, Pittsburgh, 1900.

Twenty-six Miles—1 hour 30 minutes 22 seconds; Archie Rogers, Cohoes, 1917.

Four Hundred and Forty Yards, Backward Skating—46 seconds; John Hoerning, Boston, 1912.

Running Broad Jump on the Ice—25 feet 7 inches; Edmund Lamy.

Ski Jump (mountain slide)—214 feet; Haughen, Dillon, Col., 1920.

Dog Race—412 miles, All-Alaska Sweepstakes, 71 hours 14 minutes 20 seconds; Alex, Holmson, driving team of Siberian wolfhounds, 1910.—

Digitized by

Google
534

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

PIN GUARD.

BV CARL SCHRADER, CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

Like so many other games. Pin Guard as here described, is an accident, a creation of necessity. During the war the college gymnasium at Harvard had been turned over to the Radio School, and a squash court, then not in use, was offered the students instead. The floor of this court as well as the walls were of composite stone, and it was requested not to fasten anything to the walls, hence basketball was out of the question. The game of Pin Guard played with one circle offered a solution both as a substitute for basketball and a game for larger numbers. Three circles on each side as shown in the diagram were used, and in each a dumbbell

with one bell cut in half was placed on end (a different pin has since been used). Basketball rules being generally known soon took the game out of its experimental stage, and offered a pastime far beyond expectation, so much so that when later a basketball court was available most of the fellows preferred to play Pin Guard. The chief advantages claimed for the game are first, that a large number can comfortably play, as many as twelve on a team; second, that there are three points of attack and defense and from all sides, which shifts the play continually, thus offering much opportunity for strategy, and third, that there is a mode of defense for a throw at goal, which in basketball there is not. Once a ball is shot for the basket the defense is helpless, where as in this game there is every opportunity for the defense to block a shot at goal as in Hockey, La Cross, etc. Where the playfield extends from wall to wall, the most desirable court, as was the case in this squash court, the play

* Reprint from “The Sargent Quarterly.”

Digitized by
535

for pins from the wail can be developed to an unlimited extent of skill and remarkable carom shots were made at these informal games played. The game is offered for trial indoors as well as outdoors. At the Sargent camp the game is played very extensively, and has been placed on the permanent list of major games. Suggestions for changes which will improve the game will be welcomed. The need for games of lasting interest is great, especially where larger numbers than our present indoor games permit may play.

RULE I.

Section /. The playing court shall be a rectangular surface, free from obstruction, the maximum dimensions of which shall be ioo ft. in length and jo ft. in width, and the minimum dimensions shall be 50 ft. in length and 20 ft. in width.

Section 2. The court shall be marked by well defined lines which shall not be less than 2 in. in width, and shall be at every point at least 3 ft. from any obstruction. The lines on the short ends of the court shall be termed “end lines,” and those on the long sides, “side lines.”

Section 3. The field shall be divided into three parts by field lines parallel to the end lines, these fields to be known as center and goal areas. Distances will be found on the diagram.

Section 4. The center circle shall have a diameter of 5 ft., and shall be marked in the center of the court.

Section 3. The pin circles shall be J ft. in diameter and the distances shall be such as described in Section 6.

Section 6. The goal areas shall be, maximum 35 x 50. There shall be 3 pin circles. The center one, 10 ft. from the end line and 2J ft. from the side lines. The two other circles shall be at the respective sides of the end court, 20 ft. from the end lines and 10 ft. from the side lines.

RULE 'll.

Section /. The ball shall be an official basketball, not less than 30 nor more than 32 in. in circumference, and shall weigh not less than 20 nor more than 23 oz.

Section 2. The ball shall be provided by the home team, except in serial championships when it shall be furnished by the championship committee. It shall be tightly inflated and so laced that it cannot be held by the lacing, and shall otherwise be in good condition.

RULE III.

Section /. The pins shall be one foot in length, conical shaped, measuring 3 x 5 in.

Section 2. No spectators, nor others, shall be permitted nearer than six ft. from the side or end lines.

RULE IV.

Section /. The officials shall be a referee, umpire, 2 scorers, 2 timers, and 2 linesmen.

Section 2. The Referee shall put the ball in play; shall decide when the ball is in play, when the ball is dead, to whom it belongs and when a goal has been made; shall call fouls, and shall administer all penalties; shall announce the final score of the game, this announcemeni terminating official connection with that game.

Section 3. The Umpire shall call fouls committed by any player, but shall pay particular attention to the players in the backfield away

Digitized by ^ooQle
536

from the ball. The Umpire may assist the Referee in out-of-bounds decisions and shall co-operate in enforcing the rule against coaching.

Section 4. Neither the Referee nor the Umpire shall have authority to set aside or question decisions made by the other.

Section 5. The Referee and the Umpire shall have power to make decisions for violations of rules committed either within or outside the boundary lines; also at any moment from the beginning of play to the call of time at the end of a half or of the game. This includes the periods when the game may be momentarily stopped for any reason. Fouls may be called on any number of players at the same time.

Section 6. Any persistent or intentional delay of the game shall be counted as a foul against the team so delaying. The Referee shall call this foul.

Section 7. (a). The officials shall designate the player on whom a foul is called, and shall indicate a personal foul by raising a hand high above the heads as a signal to the scorers.

Section 7. (b). The Referee shall disqualify a player who has made four personal fouls, or disqualify one who has committed the foul specified in Rule 10, Section 1 (b).

Section 8. The Referee shall have power to call fouls, for unsportsman-like conduct or to make decisions on any points not specifically covered in the rules.

Section <?. The Scorers shall record the goals made and the fouls committed, shall distinguish in their records between personal and technical fouls and shall notify the Referee immediately when the fourth personal foul has been called on any player. Their records shall constitute the official score of the game. They shall compare their scores after each goal and any discrepancy shall be at once referred to the Referee. If they fail to notify the Referee at once, the latter shall decide in favor of the small score, unless he has knowledge that permits him to decide without reference to the Scorers. The score shall be kept on a blackboard or register readable by a majority of the spectators.

Section 10. The Timekeepers shall note when the game starts; shall deduct time consumed by stoppages during the game on order of the Referee; and shall indicate with a gong, pistol or whistle the expiration of the actual playing time in each half.

Section //. {a) The officials shall blow a whistle whenever necessary to make a decision and the Referee shall sound his whenever he puts the ball in play.

Section //. (£). The officials shall have different sounding whistles.

Section 12. The linesmen shall be appointed by the management of the home team, subect to the approval of the referee. They shall stand at opposite sides of the foul lines and shall be judges of fouls made by crossing over the field line with any part of the body or clothing and shall report such fouls to the umpire and referee.

rule v.

Section /. Teams shall number not less than 7 nor more than ij, one of whom shall be designated captain.

Note.—Ten is the best number.

Section 2. The Captain shall be the respresentative of the team and shall direct and control its play. The Captain shall, before the game

Digitized by (^.ooQle
637

starts, furnish the scorers with names and positions of players and substitutes. The Captain only may address any official on matters of interpretation or obtain essential information when necessary, if it is done in a courteous manner.

Section j. Those who are playing the position of home must stay in their own home section except during the Time Out or between halves. Those playing the position of center must stay in the center section, except when the field is divided into two sections only, and those playing the position of guard must stay in their respective sections except during Time Out or between halves.

Section 4. A substitute may take the place of a player only when a whistle has been blown declaring the ball dead for some other reason than the substitution. A substitute must report to and be recognized by the Referee or Umpire before going upon the court. A player who has left the game may not re-enter it.

Section 5. The players shall be designated on each side as center forward, right forward, left forward, in the goal area; center guard, right guard and left guard in the defending space; and center, right center, and left center in the middle space.

Note.—When other players are in the center space they shall be called right half, and left half.

Section 6 (a). The guard only shall be allowed within the pin circle.

Note.—Other may guard outside the circle.

Section 6 (b). In case of held ball of which guard is one of the players another may be designated by the referee to take the player’s place for the jump so that guard may return to pin circle.

Note.—Referee shall wait until the guard is in the circle.

Section 7. Out of Bounds. A player is out of bounds when any part of the body touches the boundary line, or the floor outside of the boundary line, or when a foot is placed against a boundary wall over 12 inches above the floor.

The ball	is	out of bounds	when any part of it touches the	boundary

line, the floor	outside the boundary line, any object outside the	boundary

line, or when	it	is touched by	a player who is out of bounds.

The ball	is	caused to go	out of bounds by the last player touched

by it before it crosses the line.

Section 8 (a). Held Ball is declared when two players of opposing sides have both hands on the ball.

Section 8 (b). Referee decides which player first gained possession of the ball.

Section 8 (c). Touching ground beyond neutral space or field division line with any part of the body or clothing constitutes a foul. (This does not debar a player from leaning or reaching over the field line to pick up or receive the ball). The Referee or Umpire shall call a foul for violation of this rule.

Section 9. Dribbling. A dribble shall consist of receiving the ball in one or both hands bounding it on the ground as many times as desirable, but when held for more than three seconds by one or both hands the dribble shall cease.

Section 10. Running with the ball usually consists of running more than two steps while ball is in possession of person.

Digitized by CaOOQle
538

Note.—Ball is not technically in person’s possession during dribble.

Section	//. Two players	from the central playing	space may	move

in place in	the goal area, but shall be designated by	a special uniform

described later.

RULE VI.

Section	I. Uniform. All	players on a team shall	be dressed	alike,

having a distinguishing color	as sweater, arm band, tie	or hat.

Section 2. Running centers must be designated by an arm band or other mark, the color of their team, in addition to the general team distinction.

RULE VII.

Section /. The time of game shall be 2 halves of 15 minutes each as maximum, or minimum of 8 minutes each.

Note.—Captains must agree upon this before hand when choosing goals and time of periods.

Section 2. Upon disagreement the referee shall designate the maximum time for each period.

Section 3 (a). A field goal shall count 2 points.

Section 3 (b). A penalty goal shall count one point.

Section 4. Purpose of the game is to knock over opponents’ pins with ball.

Note.—Only one goal shall count in case 2 pins are knocked over in same play.

RULE VIII.

Section /. Putting ball in play at beginning of game or after goal or free throws have been made, the ball shall be thrown between the jumping centers who shall stand within the center circle.

Section 2. The ball shall be thrown up higher than the highest jump of either one.

Note.—Whistle shall blow one blow as it reaches greatest height.

Section 3. When held ball is called, ball shall be thrown up between the two players of opposite sides at the point of held ball.

Section 4. Out of Bounds. Ball is played in at point where ball leaves field of play, and shall be played in by nearest opponent.

Note.—Person may not be guarded nearer than 3 ft. distance.

Note No. 2.—Ball goes to an opponent in out of bound play when last touched by any player while in field of play.

RULE IX.

Playing Terms.

Section /. A Field Goal. A legitimate goal secured from any place in the field.

Section 2. A penalty goal, thrown at any pin without interference. Throw is made from center circle.

rule x.

Fouls, Personal and Technical.

Section 1. Personal.

a.	Charging.

b.	Unnecessary roughness.

c.	Holding.

d.	Blocking.

Digitized by
539

e.	Any act of violence not mentioned in rules, under discretion of referee.

f.	Penalties:

1.	Free throw from center circle.

2.	Four personal fouls disqualify player.

Section 2. Technical

a.	Running with ball.

b.	Kicking the ball.

c.	Any foul by player on the ball not designated in rules above.

d.	Penalties:

1.	Unguarded throw by nearest opponent.

2.	Five technical fouls disqualify player.

e.	Guard kicking over own goal.

f.	Offensive Player entering circle.

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, EASTERN

DISTRICT.

SECOND ANNUAL CONVENTION, BUFFALO, N. Y.

March, 17th, 18th, and 19th.

OFFICERS OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT

Mr. Carl L. Schrader, President Dr. Geo. L. Fisher Mr. Lawrence S. Hill Dr. F. W. Maroney Miss Bessie L. Barnes	Mrs. R. J. McCormick

PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Mr. Carl H. Burkhardt, Chairman Dr. F. W. Maroney	Mr.	Lawrence	S.	Hill

Miss Bessie L. Barnes	Miss	Helei) Frost

PROGRAM OF THE CONVENTION

THURSDAY, MARCH 17.

Registration at Headquarters

Delegates will visit under guide any of the following places to observe physical work.

Public Schools, including State Normal

Private Schools

Parks and Playgrounds

Social and Community Work

Y. M. C. A. nad Y. W. C. A.

Opening Session.

THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 8:00 P. M.

General Meeting.

Hutchinson High School	Elmwood	Ave.	and Chippewa St.

Mr. Carl L. Schrader, Presiding

Digitized by LjOOQle
540

1	music:

All-High School Orchestra. Mr. Arthur J. Abbott, Director

2	ADDRESS OF WELCOME:

Hon. George S. Buck, Mayor of Buffalo

3	address:

Physical Education in the Schools of Buffalo. Mr. Ernest C. Hartwell Supt. of Schools, Buffalo, New York

4	address:

Physical Education and the State. Hon. William S. Runyon, Governor of New Jersey

J RECEPTION AND DANCE*.

Chairman, W. Howard Pillsbury, Reception Committee

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 9:30 A. M.

Statler Hotel

Registration at Headquarters

General Meeting—Banquet Roomy Lawrence S. Hill, Presiding topic: The Aims and Values of Physical Education

1	“The Public School Viewpoint,,—Dr. F. W. Maroney, Director of

Physical Education, State of New Jersey, Trenton, N. J.

Discussion io minutes. Miss Harriet Wilde, Macon, Ga.

2	“The State Supervisors Viewpoint”—Mr. Daniel Chase, Supervisor of

Physical Education, New York State.

Discussion io minutes led by Dr. William Burdick, Director of Physical Education, State of Maryland.

3	“The Normal School Viewpoint”—Dr. Ernest H. Arnold, President,

New Haven School of Gymnastics.

Discussion io minutes led by Mr. Carl L. Schrader

4	“The Private School Viewpoint”—Mr. Walter D. Head, Head Master

Nichols School, Buffalo, New York

Discussion io minutes led by Miss Mary H. Lewis, Principal of the Park School.

Friday, march 18, 2:30 p. m. Statler Hotel General Meeting—Banquet Room, Miss Bessie L. Barnes, Presiding topic:	“Physical	Education	and	the	Health of the Community”

1	“The Health Commissioner’s Viewpoint”—Dr. F. E. Fronczak, Health

Commissioner, Buffalo, New York

2	“The Public School Medical Inspector’s Viewpoint”—Dr. Harry B.

Burns, Director of Hygiene, Public Schools, Pittsburgh, Pa.

3	‘The School Nurse’s Viewpoint”—Miss Lelia Ashley, R. N. Director

of Physical Education, Perry H. S., Perry, New York.

4	“The Parents’ Viewpoint”—Mrs. H. Osgood Holland, Buffalo, New

York

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 7:30 P. M.

65th Armory, Best and Masten Streets Demonstration by Grade and High School Pupils

Saturday, march 19, 9:30 a. m. Statler Hotel General Meeting—Banquet Room, Dr. F. W. Maroney, Presiding 1 “The Physical Test of a Man”—Dr. D. A. Sargent, President of the Sargent School for Physical Education, Cambridge, Mass.
541

2	“Physical Education and Human Behavior”—Dr. Daniel Bell Leary*

Professor of Psychology, University of Buffalo

3	“Personal Health Problems”—Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Secretary-Treasurer-

Editor, American Physical Education Review

4	“The Psycho-Physiological Aspect of Physical Education”—Mr. Ernst

Hermann, Director of Physical Education, Somerville, Mass.

Note:—Business Meeting to be Announced.

2:30 P. M.—Sight-seeing Trips.

C.	Qualities

1.	Co-operation

a)	Free Exercises—Grade School Boys

b)	Tactics—High School Boys

c)	Wand Exercises—Grade School Girls

2.	Endurance

Tug-of-War Variations—High School Boys

3.	Courage

Boxing Drill—High School Boys

4.	Grace

Theme-: “Play in Dance”

a)	Play, Calling Her Companions—High School Girls

b)	Nymphs at Play—Grade School Girls

c)	Ribbon Dance—Grade School Girls

d)	Waltz Chopin—High School Girls J. Speed

Hurdle Relay—High School Boys

6.	Strength

Wrestling Drill—High School Boys

7.	Skill

Apparatus Exercises

a)	Balance Board—High School Girls

b)	Vaulting Horse—High School Girls

c)	Mat Work—High School Boys

d)	Vaulting Buck—High School Boys

e)	Parallel Bars—High School Boys

D.	Recreation:

a)	Swing Song—Grade School Girls

b)	Human Hurdle Race—Grade School Girls

c)	Human Pass—Grade School Boys

d)	Mass Games With Cage Ball—High School Girls and Boys

DEMONSTRATION—FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 7:45 TO IO P. M.

65th Armory, Masten, North and Best Streets

TENTATIVE PROGRAM

A.	Selection by the Band

B.	Plastic Poses

1.	Co-operation

2.	Endurance

3.	Courage

4.	Grace

5.	Speed

6.	Strength

7.	Skill

Digitized by
A Better Future—

LET US HELP YOU GET IT. Hundreds of Physical Directors are needed for September positions. Register with us and learn of the finest openings. No obligation to accept any place. Confidential service. Largest Bureau for Specialists in America. Write for details.

SPECIALISTS’ EDUCATIONAL BUREAU

ROBERT A. GRANT. PwwUw :	ODEON BLDG.. ST. LOUIS..MO.

Bernard Mandl

MANUFACTURER OF

MEN’S, YOUTH’S, BOY’S AND LADIES’

GYMNASIUM CLOTHING

and Dealer in Gymnasium Apparatus, Theatrical Tights, and all kinds of

SPORTING GOODS.

CATALOGS FREE ON APPLICATION.

210-212 W. Madison St. CHICAGO, ILL.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

THE SUMMER SCHOOL BY THE SEA.

A New Idea in Summer Schools. Come to our summer session, July 28 to August 81. Week in an airy summer gymnasium. Play tennis, go boating and canoeing for recreation. Take a dip in the cool waters of Long Island Sound. Live in the summer dormitory, built on a high bl«f overlooking the Sound. Rest on comfortable piazzas, stroll on the 250 acre farm of the school, which will furnish you with fresh milk, eggs and vegetables every day. Write for circular.

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.,Director.	I486 Chapel St.. NEW HAVEN,	CONN

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiono Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OF THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St.. INDIANAPOLIS. IND.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE Regietration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the NovbmI College of the American Gymnastic Union

Digitized by
Anyone who has a February, 1921, copy of Mind and Body which he does not need, please notify the publishers. A few more copies of February, 1920, also needed. Write to

Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.

For Women # SUMMER SCHOOL

SIX WEEKS—June 27 to Aug. 6, 1921

TEACHERS! Why not become more efficient individuals, add to your usefulness as teachers and INCREASE YOUR SALARIES?

OUR TEACHERS* COURSES IN ALL BRANCHES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION—GYMNASTICS AND DANCING—ARE ACCEPTED BY SCHOOL BOARDS FOR PROMOTIONAL CREDIT.

SCHOOL IS ACCREDITED BY STATE DEPARTMENTS OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION AND CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION.

Experts in all Departments. Exceptional Dancing Courses with MADELINE BURTNER HAZLITT, Assistant Chalif Normal School of Dancing.

School Dormitory, conveniently located.

SUMMER CAMP in Wisconsin open JULY and AUGUST for girls from nine years of age and upward.

For catalogs address the Registrar.

ESTABLISHED 1903

Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Box M. B. 430 South Wabash Ave.	Chicago,	111.

Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE

Springfield, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, M. D., Director.

Four year course in physical education for High School Graduates. Two years for College Graduates. Degree B. P. E. (Bachelor of Physical Education) granted. For information address A. G. Johnson, Secretary.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION June 27—July 30

Intensive courses in theory and practice giving full credit in regular College course.

Public School Gymnastic Course.

School of Coaching—Football, Elmer Berry, Coach Springfield College football team; Baseball and Basket Ball, A. G. Johnson, Coach Springfield College basket ball team; Track, Paul Otto, Coach Spring-field College track team; Swimming, G. B. Affleck, Coach Springfield College swimming team; Soccer, Wrestling, Boxing.

School of Scouting, Paul Otto of Springfield.

School of Boys* Work, W. C. McCarty, Director Boys* Work Course, Springfield. For information address

ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School.

Digitized by L.ooQle
I

Moores IRENE

Very Popular School Dress Used Throughout the Country



The School Girl and Her Apparel

For years we have made simplicity and economy in school attire a study and have enjoyed the hearty co-operation of many instructors which has resulted in our perfecting a department of our business that is devoted exclusively to girls* school apparel. The illustration shows but one of the many styles we make.

Moore Togs”

For Girls

We will send our catalogue illustrating a complete line of r‘MOORE TOGS** for girls, from which you can make your selections. Samples will be sent for your consideration. Get our catalogue— RIGHT NOW— before the girls plan any additional wearing apparel that is extravagant, not uniform and which always proves more or less unsatisfactory.

TheNATURO-

FORME

A shoe made on special lasts — straight inner side lines, level soles, snug-fitting arches and full toe room — black soft leather uppers — flexible elk or rubber fiber soles — full range of sizes — low and high — a shoe admirably suited to dancing or floor work.

Now Is The Time

By planning now on your Gymnasium Apparel requirements for next fall, you will immediately eliminate the possibility of delays - insure yourself against the customary miscellaneous gymnasium apparel that is not uniform and always proves unsatisfactory and impracticable. You will assure yourself efficiency in your gymnasium work through uniform and economical gymnasium apparel by letting us help you plan in advance. By placing a tentative order now you will have delivery already completed when school reopens next fall.

E. R. MOORE COMPANY

932-938 Dakin Street CHICAGO

The DIANA

New York Office:	347	Madison	Avenue	Attractive	Favorite

Extremely Practical