Vol. 23.

No. 249

MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1916

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMII. RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All busine& letters and payments to the Turner Publishing Co., Minneapolis Minn., Daily News Bldg.

THE BATHS OF OLD.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

“In balneis salus”

With bathing growing to be more and more a general habit rather than a fashion or fad, it is but natural that the facilities should increase and improve in proportion, numerically as well as in architectural design and efficiency of equipment. It also follows that in order to have this habit penetrate to the masses of the people, it behooves the nation, state, and municipality to create and maintain institutions for the free practice of this habit for those less favored with worldly goods. In this development of the various phases of the bath, we are but repeating history, although as yet we are far from approaching in extent of practice, as well as in architectural construction, the height reached by ancient peoples in the earliest days of recorded history.

It is interesting both from a hygienic and from an architectural view point to trace the history of bathing and of bath house construction. At its various beginnings with different peoples and at different periods, the bathing habit invariably had its first manifestations in natural resources such as lakes, rivers and the ocean. Taking the history as a whole, one is confronted with .facts which force the confession that our ancient forefathers must have had a far greater understanding and appreciation of the value of the bath than we, the more delicate denizens of the present

Digitized by v^ooQle
98

world, have, in spite of our modem and scientific theories, which flow so freely from many sources. Health and cleanliness held a peculiarly significant place in the education of those races. It is true, that the public health with the ancient people was not organized into an entirety as it is with us today, but their public institutions for promoting this particular habit were extraordinary in their scope, and powerful in their influence. The old truth that history serves as a mighty teacher re-establishes itself in the history of the balneo technique of past days.

Cultural and moral standards are so closely interwoven with the various epochs in history, that it may be permissible to indulge in occasional transgressions from the real topic in point. The use of baths dates back into the mythical history of mankind. To the pre-historic people of the orient, only common place dietetic remedies were known for the promotion of health. We know that baths have existed with the peoples of India, Persia, Egypt, Assyria, and also among the Hebrews. These baths were administered and directed by priest physicians and owed their prominence to such wise and adored law givers as Zoroaster, Muham-ed, and Moses. These prophets attached to the regular observance of bathing great religious significance, thus making the performance a solemn and emphatic duty.

In the very early history of Greece we find the evidence of tub as well as tank baths having existed and having enjoyed great popularity. There are even records which point to the custom of hot air baths among the Spartans, and the name Laconicum which we find perpetuated in the later Roman baths, had its origin here.

In Homer’s writings we find frequent reference to warm baths. The customary bridal bath before the wedding was a favorite subject for the early Grecian pajnters. A painted vase in the Berlin museum illustrates that the shower bath, which we have been prone to consider a modern invention, was in vogue in those early days. Among the Hellenic people, the cold bath in rivers and sea predominated. It was the custom among the Phytha-goreans to dip the newly born child in the cold water of either the river or sea.

Warm baths were considered a sign of luxury and physical weakness and decay, and were therefore forbidden within the cities. With the increasing over-refinement and tendency toward ease and luxury, however, which set in during the romantic reign of Alexander the Great, the warm bath began to grow in favor. At first only the wealthy private houses were equipped with bath rooms and heating facilities. Later public institutions (balanei)

Digitized by LjOOQle
99

were erected and maintained by the state, where baths could be taken at a very reasonable price.

It was Hippocrates, the father of scientific medicine and pioneer of natural therapeutics, who recognized in the proverb “Mens sana in sano corpore” the true significance of the bath and the » gymnasia, upon which the future of bathing was to depend for further development. During the period of 460-377 B. C. some of the most famous Hellenic bath houses and gymnasia were erected. It is a significant fact that in these institutions, around which clusters the most fascinating early history, we find the embody-ment of the old, frequently re-occuring though variously expressed . truism of the oneness of man. Mind and body were considered interdependent and the environments afforded for the development of each were equal in their completeness. Athens possessed three of these colossal Palaestrae. In a description of these by Vitrurion, which leaves much to the imagination, we find the following details; Around the Palastra on three sides were located the various rooms (oeci) and halls with seats (exedral) intended for mental training and instruction of the youth. On the other, the south side, the baths and a number of other rooms for special purposes, pertaining to the bath, were situated. Centrally located on this side was the exercising room and assembly hall (Ephebeion), to the left of this the Conysterion, where the body was sprayed , with sand. Then came the Sphaerysterion and Corycerion where boxing was practiced, and general strength tested.

Bags and balls filled with sand served as sort of punching bags. Next to these rooms came the Loutron or cold bath. To the right of this in order lay the Elaeotherion where the oil baths were administered, the Apodyterion for dressing and cooling off, , the Frigidarion or fresh water bath, the Laconicon or sweat bath and finally the Cadarion for warm air baths and for massage. Perfuming the body was a common practice at the time of the Trojan wars. Attic oil was a particular favorite. In Sparta a decree was issued forbidding this practice, but after the death of Lycyrgus, who was responsible for this decree, the habit crept in again. A second portion of this huge public structure included rooms for the practice of athletics, promenades and flower gardens in the open, also accommodations for spectators. The third part finally, was occupied by the Stadium, where the contests were held. The entire institution was owned and operated by the state for the “* free use of every one. Of the interior of these Hellenic baths we know but little. There is little doubt however as to the purpose

Digitized by <^.ooQle
100

and plans of these various rooms, the evidence of which was revealed through extensive excavations.

Pompeii, a city of only 30,000 inhabitants, possessed two of these complete public bath houses, the ruins of which form the basis for our conception of all ancient baths.

Mineral baths too were known and much frequented. They existed in great numbers in Greece under the name Thermae her-culaneae. The most famous one of these exists to-day, Adepsos on the isle of Euboea. The sulphur springs of Thermopylae and the thermal springs of Tiberius were two other exceedingly popular resorts. A number of geographically well located springs became known as specific health resorts and were managed and operated by priests. These latter baths were dedicated co Askle-pios, the god of healing and to his daughter Hygeiia. Superstition, to be sure, played a most conspicuous and power wielding part in this gold reaping enterprise, which collapsed when Hippocrates finally and definitely divorced theology from medicine.

Turning now to the Roman baths we find that they, like those of the countries above described, had their origin in outdoor bathing. The river Tiber was the place where the young men bathed until, because of the increasing drainage into the river, the water became polluted. This condition led to the erection of the first public bath (Piscina publica) outside of the city walls. The water for this was brought by the first great aqueduct built by Appius Claudius in 305 B. C. This and several later baths gave an impetus to the extensive construction of private as well as public baths which were to play so important a part in the Roman public life. These structures, modest at first, grew more and more luxurious in comfort and architectural splendor, reaching the height of construction in those palaces which were built under Scaurus, j Augustus Dometian and Nero. The significance attached to bathing and the popularity it enjoyed finds expression in the saying of Plinus, that Rome needed no other physician than the bath.

With the introduction of hot air heating 89 B. C. the warm bath % grew in favor. While it was proclaimed that the bathing habit was to rejuvenate Rome, which was suffering from over refinement, it is doubtful if the results gained proved such a contention. The baths mostly sought now were the warm baths rather than the cold, so that the effect instead of stimulating greater voluntary activity, manifested itself in an increasing tendency toward lazi-	^

ness and idleness. With the dawn of the Roman golden age and	)

under the reign of emperor Augustus, began the construction of the imperial bath houses, which from now on were to be known '

Digitized by

Google
101

by the name of Thermae. From this period dates the devise; “In balneis salus” which figured so conspicuously in the life-history of the latin races.

Imperial as well as private Thermae were erected for the various classes of people in the different sections of the cities, all alike experiencing increasing popularity. The crowned heads and other high office holders seemed to vie with one another in the effort to perpetuate their fame and name in history by creating each a more elaborate Therma than the other. It is said of Agrippa, who was the first director of the Roman water works, that he alone founded five hundred public fountains and one hundred and seventy public baths.

These Roman Thermae, while in a general way planned after the Grecian gymnasia, were, however, unique institutions in themselves. There is no trace of any typical Grecian Palaestra in Rome, except as part of these elaborate Thermae.

If the term “recreation centre” which has been coined in the gradual evolution of the playground might be applied here, it would be a more inclusive name than merely “Thermae”. We find welded into one of these ancient institutions all the various forms of recreation for which man has shown taste and inclination. Practically all of the physical recreative activities, including bowling, horse racing, dancing, etc., were here practiced. The Therma included theatre, lecture rooms, library, social rooms, and dining room. In brief, every conceivable pastime could here be enjoyed, and every wholesome desire gratified. It was the meeting place of old and young; of rich and poor. All class distinction was lost here. It is recorded that even the emperors took pride in mingling here with their subjects.

The architectural aspect in buildings as well as in decorative embellishment represented the highest type that the times had achieved. These Thermae were majestic and massive structures with pillars and walls of granite, porphyry and marble; floors of mosaic and tile; and the rooms ceiled by impressive arches, which were decorated with fresco painting and plastic art of the highest type. Some of the most famous statuary which has been preserved for us was recovered from the ruins of these Thermae. In the ruins of the Therma Constantine were found the statues of Castor and Pollux; from the Caracallatherma we gained the Famesian Stier; and it is to the “Titus Therma” that we owe the famous Laocoon group.

The dimensions recorded of these various Thermae are such as to cause one to doubt their correctness. We are told that Rome

Digitized by CiOOQle
102

at its height used 70,000 cubic meters of water per day for its baths. In the Therma of Caracalla it is claimed 2300 people could bathe at one time.

Amidst such an enticing, inspiring and dazzling environment it is but natural that bathing should have become a general habit. Most people bathed every day and many several times a day. In the early days of the Thermae, prudence as well as law forbade the bathing together not only of the two sexes but even of father and son. To begin with, the baths were > designed for the use of men only, and not until much later were they arranged for women also. Where there were no separate accommodations men and women bathed at different days and hours.

Just as all evil is good overdone, so were these institutions, designed to mould a finer mental, moral and physical type of man, to become the cradles of the vilest vices. As wealth and leisure hours increased, and, as an accompaniment, pleasures became more frequent and less legitimate, licentiousness took root and spread among all classes. The Thermae, once the source of renewed vigor and wholesome recreation; the place of exchange as it were, for civic ideals and cultured standards, were gradually suffered to become the centers of debauchery. The barriers which once kept the baths free from immorality were eliminated and men and women frequented these places together, not only during the day but at all hours of the night as well. Laws created to check this evil, by those who foresaw the ultimate ruin of the city, were of no avail. When this time came and Rome paid its penalty, these beautiful Thermae were not spared in the mad rush of destruction. Not only did bathing become unpopular but it was forbidden. The wonderful structures were looted as quarries for the stone, and became a mecca for the maecenas who stole whatever could be carried away.

One of the most authentic descriptions of perhaps the most noted Roman Therma is that by Abel Blouet, published in the Allgemeine Bauzeitung in 1877. This particular Therma was built under the reign of Carcalla 211-217 A. D. and was completed by his successors Heliogobal 218-222 A. D. and Alexander Severus 222-235 A. D. The bath house proper was 220 meters long and 114 meters wide and was situated in a park. Around this park the buildings containing the individual baths, meeting and lecture rooms, library, store room, amphitheatre, water supply tanks etc., were located. The entire measurement was 337 meters by 328 meters, covering an area of 124,140 square meters. The bath house could be entered on several sides. The three main divisions

Digitized by Google
103

lay one behind the other. Nearest to the main entrance was the Frigidarium, behind it the Tepidarium and in the extreme rear the Caldarium. To the right and left of these three was a series of rooms which may have served as vestibules, courts etc., but the exact use has never been ascertained. The Frigidarium, which was without roof measured 56 meters in length by 23 meters in width, covering nearly 1300 square meters. The Tepidarium, which was connected with the former by a large middle opening, was a room of singular majestic grandeur. Eight massive granite columns, each 1.50 M. in diameter supported the ceiling consisting of three cross arches. The Caldarium also was a stately room, circular in form and measuring 50 meters in diameter.

Constantinople which now had become the Roman Capitol fell heir to many Roman habits and customs, among them the bathing habit. It was not until the year 375 A. D. however that the Thermae started by Emperor Valeus were completed and dedicated to the people. The various cities of Rome’s western provinces were also gradually equipped with bath houses. From here the movement spread to the southern countries of the Mediterranean as far as Spain. Records show that a Roman bath existed in the Alhambra in Granada from the 12th to the 14th century. The Turks, after conquering Constantinople and thus coming in touch with Roman culture, created baths patterned after the Roman idea. The most noteworthy ruin of a bath typical of later Rome is that in Badenweiler, Germany.

The history which follows and which brings us to the present time is equally interesting, in-as-much as the same rise and fall of popularity, due as before to the gradual decay of high motives into low vices, again came to pass. Not until comparatively recently has the architectural side in any way even approached the structures above described. In the last twenty-five years America and Germany have created institutions the description of which must form a discourse by itself. This should prove of intense interest because of the greater light which has been focussed on Physical Education as a whole in the desire for better national preparedness.

Digitized by v^ooQle
104

A FOUR YEARS' COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS' AND GIRLS' HIGH SCHOOLS.*

(Continued)

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

Part II. Physical Training Material for Boys.

I.	Tactics. II. Free Exercises. III. Rhythmic Steps.

IV.	Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities.

V.	Apparatus Work.

FIRST HIGH SCHOOL YEAR.

I.	TACTICS

A.	General Tactics.

1.	Form in a double rank, in order of height from right to left, each

pupil dropping his left arm as soon as the pupil to the left has correct distance. The rear rank is 40 inches behind the front.

2.	Dress right, left.

3.	Face right, left, right about, left about, right half, left half.

4.	March forward in front and flank formation. March backward.

Face upon command.

5.	Count off by twos and fours.

6.	Wheeling of the double ranks, also of single ranks; quarter and

half wheel; from a stand and while marching.

B.	Special Tactics.

School of the Individual.

1.	Fall in (double rank.)

2.	Squad, Attention (Position of the soldier).

3.	Parade, Rest.

4.	Eyes, Right (left). Front.

5.	Facings.

(a)	Right (left) Face, (b) Right (left) half, Face, (c) About, Face.

6.	Hand, Salute. Two.

7.	Steps and Marching.

(a)	Forward, March (quick time, cadence 120 steps per minute, length of step 30 inches.)

(b)	Double time, March (a run, cadence 180 steps per minute, length of step 36 inches.)

(c)	Mark time, March.

(d)	Half step, March.

(e)	Right (left) step, March.

(f)	Backward, March.

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by LjOOQie
105

(g)	Squad, Halt.

(h)	While marching; By the right (left) flank, March.

(i)	To the rear, March.

(j)	Change step, March.

II. FREE EXERCISES

In high school work exercises without hand apparatus should alternate often with wand exercises, dumb-bell exercises and club swinging.

The essential exercises in all high school grades are

(a)	Arms: 1. Swing and raise the straight arms in all directions.

2.	Straighten, thrust and strike forward, sideward, up-

ward and downward, the starting positions being: “Arms bent upward,” “Arms bent to thrust,” and “Arms bent to strike.”

3.	Circle arms forward, backward, inward, outward.

(b)	Legs:	1.	Swing and raise the straight leg in all directions.

2.	Place the foot in all directions; stride; lunge; fall-out;

lay-out.

3.	Raise the knee; foot; heels; bend the knees.

(c)	Trunk: 1. Lower the trunk forward.

2.	Bend and sway the trunk in all directions.

3.	Turn the trunk; circling.

(d)	Exercises of the neck (head) should be combined with appro-

priate arm and trunk exercises.

Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the simple co-ordinations of the grammar grades.

(b)	Four movement sequences of one body-part, performed in

the same direction.

(c)	Combinations of two body-parts.

(d)	Intersections.

(e)	Club-swinging.

1.	Arm circles with one and with both arms, forward, back-

ward, outward, inward, left and right. Half circles.

2.	Hand circles with both hands forward, backward, out-

ward and inward; the circles height of shoulders.

3.	Combined arm and hand circles with one and with both

arms forward, backward, outward, inward, left and right; the hand circles behind the bent arms and the shoulders.

NOTE.—Where appropriate, combine the club exercises with trunk bending, lunging, knee-bending, etc.

Digitized by ooQle
106

III.	RHYTHMIC STEPS

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Marching in common time; e., 135 steps per minute; in fast time; i.e. 150 to 160 steps per minute (arms swinging naturally).

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running; On toes, raising and swinging the knees, raising and swinging the straight leg.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a movement on the first of four (two) steps.

B.	Dancing Steps.

Review the gymnastic dancing steps of the grammar grades; i. e.,

(a)	Polka Rhythm.—Glide; Gallop; Skip-step; Step-hop; Glide-hop; Change-step; Swing-hop; Balance-hop; Polka-hop; Cut backward, forward, sideward; Cut-hop.

(b)	Mazurka Rhythm.—(1) Repeat suitable steps enumerated under (a) and adapt to the mazurka rhythm. (2) Three-step; mazurka-hop.

(c)	Schottische Rhythm.—(1) Repeat suitable steps enumerated under (a) and adapt to the schottische rhythm. (2) Three-step-swing-hop.

(d)	Waltz Rhythm.—Balance-step; Step and curtsy; Swing-hop.

C.	Appropriate Character and Folk Dances.

IV.	GAMES.

TRACK AND FIELD WORK. MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES

A.	Games.

1.	Review the vigorous games of the lower grades, especially

the team games like dodgeball, captainball, battleball, and volleyball.

2.	Teach the fundamentals of baseball, soccer, handball,

basketball and tennis.

B.	Track and Field Events.

1.	Standing and running high and broad jump, hop-step and

jump, and triple standing jump.

2.	Short races, relay races, 50, 75 and 100 yards.

3.	Fundamentals of shot-put (8 lbs.), hurlball (4 lbs.).

4.	Endurance runs, 3 to 6 minutes.

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1.	Swimming.

Swimming is an essential physical training activity.

Digitized by

Google
107

High school boys should be able to swim from one-half to one hour, and to show the breast, side, and back strokes. They should also know the simple forms of diving.

2.	Walking.

Tramping trips into the country should be encouraged during all seasons.

3.	Skating.

Boys should be able to skate forward and backward, also to perform some of the simple forms of fancy skating.

4.	Sledding.

Sledding and coasting should be encouraged whenever the weather is favorable.

5.	Camping, Boating.

In fact all sane forms of outdoor life should always be furthered by forming and directing organizations among the pupils devoted to such activities.

V.	APPARATUS WORK

HorizontalBar—Low and Head - High. Easy vaults; knee swing-up; knee-circle backward; hip-circle backward; leg-swing inward and outward; turn-over backward between arms (under the bar.)

Parallel Bars—Low, at the end.

Easy vaults, from a run and stand, without and with turns; run and jump to cross - and side-seat; easy dismounts; arm and leg exercises, in support-lying.

Side Horse.

Kneeling and squatting exercises. Vaults from a run and stand. Mounts and dismounts. Leg-swings and circles with one leg outward and inward. Easy change-seats from croup to neck and vice versa. Scissors backward.

Long Horse.'

Support-lying; riding-seat; side-seat; straddle off without and with turns. Easy vaults.

Rings. Head-high.

Hang-stand with arm and leg movements. Circling of body, feet fixed. Short-swing. Double leg circling. Pendulum swings (running start) with turns. Leg positions while swinging.

Jump-high.

Arm and leg exercises in the bent-arm hang.

Digitized by

Google
108

Poles and Ropes.

Climbing (with hands and feet. Attempts at hand-over hand (hand climbing). Between two poles; arm and leg exercises; turn over to inverted squat hang (bent knees), also to hang rearways. Pendulum swing. Pendulum vault.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Hanging and traveling exercises—forward, sideward, and backward on beams and rounds; arm and leg exercises.

Traveling Rings.

Travel the entire distance—straight body—good form.

Balance Beam.

Walking forward; walking with leg and arm movements. Arm and leg exercises in the support-stand and hang-stand. Easy mounts, dismounts and vaults.

Tumbling.

Rolls forward and backward without and with turns, with or without use of the hands, from a stand or from a run.

HABIT-BENDING

George Van Ness Dearborn, M. D., Cambridge, Psychopathic Expert, Forsyth.

Asked by the editor to set down in a few hundred words (!) my notion of the educational bearings of habit, I can do no better than to tempt both failure and misunderstanding by stating this notion in the form of didactic propositions ready for discussion (should they prove sufficiently dynamic.)

First, our educational system is failing somewhat in its privilege that it does not set about the prevention of bad habits (“bad” in the widest possible sense of personally disadvantageous) by starting in the early grades instruction in what, for lack of a proper name as yet, we must call rudimentary psychology. One who knows really how, can impress and encourage the mind of the average child so that it will look forward further than is usual now, and then automatically protect itself from hurtful habituated behavior. Success in this would be achieved more or less in proportion to the intelligence and the promise of the individual child, but one can never expect more! Indeed, here in a way is a new test of physiologic age, a measure almost of the particular mortal’s effective self-respect and general educability. There must be full comprehension and strongly stimulating encouragement as to the complete efficiency of the wondrous two-fold mechanism of impulse and its restraint which makes up the human personality. This problem

Digitized by LjOOQle
109

sounds far bigger and more difficult than it is. We may be assured that one who knew his psychology and his “child-nature” thoroughly both at once, would soon learn how to helpfully accomplish or start to accomplish this high task of bad-habit prophylaxis. One must secure in the child, at home, at school, and on the playground, a continuous though subconscious attention to the work; then the self-protective conservative “instinct” of the mind will tend to accomplish the rest. If it does not, certainly nothing else can.

But how ought one to go about securing the abandonment of harmful habits (all habits are “motor habits”) once formed?

1.	Not, at any rate, by literally “	”	the	habit.	In

adults, unless unstable, habits may be and often mercifully are, broken off short, although with raw and bleeding ends and edges of agony sometimes. In children, however, more than a few months old, such a method is wholly wrong and unjustifiable; because,

2.	The depression and the discouragement of fear and worry are entirely out of place, under every circumstance, in the mind of the child, still basking, as he is, and necessarily so, in Life’s sweet holiday. A child’s mind is sometimes inexpressibly sensitive and subtile, while fear and worry block the will and hinder it, and in ways now well understood lower its essential vigor as they do its spontaneity. Fear rankles continuously and painfully and so undermines the nerve-strength. This necessity of avoiding worry in the child cuts out all serious threats of future punishment, and all harshness and needless severity. Thh is not that kind of a problem at all. No one would threaten a boy or abuse him for a too-long convalescence from a tubercular hip-disease nor for not having the wisdom of a probate judge. Punishment is in fact outside this whole matter unless it be of a mild sort; highly successful; and free from all terror, all three at once. The far-reaching evils corporal punishment would make possible, in many cases would be far worse than the original bad habituation—the remedy worse than the disease, on the ordinary modern principles of physco-pathology.

3.	The key to the problem of bending habits lies in the entire necessity of continuous, unceasing application of the necessary personal restraint. Nothing possible else can take the place of this. The habit by definition tends to automatism, and at just the precise moments when the personal will is off-guard the mechanism works. Hence is it that the only scientific kind of cure is the effective and permanent impression of the only personal agent that is always on guard; and that is the (subconscious) mind

Digitized by
110

itself of the child, actuated always by self-conscious self-interest, ever more and more certain of its human mastery.

4.	Busy normality of the nerves and muscles and glands is an

important adjunct and often an indispensable preliminary to habitbending. Back to the farm! even in winter. Months of freedom and plain wholesome outdoor living among the beautiful hills and fast-running brooks and the maple groves of Vermont, or along the satiating Acadian seashore! Thus is the mechanism of efficiency best given its normal vigor to recognize habit-abnormality; to refuse its allurements; and to bend it again down and then gradually out.

It is fortunate indeed for us all that this bending of a habit itself becomes habitual and so ever easier. “To him that hath shall be given”; “God helps those who help themselves.” Thus the habit of unbending any particular habit soon becomes itself habitual.

And by trying, whatever his years, the boy becomes a human personality, a man, “captain of his soul.” Nothing is finer in this whole wondrous life of ours than this slow hourly and minute mastering of ourselves, a bit by bit, day after day. This joyousness and satisfaction has its most familiar symbol in the crushing of inexpedient habits—links every one in that great chain with which, as Walter Pater says, we are bound, the living links with which Life forever binds itself, but through which alone, none the less, human personality is conceivable.

—From Educational Standards, Boston, Mass.

EXERCISES FOR MEN’S CLASSES FOR THE 1916

TURNFEST.

To be held at Buffalo, N. Y., June 16, to 19,1916.

Remarks:	Hands are clenched to fist thruout entire second

group. Music to be used for exercises. Kaiserjaeger Marsch, by R. Eilenberg. Carl Fischer, Publisher, New York City.

The return movements of the first, second and third exercises in each group are as follows:

Count 9- as 5-; 10- as 2-; pause 11-12-; 13-as 1-; position 14-; pause 15-16-.

GROUP 1.

1. Place left foot forward, bend arms to thrust, 1-; thrust arms upward, 2-; pause, 3-4; bent knee step left backward, bend

Digitized by LjOOQle
Ill

arms to thrust, 5-; straighten right knee, raise extended left leg backward and thrust arms sideward (knuckles backward), 6-; pause, 7-8; return movements, 9 to 16-; same opposite 17 to 32-; repeat all, 33 to 64-.

2.	Place left foot sideward, raise arms sideward, (hands to fist) 1-; 1-1 arm circle left outward, bend trunk to left, 2-; pause,

3-4-; 1-2 arm circle right outward, (arms forward), 1-4 turn left on right heel and bend right knee, 5-; straighten right knee, raise left leg forward, carry arms sideward, 6-; pause, 7-8; return movements, 9 to 16-; same opposite, 17 to 32-; repeat all, 33 to 64-.

3.	Place left foot backward, raise arms backward, (palms forward), 1-; swing arms forward and sideward palms up, 2-; pause, 3-4; stride left sideward, place hands in rear of head, 5-; bend left knee, strike arms sideward, palms down, 6-; pause 7-8-; return movements, 9 to 16-; same opposite 17 to 32-; repeat all 33-64-.

4.	Place left .foot forward, raise left arm obliquely foreupward right arm opposite, 1-; change arm positions, 2-; pause, 3-4-; bend kneestep left backward, bend trunk forward, place hands on floor, (right knee between arms), 5-; extend right leg backward (to front lying support), 6-; pause 7-8; jump to side stride stand with hands remaining on floor, 9-; straighten trunk, bend uppertrunk backward, carry arms sideward (palms up), 10-; pause, 11-12-; jump to a closed stand, raise arms upward, 13-; lower arms side-downward, 14-; pause, 15-16-; same opposite, 17 to 32-; repeat all, 33 to 64-.

GROUP 2.

1.	Step left forward, raise arms sideward, 1-; kneel on right, circle arms outward to bending left arm over the head and right arm on back, 2; pause 3-4-; stra'ghten left knee, swing right leg forward, circle arms inward to the horizontal sideward position, 5-; bend kneestep right backward, lower trunk forward, swing arms forward and down-backward, 6-; pause, 7-8;- return movements, 9-16-; same opposite, 17 to 32-; repeat all, 33 to 64-.

2.	Step left sideward, raise arms sideward, 1; rearcross bend knee step right backward, 3-4 double arm circle outward (arms upward), 2-; pause, 3-4-; 1-4 turn right lower arms to strike from shoulder, 5-; lunge right sideward, bend trunk to left and strike arms sideward, 6-; pause, 7-8-; return movements, 9-16-; same opposite, 17 to 32-; repeat all 33 to 64-.

3.	Stride left backward, raise arms forward, 1-; 1-4 turn left on heels, 1-2 arm circle left commencing upward, (arms sideward),

2-; pause, 3-4-; 1-4 turn left, 3-4 double arm circle outward (arms upward), 5-; bend right knee, bend trunk backward, lower arms

Digitized by LjOOQle
112

to strike from shoulders, 6-; pause 7-8-; return movements, 9-16-; same opposite, 17 to 32-; repeat all, 33 to 64-;

4.	Jump to side stride stand, bend arms to strike from shoulder, 1-; lower trunk forward (back arched), 2-; pause, 3-4-; straighten trunk, 1-4 turn left on heels, extend arms upward, 5-; bend left knee, swing right arm downward backward, and left arm obliquely fore-upward, 6-; pause 7-8-; close with right foot, swing both arms forward, 9-; deep knee bending, carry arms sideward, 10-; pause, 11-12-; straighten knees, carry arms forward, 13-; lower arms, 14-; pause, 15-16-; repeat thrice, 17 to 64-.

MARCHING DRILL FOR A CLASS OF 32 PUPILS.

By Leila Z. Williams, Milwaukee State Normal School. MUSIC—MARCH—Nation of Honor by Paul Keller.

?<VJ

F > 1- -i.



r,

r.

r*		
• c*		
11	cr *	- t Jh
»» »i	*	i  •	,	4 • | i 1 •
»i		
it	• i	1 1 *
n  n	• > i |	I
»i		11
. •« t« ii	•	t  •	i  ■ i	4 1 | ,1
ti  »,	• ■ i *	
	• i	1 4 *
.f i 1»	i i i i	1 * *
ft	• *	if «
V  M	» i i i	< * • 4 f <
n	i »	, 1 f
V  »»	i •	4 * 4
■n	i i	i 1  t 4 *
. M	i *	I » *
11	i i  i i	4 1 |
u	i i	4 •,
M	• «	4 4
• 1»	i i	i < 1
► V	i * i *	‘ 1 ,
|1	• i	4 1 1
.1  t t	• * i »	1 1 * 4 1 <



FIGURE I.

March around the room in single file.

March up the center in ranks of two’s. First two march to the right; second two, to the left. Others follow in turn.

>* i r

FIGURE II.

March down the center in ranks of four’s.

First rank 1-4 wheel right and march around to the back of the room. Second rank 1-4 wheel right and forward march around the room.

Other ranks following in turn.

Digitized by v^.ooole
?i<f. 3

113

FIGURE III.

Form ranks of eight's.

First rank march 12 steps forward.

Second rank march eight steps forward.

Third rank march four steps forward.

Fourth rank form in place.

Let the members of the ranks be numbered from right to left, one to eight.

With numbers one and five as guides and four and eight as pivots all 1-4 wheel left forming two lines, A and B. Line B. Left about face.

* t* *



v ^

T- f ^ T T

W'P

v-»-

'-I*	x -b

* ' * * \h

v \ r x V r

' b

a

3



FIGURE V.

The two lines consist of two ranks of eight's, one and two.

Rank number one of Line A and number two of Line B, 1-4 wheel right.

, FIGURE IV.

rx 9

'	’	Two	lines	eight	steps	back-

ward march.



Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y	— v

H-CvN

KnV

Y^	\ \ N v

K\ \v\v K\ > . > \

a

4.-L

-L-L J. -i.

*	'	1	*	V	'	T

\'

V

r-r

v v v \V|

V \	\	N	7

A A A A

I.

4

H

0.

Digitized by v^ooQle
114

FIGURE VI.

From the shortest to the tallest number one to eight.

Ranks number one and four.

Numbers one, two, three and four remain in place and mark time.

Numbers five and six about face and march between numbers two and three.

Numbers seven and eight forward and march in front between numbers two and three.

Ranks number two and three the same with numbers five, six, seven and eight marking time in place. Numbers three and four about face and march in back.

Numbers one and two forward between six and seven.

	
	- -  fi
	vJt'*
	
^ " 1	
tK/	
	;<+~
	
	1 *
VU> i.	VI® H • ", *r\ \  \• *i.i
	T
S-N	4-
	
H	O'  I	~	

yzo-3-.	vOo.3.
TT.+ ^  v t' /	T >.tt  V ^ '  v 4

Ho 1.	Yu +.
,-K	
/ A* \	
tt .4*+  V ■ /  *v	XX IT  '.J „T T \ ^  '•1'

h

t

t

►

I*

t

FIGURE VIII.	f

Return to places in ranks of ^ eight's. 8 counts.



FIGURE VII.

Wheel number one and } \	)	two	one	whole	wheel	left.

Wheel number three and four, one whole wheel right, 8 counts.

Trrrr^TT

A

*

*

-I



Digitized by Google
I-

h

Yv© \.

Viol

		115
T T -1 ► h h	VUx 3,  - T T T T  X*	-r
/»£  h  x At	VLo ^	
■1  4  *‘1  4*	4-	I
4*		U
H  J. X		4  -r%*"

7»' ?.^

FIGURE IX.

All forward march, forming one large cross. 8 counts.

n's

'	'	"•’“'v	S'

' ' ^	'	X

FIGURE X.

One whole wheel right. 32 counts.

/ * t * , ,1	'

*• * * S?''s \

i ! i t / f	^

((iff f i />x '	*

Lilli XJ.Jj.ttt T T T T-r

'iitt » \ j / / i i i • i \ \ i \ \ \ *	'•I!•>

\ \ s \s	* / /	.

'//*

V ' V'--1-

0\\ '--i—' y

VAviV--' '

% • '^*4 <•	^

_ *



16

9 ' * 1 • I

? 1* 9.

FIGURE XI.

In ranks of four’s, one wheel left. 16 counts.

Digitized by v^ooQie
116

r>-

i &

Kj.in.

i

x.

I . iii

. {*£ ■ -----==-------! !

——3:-. --------->>ttt

■ r»;».--	1	-1 - ---1 1	9

i~ 1- 1-  3.	•	1 1

7	v.v	■*.-»-+++>

I I r r»------4*

t K li- ' 1

! “i! YUrj • 'fll •

m

VMI

1 1 1

TTTT

-*

& I 11

tn

1-■ r T “

r'

"I**

‘	’■ 1--------------^ *

.1 _  ____________  1	1

1	1	•	^	!	1

■ I- I-I — - —-VI •

T 7*1^---vtttt

* W-.- *' -	*

I

f--v ,

^ »	,	I	T	TTT

!	.	•	5;

1	1	'

i	1	•

3.

TTTT

X

FIGURE XII.

Ranks one and two, about face and forward march.

Number one 20 steps. Number two, 16 steps.

Rank number three 1-4 wheel right, 4 counts and 12 steps forward.

Rank number four, 4 steps forward, 1-4 wheel right and 12 steps forward.

Rank number five, 1-4 wheel left 1-4 wheel right, 8 counts.

Rank number six about face, 1-4 wheel right forward 8 steps 1-4 wheel right. Rank number seven, 1-4 wheel right 4 steps forward, 1-4 wheel right 16 steps forward, 1-4 wheel right.

Rank number eight, 1-4 wheel right, 12 steps forward, 1-4 wheel right, 20 steps forward, 1-4 wheel right.

Digitized by Google
117

INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY OF EMPLOYES.

BY LEONHARD FELIX FULp, L. L. M., PH. D.

Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York-

A young woman employed as a stenographer in one of the departments of the government of the city of New York requested one of the supervising officials of her department to select for her some courses of instruction in the evening by means of which she might increase her working ability. Noting that his inquirer combined the delicate charm of the nineteenth century girl with the all-around efficiency of the twentieth century business woman the official to whom this stenographer addressed her inquiry did not discuss the matter lightly by paying her a well-deserved compliment, but told her frankly that she needed in the evening opportunities for healthful recreation rather than facilities for additional study. Her own business acumen enabled her to appreciate the weight of the arguments which he presented in support of this proposition.

When a survey of the existing recreational facilities disclosed the fact that there were none suited to the needs of this young woman the official to whom she had addressed her original inquiry decided to create these facilities. With the co-operation of the secretary of the Public Recreation Commission he secured the use of one of the city’s gymnasia situated near the Municipal Building for one hour a week for the use of the young women employed in the building. The hour from 5:30 to 6:30 on Monday evenings was selected because the building was not otherwise occupied at that hour and this hour was also the most convenient for the young women. Through the assistance of the head of the Department of Physical Education of Columbia University the services of a student-teacher were obtained who taught these young women folk-dancing for the first half-hour and social dancing for the remainder of the hour each week. The services of a pianist were procured. The young women were not. expected to provide themselves with any special costume and no charge of any kind was made, with the exception that the young women were expected to defray their share of the pianist’s charge which was very small. There were fifty young women who contributed to make up the pianist’s charge of one dollar an evening.

As soon as this class had been well-established the young men employed in the building requested permission to join it. It was not deemed advisable to admit them because their admission would

Digitized by v^oosle
118

have necessitated the substitution by the young women of the fromalities of the ballroom for the freedom of the playground. Yet the request of the young men for recreative opportunities was reasonable and was not to be denied. With the co-operation of the Supervisor of Recreation of the Department of Parks the services of a competent gymnasium instructor were obtained, who taught these young men a setting-up drill one hour a week in one of the City’s gymnasia near the Municipal Building. Through the cooperation of the United States Volunteer Life Saving Corps an instructor of swimming was obtained, who taught these young men swimming and diving in the pool of one of the city’s free baths during the remainder of this hour each week. It was found that swimming and light gymnastics were as popular among the men as folk dancing and social dancing were among the women. The light gymnastics and the folk dancing furnished the more valuable physical exercise and the swimming and the social dancing furnished the larger opportunities for recreation and relaxation in each case.

Through the co-operation of the Librarian of the Municipal Reference library a number of books printed in shorthand were obtained and placed in circulation among the stenographers of the building. It is a well-recognized fact that the reading of shorthand literature is one of the best means of increasing a stenographer’s efficiency, since it makes her familiar with the correct outlines of words and impresses them firmly upon her memory.

Other plans which are being formulated and perfected to increase the efficiency of the city employes are the organization of a lecture course on the functions of the various departments of the City Government, excursions to places of industrial or educational interest, the recognition and rewarding of the faithful and efficient performance of routine duty, the establishment of lunch rooms for employes, the substitution of loss of time off for fines in cases of official delinquency and the establishment of trial boards composed of fellow employes for the trial of charges against employes.

“The special edition of “Health and the Woman Movement” reviewed in the March number of Mind and Body may be obtained only from the Stanford Bookstore, Stanford University, California, Price 25 cents.”

Digitized by LjOOQie
119

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOL AND PLAYGROUND.

E.	C. DELAPORTE, CHICAGO, ILL.

It is the writer’s firm conviction that every school should have a play ground as well as proper facilities for all phases of physical education. The school plant as it exists in most cases is prepared to care for all branches of indoor gymnasium work, but as is the case at Lane Technical High School no provision has been made for out door work. Some of our new schools in Chicago are being equipped with large play fields so that the work may be carried on out of doors during and after school hours. It seems to me, however, that these athletic fields should be equipped as our best play grounds are, and that the community should have the use of the whole school plant after school hours. It is the expression of the growing idea, “that the school should minister to other needs of the community besides the purely educational.” For accomplishing such things it would seem to be the part of economy to employ, as far as possible, the capital which society has invested in its schools. It is true that the public school property may, if devoted to these broader uses, deteriorate more rapidly than if confined to its traditional functions, although experience has shown that the wear is not in proportion to the additional service rendered.

In some cities the broader use of the school plant for physical education produces in the minds of both old and young a sense of greater responsibility for its protection from all sorts of damage. The cost to the community would be much less if these things are attempted thru the school plant, than if they are attempted thru a separate and independent investment. There is no agency that can do the work in physical education so effectively qnd so easily as can the school. It has the material equipment largely in readiness, gymnasiums fully equipped, assembly halls and in some cases play fields and swimming pools, all of which are admirably adapted for work in physical education. The school is the natural community center; it is where the children spend a large part of the day.. The interests engendered there are carried back and discussed in the home. A common interest in the school and its work is thus developed, and in many cases it is the only point of contact between the school and the majority of members of the community. The school thus becomes a place toward which all may naturally turn, and the school more than any other agency

Digitized by Google
◄

lent tech. cmms/u										
Oflv school pcr/v/r/ES										
PEPI0D5	/	Z	v5	A-		s		6	7	
T/ME * OAYi	& 30AM. to  9/RArt	qRHM to 9SSAM	!0 06 A M to 1052 AM	iO Si AM to /ISA-AM.		/2 OS PM to 12 9S PM		12 9£> PH fo  132 PM	/ 32 PM To 2 16 PM.	2H  J
no nor v	HS BOYS IA	HSBOYS  SB	HS BOYS  /A ~23	HS. BOYS  /a		HSBOYS  ZB		HSBOYS  SB	HSBOFS  23	HS  1
TUESDAY	/p	IB -IA	/Q	40-+A		/a		2A	IA	< i
MDNESD/fY	Z3	ZB.	JQ	//?		ZB-BR		//?	3A	- '  Ci
THUHSDfl)	IB	IB.	/a	ZB		/a		/a	ZB.	Zi
FRIDAY	/&-//R	73	A 3+A	J/>		za		//?aa.	iA-zo	
3ATS'!?DRY	WTERSCHOOL FOOTBALL INTERSCHOOL TRACK / SOCCER GOLF BASEBALL •• TENNIS					NTERSCHOOL FOOTQpLL INTER5CH0C SOCCER BASEBALL				L 71 G  TEt  p
	SEWARD PARR GYMNASIUM									
'periods’	/	z	s	±L		S		6	7	i  TE  TP
TIME <D> Dpi	8-30 To9M/?.Y	9 Hr, 935 An	jooifc/ote/in	lojitof/jfm		(ZOJf./EHdPrt		izndTc/jzm	l32fo2JlPn	
NON DRY		mCYOCAT/OMfiL  boys  73	mVOCfiTMAL  BOYS  BA*	Fmocumw  30YS  7A'		TPLMCIttWIL  BOYS  7A*-8B'		^m'oc/mwL  BOYS  SA'-33Z	myn&rr/oN/fi  BOYS  602	
V/EONCSOflY		73		7A‘		7/9z -60'		6/9'S3 z	6BZ	;  BA  60  !  Tt  IN
THURSOflY		73		7A'		1^-6 B'		ap'-afr	SB*	
NO. OF HOURS DEVOTEO TO ATHLETICS BY FACULTY COflCHES NOT LESS T///1N J/9NO OFTEN Ft ORE THAN /OPEN WK. NO. OF FACULTYMEMBERS AS COACHES FOR TERT7S <3 DAYSCHOOL INSTRUCTORS T7BN S EVENING- SCHOOL " " Z ” .. •• •• WOMEN Z STUDENT MANAGERS /NTFRROOM SPORTS SO /NTETT SCHOOL ZS NO. GENERAL '• ALL STUDENT RTHLET/CS J							E/EID DRY FEDERAL 11  MASS WAND DRILL  i  ATHLETICS FINALS IN ALL SPECIAL DRILL  DANCING EVENING SCHOO  STUDENT COMMiT TEES  ATTENDANCE AT Fj/ELO			

Digitized by Google
1 PROGRAM /7/J-/9/6.

| EVENING SCHOOL

pm to OPtf.

<3 00 PM To J <30 PM

JO

5<30 PM To 730PM

//

7 <30 PM To 930PM

JZ

9 /3PM to

JOOOPM

NUMBER OF STUDEN TS TfiKiNG ACTIVE PART JN INTER- ROOM fiND 1NTER-<SCHOOL ATHLETICS.

SOYS

'•ft

nvYCMroorr <f/?Hcs

0R3HCT OflLL

/NOOOR BflaEOfii. L

reflex RMLFrics /ureJt SCHOOL G/incs RRfiCTlCF

tlEN '3 CLASS

FFCC FLftY BfiSHCT BALL INDOOR BflSeOflLL SO

HCN'S CLASS

formal

6YNHAST/CS TRRCH/ITHLCTKS (SARC5

a

TOP

LLEGE

ZLASS

V-Pfl.

spnc ps /ABOVE

spriE ps /ABOVE

W OMCN'S

CLflSi

ro*ntu-

6YH*FSricS OftNCtHO

D/fiLS ZOO

sprre as ABOVE

spr/E ps /ABOVE

MEAT'S CLpS3 PspBOVE

S/AME /ts

above

WOMEN'S

CLfiSS

ro*x/*L-

mrftm/urtcj p/*v«//v<J

GfiHLS SO

woncN's

CL/SS AS poovE

SOCIAL DftNCL FOR EVENING SCHOOL STUDENTS

NO. ISITCRSCHOQL ATHLETICS.

FOOTQflLL TERMS Bp 6 EBALL

OUTDOOR TRACK TEpM i/YOOOR

SW/MM/NG

coir	teams

TENNIS	TERM

SKpT/NG

PIE IE

SOCCER

GYMNAST/C

BASKETBALL tea mb COLLEGE pr/TLET/C PSSO.

NO.

70

00

00

<30

23

IS

IO

23

33

jo

JO

70

JL2.

4-10

tfr

same ps ABOVE

BASKET BALL PRACTICE games VY/TH OTHER SWIMMING SCHOOLS RWflY FROM HOME . , INTERSCNOOL BASKETBALL SWIMMING WAS- CONTESTS	TNOOOP	BASEBALL

?ACK

1LE

NO.

INTER-ROOM ATHLETICS

=f=

/NTERROOn TRACK TEA A

baseball tea ns

BASKET DULL •* INDOOR BASEBALL TENNIS TCAF1

HO.

<500

A30 AJO 300 30

.see

THE ST/OftE PLAYGROUND

)TBPLL -BPSEBPLL PRACTICE /NTERSCHOOL

VA/A5

PCM	»

practiced

L/A/COEAT PPPM E/EED

’EPR00/7 BPSEBPLL SEBpLL PRACTICE CCER

9LF

NNIS

rERROOM TENNIS.

games.

AGUE BASEBALL PARK.

2000 BOYS

.EVENTS

DAY

TOO

9S **

60 G/RLS 60 BOYS

3000

SUMMARY'

NO

NO.	OF	STUDENTS TAKING	GYMNASIUM WORK	2600

■BOYS HS RREVOCPTJONPL- COLLEGE	ZI7S

GIRLS EVENING	SCHOOL	230

BOYS	••	/ss

STUDENTS TAKING pCTIVE PART IN ATHLETICS 370 -	INTERROCR	tSLO

"	••	INTER SCHOOL 4/0

••	OF	INTER-SCHOOL TEAMS	23

INTERROOM	izt

"•	• STUDENTS NOT TAKING PART IN

AMPLE Tics (excluding girls)	)

• GYMNASIUM CLASSES PER WEEK	66

-•	••	••	»	••	BOYS 63

"•	....	~	G/PLS	3

AVERAGE A/O. OF STUOENTS HIGH SCHOOL CLASSES 30 FRE VOCATIONAL	••	31

............. ei/en/ng	school	girls	62

..	••	BOYS	3/

UUN/OP COLLEGE	30

UK* /7., /y/*>________  z:c	oe^fi^om £ c	-,si
122

can unite the community in a healthful physical and social life. The accompanying program-chart will serve as an argument to show that the school needs the play ground. Fortunately for us at Lane the authorities of the Lincoln Park Playground system are willing to co-operate with us at all times, allowing us the use of their gymnasiums during school hours and the Lincoln Park .and Lake Shore playgrounds after school hours. The Lane Technical High School is open practically the year round, day school, evening school, summer school and at present a social centre is being conducted two evenings per week. The details of the educational work are omitted in this article. It is merely an attempt to show that the work of the school and the play ground in Physical Education could and should be combined in the school plant wherever possible.

SUMMER SCHOOLS

The attention of our readers is called to the numerous announcements of summer schools of physical training. In reality these schools are postgraduate courses during which teachers get inspiration and new ideas for this work. Every teacher periodically must get in touch with the outside world if he does not wish to grow narrow and pedantic. And it is not only the modern methods and new material that make these summer sessions valuable to teachers. Another element of equal value is the exchange of experiences with colleagues working under different conditions, the enlightenment one gets in having one’s troubles interpreted by others working for the same ideals. Send for the catalogues of a few reputable summer schools and prepare to attend the school that will help you most.

Digitized by v^ooQle
o

{ GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

BASKET-BALL-RULES.

By D. M. F. Krogh, M.D., Dir. Physical Education, Cleveland School, Newark, N.J.

“In regard to basketball, we consider the points you make, and we play quarters of eight minutes each. In addition, we give rest periods, in that whenever a foul is made the ball goes back to the center and play starts over again.” From a letter received from Dr. Wm. Burdick, Director Public Athletic League, Baltimore, Md.

If the Chicago High School Basket Ball League comes to the conclusion that 7 minutes is the correct time and, if in Baltimore the conclusion has been reached to play for 8 minutes in each quarter, perhaps the rules as to the time of play have been modified also in other cities. If this should be the case, please let us know. In the interim it is encouraging that progress is being made in various cities independently, to guard against evil results from overdoing what is intended to be of benefit.

“A man is as old as his arteries” is an old phrase. In our latest era some speak of physiologic, others of anatomical age. In considering the correct time for basketball we must base our conclusions on histology and physiology. We know that the tissues of the body in childhood are quite different from those of the' adult. Just as bones are cartilagenous, soft and pliable in the immature, so are the other tissues of the bcdy. Thus the muscular fibres of the heart, as well as other muscle-fibres, are of pliable, elastic structure and will stretch materially on contraction of the muscle. Being more elastic than in mature life they will return to their normal contour more readily than these. On the other hand the tough mature muscle-fibre will endure a longer continued strain than the immature elastic fibre of the young. The young tissue cannot lastingly endure the great strain it is forced to and it loses some of its elasticity. Over-exertion weakens. Another point is, that the tissues during childhood and adolescence grow, and muscle-fibres multiply with use of the muscle and if over-used there will be an over-growth. Where school children are examined by the physician before athletic contests many of those who have a great motor propensity and who usually are the best jumpers-or runners are crossed from the list of contestants on account of

Digitized by

Google
124

hypertrophy of the heart or a tendency to it. The fact is that the heart now has many thousand more fibres than it normally should have. The danger to these cases in later years is a change from the athletic—or ox-heart to hypertrophy with dilatation of the heart chambers and also fatty degeneration or infiltration, or both.

I hope no one will say that in all his experience the first pupil has yet to come and complain. No, they do not complain because they are athletically inclined, they have ambition, endurance, strength, skill, vim and all that is required to make up good material for a strenuous game, or for an endurance run; they notice no ill effects. They do not—until it is too late—perhaps. The reason for this is, that hypertrophy of the heart does not come on suddenly, like a spasm, “a stitch in the side,” muscle-cramp, or, the sudden pain in acute appendicitis; it comes slowly—creeping on like a snake in the grass, but it strikes unlike it; its evil manifestations with shortness of breath and lack of endurance come on gradually, turn up when it is too late, when dilatation has become chronic and irreparable. The athletic child, who, according to all indications was to become an ideal specimen of humanity has turned the tables on all hopes and expectations, has joined those physically unfit. They belong to the class that will boast of what they could do when a youngster or in their adolescence, but—now— “if I am in a hurry and I run half a block to be sure to get into that car, or jitney, or, if I walk up one flight of stairs I get all out of breath.”

Education means to cultivate the inherent powers of children, to direct latent propensities into proper channels, to prepare and fit children for adult life. We, in physical training, must strive most of all for beauty of form, ideal posture, increase of health and, thereby, to achieve greater resistence, from a physical point of view; we must seek through these means and our personal influence to guide our pupils to become useful citizens, with resoluteness, determination and will-power. We are obligated to all our pupils and should therefore strive to attain class-aims. It is therefore wrong to allow our efforts to culminate in the highest possible standard of the individual or a small group of individuals. Such individual training to the highest possible achievement must be left to the higher grades, the mature, in the high schools, colleges and universities, but is out of place for children in public schools.

Basketball is a most excellent game, but the time limitation must be made in accordance with the age of the players. It is better in this respect to go below than above the standard.

Digitized by kjOOQle
125

' COUPLE DANCES FOR PLAYGROUND USE

ARRANGED BY ARLINGTON EVANS, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

The following Couple Dances were especially written for use' in conjunction with the social dancing classes of the Philadelphia. Board of Recreation. They may also be used in children’s classes; of ten or more years of age. They are presented in the order of their difficulty.

1. DAINTY STEPS'

Column of front couples, outer hands at waist, inner-hands grasped shoulders high.

Any one step, two step, polka, schottische or gavotte-played in march or two step time.

If one step, two step or polka:	8	measures;

If gavotte or schottische	4	measures.

Point outer foot forward (1)

Point outer foot sideward (2)

Cross outer foot in back, and a 3-4 turn facing partner^ releasing and regrasping inner hands (3-4)

Step sideward and courtesy toward the first couple in line of march (5-6)

Repeat toward last couple (7-8)

Four glides toward the leader (1-4)

One quarter turn outward and four steps forward (5-8)-Repeat 1, 2, 3 and 4 indefinitely.

2. WALDORF

Formation and Tempo the same as for Dainty Steps.

Step I Step forward on outside foot (1) Raise knee and’ point inside foot forward, back to back, with partner,, and swinging arms over the pointed foot (2)

Step forward on inside foot (3) raise knee and point, outside foot forward, swinging arms downward and backward turning face to face with partner (4)

II Two two steps forward completing a 1-1 (full) turn outward, releasing and regrasping hands (5-8)

III	Two swing-hops forward on outside and inside foot

d-4)

IV	Four glides sideward in line of march, with partners, facing each other (5-8)

Formation: Tempo: Measures: Step I

II

III

IV

Digitized by Google
126

3. ELOISE GAVOTTE

Formation: Tempo: Step I

Formation: Tempo: Step I

II

III

IV

Formation: Tempo: Step I

Same as for Dainty Steps 4-4 Gavotte or slow Schottische

Both point left foot forward outward twice (1-4) Rear cross-step left; step right sideward, cross left in front, step right and raise the right leg forward outward (5-8)	2	measures

Repeat all to right (1-8)	2	measures

4 measures In all	8	measures

4. WALTZ MINUET Same as in 1.

3-	4 waltz or mazurka.

Three steps forward beginning with outside foot (1-3)	1	measure

Point inside foot forward (4-6)	1	measure

Step toward rear couple, facing partner, pirouette under arms	1	measure

Step and courtesy toward rear couple	1	measure

4 measures 1 measure

1	measure

2	measures

4 measures

Four waltz steps forward beginning with outside foot	4	measures

Take social dance position, turn three waltz	steps and

stamp twice taking the open position	4	measures

8 measures

In all	16	measures

5. DRAW SCHOTTISCHE Same as in No. 1

4-	4 schottische

Beginning with outside foot, swing-hop forward (1-2) Draw-step forward, swinging the arms forward toward the first couple and turning back to back (3-4)

1 measure

Waltz-balance toward first couple Same toward rear couple Repeat all

Digitized by ooqLc
127

Draw-step backward (5-6)

Hop on outside foot with 1-2 turn inward, swinging foot

forward and changing hands (7-8)	1	measure

2 measures

Repeat in opposite direction	2	measures

4	measures

II Four swing-hops forward beginning with the outside foot	2	measures

Two glide-polkas schottische steps	2	measures

4	measures In all	8	measures

6.	ALUMNI MAZURKA

Formation:

Tempo: Step I

II

Column of couples facing each other, hands toward rear couple grasped height of shoulder, other hand at waist.

3-4 Mazurka.

Waltz-balance toward first couple (1-3)	1	measure

Same toward rear couple	1	measure

Step sideward toward front couple, rear cross-step, step sideward and point	2	measures

Repeat all in opposite direction	4	measures

Three mazurka-hops toward first couple (1-9)

4	measures

1-1 cross-step-tum (pirouette) (10-12)

Three mazurka-hops toward first couple and two stamps	4	measures

In all	16	measures

7.	VARSOVIENNE

Formation: Column of front couples. Man at left side of lady, left hand grasped sideward left, right hands of gentleman grasping right hand of lady over her right shoulder. Tempo:	3-4 mazurka.

Step I Step left, close right, step left with 1-2 turn right (1-3) and point right (4-6)

Repeat, right, left, right	8	measures

II	Two mazurka-hops left (1-6)

Repeat I step once (7-12)	4	measures

Digitized by v^ooQle
Repeat all right

128

4 measures

III	Eight waltz-steps forward

8 measures 8 measures

In all	24	measures

NOTE.—In place of waltzing forward in step III, the waltz-steps may be danced with turning, the man passing from one side to the other during the turn and while going forward. (Same as the skating turn of the Maxixe) 8 measures.

8.	SPANISH WALTZ Formation: Same as No. 1.

Tempo:	3-4	waltz.	Fairly	fast.

Step I Three swing-hops forward, brushing the swinging foot over the floor	(1-9)	3	measures

Draw-step toward first couple with inside foot turning back to back and swing arms forward (10 to 12)

1 measure

Stamp-draw-step toward last couple (1-3) 1 measure Step and hop on outside foot making 1-2 turn inward (4-6)	1	measure

Two stamp-draws	with inside foot, toward last couple

(7-12)	2	measures

8 measures

II Waltz-balance toward first then last couple (1-6)

2 measures

Pirouette toward first couple and 2 stamps (7-12)

2 measures

Four waltz-steps turning	4	measures

In all

Repeat indefinitely

9.	MAY DAY GAVOTTE

Formation: Column of couples Tempo:	4-4 gavotte or slow schottische

Part I Position: Inner hands grasped height of shoulders, outer hand at wrist.

1. Balance-step (Arabesque) forward on outside foot (1-2) ■

Step-swing (pas de zephyr) backward inside foot (3-4)	1	measure

8 measures 16 measures

Digitized by LjOOQle
129

2

3

4.

Part -I

1.

2.

3.

4.

Part III

Four walking steps forward (5-8)	1	measure

Repeat three times	6	measures

8 measures

. Three walking steps forward beginning with outside foot 1-2 turn inward, change hands, and step-swing (pas de zephyr) (1-4)	1	measure

Repeat three times to and fro	3	measures

4	measures

. Step-balance forward, step-swing backward (1-4)

1 measure

Step forward on outside foot facing partner (5-6) courtesy toward 1st couple (7-8)	1	measure

. Step toward last couple (1-2) 1-1 cross-step-turn (pirouette) inward (3-4)	1	measure

Step toward rear couple man bow and lady courtesy (5-8)	1	measure

8 measures

In all	16	measures

Position:	Man	at left side of lady, grasp both left

hands sideward man’s and lady’s right hands at lady’s waist or at shoulders, right side. To be taken at end of last measure in Part I No. 4.

Repeat step 1 of Part I but both using left foot in place of outside foot	8	measures

Repeat step 2 of Part I but both	walking 1-2	turn right

in place of inward and without releasing hands but changing positions	4	measures

Repeat step 3 of Part I but in place of facing each other for the courtesy, lady courtesy at the left side of the man	2	measures

Man walk four steps toward rear couple, lady turn left 1 1-2 turn under man’s right arm in 4 walking steps

1 measure

Man bows, lady courtesy, releasing arms 1	measure

8 measures

In all	16	measures

Position: Man facing forward, lady backward, man at right side of lady. Arms in social dance position. Man repeats step 1 of Part I, but using 1-2 turn

Digitized by

Google
130

inward and leg-swing in place of the fourth walking step. Lady opposite and backward 8 measures

2.	Man repeats step 2 of Part I, lady opposite and backward	4	measures

3.	Man repeats step 3 of Part I, Lady opposite and back-

ward 1 measure. Man courtesy in rear, lady crosses in front toward 1st couple (5-8	1	)measure

Man stands in place, lady pirouette left under man’s left arm (1-4)	1	measure

Man bow, lady courtesy, 1 measure 8 measures

In all	16	measures

NOTE.—Part I may be repeated without Part II and III or Part I and II may be combined and repeated, or Part I, II, III may be combined and all repeated or not.

PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

Park boards have generally tended to look upon a playground as a place of amusement, while school boards and the public are coming more and more to look upon it as a place of accomplishment. If it is to be a place of amusement merely, a program probably is not needed; but if a definite training is to be given, a program is essential. Definite ideas everywhere tend to become accomplishments, while work which is undertaken without any real conception of what is to be done seldom arrives. There are at least five different kinds of programs that are needed: a program which will be pretty much the same every day during the season, which will make a place for the various playground specialists and which will provide time for those dances, games, industrial work, and other activities which are supposed to take place; an exhibition program which ought to take place every week or two in order to keep up the interest and to bring in the parents, and which should also arrange for such special days as the Fourth of July, Hallowe’en, Thanksgiving and other national holidays. There should be a special program for rainy days. There must be a scheduled time for the various teams to play. And there should be a program which the director will make out each day to cover the special accomplishments of that day.

This does not mean necessarily that there must be a hard and fast t me schedule for each of these events and that basket ball will be played at half past nine, and there will be field athletics at half past ten, etc., but it does mean that there must be a general plan of things to be done, and that these must in some way be fitted into the day and the week, else little definite training will be secured.

— Henry T. Curtis.

Digitized by

Google
131

j PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

BY D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

TEMPERATURE VARIATIONS AND HEALTH

It has become clear recently that variations in temperature-represent one of the best tonics provided by Nature. Lauder Brunton believes that tuberculous patients will not get better in a climate that does not vary from 20 to 30 degrees every day. Indeed, more than one observer has hinted that the principal element of therapeutic value in the altitude treatment of tuberculosis consists in the variations of temperature obtainable to a greater degree at altitudes than in low lying districts. Too large variations of daily temperature may be overtrying for delicate persons but, as a rule, a definite drop in temperature during the night, so that the morning air is distinctly bracing by contrast with the midday temperature, is a source of stimulation. To remain in a room of definite unmodified temperature for three or four hours produces a jaded feeling and a loss of appetite. Even a brief walk or a ride in the open air of a winter’s day will restore good feeling, arouse appetite and stimulate digestion better, perhaps, than any other measure.

Recent investigations on ventilation indicate that the problem of heat diffusion is more important for comfort and general good feeling than the question of perfect chemical purity of the air. Even though the air in a room is free from chemical and biologic impurities, and yet is quite still, one becomes uncomfortable if the temperature remains equable. Movement of the air by a fan, without change in the temperature, lessens the discomfort, stimulates a person to mental activity, and produces a better feeling. The introduction of cool fresh air from without is stimulating not so much because of its purity as because it leads to the dissipation of heat which has been accumulating in the body, producing an unbearable sense of discomfort. Human nature has in recent years endeavored by every possible means to make the temperature in the immediate neighborhood as invariable as possible and to keep it constant; but the effect of such a state of affairs is to lessen initiative, dampen energy and hamper the power of accomplishment. Cooler-air is uncomfortable for the moment, but the react on that ensues brings with it a distinct sense of well being.

The broader discussion of this subject concerns the effect of a. changeable climate on human progress and power of achievement-

Digitized by L^ooQie
132

Ellsworth Huntington* after a careful study of meteorology in reference to man, concludes that civilization in the broader sense of the term is largely dependent on man’s being subjected to considerable variations of temperature in his environment. Whenever white men in spite of their natural initiative and tendency to efficiency have to live and work in a tropical climate, they degenerate physically, mentally and morally. This, Huntington insists, is due not so much to the high temperature as to the monotony of an unvarying climate and the consequent lack of Nature’s most effective stimulation. By observation of the amount of work done throughout the year by negroes and white men laboring under similar conditions in warm and in temperate climates, he deduces that “it seems to be a law of organic life that variable temperature is better than uniformity” for human achievement.

It has long been recognized that man’s highest achievements have been made in the variable climate of the north temperate zone. Indeed, if the fortieth parallel of north latitude be traced around the globe, it will be found that practically all the great centers of human achievement were situated not far away from it. Athens, Constantinople, Naples, Rome, Florence, Paris, Vienna, Berlin, London, New York, Chicago, St. Louis, San Francisco, Tokyo and Peking, as well as Jerusalem, Carthage, Sidon, Tyre, Memphis and Babylon were all situated within about 10 degrees of this magic line. Almost needless to say, this is the line of greatest variation in temperature. It would seem, then, as though the •conclusion as to man’s efficiency under circumstances in which he is subjected to considerable daily, monthly and yearly variations of temperature must be accepted.

This represents almost an absolute contradiction of some of the ideas, often accepted even by physicians, with regard to the relation of comfort in nonvariable temperatures to efficiency and helpfulness. It also suggests a pause in the medical practice of ■sending invalids to a mild climate during the winter unless they are of such delicate constitution, or so run down in health, that they cannot stand the cold because they have not the vitality to furnish A good reaction to bracing cold air. Consumptives are often comfortable in a mild unvarying temperature, as in our own South ■or on the Riviera or the North African Coast, but the general .agreement is that they do not make satisfactory progress against their disease. The same thing would seem to be true as regards

*. Huntington, Ellsworth:	Civilization	and	Climate,	New	Haven,	Conn.,

Yale University Press.

Digitized by LaOOQle
133

neurasthenics and semi-invalids. The bracing tonic qualities: of a northern winter in a dry climate under proper safeguards will probably do them more good, though at times they will be less comfortable than they would be in a warm southern atmosphere.

While northern winters in their extreme variableness are often exasperating and would seem to make for disturbance and reduction of vitality, it is likely that they are rather prone to produce the opposite effect and have a favorable reaction on vitality and resistance to disease. Certainly many a man who has had to go South with an invalid relative during a winter has found during the following summer that he actually missed the winter and its stimulating effect, and that the summer weather, as a consequence, was doubly prostrating. Something of this at least is more than probably true for many persons of subnormal health. Provided their vitality is sufficient to enable them to stand successfully the-vicissitudes of a northern climate, such persons emerge from a winter in it in better condition than if they passed it more comfortably in a milder, less changeable environment.—Editorial, The Journal A. M. A. Febr. 26, 1916.

SOME FACTS RELATING TO THE HYGIENE OF NERVOUS

CHILDREN.

MARY O’MALLEY, M. D., Senior Assistant Physician, Government Hospital for the Insane, Washington, D. C. ( Woman’s Medical Journal.)

To speak in broad terms there are two types of nervous children—the unrestrained, in which the emotional impulses are given sway, and the restrained emotional type. In the first class, the unrestrained type, the intellectual capacity is above the average as a rule. The marked essential features of this child are timidity and great restless energy. He is high-strung, discouraged on slight provocation, always looking for trouble, and worries over the most trivial matters, finds a great effort in meeting difficulties, very demonstrative and affectionate, etc., which is, however, due to selfishness. Such children demand sympathy and think that they are il' used if every one does not allow them to have their own way. They resent discipline and argue rather than obey. They are quick to learn, but forget facts easily. They are enthusiastic about their work, but lack judgment. They are sensitive and suffer agonies over trivial offenses. They work rapidly and energetically for a t'me, then are dull and lethargic, and meet failure in efforts of application. Sometimes these children have a

Digitized by v^ooQle
134

keen sense of humor and are appreciative of the ludicrous, which is their salvation if they cultivate it. Some of these may be successful in art or literature in after life, but they frequently fail from lack of industry, application, and common sense. The sanitariums and psychopathic hospitals find many recruits from among this class. The physical and mental signs of this type of children are familiar to the medical profession.

In the second type the restrained emotions are very deeply felt, but the powers of control are equally strong. Such children are observant, intelligent, often so reserved and retiring that they often pass as being dull, stupid, and obstinate. They are highly sensitive, shy, and vain. They seem to lack in affection, but really long for it and brood over slights or seeming neglect. Being slow to become offended, they are often shamefully bullied at home or at school, but suffer all with .the utmost indifference, except for periodic outbreaks of fury, in which they show a revengeful spirit. They are solitary in habits, imaginative, and introspective. They take life seriously and are wanting in a sense of humor. This characterological disposition, with its suppression of external display of emotions, is as exhaustive to the child as is that of the other type, in which the emotional energy is unrestrained, and it is associated with many similar complaints For instance, they are lacking in self-control, and it is apt to lead to dreamy states and later to mental disorders.

We have also in addition to these two classes in which the intellectual faculties are above those of the average person another type. In this the intellect is by no means keen or even up to the normal standard, and such children are aware of the fact; but they have the ambition to succeed and are jealous of their associates who are endowed with superior intellectual powers. Frequently by faithful striving they manage to keep up with or excel their competitors, but the energy required for this is often too much for them—they break down physically as well as mentally, particularly if in after life they are given much responsibility in a position for which they know themselves to be unqualified. As a rule we find this class, although not always, among the female sex.

Parents and teachers may often be able to recognize and trace nervousness in children by the discovery of a deviation from the normal of one or more of the special senses—taste, smell, sight, hearing, or touch. For instance, hypersensitiveness to taste may be regarded as one of the earliest manifestations of a nervous child.

Digitized by v^ooQle
135

Hypersensitiveness to sound, with accompanying fear and shock occasioned thereby, is perhaps the most common of all indications of a nervous temperament in infants* *	*. There is

little doubt that dread of noises often accounts for timidity and lack of sociability in many nervous children.

. Hypersensitiveness to common sensations of touch, pain, and temperature are also important signs which show an abnormal impressionability of the mind and body to external and internal influences.

We will next consider the subject of fear in nervous children. Children show a great variation in their individual susceptibility for fear. In former generations fear was considered necessary to morality, and a child who displayed timidity was treated by frightening him to make him courageous. Plato’s method of testing children’s courage was by exposing them to the horrors of witchcraft. Whether fear is caused by the supernatural or from physical ill usage or from ridicule, it has the same serious influence on the mental and physical health of children. Much of the self-consciousness, depressions, and obsessions which are often observed in adults may be traced to the effects of fear in childhood. In young children, when indications of hypersensitiveness to fear are observed, they should be met with kindness, sympathy, explanation, and removal of the cause where it is possible. This is of all the emotions the one that produces the most lasting effects upon the nervous system of a child. Oliver Wendell Holmes speaks of a glover’s sign, in the shape of a huge hand, that hung in the streets of his home village, which in his early life terrified him night and day. We are all familiar to a more or less degree with the result of fright. An excessive timidity in a young child is one of the earliest indications of a nervousness to come. It is often shown by starts and outbreaks of crying and tremblings at the sights and sounds which only create amusement in normal children.

Nervous children are very imaginative, and they are often attracted to and influenced by the supernatural. The possible effects of certain forms of religious teaching and moral training upon nervous children need careful consideration, and from a medical point of view it is recommended that only the most cheerful, most soothing, and restful side of religious faiths should be taught to children who are by nature imaginative or inclined to be superstitious. Exaggerated statements of any kind, extreme and biased views on any subject—such as the evils of alcoholic stimulants, coffee, tea and tobacco—are in a high degree injurious to nervous children; although I am sorry to state that many men and women

Digitized by LjOOQie
136

of good professional reputation show poor judgment in advancing-these facts. Excessive remorse for slight misdemeanors is sometimes a characterological anomaly in neurotic children. Thackeray describes his great mental agony for having spent fourpence of his-parent’s money for a lunch while on his way home from school, even though famished with hunger. How many of us can recall the suffering and contrition for some trifling offense in childhood.

Often children are delayed in their progress in school by their constant terror of a whipping or punishment of some sort. This means of discipline should certainly be condemned in the cases of emotional children—it may harm a child both mentally and physically. Neurotic children are, as a rule, keenly alive to their shortcomings, which are often numerous, and the mental worry they undergo is often greater than they can bear.

Often those who are in authority do an irreparable injury to nervous children by shouting their commands and instructions at them. This has no effect upon the ordinary boy, but shouting parents or teachers are unfit to control or instruct neurotic children.

At one time disciplinarians dealt with children who were ill-tempered, peevish, dishonest, quick-tempered, untruthful, pugnacious, spiteful, and in any way immoral; but now the medical profession is frequently requested for advice in helping to decide whether such children are abnormal or criminal. At present the tendency seems to be to regard any bad conduct as evidence of ill health, and often it is the case that after a severe or exhausting illness—as typhoid fever, measles, scarlet fever, etc—nervous children who have been well trained and previously well conducted often seem to lose to some extent normal control and show moral indiscretions. But one will find in the majority of these cases that these lapses are transitory; that health and morality under good management are restored in time. Slight moral irregularities are frequently observed in boys and girls at the age of puberty, and may only be an indication of nervous instability, and should not always be looked upon too seriously. In all cases we must take into consideration the age, inheritance, and environment c|>f the child, together with the nature of the lapses in the moral sphera, and then the child himself. It is said that a child of 3 has no moral sense; at 6 it shows some consideration for its associates; at 8 iit should have some definite ideas of right and wrong. It is of th4> utmost importance to take into consideration the history of such\ neuroses as hysteria, epilepsy, alcoholism, and insanity existing irf. the ancestry in the case of moral delinquencies occurring in a chilcrv upward of 8, whatever its home training or environment may be.

Digitized by booQle
137

We must also keep in mind the psychic effects upon a child where we find the parents dull and narrowminded, intellectual but emotionally unstable, indifferent, inattentive, apprehensive, and well-meaning, but fretful. Some parents we will find too strict or rigid in discipline; others are too lenient Some show a lack of sympathy, while others are too sympathetic. In most cases, however, you can find an explanation of the child’s ill health or misconduct in the character of its parents, teachers, or associates.

I shall further enumerate a few traits which may appear in the neurotic child; but at this point I wish to say that a nervous child is easily provoked by calling attention in public to its shortcomings, particularly when, as frequently is the case, it has made an effort to correct them.

(1)	Cruelty in children, if persistent and induced by sheer delight in causing and witnessing pain, is evidence of a morbid neurosis. Neurotic subjects are sometimes fascinated by thoughts of pain and torture, and in some the sight of suffering produces a desire to cause it.

(2)	Fits of passion and fury are very common in emotional children, and often call for medical advice. A baby that never cries is not always a healthy child. A husky, normal infant will cry with rage in order to make its wants known. It is only when children have come to a certain age, where they are expected to show some self-control, that fits of temper are considered morbid. Frequent outbreaks of violent temper are indications of nervous instability. Children vary greatly in their capacity for reacting to their emotions, and also in the degree of self-control to which they attain. Self-control may be cultivated in children by careful management, instruction, and display of judgment and common sense on the part of their parents and teachers.

(3)	Paroxysms of crying without reason are very common in neurotic children. It is often unwise to seek for the cause of these episodic attacks. The children are usually aware that the cause is of little importance and not worth mentioning, and are ashamed of themselves for giving way to their emotions. If forced to give a reason, they will often prevaricate rather than be dubbed “cry baby,” and thereby lead themselves into further trouble.

(4)	Jealousy in young children is sometimes the cause of much unhappiness, but fortunately these cases are rare. An affection that is not reciprocated may be as upsetting to a child as to the adult; and if we regard the natural instinct of jealousy as indicating a malicious disposition not worthy of sympathy in a child, the foundation of viciousness, despair, sadness, and discontent may be

Digitized by
138

sown with their depressing permanent effects upon the child's future health and happiness.

(5)	Dishonesty and untruthfulness in children must be carefully-considered. A child who steals apples or cakes is not necessarily a thief, nor does one lie make a liar. Timidity is frequently the cause of apparent untruthfulness. Some children have had the superior qualities of truthfulness so instilled into their young minds that they live in constant fear of telling a lie, and so, when the opportunity arises, they become frightened and say “no,” when they really know they should answer in the affirmative. Others appear to falsify from absent-mindedness or because the question does not admit of a direct answer, although they are often too frightened to say so, and therefore seem to lie. These s’mple facts are important, for often a child may suffer greatly from a feeling that its word may not be believed.

(6)	Much harm may be done by teasing children whenever they manifest an attraction for the opposite sex. The distressing shyness, blushing, and self-consciousness which is often observed in young people in company of members of the opposite sex may often be traced to this want of consideration by their elders for their infantile attachments. Freedom of social intercourse between sexes, under careful oversight, is advised, and especially the co-education of sexes during school life is to the advantage of either sex.

In conclusion, just a word concerning mental overstrain as the result of educational overwork, for we can not lose sight of the fact that the results of emotional excitability can not be overlooked. Quite independent of the actual amount of study done, the fear of failing in his class work may in one case produce overstrain; in another, an actual ambition to excel his companions may lead by easy steps to exhausting emotions—such as jealousy, hate, and all uncharitableness toward his classmate—while in a third, disappointment on account of failing in success results in brain exhaustion. Girls are more liable to break down under such circumstances than boys.

EXERCISE AND THE BLOOD.

Despite the fact that muscular activity in the form of athletic sports is lauded both as a promoter of health and as a remedial agency in certain conditions, there are few systematic treatises on the subject considered fromthese aspects. Playgrounds and physical education are being provided to overcome the admittedly pernicious influence of indoor life on the young and the adult. Athletic training is

Digitized by LjOOQle
139

sometimes ordered to counteract certain pathologic manifestations. It can scarcely be said, however, that the domain of the physiology of exercise, considered as an independent discipline, has yet been adequately explored in a thoroughly scientific manner. If exercise is to gain a permanent place in a complete scheme of education and in the treatment of abnormal or diseased conditions, this “Cinderella of the therapeutic family,” as Dr. R. Tait McKenzie has termed it, should be placed before the profession in its true character.

Isolated observations regarding the influence of muscular exertion and even of prolonged training on individual functions of the body are recorded in considerable number. For the most part they have remained, up to the present, as detached facts. Our knowledge regarding some of them has at length reached a point at which a survey of the situation presented and its physiologic significance may be essayed. This statement applies to the effect of muscular activity on the blood.

It has become evident that the muscular exertion incident to such performances as running, walking, bicycle riding, swimming and other sports almost invariably causes an immediate increase in the number of red corpuscles in a unit volume of the blood, together with a leukocytosis. * Some representative indications of the range of the effects is afforded by the recent determinations of Schneider and Havens* at Colorado College in Colorado Springs. They found that the immediate influence of physical exertion on the blood of the peripheral capillaries was one of concentration in which the percentage of increase varied as follows: hemoglobin from 3.5 to 10.9, erythrocytes from 3.2 to 22.8, and leukocytes from 13.8 to 130.2. The specific gravity increased proportionately with the red corpuscles. Within a few minutes after the close of the exertion, the blood began to be diluted, and this usually resulted in a subnormal specific gravity and content of hemoglobin and red corpuscles. At the end of the exertion, the differential counts of the leukocytes showed no change; but very soon the polymor-phonuclears increased from 9 to 45 per cent, and the total number of mononuclear elements decreased from 14 to 55 per cent.

As Hawk has already pointed out, several explanations for the increase of erythrocytes in exercise readily suggest themselves. Thus, there may be a production of new corpuscles, concentration of the blood through increased urine formation and copious sweating,

* Hawk, P. B.:	On	the	Morphological Changes in the Blood after Mus-

cular Exercise, Am. Jour. Physiol., 1904, x, 384. Schneider, E. C., and Havens, L. C.,:	Changes	in	the	Blood	after Muscular Activity and During Training;

Ibid., 1915, xxxvi, 239. The older literature is referred to in these papers.

Digitized by LjOOQle
140

concentration of the blood through increased evaporation in the lungs, passage of fluid from the blood to the active muscles, concentration of the blood through vasomotor contraction and rise in blood pressure, and sudden passage into the blood of a large number of cells lying dormant in various parts of the body. Some of these factors, notably those involving removal of water by sweating and respiration, doubtless help to induce some concentration of the blood. The increment in the number of corpuscles is so prompt as to make it probable, when taken into consideration with other factors, that the primary agency in this phenomenon is not the loss of water from the body, but the discharge of a large mass of sidetracked corpuscles into the general circulation.

The splanchnic area appears to be the chief reservoir for the reserve red corpuscles. According to Schneider and Havens, the picture of the blood changes in exercise may be briefly summarized as follows: During muscular inaction, a large mass of the blood is diverted to the splanchnic area, where it probably stagnates and gives up plasma as lymph. There is also throughout the remainder of the body, especially in the limbs, an accumulation of lymph. With the onset of muscular activity, the carbon dioxid content of the blood rises, this carbon dioxid stimulates the central nervous centers which regulate the secretion of the suprarenal glands, and hence the output of epinephrin is increased. The epinephrin causes a constriction of the blood vessles of the splanchnic area, and this forces the stagnant red corpuscles into the general circulation, thus occasioning the rise in specific gravity, hemoglobin, -erythrocyte and leukocyte content of the peripheral blood. Further, the contraction of the voluntary muscles accelerates the flow of lymph, throwing lymph rich in leukocytes into the blood. The increase in red corpuscles and hemoglobin makes it possible to supply more readily the greater demand for oxygen made by the active muscles. Shortly after the close of the exercise, the carbon dioxid content of the blood falls below normal; as a result, the discharge of epinephrin becomes subnormal and the blood once more accumulates in the splanchnic area, so that there is a gradual return to the normal composition and even a temporary subnormal content in red corpuscles.

Observations corroboratory of this view deserve mention here. Abdominal massage and pressure raise the content of hemoglobin and red corpuscles in the blood of the peripheral capillaries. A tightly drawn belt or pressure on the abdomen following exertion prevents in large measure the customary subsequent dilution of the

Digitized by L^ooQle
141

blood, presumably by delaying the side-tracking of the formed elements back into their splanchnic reservoir.

It has been maintained by some that there is a rapid destruction, of red corpuscles in violent exercise, especially because the very considerable early increase becomes gradually less pronounced. The newest evidence does not support this view. It suggests that the ultimate decrease in hemoglobin and red cells is not due to an actual disintegration of the corpuscles, but rather to their stagnation in some of the capillaries.

Schneider and Havens appear to have furnished the first carefully obtained data respecting the deportment of the little understood platelets in exercise. There is a marked fall in the number per cubic millimeter of blood, shortly after cessation of muscular action, of from 17 to 30 per cent. Later there occurs a sort of overproduction leading to a rapid increase. It would be premature to theorize in this field.

The increased count of blood curpuscles noted after massage* probably has much in common with the phenomena just described. It is important from every standpoint to learn conclusively whether some of the procedures of so-called physiologic therapeutics bring about their blood changes by promoting new hemopoietic activities or merely by inducing a redistribution of the circulating fluids. To this end further investigation is warranted.—Editorial Journal A. M. A.” May 1,1915.

* Mitchell, J. K.: Am. Jour. Med. Sc., 1894, cvii.

These are the training rules for the girls’ basketball team at Cornell:—

1.	Each girl must have three regular meals a day.

2.	Nothing may be eaten between meals except fruit. No candy is permissible.

3.	No stimulants, such as coffee, tea, soda, etc., are to be taken. The girls may drink milk and cocoa.

4.	An average of eight hours’ sleep is the minimum required. After the beginning of the second term all candidates must be in bed by ten P. M.

5.	Any girl who cuts practice, except for sickness, will be dropped from the squad.

A training table has been started in both residence halls occupied by girls.

Digitized by Google
142

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

Herbert E. Vollmer of the New York Athletic Club, all-around swimming champion of the metropolitan district and the Intercollegiate Swimming Association, finished a season of remarkable performances by winning the National A. A. U. championship in the natatorium of the New York A. C. in the world’s record time of 2:23 2-5. When he triumphed by five yards over Perry McGillivray of the Illinois Athletic Club of Chicago, holder of the furlong title in 1915, Vollmer cut one and two-fifth seconds off the existing world’s record for a twenty-five foot tank, which he established himself on Feb. 26 record for a twenty-five yard tank, which is considered to be one of the slowest of any big club in the country.

NO OLYMPIC GAMES UNTIL WAR ENDS.

Baron Pierre de Coubertin, President of the International Olympic Games Committee, stated that no Olympic games would be held during the present year, or while the war lasted. He supplemented the announcement with some interesting details.

“Though there will be no Olympic games in 1916, or during the war,’’ said the Baron, “preparations for the games in 1920 are being made so far as is possible. Four cities, Antwerp, Lyons, Amsterdam, and Havana, have already expressed a wish to hold the 1920 Olympic games.

ATHLETES POSTPONE TRIP.

The projected tour of America by Swedish amateur athletes, has been postponed until after the war. This action, it was said, was taken because the best of the athletes are now in military service.

Leonard Seppala, driving his team of seventeen Siberian wolf dogs with which he won last year’s race, is today the winner of the 412-mile All-Alaska Sweepstakes race for dog teams. Sep-pala’s time was 80 hours and 27 minutes. Fay Delzene’s team of fourteen Alaska-bred malamutes was second, and Fred Ayer’s team of fourteen foxhounds third. Two other contestants failed

Digitized by v^ooQie
143

to finish. By winning the race, Seppala gained a purse of $2,000.

This is the fourth time in the last seven sweepstakes races that the Siberian wolf dogs have outdistanced the malamutes.

GYMNASTIC TITLE CAPTURED BY HOL.

Peter Hoi of the Norwegian Turn and Athletic Club of Brooklyn won the all-around metropolitan gymnastic championship at the New York Turn Verein. Hoi retained his metropolitan title on the parallel bars, and captured two additional events, the long horse and the horizontal bar contests. In the last two events the former champion, Franz Kanis of the Newark Turn Verein, was unable to compete through illness.

The Norwegian Turn and Athletic Club won the point trophy mainly through the victories of Hoi. The New York A. C. made a good fight up to the tumbling contest, which was won by Joseph Dunn, national and metropolitan champion, but from this event on the Mercury Footers were never heard from.

HARVARD TO TRAIN COACHES.

In answer to a whispered demand for teacher-coaches, especially in New England, Harvard is to introduce a series of conferences on athletics which are to be given during the next six weeks.

For several years the demand made upon the Harvard appointment office for men to act as coaches has exceeded the supply, and William F. Garcelon, formerly graduate manager, advocated the establishment of a course dealing with the instruction in athletics, but without success. Percy D. Haughton, Harvard's football coach, now President of the Boston National League baseball team, will close the new course late in May with a lecture on “The Coaching of Football.” Mr. Garcelon will speak on coaching in track athletics, while Dean Briggs, Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Dr. Paul C. Phillips, and Dr. Pierson S. Page will be the other men to deliver lectures.

NEW ATHLETIC CONFERENCE.

Chicago, Illinois.—Representatives from the State Athletic Associations of Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Indiana and Michigan, organized the North Central Interscholastic Athletic Conference to formulate a uniform list of eligibility rules for the governing of interscholastic meets that the universities and colleges in these

Digitized by v^oogie


144

States hold. The organization represents more than fourteen hundred high schools. Jesse H. Newlon, of Decatur, 111., was .elected chairman and George Edward Marshall, of Davenport, Iowa, secretary.

WOMEN COMPETE IN FIRST A. A. U. SWIM.

Clare Galligan, the New Rochelle girl who represents the National Women's Life Saving League, became the first recognized champion woman swimmer of the United States when she won the 500-yard swim conducted under the auspices of the Amateur Athletic Union in the West Sixtieth Street municipal pool. Before a crowd of enthusiasts Miss Galligan swam to victory in the fine time of 8:05 2-5, which will be recognized by the A. A. U. as the woman’s record for this distance.

The New Rochelle girl will also be credited with the best performances for 300 and 440 yards, for her time at these marks is said to be the fastest ever recorded in a 20-yard tank by any woman. At 300 yards Miss Galligan, who defeated her two clubmates, Lucy Freeman and Millie Barteldis, in winning the championship was clocked in 4:43 4-5. At the quarter mile she registered 7:06 3-5, a mark which cut slightly more than forty seconds off the best previous time accepted for this distance. Miss Freeman, who finished second to the victor is said to have held the former record of 7:47.

Equality not	biological.—‘Allmen are bom free	and equal,”

it is asserted, but such equality is political only. It can not be biological. In every race are certain strains having capacities not attainable by the mass. There should be equality of start, equality before the law, but there will always be differences of attainment. The gifts of potentiality, unit characters of the germ-plasm, are not shared by all people of the same race. The average status of one may be below that of another, and the highest possibilities of one type may be greater than that of another. In general, the highest range of possibilities in every field has been reached by the “blonde races” of Europe. Groups of less individual or of less aggregate achievement may properly be regarded as “lower”. —David Starr Jordan in Popular Science Monthly.

Digitized by v^ooQie