

j 'A

Yol. 15.

808159

MIND AND BODY

APRIL, 1908.

No 168

Editorial Committee : >

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.	,

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECH ER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co;, c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wtt

PLAY AS AN EDUCATIONAL FACTOR.

Paper, read before the Schoolmasters Club of Wisconsin, by G. Wittich, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools of Milwaukee.

PLAY INSTINCT.

In looking for a reasonable explanation for the cause of the play instinct (or impulse or spirit) we are confronted by two influential views.

Herbert Spencer has offered the one, which is based on the surplus energy and imitation principle, and the other is based on the hereditary transmission and instinct theory. Its most enthusiastis champion is K. Groos, Professor of Philosophy in the University of Basel.

It is claimed that the former got his impulse from Schiller’s letters on the “Aesthetic Education of Mankind,” where part of the 27th letter reads as follows:

“Nature has indeed granted, even to the creature devoid of reason, more than the mere necessities of existence, and into the darkness of animal life has here and there allowed a gleam of freedom to penetrate. When hunger no longer torments the lion, and no beast of prey appears for him to fight, then his unemployed powers find another outlet. He fills the wilderness with his wild roars, and his exuberant strength spends itself in aimless activity. In the mere joy of existence, insects swarm in the sunshine, and it is certainly not always the cry of want that we hear in the melodious rhythm .of bird songs. The animal works when some want is the motive for his activity, and plays when a superabundance of energy forms this motive—when overflowing life itself urges him to action.”

Spencer, in attempting a scientific formulation of his theory, says:

“It is characteristic of nerve processes that the superfluous integration of ganglion cells should be accompanied by an inherited readiness to discharge.” “Man and higher animals have at first more force and energy than is needed in the struggle for existence and thus result the aimless activities which we call play.”



-3979

Digitized by

Google
-42-

Groos says:	“It	is veritable instinct and not aimless action and

thoughtless imitation; only life itself with its demands can make play comprehensible to us. The little kitten can no more refrain from playing with the ball of twine than its mother can from catching the mouse by using similar tactics; the puppy can no more refrain from shaking and tearing a piece of cloth than its sire can from shaking and throttling an antagonist. The kitten and the puppy are making use of those weapons instinctively which nature has given them and are instinctively preparing themselves for the strife of life.”

The baby of three weeks of age can hang from any object which its little hands can enclose, so wonderful is the power of contraction of its finger-flexors as wpll as of the instinct to grasp and hold anything that is offered. The three year old child is to some degree conscious of its physical powers and tests them in an earnest and yet playful manner, for instance, by using arms and legs in climbing on his papa’s lap, or by jumping from the first step of the porch to the ground. It does it as yet awkwardly because it can not coordinate properly, the nerve-centers which control complicated movements and the influence of momentum is only beginning to ripen. Therefore the child often falls forward on its hands after the jump from the step.

The larger boy can no more refrain from pursuing his tormentor with the definite purpose of catching him than the latter can from running away if he is the weaker and from standing his ground if he thinks that he is able to do so.

Groos says that all these facts plainly show that this desire for motion and play is inborhe, is instinct, that it is transmitted to us from times immemorial and that it is conditioned by the demands of life.

Running, jumping, climbing, striking and throwing are the so-called fundamental forms of natural activities and are also the fundamental activities of play. They are the forms which our forefathers resorted to during their long barbarous condition in order to gain a subsistence as well as to protect and defend themselves against the attacks of wild beasts and also those of their fellow creatures, and these same activities occur in the play of the child without the incentive of practical demonstration and without suggestions from adults.

These facts alone make the theory of Prof. Groos reasonable. In my humble opinion I agree with him.

Now, be this as it may. The play-spirit is present in all mentally and physically healthy children and it is a factor which educators must reckon with; yes, the manner and degree in which it manifests itself is a criterion of the mental and physical condition of the child. Research and observation teach us that children who do not take part in play when the. opportunity for such is offered are not normal either mentally or physically. It is immaterial whether this condition is caused by a pathological condition of the psychical or physical faculties or whether the play-impulse has been suppressed,. exterminated or led into other channels during the 8 or 12 years of school life either at home, or at school, or at both places.

Digitized by

Google
-43-

It is a settled fact that mind and body are bound to sulfer if the play-instinct is suppressed or led into wrong channels during the long period of school life, when the child’s body needs stimulation to growth and its mind needs sunshine, cheerfulness and wholesome joyful exercise.

I have found that very little desire for play exists among the boys and girls of the 7th and 8th grades of our schools. This is due to their one-sided education and to the many small and barren school yards. The play-instinct has been crushed within them; very little has been done to satisfy their inborn desire for motion and play during their earlier school life and nothing has been done along the line of teaching them to play games which will create joyfulness, cheerfulness and which will elevate them morally. Many of the older boys sit or stand around during recess whittling, and the older girls promenade.

v Keeping the growing child from 6 to 18 years of age confined to a seat in a more or less cramped position for hours daily, denying it the exercise and play necessary to stimulate growth and the training of natural activities which are so very necessary in this age of mechanics, electricity and steampower is wrong and not in accord with the demands life makes today.

A school principal said to me the other day: “I am satisfied that many bad children are only vicious to a system and their badness is only nature’s protest against a crime. I believe much of our American disease; nervous temperament, is traceable to the same cause.”

On the other hand I have found teachers who seemed horrified whenever I said or did something in their rooms which caused an innocent and hearty laugh on part of the pupils. These teachers must learn the value of applying a cheerful word or even a joke at the right moment, and they must be taught to apply a play-like feature occasionally during the teaching of the three R’s if the desired spirit or the desired readiness or promptness to respond are not present in the class.

If we wish to develop citizens who are bright, ready and resolute mentally and healthy, strong and agile physically, our system of education must comprise the training of the mind and the body. Montaigne, Rousseau, Locke, Pestalozzi and others have emphasised that point long ago. '

Since my topic is the influence of play on the young and not that of physical training in general, I will now confine myself to the former.

Motion plays and games form an essential part of physical training, but they are not a complete system of physical training within themselves, nor is a system of formal exercises a complete system of physical training without games. Correctly selected and conducted games develop certain physical and psychical faculties which formal work can never touch, and vice versa.

Whenever games are used as an educational means they must be graded as systematically and must be applied as methodically as any other study; they must furthermore always be in accordance with the perceptive and physical faculties of the pupils. The schools must be pro-

Digitized by

Google
-44-

yided with spacious playgrounds to which the pupils have access after school as well as during dinner hour recesses.

The pupils must be taught a progressively arranged and carefully designed series of games throughout their whole school life. The first directions and the rules should be imparted by the principals or teachers, after that the games may be conducted by pupils Headers) who are appointed by the principals or teachers. Nothing can promote self-government better than this method. Suitable play apparatus is of an immense value in more than one way and should be installed where-ever possible.

Our State Normal Schools can do very much along the line of educating the play-spirit of our young and directing it in accordance with the demands of the child and those of the times by giving more attention to true and pure educational physical training and embodying a play-course into their curriculum.

Everything that belongs under the heading of ‘‘Education of the Young” should be controlled and directed by the “Board of Education/’ consequently the public playgrounds and the persons supervising the play of the children on the same should be under the supervision of this board.

A Park Board is very seldom composed of persons who are thoroughly acquainted with child life and the needs of the child; neither are police officers the proper overseers and directors of the play of the children; this overseeing and directing can be done correctly and intelligently only by persons who have been trained properly for this particular purpose.

DIVISION OF GYMNASTIC GAMES.

Dividing the gymnastic games which are designed for the playground and the gymnasium, according to their effects gives us the following groups:	4

1.	Games that will improve circulation, respiration, coordination, quickness of reaction and alertness.

Pomp, pomp, pull away is one of the games; it belongs to the ones designed for little folks on account of its simple organization. The alternate running and resting accelerates heart and lung activity in a wholesome manner, and the catching, dodging and evading develop quickness of reaction and alertness. The captor of one pupil experiences the same joyful feeling of satisfaction that makes the eyes sparkle and the heart swell, as the other pupil does who was agile and alert enough to evade him a moment before. Black and white develops quicker reaction better.

Prisoner’s Base belongs to the same type but is of a higher organization and is therefore reserved for the pupils of the higher grades and those of the High School.	.

2.	Games that are suitable for the development of resolute and energetic action and strength. Combative games with and without the rope and the wand develop these faculties better than any other form of

Digitized by

Google
•45

physical exercise because each contestant has an intelligent being before him to oppose his attacks, both contestants are beings who can plan attack and defense equally in an intelligent manner. In the simple tug of war game the adult finds as much pleasure and satisfaction as the little tot does, and. will, by exercising an obstinate resistance improve his energy, determination and strength.

Wrestling for a stick, hand-pulling and pushing and wrestling without the stick belong to the more advanced forms and are suitable for the pupils of the higher grades and those of the High School.

3.	Games designed for improving accuracy of movement of the arms and judgment of the eye. These qualities are developed in all throwing and catching games. The simple bean bag game will suffice in the lower grades either as a throwing and catching game or as a game in which the bag is thrown at a mark or an object as at an Indian club. Throwing and catching combined with turning, also with forward and backward running, will follow in the course of the progression and therefore belong to a somewhat higher order.

Battle ball. Captain ball and Baseball belong to the same type and are suitable for the pupils of the higher grades and those of the High School.

The pupils must be taught from beginning to play for the sake of playing and for the enjoyment of the exercise which they can get out of the game. To us teachers the game is one of the most pleasant and agreeable means to gain important educational ends. In the selection of the game we must always consider the condition of the pupils. To play a game of high organization or to take a strenuous combative exercise after a lesson in a hard study, for instance mathematics, is absolutely wrong. Mental work affects also the motor nerve centers to some degree; motor nerves as well as muscles become less susceptible through long continued mental work and lose the ability to respond quickly during the study-period and also for some time afterwards. -Therefore strenuous physical efforts and complicated movements require a greater degree of will-power after long mental work than when the mind is fresh. For that reason basket ball, for instance, is out of the question directly after a long period of mental work; games of a more simple organization are then in place.

The spirit of competition is present in the child from the beginning of school life, but does not become prominent before about the 12th year. This is the spirit which we must watch with untiring attention in order to prevent its getting into wrong channels; our present High School and University athletics and games are not designed to lead it along the right path. This spirit must be made a means for developing wholesome and beneficial energy and determination coupled with fair play and good-fellowship. Competition between pupils of the same class, between classes, between schools, cities and states may be inaugurated, because it ie an incentive, but it must be made an incentive that will unite the contestants to a grand* physically and mentally strong nation. This

Digitized by LaOOQle
-46 -

can be done by making physical training with all its phases compulsory, including of course the various forms of athletics and games, doing away with the athletic coach and the grand stand and doing away with all specialism, also “Rugby Football.”

The competition between classes and schools must be made a mass demonstration that will fill the field with contestants instead of filling the bleachers with a yelling crowd carried away by an artificially created enthusiasm, called class or school spirit. The representatives that are sent to city and state meets must be products of an all-around system of physical training and not specialists who are at sea the moment they are taken away from their favorite branch of athletics.

Jahn, the creator of “Tumen,” said the following of the gymnastic game: “Play is a school for righteous thinking and acting, a school for self-control, good-fellowship and self-government; in it are joined work and joy, merriment and earnestness. Play is the school that makes our citizens, and is furthermore a sociable and joyful competition.”

—IN SPEAKING OF THE RELAXATION needed by physicians, and how in their endeavors to advance in their profession the life they lead results in a failure to receive a well-balanced training, Dr. Casey A. Wood writes as follows in the “American Academy of Medicine.”

“First, and most vital, keep up your exercise and recreations, especially the latter. Drop tennis when you find it exhausts you, or hurries your heart afterward or disturbs your sleep, but take an hour a day more golf in its place., If the rifle with its long, heart-straining tramps over mountain and dead-fall tires you, so that you don't react from the trip, take a shotgun and the Stubblefields and copses. If the gun becomes too strenuous fall back on the rod, but don't give up your outdoor life on any account. There is no need to take too much anxious thought about these problems. Nature has a guiding instinct for middle age and declining vigor, just as she has for youth and growing powers. As long as you like to take active exercise and sport, and feel exhilarated and refreshed (even if a little stiffened) by them, keep them up; they are doing you good. When you feel that they are getting a little too much for yon, when you dop't feel fresher for them next day, cut down on them a little in intensity. If the man of the dominant decades is so unfortunate as to have no hobby, by all means let him beg, borrow or hire one.	Better still,	two—one

indoor and one outdoor. Nothing will do more to keep him young. Roses, chrysanthemums, cherries, Orpingtons, games, collies, bull-terriers, Angoras, wild flowers, birds, shells, butterflies, bookplates, first editions, clocks, old blue, andirons, stamps, brass, bric-a-brac—no matter what, so long as they arouse an interest entirely apart from their monetary value. Next to outdoor sports they are the best Elixir of Youth known. Don't plan to retire from business unless you have a hobby to retire on, as well as a competency.”

Digitized by Tooele
—47—

ABDOMINAL# MUSCLES AND THEIR VALUE.

By D. M. F. KR0GH, M. D., Philadelphia.

The muscles of the abdomen are the rectus abdominis and the pyramidalis, the external and internal oblique and the transversalis. ITiey are chiefly attached to the bony framework surrounding the ab-dojninal cavity, i. e. the lumbar vertebrae, the lower ribs, the pelvis and the sternum, and form, with the diaphragm above, the soft bounderies of the abdominal cavity. By their uniform contraction they powerfully compress the viscera of the abdomen. They also enable the bending, straightening and rotating of the trunk. They assist in raising the legs and flexing the thighs upon the abdomen, they form a protecting wall to the viscera they cover, they aid in respiration and enhance the physiological action of the abdominal viscera. By their forcible contraction the compress the viscera and thus facilitate micturition, defecation, parturition and vomiting. They also hold the vital organs of the abdomen in place and prevent their stretching and distention to a degree. Compression of the abdominal viscera excites reflex action of the abdominal nervous system and enhances digestive secretion and circulation of the blood and lymph. Thus digestion and assimilation are facilitated through their influence and the action of the stomach, intestines, liver, kidneys, spleen and pancreas are promoted.

Atonic, sluggish action of the digestive organs is especially found in persons with flabby or pendulous abdomen, the muscles of which have been relaxed or were never fully developed. An inefficient compression of the abdominal viscera by a relaxed abdominal wall takes part of the stimulus off of the nervous system, which is necessary to produce a sufficient gastrio, intestinal and hepatic secretion for the process of digestion as the function of the pneumo-gastric nerve is inhibited, and we say the person suffers from atonic or nervous dyspepsia.

The food ingested ferments in the stomach for lack of a sufficient amount of hydrochloric acid and pepsin. We give such a patient hydrochloric acid, pepsin and stomachics and remedies to stimulate the nervous system, we wash out the stomach, ridding it of the accumulated, partially disgested and partially decomposed food and mucus. Abdominal binders have also been used for a long time to take the place of the natural compress, the abdominal muscles.

It seems strange that physicians have for so long overlooked the possibilities of gaining better results in atonic or nervous dyspepsia by prescribing correct exercises for the abdominal muscles in these cases. Of course, much can be done by appropriate medicaments, diet, personal hygiene, massage, etc., but the chief object in view should be to bring about a normal, a natural function of the organs that have lost their tone. That this can be accomplished by the strengthening or maintenance of the function of the abdominal muscles has for some time been recognized by exponents of physical education and practical gymnasts and also, more recently, by eminent physiologists and physicians.

Digitized by Google
/

-48-

Patients with a poor digestion and a train of symptoms due to this have actually been cured after regularly taking proper exercise.

Dr. Rose, New York, says “the relaxation of the abdominal muscles may be the cause of many nervous disorders which again produce gastric symptoms, among others anomalies of gastric secretion, and, and if we do not consider this mechanical cause of the gastric affections and remove this cause first of all, our purely medicamental treatment will be unscientific. Modern gasfcrotherapy is to be based, so far as anomalies of gastric secretions are concerned, on the consideration of nervous and mechanical conditions.”

Among other eminent physicians, who have lately called attention to physico-therapeutics, I will mention Dr. J. Madison Taylor of Philadelphia and quote some of his remarks from a paper recently read by him before the American Therapeutic Society at its meeting at Washington, D. C. .He says: “The most important single factor in overcoming many baffling disorders of metabolism is, in my opinion, to secure development in the supporting structures of the abdomen. Many forms for gastrointestinal disease, especially purifications, gouty phenomena, over- and undernutrition, are caused in part, if not wholly, by displacements of the abdominal organs. The ebb and flow of fluids in the continuity of the tubular viscera, as well as in their structure is regulated by the vasomotor mechanisms. Agencies which influence these must not fail to include those mechanical ones capable of exerting powerful auxiliary aids. This mechanical factor is not adequately appreciated.”

The human body is rightfully called a human mechanism, and the functions of the component parts of this complex machine are dependent on one another. If one is out of order, others will be retarded in their action. One of the most important functions of the human mechanism is digestion and assimilation. This supplies the body with fuel and nourishment. Fuel and good combustion are necessary for the human machine. They may be compared to the fuel necessary to get up steam in a boiler which in turn sets the entire mechanism of a modern locomotive or factory in motion. If there is a poor fire under the boiler an insufficient amount of steam is produced and the entire mechanism works poorly. If we have a poor digestion, poor assimilation or poor combustion in our body an impediment of chemical changes results and we do not get a sufficient amohnt of nourishment for the various parts of our mechanism, and all kinds of trouble may be the result. The engineer or machinist must be consulted to ascertain where the trouble originates and to advise the remedies necessary to again put the mechanism in working order. .

A good many disorders are due to sedentary habits and can be remedied by a more active mode of life and especially by prescribing exercises for the abdominal muscles to suit the particular case. But this is the age of applying preventive measures rather than curative, and, therefore, we should strive to develop the abdominal muscles in order to facilitate the most important processes of our mechanism, digestion.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-49-

assimilation and metabolism. Such ailments as gout, rheumatic afflictions, malnutrition, atonic gastritis, hepatic torpor, constipation, obesity, uric acid diathesis, kidney trouble, nervousness, disturbances of the circulation and sluggishness- of the cerebral action, due to an insufficient amount of nourishment carried to the brain, and a number of other ailments could in many instances be avoided. But this preventive treatment should begin in early childhood and continue to a certain extent throughout life. It was formerly customary to tightly wrap newborn babies and to bandage them tightly from their toes to their neck, preventing their natural tendency to'move the limbs and body. Some people do this the present day, but I can conceive of nothing more cruel and unnatural then to deprive these little ones of their natural desire for exercise.

That physico-therapy, whether curative or preventive, is of utmost importance is recognized by a number of most distinguished men both in this country and in Europe. In Germany a society has been organized by physicians to promote physico-therapeutics. Dr. Bose tells us that it has published a journal <on this subject for the past nine years. He says:	“The	bitterest	enemies	of this societey—and each step in the

direction of scientific progress must combat misocainia—must admit that the therapeutic methods have been most successful.” A congress for physical therapie convened in Borne from October 13—16.

It appears that the great drawback and cause for the lack of attention of physicians to physico-therapy has been the inadequate teaching of this subject and the physiology of bodily exercise in our medical schools. A physician usually has a knowledge of the effects of physical exercise, but this knowledge is a superficial one and inadequate. The medical student should receive a thorough training in the physiology of bodily exercise and be instructed not only in the general practical work itself but also in the application of certain exercises for the prevention as well as an aid to the cure of certain ailments. Lectures on the physiology of muscular exercise, massage, hygiene, diet, baths, etc., are inadequate, the student needs the practical, the laboratory (gymnasium) and the clinical training. This is not only necessary to enable him to correct deformities and prescribe exercises for a scoliosis or wry neck, but also to aid him in the cure of certain disorders of digestion and metabolism.

In conclusion I will add a few exercises beneficial in cases of relaxed abdominal wall. Which of the exercises should be chosen and how many times each should be performed will, of course, depend on the individual case. At the head of the list of exercises and of the greatest importance is the acquirement and maintenance of an erect posture of the body. The necessity of attaining this is emphasized and dwelt upon by all competent directors of physical education. I will, to illustrate its importance, again quote Dr. J. M. Taylor, who states that he coincides with Dr. H. Hulst of Grand Bapids, Mich., who says: “that both normal and relaxed viscera are readily lifted from three to four or even six inches upward by a forceful maintenance of the erect posture. Even

Digitized by

Google
-50-

moderate education in acquiring a correct upright posture goes far toward curing a large variety of disorders; among which are conspicuous effects of interoptosis, derangements of functions, digestive and others. * I am confident we can thus ameliorate, prevent and possibly cure many forms of visceral conditions.”

“Relaxation and elongation of the abdominal muscles by removing support from these viscera permits their weight to pull unduly upon the mesentary, and so stretch this support. It is also not improbable that the tense mesentary at times, by pressing upon their walled veins and lymphatics, interferes with the circulation of blood and the flow of lymph in some organs and so leads to trouble. A potbelly is not a thing of beauty, and there is every reason for thinking it to be undesirable from the hygienic point of view. It is prevented, in the first place, by every movement which prevents undue lumbar curvature of the spine, and, in the second place, by exercises of the abdominal muscles, which result in their improved tone. These, however, like all corrective exercises, must be followed up by maintenance of the correct standing position.”

Exercises of the trunk are the ones most valuable to strengthen the functions of the abdominal viscera. Bending the trunk forward, backward and to the sides, as well as turning it to the left or right and finally the circular motion (funnel-like) from left to right or the reverse are very valuable exercises. Stronger individuals' having the facilities at hand should also practice exercises on apparatus such as the flying rings, parallel bars, etc. An excellent exercise on the rings is, with rings a little above the head, grasping them, and, while under them, straighten the arms by lowering the body backward to the so-called hang-stand, and then swinging around in a circle, keeping the arms and body straight, or while hanging on the high rings, swinging the legs in a circle to either side.

I will not quote the numerous other exercises on this or other apparatus but will mention some movements that can be performed without any appliances, so-called free exercises.

Raise the knees forward; Raise the legs forward, sideward or backward; Bend the knees; Raise the heels and swing or straighten' the arms upward. In the sidestride position, raise the arms upward, then bend the trunk fore-downward and swing the arms downward and backward (the so-called woodchopping exercise). After bending the trunk forward move it to the left and right; Turn the trunk to the left or right and then bend it forward or backward; Bend the knees, placing the hands on the floor and in this position straighten one leg or both legs backward or sideward*. In the front leaning-rest on the floor, raise one knee or both knees by drawing the foot forward; Bend the knees in the sitting position with the hands on the floor. Trunk exercises may also be practiced while sitting on the floor or on a bench, e. g., Raise one leg (or both) forward or raise the trunk while in the reclined position, or raise one or both knees while lying down, or swing both feet over the face.

Digitized by L OQle
-51-

The raising of knees or legs may also be done while hanging on an apparatus, or while hanging by the hands from the top of a door frame.

Tf» PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS IN SCHOOL

CHILDREN.

Abstract of a Lecture Delivered at Teacfter* €alk&e, New York, by ABRAHAM JACOBI, M.D., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Diseases of ChiMfeeat College of Physicians and Surgeons.

Tuberculosis has for years been the subject of diseussion, in lectures, societies, magazines, and newspapers. Some part of the subject is known to everybody. What we call consumption, that is, tuberculosis of the lungs with formation of abscesses and the usual frequent termination of the disease in death, is of daily occurrence and many of you have met it amongst your friehds and relatives. If statistics do not lie, there is no large company that does not harbor candidates or victims of the malady in some form or another. Is there anything that should be studied with greater persistency by those who, like you, are stationed between science and its application, and who have more ample opportunity to disseminate useful knowledge than most other professional people? Nor should the knowledge of the teacher be superficial. Only what is thoroughly understood can be applied or taught in plain words; and plain language is required when you mean to instruct a child, and, through the child, its family. You have or will have to deal with the young at a time when his mind is most receptive and his tongue most communicative. That is why a number of plain rules are readily grasped and understood by a child, and the child taught by you may prove a teacher at home for his father and mother, who have not thp time to read, though some of them may have moTe literary material than mere sensational newspaper gossip. In this way the knowledge of the nature and the prevention of tuberculosis may become disseminated, and the disposition to the dread scourge may be recognized and gradually extinguished.

Every educated person, certainly every one of you, knows perfectly well that tuberculosis is the direct result of the presence of large numbers of a minute microbe, the bacillus of tuberculosis, or its toxin (or virus) in the body of the patient. Its influence need not be immediate. It may be buried away in some part of the organism for a long time, waiting for its chance. That chance will come when some other disease, particularly one of an inflammatory character, breaks out, or when such microbes as are the cause of, or connected with suppuration, in small or large abscesses, combine their forces with those of the bacillus. In such a case the outbreak is apt to be a very sudden one and we have an instance of so-called acute tuberculosis or rapid, or florid, or hasty consumption.

In the infant and the very young child, where you personally have few opportunities of close observation, tuberculosis may be found as a chronic disease, in the end of a bone, or in a gland; also in the pleura and peritoneum; in its acute state mostly in the brain and a number of

Digitized by CjOOQle
—52—

other organs where it is almost invariably fatal. In your profession you have to deal with children after the sixth or seventh years and with adolescents, in whom tuberculosis is very apt to follow the same course and exhibit the same symptoms which are met in the adult. In not a few cases tuberculosis * may be easily recognized, or at least suspected. When you have had to deal with a child that is unusually pale, or of low weight, easily exhausted, with glandular swelling about the neck and narrow chest, tuberculosis should be suspected and proper care should be taken, for it should never be forgotten that tuberculosis may heal or be made to heal.

As a modification, or as suspicious or incipient symptoms, you will not ififrequently notice the symptoms of what has been called scrofula. Scrofula is observed in two forms. There are a number of children, usually brunettes, with dark hair, florid cheeks, brilliant eyes, low weight, quite frequently with good mental capacity, who display diseases of the mucous membranes; their eyes are frequently sore, some of the glands of the neck, perhaps many, are considerably swollen. * The other form of scrofula is a more sluggish or torpid one. The children are rather heavy, flabby, mostly pale, with large and rather hanging cheeks, and big lips, and there is swelling of the nose and considerable tumefaction of glands about the neck, with not infrequently sore eyes, ears, and skin. This is the usual form, and the one which is apt to lead into tuberculosis during school age. That is why I wish to direct your special attention to this form of disease. Of great importance in connection with it is the presence of those glandular swellings around the neck, and it is to this that I ask your attention for a few minutes.

You know that the circulation of the animal body is two-fold—first, that of the blood; second that of the lymph. The lymph is desseminated through the body in every organ, but particularly in and below the mucous membranes. The lymph apparatus in a young child, up to advanced childhood and adolescence, is very much more active than it is in the adult.

That is why the condition of the lymph glands in the young is of such importance. Whenever there is any infection of the mucous membrane, the infecting poison is carried off to the next gland where there is a stopping place. That gland will become the seat of irritation or swelling. That is why—to give an example, whenever there is only a slight diarrhoea, no matter from what cause, over-eating, improper food, medicines, typhoid, colds—never from dentition, for there is no such thing as a diarrhoea from teething in a healthy child—the lymph bodies in the neighborhood will swell. Unless such a diarrhoea is soon stopped the irritation will continue, congestion, inflammation, and swelling of the glands will ensue, yid the structure of these neighboring glands will be changed. When such an inflammation of the gland has lasted a long time and new tissue has been formed in it, it may or will remain unchanged and unalterable, no matter what you may do for it.

The same takes place about the lungs. Whenever a baby or adult

Digitized by CjOOQle
-53-

has catarrh with some cough and mucous expectoration, the neighboring glands in the chest—bronchial or mediastinal—will swell, and unless such catarrh is broken up the swelling may go on until the glands are hardened or undergo other changes. Sometimes they will form abscesses and break up. Whenever there is in a child or in an adult, particularly in the young of the age with which you have to deal, a catarrh of the nasal mucous membrane, the glands about the neck will immediately swell. This swelling will pass off when the nasal catarrh passes off. When it lasts long, when it becomes a chronic catarrh, the swelling of the glands remain; they become hardened, they are no longer amenable to the effect of medicine or to external treatment; they may finally break down and form abscesses. While they are in this swelled condition the lymph current through them will be interrupted, and whatever is floating in it will there be caught and infect the gland. Moreover, the minute capillary blood-vessels are smaller in the glands than elsewhere, and microbes which are easily passed by capillaries elsewhere and finally thrown out of the system will be caught in the capillaries of the glands. In this way the glands around the neck, that were not primarily infected by disease-producing germs, may become a receptacle of disease. They may become tubercular'when tubercle bacilli are floating in the general circulation (although they might have been carried off if the organs had been healthy), and be caught in the slow circulation of the gland and there remain. From there the invasion of the whole body may take place. Thus you see that, often in a healthy family or in an otherwise healthy child, a nasal catarrh of some duration may furnish the first inroad of tubercular bacilli. This is particularly so in infectious diseases which affect the mucous membrane to a high degree—for instance, in measles or whooping cough. Measles or whooping cough are often the forerunners of tuberculosis.

As long as the mucous membranes are in a healthy condition they may be covered with no end of foreign material, microbes included, with no danger to the individual whatsoever. There are, for instance, very few, probably, among us here that do not carry either bacilli of tuberculosis or bacilli of diphtheria in their noses and throats' this very moment. As long as our mucous membranes are in a healthy condition the microbes will not be absorbed. As soon, however, as the membranes are no longer in that healthy condition, when th'e microscopical epithelia that cover the membrane are destroyed or altered or washed off, then those foreign guests, innocent up to that time, will creep into the sore tissues and the whole system will become affected. Thus it may even be that a healthy person, harboring the bacilli of diphtheria or tuberculosis, may infect other people though he has not been infected himself.

When you understand that, you see how important it is that the mucous membrane of the nose and mouth should be taken care of in the very young and in the growing child. A great many cases of tuberculosis could be prevented if there were no diseased mucous mem-

Digitized by Google
-54—

brane greedy after infecting material. That is why it should be a rule in every family where there is the slightest tendency to nasal and throat catarrh to irrigate the nose and the throat at least once a day, better twice a day, with warm water in which a very small dose of common table salt is dissolved. This so-called saline solution contains from six to seven parts of salt to one thousand of water. A good proportion for practical purposes is half a teaspoonful of table salt to a good tumblerful of warm water. Part of this should be filled into a common nasal cup, the head should be drawn back, and small quantities should be allowed to run down the nose into the throat. If it be swallowed there is no harm, but children will learn very rapidly how to bring up the salt water. In this way the mucous membranes are kept intact, and nobody can tell how many diseases are kept away by this very simple method. In common nasal catarrh, twice a day is sufficiant to reduce from day to day, or even from hour to hour, the size of the glands, unless it has lasted weeks or months. Sometimes, even when it has lasted weeks, and not infrequently when it has lasted months, the correct irrigation of the nose twice or three times a day will gradually, within a few weeks or a month, not only reduce, but remove, the swelling that had been annoying for many months or even a year. The washing out of the nose can be better accomplished by irrigations than by merely spraying.

What I have thus far said would settle in your mind the question whether scrofula and tuberculosis are identical. They aer no! id -ntical, but they may become so. In that case, not otherwise, the scrofula or the alleged scrofula of the glands would turn out to be tuberculosis. Thus whenever there are swelled glands, whenever there is "scrofula/" there is not necessarily at the same time tuberculosis, but there is danger of tubercular invasion. Scrofula, when fully developed in a child, as observed by you, will show a number of symptoms that are not found, as a rule, in tuberculosis. You have sore eyes, swollen lops, and nose; you have the glands, you have eczema of the skin; if all that were always tuberculosis there would be no possibility of recovery. The scrofulous disposition is widespread; it ixtends over the skin; it is characterized bv the fact that whenever there is snch an infection, whenever there is scrofulous irritation at least, it is not apt to heal. Scrofulous inflammation and u'ceration are very obstinate. If all that were tuberculosis the patient would be doomed; but tuberculosis invades the body primarilv in a certain limited locality. It may remain in that locality; it mav remain in the end of a bone, in a number of glands, in a small part, of the lung, and there may heal up. In the beginning, therefore, scrofula is a widespread general disorder and the beginning of tuberculosis is a local disease.

The invasion of tuberculosis into the human body may take place by inhalation of the bacilli, or by fee ling, with the exception of the rare cases in which the bacilli get into the circulation through sores on the skin—in chronic eczema, for instance—or through wounds. Milk containing tubercle bacilli may infect the intestinal tract, or (wf)ile being swallowed) the lymph follicles of the throat, including the tonsils,

Digitized by VjOOQle
-55-

and there, by their downward course, the body. From either of these places the circulation of the blood or of the lymph, mainly the latter, may be invaded.

But, after all, cases of tuberculosis resulting from the ingestion of tuberculous milk are rare. . In the stomach bacilli do not thrive, and tuberculous ulcerations of the intestines are infrequent. Indeed, the abdominal glands are more often affected than the mucous membranes of~the intestines. The principal mode of entrance of tuberculosis is that of inhalation, which may be two-fold: either that of the dry bacilli contained in the dust of the street, or of a room or public place; or of the moist particles of expectoration which are thrown about in a coughing spell and float in the air of a room hours before they are deposited on the floor. As far as the dry bacilli are concerned, it may take time and some force to remove them. A moderate air current is not sufficient for that purpose. Wherever they are deposited they are waiting for their chance. Dusting, sweeping of the dry material, will fUl the air with bacilli. Children’s respiratory organs, being nearer the floor than those of the adults, are most exposed. That is why the percentage of tubercular school children grows in disproportionate rapidity with every year of their lives.	(To	be	concluded.)

ITALY.

The national institute of physical education has drawn up the following regulations in form of a petition, which bears the signatures of more than a hundred representatives of the legislature and which will he presented to the chamber by the minster of education personally:

1.	In all public, private and preparatory schools an obligatory course of physical education must be held. Students of the State Preparatory Schools may be excused from this in their last year, providing they are enroled as members of a gymnastic organization, the instructor of which is recognized as qualified. Students of universities or other high institutions of learning must attend the exercises of some recognized gymnastic or athletic organization.

2.	The course embodies gymnastics in a narrow sense, target shooting, games, singing and everything else which tends to develop national character.

3.	In the three lower grades of the public schools there shall be daily one-half hour lessons in the upper grades one hour lessons. In all classes of the preparatory school there are to be hour lessons daily.

4.	Pupils of the public schools and preparatory schools shall take at least one excursion a month, which shall also be of aesthetic, historic and scientific purpose.

5.	No pupil of public or preparatory schools can be promoted or can receive a certificate of fitness unless his class report shows faithful attendance, progress and good conduct. In cases where natural conditions forbid of the participation in physical exercise, the school authority will render a decision.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—56 —

ATHLETIC BADGE TEST IN THE NEW YORK ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 1907-8.

The test for the Athletic Badge will he held during the fall.

Names of boys qualified for badges must be sent to the Secretary of the Public School Athletic League on or before December 16th.

STANDARDS.

Elementary School Boys under 13 yea*s of age:

60 Yards Dash .....................    8	3-5	sec.

Pull up (chinning).......... 1......... t. 4 times

Standing Broad Jump .................  &	ft.	9	ins.

For All Other Boys Of Elementary Schools:

60 Yards Dash, indoors .......*...........  8	sec.

(or) 100 Yards Dash, outdoors .. 1...........  14	sec.

Pull up (chinning) ...........v...: 6 times

/ Standing Broad Jump ..:...............   6	ft.	6	ins.

CONDITIONS.

Only those boys shall be admitted to the Athletic Badge Test who received a mark of at least “B” for the month previous in effort, proficiency and deportment, and who are making satisfactory effort to secure good posture.

In order to win a badge a boy must qualify in all three events in his class.

Winners of last year’s badges are not debarred from competition.

RULES.

The following general rules shall govern the final competition: There shall he but one trial in chinning, one in the dashes and three in the jumps.

Chinning—The boy shall extend himself to his full length before and after each pull up, and shall be obliged to raise his body to such a height as to bring his chin over the bar.

Jumping—The rules of the P. S. A. L., as set forth in the Handbook, shall govern this test, except that, as there is no striving for first, second and third places, the finals shall be dispensed with.

60 Yards Dash and 100 Yards Dash—The general rules of competition, as set forth in the P. S. A. L. Handbook, shall govern this test, except there shall he no finals.

Standards and conditions can be found on page 123 of the P. S. A. L. Handbook.

President Winthrop of the Board of Education has donated a splendid trophy, to be awarded annually to the school qualifying for athletic badges the greatest percentage of its enrolled grammar boys (5A to 8B).

The badge winners, in the three schools reporting the highest per-

Digitized by Google
-57-

centage, will be officially tested. If the percentage of winners in one of these schools is still higher that that of any other school the trophy will he awarded. If in the official tests these three schools fall below the standing reported by other schools, the other schools will be tested in order of standing until a school is found whose percentage of winners at the official test is higher than any other reported or officially tested standing.

Only those schools that send in their list of badge winners on or before December 16th will be considered in awarding the Winthrop Trophy.

The tests selected for the athletic badge are such as can be practiced by every school boy in the city.

Only those can hope to win a badge for themselves or help to win a .trophy for their school who practice faithfully during the weeks prior to the time when the final tests are taken.

Each school is expected to conduct its own tests. If assistance is required, application should be made to the Chairman of the Games Committee of the District Athletic League to which the school belongs.

Bknk for reporting winners will be sent *o each school on November 24th.

Badges will be delivered to an authorized messenger, presenting the list of winners, properly signed by the Principal.

CLASS ATHLETICS FOR THE NEW YORK SCHOOLS

1907—8.

In this form of athletics a record is made by the whole class instead of by an individual.

At least 80 per cent, of the boys enrolled in the class must take part in order to have the record stand.

The number taking part must not be less than eight.

Trophies to be held one year will be awarded in each Borough bv the Public Schools Athletic League to the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th year classes for the best Class Records made in the following events:

Standing Broad Jump...............Tested	in	the	Fall

Pull up, cr-“chinning”..........Tested	in	the	Winter

Running ....................... Tested	in	the	Spring

(Distances for running: 5th year, 40 yards; 6th year, 50 yards; 7th year, 60 yards; 8th year, 80 yards.)

Classes may be tested as follows:

Standing Broad Jump—The best record made in three trial jumps is taken for each boy. The class record is determined by adding the individual records and* dividing the total by the number of bovs competing. Jumping must be done from a line. Many schools cannot have a “take-off” without cousiderable inconvenience.

. Pull-up—Each boy must pull himself up until his chin is above the

Digitized by

Google
-58-

bar, then lower himself, extending his arms to their full length. His feet must not touch the floor during the test. The number of times that he pulls himself up is his record. The class record is found as in the Broad Jump.

Running—In order to lessen the possibility of error in timing the competitors, the following method has been adopted:	The boys are

lined up behind the starting mark in the order in which they are to run; the timer, who also acts as starter, stands at the finish line and gives the signal for each boy to start. As the first runner crosses the finish line the second runner is given the signal to start. Afc the last boy crosses the finish line the watch is stopped. The record is found by dividing the time elapsed by the number of boys competing. If an ordinary watch is used, the first boy should be started when the second hand is over the “60” mark.

Blanks will be furnished for reporting the tests, which are to be •sent in as follows:

Standing Broad Jump................On or before Dec. 1.

Pull-up............................On or before July 1.

Running ...........................On or before June 1.

Each school is expected to conduct its own tests.

All boys are considered eligible for Class Athletics, subject to the approval of the Principal.

When the records are all in, the three classes in each borough having the best records for their grade will be tested officially. If a record is then made better than any other record sent in, the trophy will be awarded to the class making it. If, however, the records made at the official test are lower than other reported records, the classes will be* tested in order until a record is made at an official test that is higher than any other reported or official record.

The trophies are perpetual. They are in the form of a shield, with bronze plates for engraving the names of schools that win them from time to time. These trophies are offered for competition once each year. Each school winning a trophy will receive an engraved certificate as its permanent property.

This form of athletics is especially desirable, as it gives every boy an opportunity to take part, and the size of the school does not in any way affect the chances of winning a trophy.

The boys schould practice by themselves in the yard, on the street, at home, or elsewhere, prior to the tests.

Frequent preliminary tests are recommended.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETIC LEAGUE.

—Prof. John M. Tyler says: Gymnastics are very useful for girls. But to be effective they must occur more frequently than two half hours every week.	This	is about as useful as

one g6od meal every day. What we most need is a far larger

Digitized by CjOOQle
-59-

number of attractive games which will tempt and lure the girl to take the needed exercise in the fresh air. Well oxygenated blood is the first essential for physical health and mental power.

SUNLIGHT AND THE TUBERCLE BACILLUS.

There has recently been published in pamphlet form an important paper by M. Paul Juillerat and Dr. Fillassoer, dealing with the hygienic conditions found on inspection of the dwellings in certain quarters of Paris in which there has been a large mortality from tuberculous disease. The paper was presented before the Fourteenth International Congress of Hygiene and Demograpyhy, held in Berlin 1907. The authors lay great stress upon the defective arrangement in these dwellings for exposure of the rooms to the light of day, and we cannot doubt that they are warranted in so doing.

During the year 1906 the inspectors visited 405 new houses, comprising 20,467 suites, consisting of 43,621 rooms inhabited by 47,130 persons, an average of 1.08 to each room. This density of population the authors do not regard as excessive. Since January 31, 1894, these houses had shown a mean annual mortality from tuberculous disease of 7 to each 1,000 inhabitants. It was found that 3,616 sleeping rooms were practically without air and light, 63 air shafts being so small as to be absolutely inadequate for the ventilation and lighting of the rooms opening on them. The proportion of dark rooms was found to be enormous, rooms into which the sunlight never penetrated. They were choice places for the lodgment and preservation of Koch’s bacillus and ♦ the alniost inevitable infection of succeeding tenants.

But the municipality has set on foot measures for the methodical sanitation of these dark houses, and the authors are confident that in a few years, when these murderous rooms have disappeared, an improvement will be seen in the tubercular mortality returns. They have concluded from the mortality of their observations that tuberculous disease is a diseases of darkness. Once introduced in dark rooms, Koch’s bacillus propagates itself and maintains an extreme virulence.

It is not to urban apartment houses alone that we may apply the lesson to be drawn from these observations; many a room that, the good rustic housewife carefully darkens, lest it should become a trifle warm, or troublesome insects should be admitted, or the carpet should grow faded, ought to be laid bare to fresh air and sunlight if it is ever to be occupied by a human being. It is. in darkness and in stagnent air that noisome germs luxuriate; flush them with fresh air and the direct rays of the sun, and we go far toward robbing them of their malficient power. If the .“best room” of a farmhouse were systematically flooded with fresh air and sunlight, instead of being kept in sepulchral stateliness, the family and. their visitors would reap the reward of vastly increased stability of health.—New York Medical Journal.

Digitized by Tooele
—60—

Mind and body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

im	Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

MH-wet-vaJc**, "Wlscoxxelaa..

tf3T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—WELL, A DECISION has been reached in the Swarthmore-Jeanes football controversy. Our readers will remember that in her will Miss Jeanes left certain coal lands, reported to be worth from two to three million dollars, to Swarthmore college in condition that intercollegiate athletics will be discontinued. Last September the trustees of the college, composed of both men and women, appointed a committee to inquire into the value of the coal lands. Later on news leaked out to the effect that the lands were not worth quite as much as reported. In the mean time Swarthmore was getting more free advertising than any actress ever got who allowed her diamonds to be stolen. The inquiry among other colleges as to what they would do under like circumstances was another good advertisement. Last week the committee reported that the lands are worth about $50,000. The bequest was declined. The outcome of the affair is that the college got about a million dollars worth of free advertisement—and the hospital for certain forms of nervous diseases got the money it needs. Both sides, we see, are thus eminently satisfied.

-IN OUR LAST MONTH’S BOOK REVIEW in speaking of the new course of study for the St. Louis public schools the name of Miss Ethel Weeden, as assistant in its preparation was, inadvertantly, forgotten.

—SUMMER SCHOOLS AND CAMPS are beginning to loom up. We are in receipt of,a neat little illustrated pamphlet announcing a camp for boys in the Wliite Mountains, pt Sebago Lake, Maine. The camp is under the direction of Dr. George L. Meylan, New York, the well-known president of the American Physical Education Association.— The second announcement received is that of the nineteenth year of the Lake Geneva Summer School, with its eight distinct schools for Y. M.

C.	A. workers.’ The school of physical training has ten teachers. Mr. Fraiik H. Burt is president of the conibined schools.

New HAven; Conn., March 12th, 1908.

I am much pleased with the quality of “Mind and Body*’ and Congratulate you on its growth year by year and hope that the patronage grows even faster than the paper improves. We try to call attention to it repeatedly at the school and I am sure most of our pupils get on your list of subscribers sooner or later.

Dr. Jay W. Seaver.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-61-

PRISONERS’ BASE.

Base Line

ing, there ought to be just one player left uncaught on the side whose base line is at the top of the diagram.

Base Line

In a recent number of the “Playground” Joseph Lee has given such a good and vivid description of the simpler way of playing that old Prench game, Prisoned Base (Darebase we boys in the West used to call it) that we reprint the article as a whole:

I first played Prisoners* Base thirty-seven years ago, and the last series of games of it that I have played so far was last summer. I have played the game with three on one side and two on the other, and I have played with as many as fifteen on a side. I have played it against opponents ranging from the then captain of a university football team to children four years old I have played it in the city, in the country, and on the beach. -I think I may say that I have at least a long and varied, and I think 1 may add, an intimate acquaintance with the game; and I believe it to be one of the very best games there are. It has not, it is true, the strenuousness of the great ball games—football, baseball, hockey, and basket ball; and it does not, accordingly, supply the moral and mental training that these games afford. Neither has it the exhilaration of coasting or swinging on a trapeze, or sliding dowii the cellar door. It occupies an intermediate position between what might be called the games of character and the games of impulse, requiring considerably more concentration than the latter, while being of less studious and careworn physiognomy than the former. I think it is an admirahlfe game for all ages and both sexes, and for almost any time of the year. But its especial importance is in filling in, for boys and girls who need some good strenuous game for the sake of their moral and intellectual development, those interstices of time that come between the seasons ruled over mightely by the great national games. It is especially valuable, for instance, during the latter part of the summer vacation, after baseball has waned and when the gibbous football is still so distant that the light of its dawning is not yet to be seen above the autumn horizon. Among the boys that I know there is a period of lawlessness setting in with perfect regularity about September first, and it is only postponed to that date because of strenuous nautical pursuits that occupy the preceding six or eight weeks. But at whatever time of year the flat season

The rows of prisoners in this diagram extends just beyond the middle of the held, and if the ground has been laid out right for the numbers play-

Prison #

# Prison

Digitized by
-62-

eomes, it is extremely important that some live game shall be ready to seize and occupy the space.

Prisoners’ Base can also do a great service in filling in other gaps, for instance, the great void left in the life of the boy who is not by nature an adept at the dominant games of ball. A boy, for instance, who does not take to baseball is left almost without resourses during the spring, and the same is true during the fall of one who does not ta>e to ' football. A third kind of gap is a gap <^ue to characteristics of an age period, a gap occupying with many boys almost the whole of the Big Injun period, from six to eleven, between the imaginative games of childhood and the coming of the real spirit of team play at the latter age.

Of course there are other games that can occupy this position of gap-filler; but I would insist very much upon the fact that among any given crowd of children there will not be many such games, and probably not more than one ore two. There is no use in looking for a hundred games; what we want now to find is one. We want a game that they will live for in the daytime and dream of nights—something they will play in season, out of season, and between seasons—on the, playground and in the street, on their way to school, during recess, and on the way home, before breakfast and after .supper—a game, in short, that will be, for its particular crowd and during the particular times when it is needed, not merely a game, which may be played if you feel like it, but “the game” of which real life for the time being consists.

These are the reasons why I have thought a short account of the game Prisoners’ Base may be of use to those interested in the playground movement.

All people who have played Prisoners’ Base have a particular brand of the game that they have played, and many such will disagree with my particular brand. 'All I say in favor of my own is that it is a go:d one. If anybody has a better, let them by all means introduce it on their own playground.

The game is played by two sides as nearly equal as possible, generally selected by choosing up. One side lines up, along what I will call the base line, at each end of the rectangular ground, lined off as clearly as may be. The first object on each side is to make runs, that is, to pass over the intervening ground and cross the opponent’s line and back again without being caught.

The rule about catching is that any opponent who has left his line after you have' left yours can catch you, and that you are caught if, when chased, you put one foot over the side line. (Running over the side line you have freed a prisoner or, caught somebody, or at any time when you are not being chased, does not count.) You are safe, howeves, after you have crossed the opponent’s line until you start to run back again. On the way back you cannot make a capture or free a prisoner, and you can be caught by any opponent who left his own line after you left yours; he is not obliged to have left his line after you left that to run back. (Some people have this rule , the other way, namely, that you cannot be caught

Digitized by LaOOQle
-63-

on your way back from making a run except by an opponent who has left his own base line after you have left it.) The catching should consist simply in tagging and not in grabbing hold of an opponent and reciting any ritual signifying capture, x inasmuch as the latter procedure is apt to result in tom clothes and lacerated feelings, and gives a great advantage to big children playing against smaller ones.

Three runs made by any one player entitles him to choose any one of the other side as prisoner, and the rule sometimes is that he can instead use the runs to free a prisoner of his own side. A player caught after he has made one or two runs has to begin over again. A player who has been caught also becomes a prisoner, and the object of the game is to capture the whole of the other side.

As soon as any member of a side gets caught, he is put in what is called the prison; that is to say. be ha3 to put his foot within a prescribed space or touching a stone or stick or something designated for that purpose. When a second prisoner is caught, he puts his foot in the required place, and the one who was caught before is allowed to stretch out as far as he can toward his own side, provided he touches some part of his companion. The same thing happens when a third is caught and with any subseauent captures, the last prisoner always going next the prison, so that the line of prisoners when a side is getting beaten finally stretches a considerable distance back toward its own base line.

After the first prisoner has been caught the game usually centres more upon the attempt to free the prisoner or to prevent his being freed than upon the endeavor to make runs. The method of freeing is simply for a member of the prisoner’s side to run down and touch him (always touching the one on the end of the line when there are several), without being caught when he does so. After freeing a prisoner a player cannot be caught until he has returned to his own side and come out again, and the prisoner himself also has a free pass home. The same immunitv is enjoyed by a player who has caught another player, and it is, of course, also the rule that after catching somebody or freeing a prisoner a player must return immediately to his own side, and that he can neither free nor catch anybody else till after such return.

The interest of the game depends very much on locating the prison in such a way as to give the right balance between the forces of offense and defense. If it is placed close to the base line of the side by which the capture has been made it is almost impossible to free a prisoner if there is any defense at all. The game is often spoiled by this mistake; I remember many hours of my early youth being spent in durance not only vile but often extremely cold as well as uninteresting. The prison accordingly ought to be placed some distance out from the line. On the other hand, it must not be placed too far out, for if it is it becomes impossible to win the game, because the line of prisoners, when the side is nearly all caught, then extends to a point so much nearer their own base line than to that of their opponents that even the slowest runner on the losing side can get down and free a prisoner before the fastest runner on

Digitized by LaOOQle
-64-

the opposite side can get out to stop him. The art of laying out the ground is to have the prison placed far enough out to make the freeing of the first prisoner reasonably easy, without being so far out as to make the catching of the last one impossible. In general the game can be made lively and comparatively unscientific by making the distance between the base lines (the lines on which the two sides are lined up'* short, the field wide, and, the prisons far out; and can be made more difficult and less eventful by making it long and narrow, with the prisons close in. If this latter tendency is carried too far, however, freeing prisoners and making runs become at last impossible and the game is entirely stopped. I think, as a rule; the ground should be about square and of such a length that the prisons can be put out a fair distance—say, one-sixth of the length of the ground-—from, their respective base, lines, and yet leave such a space between each prison and the opposite base line that when all but one of either side is captured, the epd of the line of prisoners will stretch just past the middle of the field toward their own base. The object of having the Jine of prisoners thus stretch, a little past.the middle of the field is in order to give the slowest runner on the side that is being beaten a fair change to free a prisoner as against the fastest runner on the other side. The .ideal handicap, I suppose, is reached when these two', starting from their respective base lines at the same - moment, would exactlv meet at the end of the line of prisoners.

There is no necessity, however, of getting these dimensions exact, and it would he a great bore to change the length of your field with every change in the numbers piaving. The practical to do is to lav out your ground about square,, put the prisoners out about ten feet if the ground is sixty feet long, and if you find that the line of prisoners stretches down so near the other side that nobody can win the game, lengthen the ground or draw the prison in a little. On the other hand, if you find the prisoners are not getting freed but are standing a long time, move out the prison, and if you find that nothing much is happening at all, shorten and widen the ground. The game, of course, is at its best when there is most going on and of the most thrilling sort—a lot of players making runs and freeing and defending prisoners—with flight and rally, charge and route, and triumph and despair.

The game is capable of a very considerable degree of organization, hut children left to themselves will not organize .it too thoroughly, and it would lose from being played in the thoroughly scientific spirit of the modern gollege game.

—“Ther are some few happy disposed individuals who can dine alone and not eat too fast, nor too much, nor too little. With the majority it is different. • For due and easy nutrition food should be slowly taken, and the mind should not be intensely exercised during the process. Most people do not think much while they talk, and talking is a natural accompaniment of eating and drinking. It is not good to eat and drink alone.”

Digitized by

Google
-65-

—A Liberal Education.—That man, I think, has a liberal education who has been so trained in youth that his body is the ready servant of his will, and does with ease and pleasure all the work that as a mechanism it is capable of; v>rhose intellect is e, clear, cold, logic engine, with all its parts of equal strength, and in smooth working- order; ready, like a steam engine, to be turned to any kind of work, and spin the gossamers as well as forge the anchors of the mind; whose mind is stored with a knowledge of the great and fundamental truths of nature and of the laws of her operations; one who, no stunted ascetic, is full of life and fire, but whose passions are trained to come to heel by a vigorous will, the servant of a tender conscience; who has learned to love all beauty, whether of nature or of art, to hate all vileness, and to respect others as himself. Such an one, and no other, I conceive, has had a liberal education, for he is, as completely as a man can be, in harmony with nature. He will make the best of her, and she of him. They will get on together rarely; she as his ever-beneficient mother; he as her mouthpiece, her conscious self, her minister and interpreter.—Thomas H. Huxley.

THE ELFS’ FROLIC.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

A Roundel to the Music of “See Saw.”

This roundel has been arranged for pupils who in their gymnastic work have advanced as far as the-rocking step (balance step) and the glide hop with added turns. The music to which the roundel has been written is one of Mr. W. B. Old-s vocal dances. What has been said, of the preceding dances (about “finish” and acquaintance with the music, see “Mind and Body,” Jan. and Feb.) also holds good here.

The pupils form in a column of twos, the inner hands are grasped shoulder high, the outer knuckles are placed on the hips. The movements begin with the outer foot. To simplify the description the movements of only the one standing at the left are given; the one standing at the right performs to the opposite Bide.

Measure:

. 1. Rocking step obliquely forward left and right, the opposite foot crossed in front.

2.	As 1.

3.	Face inward, both hands grasped shoulder-high, rocking step toward the front and rear, placing the opposite foot crossed in front.

4.	As 3.

5.	Face to the front, glide obliquely left forward and hop while swinging the right leg crossed in front; then repeat this movement right.

6.	As 5.

7 and 8. Three slow steps backward, and, with a bow, draw the right foot to the left.

9—16. Repeat 1-8.

Repeat as often as desired.

Digitized by LaOOQle
Seesaw.

Words by Bertha E. Bush.	Composed	by	W.	B.	On

—^	Gracefully.	__________________________________

		
^ ft ij . 	1	 	1 —i		
12 ST T r*— rJ-* 	!		 !		
I? ^ * 	o'			
*/  See - saw, see  /V 	1 .	w -o>* «-• saw, Now we’re down so low;. . .	
		
ini n a •	\ 			—i	———i	
M/T\ ■ >4 AJ •. 1 • 1 1		
i vL/ mm m m—		
VrPrr rrr	- r ff r	T i rrr  	i_	i j	_i_i	i_j
7^t:~ a #— - - 	1	1	i	m m 	^ 3 3 i -j -i	
rWi ri r-—1—r- ~ —1—i		
\yk~T—F—t—r r~T—:	r m m	i" T* lr L	i _ !	 1 '“I		1	LJ				I		
^	1	>		r-ruJ -1			

See - saw,	—i—  see	saw,	Up so high.	we go; . .	-f	
(&*—	1		—		i -rgk		—1	
r r r r r r r	1 f f		r r r ^	' r1 r f F	
I a-*!—«i ■ 			■-i 3p^	”?5 F ^ F5 . P F —p* c	Z		-pH=f
v i « -«—c—^—j—	*—; i—	.1.			1 i

Copyright, 1893, by Novello, Ewer & Co. By permission of the Publishers.
-67-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind,, Public Schools.

f Continued. 1

A LESSON FOR GIRLS FROM 6—9 YEARS.

A Class Drill consisting of a simple series of dancing steps, followed by calisthenics, class exercises on the apparatus and closing with the games “Statue” and “Black and White” or “Night and Day,” as some instructors term the latter game.

The class in flank formation, with hands grasped backw. or placed in front support (i. e. hands resting on waist line in front) and moving in the direction 1. or r. around in the gymnasium.

A.	Dancing Step.

1. Step forw. 1.—1! Close r. foot to 1.—2!	Same opposite—3,	4!

(Followstep 1. and r. alt.) 2/4 time.

2. a) Step forw. 1.—1! Close r. foot to the 1.—2! Again step forw.

1.—3! Step forw. r.—4! Close 1. foot to r.—5! Again step forw. r.—6!

NOTE.—Practice in yK time (waltz or mazurka).

b) As a, but repeat in 2/4 time. Twostep.

3.	Class 1. face, grasp neighbors’ hands shoulder height and gallop-hop sidew. r. 2/4 time.

NOTE —About x6 to 24 hops sidew and again turn toward the leader, release grasp and march forw. as before upon the command “Forw.— march \

4.	Step forw. 1.—1! Close r. foot to 1. (heels together) and rise on toes—2! Lower heels—3! Same opposite—4, 5, 6! Waltz time.

5. Step ftfrw. 1.—1! Point r. foot in front (toetouch) and rise on toes—2! Lower heels—3! Same opposite—4, 5, 6! Waltz time.

6.	Class r. face, grasp neighbors’ hands and gallop-hop sidew. 1. 2/4 time.

NOTE.—See note under exercise 3.

Form ranks of fours by turning 1. face in successive order after every four steps and march down the center to location for calisthenics.

Ranks open order sidew. The members of the two inner rows (files) face outw.t march four steps forw., passing in front of members in the outer rows and turn to the front.

B.	Calisthenics.

1

Arms backw.—fold!

1.	a) Lower the head forw.—1! Pos.—2!

b)	Lower the head backw.—1! Pos.—2!

c)	A and b alternately—1! Arms—down!

2.	a) Raise shoulders—1! Lower—2!

b) As a, and place hands under them, elbows point sidew.—1! Pos—2!

Digitized by kjOOQle
-68-

Arms forw.—raise 1

3.	Bend trunk forw. and touch toes (knees straight)—1! Pos.—21 Arms—down!

Hands on shoulders—place!

4. a) Throw 1. arm sidew. (palm upw.)—1! Pos.-—2! Same r.—3, 4!

b)	As a, and add toetouch sidew. 1. and r. alternately—1, 4! Arms—

down!

Arms forw.—raise!

5.	Bend trunk backw., move 'arms upw. to a circle—1! Pos.—2! Arms—down!

Stride pos. outw. and place hands on hips—jump!

6. Bend 1. knee—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—41 Pos.—jumpl

Hands on hips—place!

7.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and bend r. arm overh.—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3! Pos.—4! Arms—down!

Hands on hips—place!

8.	Step sidew. 1.—1! Hop on 1. leg (r. lower leg raised backw. slightly) —2! Same opposite—3, 4! Arms—down!

9. Turn trunk to the 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—1! Pos.—2! Alt.—1, 4!

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms forw. to starting pos. in one , count. Repeat 5 or G times.

Close the ranks in reverse order to that of having opened the same. Class r. face, ranks file 1. (r.) toward leader and march to assigned place on the apparatus.

C.	Horizontal Ladder (height of shoulders). -	,

Class formation.—The files to stand faeing toward the one end of the ladders if there are two or more available. If only one ladder is available, then files of threes face toward the sides of the ladder (at r. angle), one half of the classon one side and the other halfiosfc.the opposite.

Advanee by threes from both sides and space properly so that six can exercise simultaneously.

In front side stand, hand* »n ordinary grasp on the near beam.—

1.	Jump up and quickly move both feet forw. and extend arms to a front leaning hang—1! Pull up and move feet back to half knee bent pos. and again straighten to starting pos.—2! Repeat twice.

2.	As ex. 1,—1! Release grasp of 1. hand (trunk turns to 1.) and lower arm—2! Regrasp—3! Starting pos.—I! Same opp.—1, 4! Or—

5,	8! Repeat once.

3. As ex. 1,-1! Raise 1. knee upw.—2! As 1—3! Raise r. knee upw.— 4! As 1—5! Starting pos.—6! Repeat once.

4.	As ex. 3, but raise straight leg upw. and place foot against the inside

of the farther beam—2!	Lower—3f	Starting* pos.—4!	Same

opp.—5, 8!
-69-

5.	Jump upw. and place 1. leg over the farther beam to knee hang (the r. leg to be held horizontally forw., arms straight)—1! Lower to starting pos.—2! Same opp.—3, 5!

NOTE.—The older and experienced pupils assist the little ones.

6.	Jump to knee hang as in. ex. 5,—1! Place r. leg alongside of 1. to double knee hang—2! Lower tb starting pos.—3! Repeat opp—4, 6!

NOTE—As the members finish their exercise they take one step sidew. 1, turn 1. about and retreat to their respective rows (files), the other members advance one step forw. with each succession.

Remove the ladders and reform the class to flank formation for exercises with the long jumping rope.

The class to stand at r. angle to direction of the rope. After the members pass under the rope they reform on that side for the next exercise. The instructor simply reverses the swinging of the rope from that of before.	^

Exercises with the Long Jumping Rope.

The rope circles from above toward the members.— „

1.	Run forw. under the rope. *	>	v

NOTE.—The next in order follows either with the next or second swing. This.order continues until all have had a trial.

2.	As ex. 1, but everyone pass under the rope witHjthe second swing in successive order.

3.	As ex. 3, but after every awing of the rope the next one follows in successive order.

4.	As ex. 2, two members running simultaneously and the other couples follow after every second swing, etc.

5.	As ex. 2, but four members simultaneously.

6.	As ex. 2, but eight members simultaneously.

7.	As ex. 2, but sixteen members simultaneously.

The rope now to circle opposite to the abov$, so that the members are obliged to jump over the same (i. e. the rope circles from below upw. toward the members).

8.	Advance and jump over rope once and .quickly run forw. to be out of the way of the next swing.

NOTE.—The next to follow as under exercise i.

9.	As ex. 8, but jump twice on place and then run out while the next member runs in with the second swing.

10.	As ex. 8, but jump four times on place, the next member to enter with the second swing, the third member with the third, the fourth member with the fourth and as the first member runs out with the fifth swing the fifth member enters. This order continues until all have had a trial. Repeat several times if time permits.

NOTE.—As the succeeding members enter the preceding ones move forw. parallel with the rope to offer enough room.

This order requires some practice before it can be done well, especially with those of 6 or 7 years of age.

Remove the rope and prepare for the games “Statue” and “Black and

White.” The rules governing these games are found in several books of games

and need no further explanation here.	(To	be	continued.)
-70-

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U.

The College Board has been fortunate in securing the services of Roscoe M. Ritter, Ph. B., M. D., Associate Professor of Physiology, Indiana State Medical College, the only lecturer to enter the present semester.

The proposition to organize an Alumni Association of the graduates of the Normal School has been favorably received by almost all of the graduates of the former Milwaukee and Indianapolis courses. The suggestion has been made to have the first gathering in June. Quite a number of instructors, however, prefer to await the occasion of the next quadrennial tournament of the N. A. G. U. at Cincinnati, pleading, that a large number will attend tht German Turnfest at Frankfort on the Main this coming summer. The question of the *08 meeting will be decided in April.

At least four faculty members will accompany the (two hundred and fifty gymnasts of the N. A. G. U., who will sail from Baltimore for Frankfort in June. This trip by the Lloyds promises to be by far the most interesting trip of the several others arranged by the St. Louis and New York membership of the Union. It is under the auspices of the National Executive Board, located in Indianapolis.

The graduates of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., who have been awarded tlj£ title of G. G. (Graduate of Gymnastics) have been requested to hold themselves in readiness to attend the commencement exercises in June, when the diplomas will be presented.

Dr. Robert Fischer, who is Supervisor of Physical Training in the Public Schools of Indianapolis, has prepared a schedule assigning the students to the different schools with the resp. city instructors of physical training. The students will visit the schools to observe thruout the month of March and begin their practice in the following month. The practice work in the practice school of the college‘began February 24th.

The several classes of the practice department will be open to the visitors of the State Teachers’ Association, beginning April 4th. The teachers are specially invited to the afternoon and evening classes.

A course in saber fencing was added to the course in foil fencing February 7th. The students have made excellent progress in this practice.

Prof. Scherer, of the German Seminar Class, was delegated by the National Board to attend the 50th Anniversary of the Kansas City organization of the N. A. G. U. Prof. Scherer made the principal address at this interesting gathering.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

The Normal Students and Alumni had the unexpected opportunity of listening to a “Practical Talk” on Hygienic Gymnasium Work and original Health Hints by Robert J. Roberts, the Veteran Pioneer Physical
-71-

Director of the Boston Y. M. C. A., on Friday, March 20th. His talk was most suggestive and helpful, the more so, since he speaks from experience. His friendship for Dr. White was responsible for his agreeing to speak to the Normal School at this time.

The Seniors started their dissecting work of this year March 19th, and will continue until the Easter vacation. A special demonstrator has been assigned them as.their dissecting work is in the mornings at the Medical School.

CLEVELAND PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

HIGH SCHOOL MONTHLY ATHLETIC TESTS FOR BOYS.

Month.	Event.	Limit.

January..... Standing Broad Jump...... 6	ft. 9 in.

February.... Chinning Bar............. 9	times

March ...... Running High Jump........ 4	ft. 0 in.

April....... Potato Race (5 potatoes)...........

During the last week of the respective months each High School shall hoid a test iu the event indicated. Each school shall determine for itself the manner of holding the tests except as directed herein.

Each test shall be open to every boy enrolled in school on the first day of the month in which the test is held.

One point shall be scored for each boy who qualifies in a test by equalling or exceeding the limit indicated. The standing of the school in a test shall be determined by dividing the sum of the points so scored by the total number of boys enrolled in the school on the first day of the month in which the test is held.

On the conclusion of each test the Physical Director shall report to the Supervisor of Physical Training the following data: Number of pupils enrolled on the first of the month, number of pupils participating in tests, number qualifying, per cent qualifying. In tests after the first, report also the number participating for the first time.

Broad Jump.—Three trials. Jump and land on floor. A. A. U. rules.

Chinning.—Trunk and legs must be extended throughout the test. No swing, jerk or kick allowed. Pupils must relax arms and shoulders completely before each pull up. The chin must be carried above level of the bar.

High Jump.—A. A. U. rules.

Potato Race.—Y. M. C. A. rules.

JANUARY 1908-STANDING BROAD JUMP 6 FEET 9 INCHES.

'	No.	No.	Per cent. No. Per cent.

School.	Enrolled.	Tested.	Tested.	Qualified.	Qualified.	Rank.

Central................ 672	505	.7515	294	.4375	2

East................... 536	281	.5261	133	.2481	5

Glenville.............. 205	179	.8722	93	.4536	1

Lincoln................ 269	183	.6803	104	.3866	3

South ................. 197	118	.6000	61	.3096	4

West................... 319	193	.6050	71	.2225	6

Totals........ 2198	1459	.664	756	.344

Digitized by v^ooQle
-72-

REPORT FOR FEBRUARY

School	Enrolled Feb. i.	Partic-  ipants.
Central			555
East			276
Glenville			 211	171
Lincoln			 207	169
South 			140
West					252
Total			 2169	1568
January			 2198  -29	1459  +104
The March	Test will be High	
April will^be the Potato Race.		

1908— CHINNING-9 TIMES.

Per cent.	New 1 ait.	Qualified.	Percent. Rank.	
85.5	(60)	209	41.43	2
51 9	( 2)	89	16 78	5
8l,+	(20)	91	48 12	1
68 8		82	80 71	3
72 9		25	13 +	6
79.2	(59)	88	27.33	4
72 +	(HI)	644	‘29 69	
66.+	(1459)	756	34.+	
+6.	(1600)	—112	-14.+	
Jump—4	' 0", and the		last test	ia

THE HUMAN WHEEL.

This most interesting pyramid was arranged by Mr. Adolph Bossart of Philadelphia and was shown at a concert given in this city on January 3rd. The only support is a tripod like framework holding the centre-circle with the Geneva cross.

Digitized by Google
-73-

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG.

—A College athletic trust!

It sounds queer, but that is what many college, graduates and undergraduates of universities other than Yale, Harvard and Princeton say is in the air. Harvard wants it, it is claimed, Princeton is willing to be a partner to it and Yale will be drawn into it by circumstances.

The situation is the outcome of overtures for a renewal of football contests between the Crimson and the Tigers and the proposition of the Cambridge athletic authorities to reduce the number of contests in all sports. In football alone that would mean three big contests of the year that would dim all other intercollegiate ones.

* * *

—Hereafter sprints will be eliminated from outdoor amateur championship swimming races in this country, while distances in the indoor contests will be 500 and 1,000 yards instead of one-quarter of a mile and one. mile. The outdoor course has also been scratched, owing to the difficulties in finding a fair dead course, and water polo will not be played in the open because of dangers the contestants may encounter. The breast and back stroke races remain on both the indoor and outdoor lists, but the distances have been changed. These modifications of the championship program were decided on at the last meeting of the National Championship Committee of the A. A. U.

Following is a full list of senior events adopted:

Indoors—100, 220, 500 and 1,000 yard swims; 150 yards back stroke; 200 yards breast stroke; relay race; plunge for distance; fancy diving of low board and water polo.

Outdoors—440, 880 yards and mile swims; 100. yards breast stroke; 100 yaj*ds back stroke, and fancy diving off 10, 20 and 30 feci boards.

A long-distance championship was also discussed. One will be held yearly, but it was thought best not to specify the distance, as the courses used for such an event differ in length and conditions.

* * *

—Can a big man be fast? .This question often discussed is readily answered in the careers of some of the real big men in the world of track and field athletics. In ordinary “conversation a “big man” is one who i3 tail^brq&d-shouldered, and weighing over 165 pounds, but in siports a hitman must tip the beam close to 200 pounds.

One of the finest examples of a fast big man is Tom J3he\lin, formerly of Yale University. Shevlin is big enough to throw a 16-pound hammer the good, distance pf 100 feet, yet he can travel with the speed of a deer. Those who have seen Shevlin play football, well know the marvelous speed with which he follows the pigskin, and have seen hiin time and time again overhaul the fleetest runners on the gridiron and bring them down with a sure tackle. In short, Shevlin, with his 200 pounds of bulk, can do his hundred yards in 10 3-5 seconds under any level conditions.

Digitized by Google
Look at Martin Sheridan, too! Six feet and over in height, slightly under the 200-mark, yet a ten three man in the hundred, and good for 16 1-5 seconds over the high hurdles. Can you beat that? Sheridan’s speed helps him well in throwing the discus, as it is in that last mighty, speedy “swish” of the classic saucer before it leaves his hand that he excels the other throwers and beats the world’s record at pleasure. In all feats of the athletic list Sheridan is doubtless the fastest man in the world to-day.

John Flanagan, the ten-time winner of the hammer throwing championship, is another big fellow who is fast. Eleven seconds in the sprint is pie for the big cop, and when he practises starts a bit he is rated a fifth faster. It is athletic history that all the fat men’s races (for runners over 200 pounds) are a mere gallop for Flanagan.

Dick Sheldon, the old Yale guard and champion shot putter, has the reputation of being a fast man, too. In his college days Sheldon was an All-American^ guard," and the marvel of speed on the gridiron. Dennis Horgan, another shot putter, who appears languid enough when in the seven foot-circle, is very fast on his feet.

Among the present sprinting champions we have several big men. Robertson, Seitz, Cartmell, and C. Parsons are all strapping specimens, Of the lot Robertson is the most remarkable as a fast heavyweight, because he tips the scales at 195 pounds, and appears altogether too heavily set up to perform well in the short sprints. In spite of this, Robbie can move with the best of them and to his credit has a dead heat with “Rube” Young of Syracuse in 9 4-5 seconds.

Fay Moulton, of Kansas City, who, while at Yale, ran almost record time in all distances up to the quarter mile, is also a big fellow. America has seldom seen a better all round short distance runner than Moulton, yet every time he went to the mark he carried on his bones very close to 200 pounds of muscles.

GUTSMUTH’S TEN COMMANDMENTS.

THIRD COMMANDMENT.

With all thy strength thou shalt avoid whatever weakens or impairs thy bodily powers; whatever hinders their development; or, whatever affects your manliness. Thou shalt hold thv body to strict discipline, that thou mayest live a long and honorable life.

Interpretation.—Thou shalt not give up thyself to effeminacy, nor to slothfulness, nor to an inordinate desire for pleasure; nor to vanity in dress. A good sword put into the fire, will be as lead. A strong body, given up to a life of ease and luxury, becomes as pulp. The life behind the stove, fear of work and of difficulty, is not of youth. Slothfulness is as rust upon the sword; it dulls the edge; gluttony defiles the body; makes foul with gases quick to form and difficult to remove. But strength and fortitude in bearing things stands for endurance; activity begets cheerfulness and force; temperance leads to self-control. Thus is assured the welfare of man.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-75-

extracts FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS.

—A hygienic measure of great importance is the contemplated reform of some Hebrew bakeries in one of our large cities. Representatives of twenty-five Hebrew societies of Philadelphia have protested against the unsanitary conditions of the Hebrew bake houses in the southern section of the city. Recommendations suggesting the use of filtered water in the making of bread, paving with cement the old bake cellars, ;md ten other changes were adopted and sent to the proprietors of the various bake houses. If the recommendations are not complied with within a specified time, the societies state that they will appeal to the Board of Health.—Charities.

—Dr. Burgerstein of Vienna at the Congress of Hygiene and Demography recently proposed the division of the schoolyear as follows; Opening of school in September, instruction for 31/2 months, 2 weeks vacation for Christmas, 3 months instruction, 2 weeks vacation at the end of the month of March, 3 months instruction, and vacation during July and August.

—Dr. Laser has made investigations regarding impediment of hearing in school children and states that 17.4 per cent, to 19.3 per cent, of all school children examined by means of the Politzer Hammer are more or less afflicted with defective hearing. There is no marked difference as to the frequency of this manifestation as regards sex or age. There is also no great difference as to which ear is affected, the right or the left. The cause of the affliction is as follows: Pharyngeal tonsils 153, Chronic discharge 34, Chronic Otitis Perecta 34, Thrombus 31, and Catarrh 12.

—Dr. Koenig of Halle states in the “Centralblatt fuer Allgemeine Gesundheitslehre” that 12 of every 40 children examined were mouth-breathers. He calls attention to the evil effects on the throat, lungs and ear this may have on the child. Parents should be instructed how necessary nosebreathing is to children, and that mouthbreathers should be examined by a physician as to the cause whether due to polypi, deviation of the nasal septum, pharyngeal tonsil, catarrh or enlarged tonsils. He also says, children should be taught not to blow their nose “into the ear,” i. e. not to blow both nostrils at once, but one at a time, to avoid forcing air into the custachian tubes.

—The mortality due to tuberculosis in Prussia continues to decrease to a considerable extent. According to the Royal Statistic Office of Prussia 64,445, i. e. 17.28 pro 10,000 inhabitants have died from consumption in 1906. The mortality due to Phthisis is thus shown to have gone down to the lowest figure reached so far, viz. from 31 per 10,000 living persons in 1886 to 17 in 1906.

i

/

Digitized by Google
-76-

—That muscular work is increased by .caffeine, the active principle of coffee, has been demonstrated by experiments made by Kraepelin and others, and more recently it has been varified by experiments made at Cambridge bp W. II. Rivers and H. N. Webber, an account of which was published in the November number of the Journal of Physiology. The edition of the New York Medical Journal states in the issue of December 14. 1907:	“The	conclusions reached by these authors,, they say, con-

firm those of practically all previous workers in that caffeine produces a distinct increase in the capacity for muscular work, this increase being not due to the various psychical factors which it was the special object of tlieir work to exclude' It is quite evident that a very considerable amount of variation is met with in different individuals; in some the rise in muscular capacity is not much greater than that which occasional variation might permit; in others, however, the increase in muscular capacity is very marked.

Variations of this, character are found in conjunction with modifications as to time reactions. In one individual the hightened muscular capacity was more or less constant, while in another it set in very early, but was .soon replaced by a decided fall toward the end of the experiment.

These and further variations showed that the action of caffeine was not so simple, and the authors contend that it lias a double effect. On the one hand caffeine may be said to diminish the effects of fatigue, while on the other there is a transitory stimulation which is followed by a reaction sufficiently pronounced to warrant the description of an acceleration of fatigue.

The authors hold that the contention of Kraepelin “that the action in increasing the height of the ergograph record has a peripheral seat” is probably correct, and their results tend to confirm this in showing by the double action of caffeine that it acts both peripherally and centrally. It is well known that caffeine acts on the isolated neuro-muscular mechanism, and Kraepelin’s experiments have further demonstrated that it has an effect on central activity by its action on the capacity for mental work. The authors conclusions are of interest in demonstrating the presence of this' double action on the capacity for muscular work ?*

F. Kr.

GRIP, HEART DISEASE, AND THE PACE THAT KILLS.

During the year 1907 heart disease is reported to have caused many more deaths than in 1906—in Chicago and Boston 13 per cent, more, in New York City 29, in Detroit 26, in Philadelphia 5, etc. Two factors are held responsible: the wear and tear of life in the present day and the prevalence of grip.

Such is the idress and strain of modern life that patients who are men of affairs can rot be made to take the prolonged rest which is imperative during convalescence from grip. Nay, even from the beginning of that serious disease, will they persist in leaving their homes as usual after breakfast, when they most decidedly should be in bed. There is

Digitized by

Google
—77—

this difficulty even with elderly men. One of these recently disobeyed his physician. “Such a fussy lot are those doctors; besides, an old horse that lies down never gets up,” he declared, putting on his overcoat and going to business. That afternoon he returned in collapse and died next day.

The fault is not with the medical profession, in whose power it unfortunately does not lie to command changes—however wise they may seem—in the manners and customs of the age. Their warnings against fast living, undue indulgence in food and intoxicants and agaiust business habits which induce such nerve tension as must inevitably wTeck the organism when it is visited by disease, may go on unheeded. But physicians are in duty bound to explain to every patient ill with grip the weakening effect on the heart muscle which the disease may have. To this is due the great weakness, listlessness and depression characteristic of grip. Sometimes death comes suddenly on comparatively slight exertion or exitement, the immediately 4 causative lesion being a dilated heart. Toxis action on the myocardium, a heightened blood pressure, especially as affecting the right cavities, paralysis of the cardiac plexus-such are the things to be feared in grip; and veiy much so when the arteries are hard and the kidneys ineficient. When the temperature changes have been marked and prolonged, when there is a weak, rapid, intermittent pulse, dyspnea, cyanosis of lips and finger tips, a. gray or dusky skin, epigastric pulsation, pain about the heart, right cardiac dul-ness and distension of the cervical veins, grave prognosis must be forthcoming.—Jour. A. M. A.

EMPLOYMENT, ITS EFFCT UPON HEALTH AND DISEASE.

The relation of occupation to mortality ratio has occupied the attention of medical men and scientists for many centuries. No more important subject can be studied, nor is there one which offers so large a field for investigation at the present time. Many facts and somewhat of statistics have been published from time to time, but we think that they have not claimed the attention of medical men that the subject warrants. Unquestionably mijch gpod would come from a more thorough acquaintance with this part played by. prophylaxis.

That there is a healthful and more active body and mind, less of decay or rust, greater happiness, more cheerful outlook upon life, less of nervous, a better and more pronounced action of all the organs of the body in those who are healthfully employed can not be disputed. Life is prolonged, personal relations are one with another more wholesome and welcome.	-

Unfortunately all methods of employment are not always conducive to health or peace of tnind, but much can be done to regulate this. Environment and habits are potent factors in enjoyable employment, occupation also influences largely the benefit of employment. All men and women should be in a measure compelled to work if only for the

Digitized by C^ooQle
—78—

benefit it assures. It improves the moral tone of humanity as well as it insures against faulty injurious, not to say vicious habits. "There woidd be less pauperism, fewer penal and eleemosynary institutions, the burdens of which are becoming more and more apparent. There would be fewer hospitals, infirmaries and dispensaries, and fewer demands for charity, following which the moral tone and self-reliant nature of man would be vastly improved. Let us all be employed at something wholesome, healthful and helpful. Occupation will prove a blessing far beyond our anticipations.—Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

—NO MAN OR WOMAN of sedentary occupation can hope to •neglected training of the body also be retrieved by later endeavor if keep permanently healthy unless he devotes some of his spare time to physical training. Neglect this and he may be certain of a breakdown some time or 'other—to-morrow perhaps, or twenty years hence, but come it will as inevitable as Fate.

BOOK REVIEW.

—PYRAMIDS AND POSTURES. Pyramids and Postures is the name of a compilation of fifty-two groupings drawn and arranged by Albert B. Wagner and published by the American Gymnasia Co., Boston, Mass. The groups contain from three to thirty-six people; 29 are floor \york, 3 on bucks, 5 on horses, 5 on parallel bars, 8 on ladders and 2 on a combination of apparatus. These groupings were originally published in “Physical Training,” but in the present more convenient booklet:form they will be of much more use to teachers and leaders, especially when planning exhibition work. Price 15 cents. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

-A WORLD FULL OF HALF-BTJILT PEOPLE. The world is full of half-built people. If any One doubt this, let him or her visit a Turkish bath, and note the number of people who are flat in the chest, round in the back, ponderous as to paunch and heavy in the jowl-people with outstanding shoulder blades and flat feet.

Out of a thousand people in this country there could be found scarcely three who had really fine figures. I made this statement advisedly, after many, many years of careful observation. And why is this so? Why are there so few people in this country, in the civilized world, who have bodies that are not a travesty of Him in whose image they are supposed to be created

The reasons are many, but may be grouped under one phrase— unhygienic and unwholesome conditions of living. Among these conditions may be mentioned dietary errors—food that is excessive in quantity, variety or frequency as to meals, and food taken under improper conditions, either of mind or body.—From “The Rebuilding of a Body,” by W. R. C. Latson, M. D., in “The Outing Magazine” for March.

Digitized by

Google
Catalog of Comieiilable Books on Physical Training

Anatomical Models. A Pictor al Representation of the Human Frame and Its Organs. Whittakers... .75

Anthropometric Chart.—By Dr. Fr Pfister.....	02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination.—By

Dr. J. W. beavers.......................... 1,50

Art of Attack and Defense. A Manuai 01 Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and

Boxing.—By Major W. J. Elliott ...............25

Art of Boxing, Dick’s.—A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-Defence. Illustrated. X27

pages .....................................   25

Art of Swimming (illustrated). By Rich. F.

Nelhgan.....................................  60

Art of Wrestling, Dick’s.—A Hand-Book of

Thorough Instruction in Wrestling..........  .25

Athletic Groupings, Taken from Life.—:By Dr.

Robert Nohr...................................25

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By Homer Curtis..... 1.00

Boy Problem, The. A Study in Social Pedagogy.—

By M. B. Forbush..........................  1.00

Children’s Old and New Singing Games. By

Mari R. Hofer......................-.......50

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz..... .60

Diet and Food.-—By Haig....................  x.co

Drills, Fancy, Ulustraded by Diagrams for Children.—By Kellogg........................  .25

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton....................  .30

Drills and Marches.—By Rook....................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude

Williams-Lundgren...........................  50

Dynamic Factors in Education.—O’Shea  ...... x.25

Education by Plays and Games.—Johnson....... 1.00

Efficient Life.—By Luther Halsey Gulick..... x.20

Elementary Apparatus Work of the German System of Gymnastics.—By E. H. Arnold, M.

D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton.............25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of, in Form of a

Catechism.—By Geo. Heintz, Sr.................25

Games—Education by Plays and.—Johnson....... x.oo

Games, Gymnastic.—Classified by E. H.' Arnold.

Compiled by Annie R. Hughes. Bound......... x.oo

Paper.........................................70

Games, Physical, for the Youth.—By A. Leibold... .20 Games for Schools and Gymnasia.—By W. C.

Schaefer. Boards.................  ...........5°

Games, 150.—By Carrie A. Harper............. x.io

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By

Maria Grey....................................70

Graded Appratus Work.—By S. P. Middleton.... 1.00

Gymnastic Exercises for Elementary Schools, Supplemented by Fancy Steps and Games. By

Harriet E. Trask...........................  .67

Gymnastic Tactics. Part I: Tactics of the Individual.—By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of

Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics.........20

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Publicand Private Schools and Gymnasiums —By W. A.

Stecher.................................    2.50

Gymnastic Nomenclature of the Y, M. C. A. of

North America.................................50

Good Health.—By Luther Halsey Gulick......... .50

Health, Strength and Power.—Dr. D. Sargent..... 1.75

do., bound elegant...................  «...	3.00

Horizontal Bar, The—By H. Butterworth....... 1.00

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids

and Games.—By H. Butterworth..............  x.oo

Indian Club Swinging, x, 2 and 3 Club Juggling.

“ “ “ ‘IiU<

—By Fr. E. Miller................  ..	x.oo

COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY Issues No. x, 2, 72 and 149 are out of print.

Infantry Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army... .75

Lateral Curvature of the Spine and Round Shoulders. By Dr. Robt. W. Lovett ........    1.75

Manual for PhysicalTraming. —By Dr; Carl^Ziegler .85 Manual of Exercises in Free Gymnastics and

Tactics.—Arranged by E. H. Arnold..............20

Manual of Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton Leibold...>...*......................	.65

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.. .50 Manual of Physical Training.—B> Dr. T. Toepel.. .50 May-Pole Possibilities, Illustrated, by Jennette E.

C. Lincoln..............................     1.25

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic, Part I.—By E.

H. Arnold, M. D.............................   35

Physical Exerases. A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics and Their Beneficial

Influence. By Dr. F. A Schmidt.................25

Physical Education by Muscular Exercise.—

By Dr. L. H. Gulick............................75

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Suder.

First and Second Grades.....................  .25

Third and Fourth Grades ..................... .25

Fifth Grade.................................  .30

Sixth Grade................................    30

Physical Training in the School Room,—By Hans

Ballin.....................................  x.oo

Physical Training.—By Dr. T. Toepel. 8 Grades,

each...........................................20

Physiology, of Bodily Exercise.—By Ferdinand

Lagrange, M. D....................  *....... 1 75

Popular Folk Games and Dances, arranged by

Mari R. Hofer....................  ........	.75

Practical Training for Athletics, Health and

Pleasure. By Rud. Faries, A. M , M. D....... x.oo

Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Six

Parts, each................................. .45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part	1:	60 Pyramids on one	Parallel Bar....70

“	II:	50	“	two “	Bars..... .55

“	III:	50	“	Table and chairs............55

“	IV:	70	“	“	“	“ .......70

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rletmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses....70

Second Part: 40 P>ramids on 3 and 4 Horses..... .50

50 Pyramids on x and on 2 Ladders .......... x.oo

Physical Nature of the Child.—By Rowe............qo

Personal Hygiene.—By Pyle...................-	x.50

School Hygiene.—By Edw. R. Shaw............... x.oo

Song-Roundels and Games.—By Henry Suder..........75

Statistical Methods.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse,

M. L. From the Physiological Laboratory, Lawrence Scientific School. Harvard University .25 System of Physical Culture.—Carl Betz.

First Book: Free Gymnastics................	.75

Second Book: Tactics.... ......................75

Third Book: Light Gymnastics...................75

Fourth Book: Physical Ex. of the Playgrounds .75

Free Gymnastics for District Schools...........35

Swedish System.—By Baron Nils Posse.

The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition....... 2.75

—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System. Cloth, 50 cts. Interleaved Cloth.....75

Town and City.—By Luther Halsey Gulick...........60

Wand Drill.—By R. Pertuch.........................1

$1.00; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Send vour orders to “Mind And Body/’ Heroic! Bdg., Milwaukee, Aftis

Digitized by C.ooole
—LET NO MAN DECEIVE HIMSELF. The absence of aches and pains,.the possession of a good appetite and the ability to sleep.well, to work hard, and enjoy life without physical activity is not a state that exists forever. A large inherited bank account that receives no deposits, hut is constantly a subject to draft, may stand considerable overdrawing, but some day the check returns with the cabalistic phrase across the face, ‘‘No funds.”

theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pro*.

Offers a two years' course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. . HOSPITAL CLINICS in MASSAGE and CORRECTIVE GYMNASTICS'. ;

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology* Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching.

14®"' For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa.

_	FRANK	W.	WHITE,	M.	D,	Dean.

THE GEISEL EXERCISER.

Entirely new, simple construction, durable and finished in full nickel. Adopted to home or gymnasium. Used by classes of the Springfield and Springdale, Mass., Turnvereins. Send for iree illustrated booklet.

TJH EODOR R. GJGISEL,	S	P	RING	FI	ELD, MASS

The Chautauqua Normal School of Physical Education—1908.

The summer term opens on July 6th and continues for six weeks. The daily hour schedule, covers seven periods of fifty minutes each. Three of these periods are devoted to lecture and four to Floor-work and Athletics.

Send for the circular giving a detailed statement of the various courses to JAY W. SEAVER, M. D..

New Haven, Conn.

Anthropometric Chart.

(Arranged for the Use in Gymnasia and Higher Schools.)

, BY

FRANZ PFISTER, M« D.

PRICE: Per Hundred $2.00; per Dozfen 25 Cent's Address:

7REIDBNKBR PUBLISHING CO* c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wte.

(Par3 ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
THE ________________

NEW YORK NORM ALSCHOOLof

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Prepares men and women to become

Teachers of Physical Education.

J©” All systems taught. — Specialist in every department. "©# Catalogue St* mallei* on application*

TEACHERS SUPPLIED. SWIMMING a feature.

DR. WATSON L. SAVAGE, President,

308 and 310 West 59th Street, New York City.

STATE COLLEGE WANTS MAN

We have been asked to find a physical director and track coach a State College. Permanent position.

A prominent university—a school having an enrollment of twelve hundred students—wants an athletic director for next year.

Woman’s College desires lady to take full charge of new gymnasium in September. Salary, $1200.00.

Other good openings to suit you. Write for full information.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

—1

ch for

F over

I

asium

i	*

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training, Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director, 307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

MEDART’S

3535 DeKalfa St

NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

should be in the hands of everyone interested in gymnasium work. It covers everything that is used in the gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

ST. LOWS, mo

WE OFFER

$1.00 CASH

For No. 1, 2, 9, and 24 of “Mind and Body.” if

FBEIDBNKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bid*., Milwaukee, W\%

Complete Volumes

-OF-

<<

MIND ifi BODY”

$1.00. Bd. $1.75.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO*, c. o. Herold Bid*., Milwaukee, Wla.

, - ^Digitized by[

?y GO(
CYMNAS IUM OUTFITTE R S

Gymnastic Apparatus Lockers Bowling; Alleys Playground Apparatus

Anthropometric Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT

MACHINE CO.

(

Write for Catalogs.	PROVIDENCE, R. I.,	U.S.A.

NORMAL COLLEGE # NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

415-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training. Established 18G1; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana, 1907.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: One-year course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate in Gymnastics (G. G ). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-vear course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address KARL J. KROH, President of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., 415—419 B. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind._

200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

Maria Grey,

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education,

..V . Milwaukee, Wis.

---	Price, 70c.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.