MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	JANUARY, 1931 No.	392

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianarolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECFER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New (Jim, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

«> — — ■ ■■	———♦

PHYSICAL HEALTH FACTORS IN A GUIDANCE PROGRAM*

By W. P. MacLean, Director of Physical Welfare, Morton High School,

Cicero, 111.

Mental and Physical; it is only on programs that the two can be separated. Without fine physical health and a high degree of vitality the last speaker could not have prepared and presented the scholarly and instructive paper which has just pleased us. If our pupil responds at all, he responds as a whole unit. When he goes to play he takes with him his I. Q., his mind, his emotions and his moral character, and what happens to them there may be quite as important as what happens to them in a Latin or algebra class.

I am what is popularly known as a Gym Teacher, the strong back and weak mind type. For one like me to have an opinion or an idea in your field would be sufficiently startling, to express it outside of a stadium or gymnasium would be down-

*) A talk given before the Personnel and Guidance Section of the Illinois Vocational Association. Fifth Annual Convention, Chicago, November 7, 1930.

Digitized by LjOOQle
286

right effrontery. This producer of second rate football teams, fencers, and tumblers, then will be but the voice of master minds in trying to present you the best that has been said in regard to “Physical Health Factors in a Guidance Program”. In this paper I have studiously avoided the inclusion of a personal opinion or an original idea. Much that I shall tell you is obvious and trite, but all of it was bom into the staid and unhurried respectability of academic life and owes none of its existence to the alarms and excitements that are nowadays associated with the perspirations and perplexities which are the natural concomitants of gymnasia and stadia. In the rush and worry of this, to me, unnatural activity, credit may not always be given where credit is due. You are indebted for this paper to Spencer, Locke, Rosseau, Schiller, James, Eliot, Darwin, Proctor, Allen, Bloomfield, Brewer, and Franklin Bobbitt. Most of all Franklin Bobbitt, who should in truth be making the speech. (Read his works, The Curriculum, and How to Make a Curriculum; it is most all in them.)

What has health to do with vocational counselling? Everything! In the first place we all know that people differ in physical health from the robust giant to the almost helpless cripple. It need not be pointed out that these at the lower end of the scale will not be wisely guided to take up draying, plumbing, stone-masonry and baggage handling. These require physical strength, while bookkeeping, telephone installing, piano tuning, designing, inspecting, writing, etc., do not. Studies have been made and reported by Schneider on the effect of noise, fatigue, and environment on the health of the worker and on the employee turn-over. The report of the Illinois Commission on occupational diseases shows that there are yet great health hazards in certain industries, not only from -accident and shattered nerves, but— arsenic poison for miners, lead poisoning for painters; pulmonary troubles from the dust incident to paper hanging, baking, and cement working, and the sharp grit breathed in by stone-masons; carbon monoxide from poorly ventilated places; strained eyes and other troubles from poorly lighted, crowded and unsanitary places of work. The hazards of chromium plating and working with radium and phosphorus are well knwon to us. How shall we guide cardiac cases? How shall we guide pulmonary cases? What of the effect of constantly wetting the skin of the hands on one with a sensitive skin? What of deafness? or nervous instability? What of the influence of the occupation on character and growth? Moral influences? (In all of these questions the physical health of the person to be guided is a factor.)

In the Report of the Committee on High Schools and Training Schools, Board of Education, New York City, 1914, Miss Kate Turner is quoted:

“The last speaker (Mr. Bloomfield) spoke of finding jobs for boys and girls. Now, that is just what we are not going to do, and that is just what we must not do. It is not going to give us any satisfaction to get jobs for boys and girls; the thing we must

Digitized by CjOOQle
287

keep in mind is what this boy and girl have come into the world for------”

I cannot find that Miss Turner was answered. No further reference is made to either her or her speech, but it seems to me that she sounded the keynote of vocational guidance,-----of educa-

tion. What is Education? It is all of the guidance, material and devices that will take the pupil from where he is to where we want him to be. Where do we want him to be? In a job? That is secondary. We want him to be a human being, a free man, a citizen.

Some work is energizing; some is enervating. Energizing work is done in the open air with some planning on the part of the worker, and there is a dependent sequence of operation. E. G. Farming—railroad work—the building trades. Railroad work is 100% energizing. The zero or most enervating work is that of a girl in a steam laundry with supersaturated, vitiated air, standing in strained positions, the monotonous feeding of a high speed machine, long hours indoors poisoning the blood, etc. Too much noise and tension to talk or to undulge in reverie is bad for the health, especially the nervous health, Schneider of Cincinnati, shows us. Workers need rest periods-some relaxation of the tension.

Formerly a worker performed a great variety of function in the completion of his task instead of endlessly repeating the same operation. Now the brain is in the machine. Man is an adjunct who works without light-physical or mental. Schneider’s research shows that the higher centers are in danger of getting into a permanent, inelastic, hopeless set if a lively stimulus is not supplied. In all human beings there is an innate desire for self-expression. It cannot be dammed up long. Since there is no outlet in the worker’s daily task, it must come during his idle hours and sometime takes a form which leads to many of our most vexing sociological and health problems. Energizing work is decreasing. Enervating work is increasing. The land of citizenship that a republic needs cannot be built on sixty hours per week of automatic work. It is fundamental that mankind must have stimulating activity or retrogress. Your pupils should know what to look for and avoid. All pupils should be schooled in these matters, through guidance, through occupational courses, through industrial arts and social study courses, whether they are to be employees or employers, so that informed social control may improve what is improvable.

Morrisson says: “In vocational education we seek craftman-ship, trade intelligence, proficiency. In practical arts courses we seek an intelligent attitude which the layman should have.” As vocational consellors, what do we seek? The improvement of the product? Or the improvement of society? “The purpose of occupational training and guidance is the removal through general enlightenment of injurious or destructive labor conditions.”

Digitized by ^.ooQle
288

Says Bobbitt: “In the imperfections of the occupational world one finds the call for directed vocational training”.

Our objective is Right Mental Attitudes—a viewpoint. We must take care of the human element. The driving force must lie within the will of the worker. What sort of job do I want? What sort of job do I want for my boy?

Eliot answers: “There is real pleasure in bodily exertion, particularly with the companionship of man or animals, and competition. There is pleasure in mere struggle, if it be not hopeless, and in overcoming resistance, obstacles, and hardships.” Note: companionship-competition-struggle-overcoming obstacles.

Where do we train children for these and the right attitudes toward them? Not in shops, but rather on the playground.

We are coming to recognize the value of harnessing up the play motive when we wish strenuous exertion. The thing that one enjoys is the thing at which he will strain every nerve. First, there is pleasure in the doing. Second, pleasure in the product. Last, there is pleasure in the personal gain.

“A vigorous health and its accompanying high spirits are larger elements of happiness than any other things whatever,” said Spencer. “The teaching how to maintain them is a teaching that should yield in moment to no other whatever.”

A vocational program that curtails play and neglects health, and a guidance interview that is not mostly a recreation and health interview are sociological mistakes. For training for a high level of physical vitality is one of the most fundamental aspects of training for vocational efficiency. The devitalized individual is nervous, inco-ordinated, uncertain in his movements and inhibitions, a menace in any shop. The range of his mental life is narrowed. He does not see many things at one time, and his failure to observe all of the things related to his work involves him in mistakes and accidents. He is the type of man that industry nowadays is trying to eliminate. Play, health, vitality, then, are of first importance in vocational training and guidance.

Recent psychology tells us that man has a long period of childhood and youth in order that he may play. He plays, not because he is young, but he is long young in order that he may play, and thus through active experience, secure his education. Play is nature's active mode of education. Shall the boy develop the social abilities necessary for full co-operation with the members of his social group? Nature provides instinctive tendencies to participate in group plays, social games and conversations, which develop his social nature, fix his social habits and cement social solidarity. To say that portions of serious education are to be on the order of play no longer shocks a practical minded people as it once did. Our biology, psychology, and sociology have recently shown the serious values of play and the vital function it has always performed and must perform in human life. For whatever the field of man’s activity, it is this that lays the foundation for the serious specialized matters that are to come
289

later. It is man's basic training and in the present world of infinite complexity, demanding world wide vision and sympathies, it needs to be full, rich, and extensive. It is man’s salvation in this age of increasingly enervating occupations and should not be curtailed to some highly probable increase in productive efficiency.

A man is a whole man only when he plays,” says Schiller. “Man plays only when he is a human being in the fullest sense of the word, and has reached full humanity only when he plays. “This proposition will acquire great and deep significance when we shall learn to refer to it the doubly serious ideas of duty and destiny. It will then sustain the entire superstructure of aesthetic art and of the yet more difficult art of life.”

Play—leisure—has been traditionally for gentlemen. Locke’s educational theories were for gentlemen, as were Rousseau’s. In America we are all gentlemen. At least our equal educational opportunities should make us so. We all have leisure—some too much at present. It all gets back to Miss Turner’s question: What are we put into the world for? To be printers, painters, laundry workers, the automatic parts of clever machines—or human beings to the fullest extent?

Our criminals are recruited from those who have never learned, to play. A great many anti-social, anti-group acts are due to a low level of physical vitality. The agitators and trouble makers in industry are recruited from those who have not learned to maintain health at a high level, who have not been educated to relieve the monotony of countless repetitions by appropriate play. They have not learned in school to transform the work activities with the play spirit. E. g. Edison, “I think I have never done a day’s work in my life”. The General Electric could not induce Steinmetz to take a salary for his invaluable work. Devoting ten to twenty hours a day to laboratories and shops, their work has been so fully vivified by the quickening spirit of play that sense of drudgery and bondage of conditions are eliminated.

A man is free when he feels himself master over his work, rather than its slave. Since work of this transfigured type is really more accurate, proficient, and productive of material results, this transfiguration is one of the most important goals in vocational training and occupational guidance. When men are not what they should be, when they fall below what we may term the “norm” of human life, it is not all due to heredity. In a large part it is due to differing developmental conditions that can be helped by us.

Quoting James: “Compare the accomplished gentlemen with the poor artisan or tradesman of a city. During the adolescence of the former, sport came to the rescue and completed his education, where real things were lacking. He has tasted of the essence of every side of human life being sailor, hunter, athlete, scholar, fighter, man of affairs, all in one. Over the city poor

Digitized by k^ooQle
290

boy's youth no such golden opportunities were hung”—No, we say to him—“You are going to spend most of your life in a shop or factory, anyhow, so to get you used to it and to make a better producing machine of you, we shall curtail your sports, your variety of experience so that you may spend three to four hours per day in a shop and vitrify all the sooner.” “Being deprived of these golden opportunities in youth, in his manhood the poor city worker has no desire for more of them. Fortunate it is for him if gaps are the only anomalies his instinctive life presents; perversions are too often the fruit of his unnatural bringing up.” “Sport came to the rescue.” Play is nature’s method of building out those aspects of personality that are otherwise incomplete and barren of experience. Play is nature’s normalizer.

Darwin, speaking of himself after the age of thirty, said in his autobiography, “If I had to live my life over again, I would have made it a rule to read some poetry and listen to some music at least once every week; for perhaps the parts of my brain now atrophied would thus have been kept alive through use. The loss of these tastes is a loss of happiness and may possibly be injurious to the intellect and more probably to the moral character, by enfeebling the emotional parts of nature.”

Specialization, especially early specialization, can mold us in such narrow grooves and provide us with such meager opportunities for experiences that we can pass through life in a state of littleness. It is to live but half a life—or less. The result— social ill health, social disintegration, enfeebled social sympathies, inco-ordination of individuals within the group except as enforced by external authority, social unresponsiveness, lack of consideration for others, lack of tact, social irresponsibility, etc.

The lack of respect accorded horny handed labor lies much deeper than mere external appearances. It is the disfigurement of man’s personality due to the lack of humanistic opportunities. It is not the fault of the man, but of the conditions under which his nature was unfolded, his education. Industrial vocational education designed to increase productive efficiency is not the equalizer if men are to become more equal.

Industrial arts courses for better understanding and improved social control—yes. Try-out and exploratory trade course in their proper time and place designed to aid guidance—yes.

Vocational courses that tend to simulate all of the undesirable conditions of the actual trade and take long hours away from hygiene, play, music, poetry, literature, drawing, and science —no. These do not train for industry, because industry doesn’t know where it will be four years from now; in truth it doesn’t know where it is now. Shall we use educational facilities to prolong the period of mechanistic monotony? If a child, because of economic need, must leave school during adolescence, let us guide and counsel to enrich the life that is likely to be impoverished, by:

Digitized by

Google
291

1.	Correcting all physical defects.

2.	Pointing the way to healthful living.

3.	Providing opportunities for additional activities in: Play—music, literature, art, dramatics, civics, science.

Giving the preliminary and accessory training that will make for, not good plumbing and better metal working, but high grade human living.

ANNOUNCEMENT

Mr. Emil Rath, president of the Mid-West Society of the American Physical Education Association, President of the Indianapolis Normal College, A.G.U., and well known author of books in the field of physical education, has accepted an invitation from Mind ana Body to write for its pages a series of articles on A PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM FOR BOYS OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS. The first of these articles which will appear over a period of several months is printed in this issue. It presents the basic considerations of the program. Our readers will be especially pleased to know that helpful lesson plans are to appear in later issues.

A PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM FOR BOYS OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

By Emil Rath

Basic Considerations Of The Program

A program of actitivies for the Junior and Senior High School boy must base its selection of subject-matter upon the biological, mental, moral, and social needs and capacities of the adolescent youth with a view of achieving or, at least, approximating a fine physique, proper attitudes toward wholesome physical education and fine standards of social behaviour. That a finely developed body is a responsive instrument, a sensitive organ of expression for the soul and personality of an individual is a well-known fact. The organization of a program which, through its activities endeavors to produce such results is, therefore, an important department of the high school.

Some types of program will not produce this basic requisite for the living of the fuller life briefly defined above. It must be varied, for the human body is made up of many organic systems whose largest growth and developmental periods are partly placed in some phase of adolescent life (1-2). These have definite needs satisfied only by a large diversity and quantity of motor

1.	Tracy, Fr„ “The Psychology of Adolescence, III, 28, 29, 30.

2.	Hartwell, E.M., Report of Director Physical Training, Boston, School document No. 8 1894, p. 46.

Digitized by
292

activities	(3) which,	if neglected	in youth,	cannot be gained in

later life.	A carefully planned training of	the adolescent youth

may be made the keystone of a successful adult career.

Growth and Development:	Before	proceeding in the dis-

cussion an understanding of the terms “growth" and “development” as	used here	is essential.	Growth	deals with change in

structure.	It is an	increase in	mass in	tissue. Hetherington

characterizes it as “the product of hereditary momentum started at conception. It drives to completion of the structural and fucntional type latent in the germ plasm; i.e., the height, proportions, color, and response tendencies.” (4)

The body will tend to grow into the physique which heredity determines under the usual ordinary living conditions, i.e., on the basis of powers inherited and a fair environment. But its functions will be crude, narrow, and simple and its growth not quite completed. To improve the functions the latent powers inherent in the systems of the human organism need to be developed. Bringing forth these dormant capacities by means of a variety of exercises, or as Williams puts it “organizing the tissues into functional units of power,” is termed development and implies education. Thus physical education’s prime concern is development; i.e., the unfolding of such biological capacities as those of skill, speed, endurance, strength, alertness and others, and of the developmental possibilities of the instinctive and intellectual mechanisms.

No definite conclusions based on scientific evidence have been reached as to the influence of function on structure and vice versa. There are some morphologists who claim that structure modifies functions; on the other hand there are physiologists who advance the opinion that function makes structure. Conklin thinks structure and function may modify and condition each other, and that they are merely two aspects of the same thing, namely, organization. (5)

Factors Affecting Growth and Development:	It	is	a

common thing to note the immediate reciprocal influence exerted by physical education on such traits of structure as height, weight and other measurable items, and in turn the influence of these morphological changes on achievement in activities. They will be referred to later. The point that should be emphasized here is their intimate relationship.

The growth of the skeletal system continues under almost any circumstances. This is due to internal secretions, and also due to the fact that growth urge is so powerful as to absorb other tissue if insufficient nourishment interferes with its general anabolic process. (6) But this is not true of the muscular or nervous systems. Considering the single factor of inactivity as

3.	Hetherington, Clark, School Program in Physical Education, 35.

4.	Hetherington, Clark, School Program in Physical Education, 40-41.

5.	Conklin, E.S., Heredity and Environment, I, 35, 36, II, 68.

6.	Howell, W.H., Text Book of Psysiohlogy, LIV, 983.

Digitized by

Google
293

interference with growth, many individuals have observed (and not a few experienced) without the aid of measuring instruments, the great difference between the normal functioning arm (7-8) and an injured arm carried in a splint for even a few weeks. The latter shows tendency to atrophy, lacks tonus and strength, and is uncertain in movement. While inactivity decreases the power of muscles regularity and frequency of exercise improves the general functioning of the musculature. It increases both bulk and quality of muscle and improves the coordination. All activities involving the neuro-muscular system as vaulting, apparatus work, tumbling, swimming, track and field events, games, as well as the lighter forms, dancing and foundational exercises that involve skill, will improve quality and quantity of muscle as well as coordinative powers. Marked internal changes in the muscle tissue are produced which are potent stimulants for muscular growth. (8).

O’Shea points out(9) that “motor activity is the chief characteristic of the young” and this is much interferred with in school work. “That the child thinks with his muscle is coming to be an accepted doctrine.”

Growth is furthermore interferred with by disease and physical handicaps as adenoids, tonsils, and other defects as shown by Baldwin(lO). Ayres(ll) finds a greater percentage of each sort of defect among dull children than among bright children of same age and Porter, according to Baldwin,(12) finds “precocious children heavier, and dull children lighter than the mean children of the same age.” Disregarding the relationship of intellignece and physical growth and development claimed to exist by Porter, Sippel,(13) Ayres, and others, nevertheless, these observations give support to the need and importance of medical and physical examinations as divisions of the physical education program. Just what progress in bodily development could be made in the face of such obstructional handicaps referred to above has not been determined. Physical education might do a service to society by ascertaining to what extent these harmful conditions could be counteracted by a wisely selected and carefully planned system of activities and whether some of them might not be avoided by beginning early in the life of a child with a program consisting of a large quantity of varied motor activities, carefully adapted. However, to attain the maximum results of physical education, such defects must be eliminated. The examiner should insist upon it.

7.	Conklin, E.S., Heredity and Environment, IV, 224.

8. Schmidt, F.A., Phy§iologie der Leibesuebungen, V, 06, 69.

8. Schmidt, F.A., Physiologie der Leibesuebungen, V. 68, 69.

9.	O'Shea, M.V., Dynamic Factors in Education, XI, 163.

10.	Baldwin, Bird T., Physical Growth of Children, V. 92-94.

11.	Ayres, L.P., Laggards in Our Schools, XII,125-131.

12.	Baldwin, Bird T., Physical Growth of Children, IX, 236.

13.	Sippel, Hans., Leibesuebungen und geistige Ermuending, I, 1-8.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
294

Some educators are of the opinion that regulated motor activity is one of the most important factors influencing health. Immunisation must be mentioned also. It is making rapid progress in the prevention of infectious diesases. Physical education also seems to influence the body, in some manner not clearly understood, by increasing its resistance to disease, probably by strengthening the whole mechanism of defense against attacks of bacteria.

This assumption is not verifiable by experiments. There is at least, no literature on this subject. The conclusion receives some support, however, from investigations made on Albino rats. Merrill and Howe found that “trained rats were very resistant even though subjected to the worst conditions,” and that this “seems to point in the direction of the advantage of habits of regular exercise as an insurance against damaging effect of infection.”^)

Hereditary influences affect growth and development but environment also plays a part not to be ignored.(15-16) Good nature may be thwarted in its growth tendency by bad nature, due to ignorance, economic conditions, or unavoidable catastro-phies. The blockade of the late war left its irreparable effect upon thousands of European children.

But lack of nutrition is not the only cause of impaired growth and development. Lack of exercise produces similar results. Godin’s experiment conducted over a period of 3 1-2 years with 100 adolescent youths(17) of Paris showed that those taking part in physical training made greater gains in weight, height, and girth of chest than those who did not. A similar experiment conducted by Matthias in 1916 gave support to this conclusion. It involved 757 youths from 16 to 21 years of age and required over 70,000 measurements including the girth of thigh, leg, and biceps in addition to the items Godin measured. The result showed distinct gains by those taking physical work over the abstaining group. (17) To convince himself that the group making such gains was not favored by heredity, Matthias induced the non-exercising group to join the physical training classes for a year. The results were similar, thus demonstrating the importance of motor activity as a stimulant for growth. In both experiments the activities were of the type usually contained in a physical education lesson.

Suppel concludes from these experiments, “that bodily exercises are an effective means of vigorously stimulating the “potential growth tendencies present in the organism.” And further, that

14.	Merril, Ida B., & Howe, E.G., “The Effect of Exercise and Fatigue Upon Resistance of Infection,” in A.P.E.Review, Feb. 1928.

15.	Conklin, E.G., Heredity and Environment, IV. 239.

16.	Glendening, Logan. The Human Body, II. 29-43.

17.	Sippel, Hans, Leibesuebungen und Geistige Ermuedung, II, 10-15.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
295

“the adolsecent years are more prone to this stimulation than maturity,” a conscluion concurred in by Hetherington, (18) who also believes that youth is the best time for these activities.

The question might be raised, whether random play, or the following of one particular favorite sport, would not produce results as gratifying as those produced by the physical education lesson. No studies are available to answer this. That the tendency to do the thing liked best might result in a narrowing of the effect and a smothering rather than developing of latent physical capacities seems reasonable to assume. If parts of the organism, which in the adolescent years should be reaching their complete growth, lack thorough stimulation, full growth will not result, according to the above conclusion. That in consequence of this the organs may not develop full functioning power, one might accept tentatively until the results of more definite experiments are available. In this connection Tyler’s suggestion (19) that the amount of exercise should be sufficient to promote healthy growth rather than to see how much an organism can bear is of significance.

Exercise and the Vital Organs: The circulatory and respiratory organs have a particular significance in adolescents in respect to the conviction that growth is encouraged by stimulation, since in this period a foundation for a robust physique is laid. Hetherington has stated (20) that organic development must be gained by vigorous activities practiced all through childhood and youth.

No less important are the other visceral systems, involved in the processes of nutrition and metabolism. The outstanding adolescent characteristic of these systems is their marked growth, which may be appropriate exercises(21J.

While the entire circulatory system seems to possess a growth spurt at this time, all parts do not increase equally. The heart grows faster than the arteries causing a condition to which it must adjust itself. The volume of the heart increases twelve fold while the diameter of the arteries increases only three fold. This adjustment requires increased systolic power necessary to force the blood stream through relatively smaller vessels, (22-23) than existed before the accelerated growth began. Adjustment of this change, no doubt, takes place in the same degree in which the growth occurs. Nevertheless, many cardiac functional disturbances prevail at this time. These, however, are usually removed by careful medical treatment. (22)

That activities which place a strain upon the heart must be avoided when this condition exists is obvious: also, that a

18.	Hetherington, Clark. School Program of Physical Education, 34, 35, 38.

19.	Tyler, J.M., Growth and Education III, 56.

20.	Hetherington, Clark, School Program of Physical Education, 35-38.

21.	Schmidt, F.A., Physiologie der Leibesuebingen, XI, 152.

22.	Williams, F.J., The Principles of Physical Education, III, 111-113.

23.	McKenzie, R. T., Exercise in Education and Medicine, III, 54-55.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
296

medical examination is essential to discover these cardiac disturbances. In schools where this is not given there should be available a teacher of physical education sufficiently trained to make physical examinations. These may frequently reveal pathological cardiac conditions and other abnormalities which the physical educator can discover. He can then suggert cautious procedure and further examination by the family physician. The keenly observant teacher at times discovers disturbances revealed by symptoms manifested by pupils in action. These deviations from the normal support the cconclusion that the strengthening of this important organ must be carefully undertaken and also that it must not lag. Short maximum effort in dashes, activities as jumping, throwing, and endurance work, providing the latter does not produce exhaustion, stimulate the growth of both heart and lungs and increase the power of these organs. (24)

To conclude that this result may be accomplished by a few weeks’ practice during a training season for competition has never been seriously maintained,. Luby,(25) who during the exigencies of the world war saw the ill-effects of hurried conditioning in the general physical unfitness of many men of the army, calls this procedure a “vicious, pernicious system” and agrees with the opinion expressed by Coughlin, Leo, Abbott, Darlington and Stakes that many adult ailments are due to short periods of overtraining in youth.

Dublin, (26) who tried to prove that college athletes have a greater longevity than non-athletes, was rather disappointed in his findings. Although college athletes made a somewhat better showing than the mortality tables called for, this was discounted by the fact that these men composed the cream of American manhood, selected specimens of physical hardihood, while the mortality tables are composed of a mixed lot.

The further fact, disclosed by Dublin’s study, that the death rate due to heart disease among college men over 45 is 60% higher than that of the regular mortality list, may give us cause for thought (college men 32%, others 20%). Luby would have all athletic activities classified according to their effect upon the heart, and youths grouped into classes corresponding to the burden of work the heart could carry.

The question arises whether athletic competition is to be considered the chief purpose and content of a boy’s training program. Is not preparation for life more significant? Should not competitive athletics supplement a rational program for such as are physically qualified?

24.	Schmidt, F.A., Physiologie der Leibesuebungen, VIII, 124-125.

25.	Luby, r.F., “Ahtletics and Their Relation to War”, Reprint from US. Naval Medical Bulletin, Vo.l 12, No. 4, 1918.

26.	Dublin, L.I., “Longevity of College Athletes” Reprint from Harper’s monthly magazine, July ’28.

Digitized by ^ooQle
297

That heart enlargement is the immediate effect of vigorous competitive work in a large percentage of contestants who compete regularly is the conclusion of Deutsch and Kauf. (27) Their study of the effect of athletics on the heart is a complete piece of investigation. They do not feel that individuals with hypertrophied hearts need to abstain from further competition in all cases. It is essential, however, that strictest medical supervision be practiced. In fact, all athletes should be regularly examined by specially trained doctors.

In view of the findings of Dublin, it appears that not enough is known of the remote effects of competitive athletics to come to a definite decision although the immediate effects are sufficiently understood. Nevertheless, the inference is entirely justified that cautious procedure prevail. There is indeed a lack of knowledge bearing upon the influence of excessive competition during adolescent years. Here is an important and worthwhile field of investigation for physical educators.

It appears, then, that with our present information on this subject it is best to make moderate use of vigorous competitive work, particularly during early adolescence when the heart, lung, nervous system, in fact the whole organism is in a state of growth and instability. The entire organic system needs stimulation, and the program should be as varied as the human organism itself to satisfy biological needs and create biological values. According to Deutsch and Kauf these are best obtained by exercise for pleasure, (28) which “strengthens the whole organism.”

Exercise and the Neuro-muscular System: The awkwardness often found during this stage, Tracy infers, is due to the assymetrical character of growth.(29) There seems to be no balanced increase in the different parts of the body. Harmony of growth is lost and this, one may conclude, results in disturbance of established coordinations. Hollingsworth calls her chapter devoted to adolescence, the “Awkward Age.”(30) To reestablish, or better permanently establish coordinative control of the body, appropriate motor activities are needed which stimulate the growth of the nervous system. This is perfected into a complicated system at this time. With the completion of medullation necessary for highest conductivity of impulses, it grows into an efficient structure.

The assymetrical character of growth referred to above combined with the absence of nerve control make it imperative to reteach some of the most common activities. The youth loses his proper carriage in standing and walking; running and jumping do not appear so easy. If bad motor habits are to be avoided

27.	Deutsch, Felix und Kauf, Emil, Heart and Athletics, IX, 172-173.

27. Deutsch, Felix and Kauf, Emil, Heart and Athletics, IX, 172-173.

28. Deutsch, Felix and Kauf, Emil, Heart and Ahtletics, III, 34-43.

29.	Tracy, F., The Psycho of Adolescence III, 29-30.

30.	Hollingsworth, H.L., Mental Growth and Decline XII.
298

particularly in standing and walking, these activities must constantly receive attention. A lesson should not be considered complete in which no time is devoted to posture in standing and walking. A thoroughly developed musculature keeping pace with these growth changes in adolesecence will help in reducing the handicaps produced in this discordant period. An understanding of a system of foundational free exercises taught with proper emphasis on the need of the individual will serve as a short cut in overcoming these physical disturbances. This does not mean that other types of activities, particularly those self-testing in nature, and organized games should be neglected.

Exercise and the Sex Instinct: We are now ready to consider another important item in the metamorphosis of the child into a man. Every writer on adolescence has stressed the significance of the ripening of the sex functions which usher in this period. The girl usually develops 1 1-2 to 2 years in advance of the boy. With the maturing of the physiological functions of sex, a new attitude toward life is established and powerful drives are unfolded. The boy exerts himself to the utmost in the presence of the opposite sex in contests, games, and in the display of his ability in stunts, while girls take greater pride in their appearance and general behaviour. The boy indulges in things which require courage and daring and skill. These and other types of activities will prove excellent means of “long circuiting” the sex susceptibilities and impulses of this period.

These physical qualifications are not entirely absent in girls. They also display their agility and skill as well as their gracefulness of movement. The fact is that a purely masculine or purely feminine type of individual is rarely found. There are many shades of variations of both sexes. All degrees of femininity are found among men and of masculinity among women. Therefore, boys can be made to like many of the physical activities indulged in primarily by girls and vice versa. This requires a skillful teacher and is easier to bring about in middle or late adolescence (31,32,33) than early.

The adolescent period of the boy should be used to develop an interest in the body beautiful and an appreciation of the beauty of movement. Anthropometric measurements, even if only of a few important items, which call attention to the beauty of a symmetrically developed figure will motivate interest in harmonious development. This will encourage the radiation of the sex instinct into the form of esthetic enjoyment and expression lacking in our present day secondary physical education.

The finer human sentiments are crowded out of the life of the high school boy in physical education by the baser and cruder instincts which prevail in contests. These fine sentiments

31.	Pringle, R. W., Adolescence and High School Problems, V. 59-62.

32.	Blanchard, Phyllis, The Child and Society XI, 233-235.

33.	Tracy, Fr., The Psychology of Adolescence, X.

Digitized by

Google _	_	_	-
299

are also e sential. Out of them we expect a nobler type of behaviour, but it is necessary to parallel the one with the other.

Athletic contests of various kinds have both a preventive and positive influence on sex life. (34) They relieve the sex strain by using up the sex energy. Vigorous work in the open air will use up the excess of vitality, produce wholesome tiredness, and sound sleep. The physically fatigued boy finds protection from the pressure of the sex strain in his own tiredness.

Dr. J. Stanley Hall and Dr. Winfield Hall emphasize the importance of activity as a “diffuser, irradiator, and mitigator of sexual stress.’’ The latter speaks of athletics as a secondary sex activity when girls are present “causing the secretion of the spermatin and the development of virility.” It is difficult to subscribe to this far-fetched conviction.

Exercise and Social Behaviour:	Organized	games and

contests are also of importance in education and are of interest to adolescent boys because a new era has arrived in their lives— the dawn of a social consciousness, the blossoming of the group-mind, a feeling of belonging. The team games give many opportunities for the expiession of this group spirit and therefore much satisfaction. (35)

In their organization these games must obviously be adapted to the other phases of youthful development. The immaturity, physically and mentally, as well as the budding social .being govern the degree of cooperation and the nature of the activities, that may be required. Games classified as of low and medium degree of organization involving cooperation and other social problems within the scope of adc

team contests, and other kinds „	,	   ;

tumbling, vaulting, etc.(36) find a place in the senior high school. The adolescent youth often shows a disregard of thoughtful action. This is reflected in the disparity between judgment and moral control. The whole psychic being seems to be in a ferment which in many cases approaches a “storm and stress” stage. (37) Paralleling the moral instability of this period is the growth of the social being and the powerful love for motor activity. With these as a basis, a code of sportsmanship will likely be subscribed to because there is a deep appreciation of moral principles as distinguished from arbitrary rules. Such a code will serve the purpose of giving boys deeper insight into their relations with each other and hold them strictly to honest and just action in their intercourse. Such traits as honesty, obedience to rules, truthfulness, considering the rights of others,

34.	Curtis, H.S., Education Through Play, XI, 225-228.

35.	Berry, Elmer, The Philosophy of Athletics, II, 13-21.

36.	Schmidt, F.A., Physiologic der Leibesuebungen, XI, 156.

37.	Norsworthy, Naomi & V hitley, Mary Theodora, Psychology of Childhood, XIII, 252-253.

These powers are growing

Digitized by

Google
300

and many more included in the sportsmanship term of “playing fair,” which constantly crop up on physical education work ought to be earnestly and consistently looked for by the instructor with a view of shaping them into habits and attitudes.

That these traits acquired in unusual situations will function in life and become permanent character values is not generally accepted. (38) Nevertheless, many situations constantly arise in the work, requiring controlled and guided social behaviour by the pupil in order that these activities may be participated in by a large group with pleasure and without disturbance; and conducted uninterruptedly and in orderly manner. Thus a code of ethics in correct social behaviour is an essential part in the practical teaching procedure regardless of its carry-over value.

With this process, ability for self-direction should develop, and we may at least cherish the hope that the virtues named will be an influence in the buliding of character.

With diligent supervision and direction a respect for personal property may be inculcated by the keen, patient and sympathetic teacher during the high school age. That this is lacking is borne out by the great amount of theft found in high schools. (39,40) Very much of this is done to gratify immediate wants and desires although in early adolescence it is also done to satisfy a sense of vanity.(41) The carelessly controlled dressing room is frequently a source of temptation. Insistence on honesty at all times druing contests and games with occasional digressive remarks emphasing its value for life would appear appropriate.

While the social and moral status of the high school boy serves the instructor as a fairly accurate guide for the selection of activities, the emotional states prevailing offer no such definite criteria. Changes from the crest of exhilaration and joy to the depth of gloom and despair are frequent. Likes of today become dislikes tomorrow. This is often manifested in his estimation of himself varying from personal pride and self-complacency to distrust and even self-loathing. (42) Thus it may happen that his attitude toward his teacher and the work may undergo similar freakish alternations. This makes his choice for activities of a physical education program frequently unreliable. If the teacher has gained the admiration and trust of his pupils at this stage, their tendency for hero worship will make him their ideal and his wish becomes their law.

On a mental side, reasoning blossoms more fully. In fact, “there is a marked acceleration in the development of the whole psychic life,” says Tracy. The will awakens into a realization of its own power, which coupled with the dawning of a consciousness

39.	Tracy, F., The Psychology of Adolescence, XII, 157.

40.	Pringle, R.W., Adolescence and High School Problems VII 109-111.

41.	Hall, G. Stanley, Adolescence, V, 363-365.

42.	Tracy, F., The Psychology of Adolescence, VI, 80-81.

_Digitized by Google
301

of self arouses in the adolescent boy the desire for supremacy and the disposition to attempt feats of courage.

The training of the will in its greatest virtue, daring, and in tenacity and intensity, is important at this time. (43) The program will fail if due consideration is not given to activities like diving and swimming, tumbling, vaulting, and apparatus work, which because of the apparent danger involved stimulate toward achievement. All phases of the will occur in these activities. Tenacity is exercised because many repetitions are required for the final achievement and courage because of the overcoming of obstacles and the feeling of fear aroused by the undertaking although there is but little danger, if any, involved. In games the spirit of determination predominates; while courage occurs in a lesser degree. Such training is expected to develop the habit of courageous and decisive action and eliminate the indecision frequently found.

In volitional activities of this type, the mind is compelled to be active in reasoning out the problems presented. It is ready in adolescence for such tasks. These problems are closer to life than many of the tasks reasoning deals with in the classroom. Instinctive tendencies assert themselves during adolescence as well as earlier in life. Certain new phases dealing with social life crop out. Rivalry and emulation continue. All these drive the adolescent youth toward definite types of activities previously mentioned Hetherington concludes that the fundamental instincts and emotions are at the bottom of the urge to action.(44)

One of the important phyletic instincts which blossoms at this stage of development is the fighting instinct. Combative activities like boxing, fencing, wrestling, and others make a strong appeal to the adolescent youth. Hall(45' thinks ability to fight essential for a high and true sense of honor and virile masculinity. He shows its prevalence and significance among many natures and in many forms.

Specialization in Activity: The physical growth of the adolescent youth is not completed during his high school years,but there is little change after 16 years of age. Full growth is only attained between the 20th and 23rd years; while motor power is greatest in development between 15-19.(46) After 16, the body becomes more firmly knit if the training has been of the right kind. The organism is approaching its completion and is showing distinct characteristics and peculiarities, paving the way for specialization in activities suited to individual differences.

The foregoing considerations supply, at least theoretically, a biological working basis for the organization of a program of physical education for adolescence. In a way, it is tentative, since we

43.	Koch, Konrad, Die Erziebung zum Mute, II, 12-30.

44.	Hetherington, Clark, School Program of Physical Education, 26-30.

45.	Hall, G.S., Adolescence, IV, 216 221.

46.	Hall, G.S., Adolescence, III, 141.

Digitized by kjOOQle
302

are still in need of much information concerning this period. Attention has been called to some of these needs in this chapter. A comparison with the results of practical experience, which will be made later, may disclose the impracticability of some of the established conclusions and also show the need of further investigation. Nevertheless, the writer has thus far endeavored to present a bird’s-eye view of the organism in whose preparation for life physical education is to contribute its share.

(To be continued in the February issue.)

LEFT-HANDEDNESS

By Elizabeth Gordon.

“There’s a little bit of left-handedness in the most right-handed of us.”

So Dr. Ralph Haefner of Teachers College, Columbia University, has discovered from a group of sixty-eight pairs of left-handed and right-handed children.

Dr. Haefner says a set of tests may be used to find out your hand dominance. It is quite likely that your hand dominance will not be the same in all eight tests. Those tests, which can be self-administered, consist of drawing a horse on a piece of paper, of grasping a ball bat ready for action, of holding a broom for sweeping, and of grasping the hands together in supplication: If you draw the horse facing your left hand, if you hold the bat with your left hand near the batting end, if you sweep with your left hand nearest the sweeping end, and if you put your left thumb on top when folding the hands—if you do all these it proves that your left is your dominant hand, even though you may write with your right. Or if you divide the honors of the tests between your left and right hzads you may find that you are ambidexterous.

* * * *

Dr. Haefner points out that with adults hand dominance has had time to be influenced by training and habits of action. He would classify us all in four classes—as pure right hands, pure left hands, changed left hands and mixed right hands. The percentage of right-handedness in the two sexes shows a slight difference in favor of the girls. Although Dr. Haefner believes that it is probable that there is a higher total of left-handedness in the whole population than has been heretofore recognized.

In his study Dr. Haefner set out to get scientific evidence on the age-old controversy as to whether left-handedness accompanied lack of intelligence. Teachers have always felt that left-handed pupils were slower to learn. Many a left-handed child has gone through the keen anxiety of being forced to unlearn all his manual tendencies and adopt a right-handed activity under

Digitized by

Google_	_
303

the insistent prods of sarcasm and wooden rulers. The child’s

resulting state of mind could very likely be of such a sullen and

misabused nature that he could be unfit for learning. Only such

a plausible explanation could account for the situation as it is

popularly supposed to exist. For Dr. Haefner finds no reliable

difference between the left-handed group and the right-handed

group in actual measurable mentality.

* * *

Another age-old fallacy which is shot to pieces by the treatise, “The Educational Significance of Left-Handedness,” into which Dr. Haefner has cast his findings is the belief that slow school progress follows or is caused by left-handedness. The Stanford Achievement Test was used to measure the proficiency in the various school subjects of the two groups of children studied. Again no reliable differences were found between the school achievement of the left-handed group and that of the right-handed group. If there is any variability at all between the two groups it exists in the right-handed group.

It is of singular interest to know that the average left-handed person does not possess the amount of hand strength that the right-handed individual exercises. To balance this difference the average height and weight of the two kinds of children is practically negligible.

♦ * * *

Dr. Haefner brings glad news to all left-handed boys and men who have felt their opportunities of being famous pitchers dwindling because of their reverse hand dominance. All of those who had resigned themselves to their handicap should take new heart, for statistics show that left-handed people prefer games and play them better than right-handed ones. There would undoubtedly have been moie famous “southpaws” in history if it had not been for the popular misconception that left-handed pitchers had to overcome a great handicap. In other interests than games there is no perceptible difference.

HEALTH CENTER DEVELOPMENT IN LOS ANGELES

COUNTY*

,T. L. Pomeroy, M. D.

In presenting the development of the health center plan in Los Angeles County, California, it is clearly understood that conditions differ materially in various sections of this country, but the basic principles of public health organization are the same. While in this paper I shall deal with local conditions as they relate to my experience, the principles involved are of considerable importance throughout the United States. The need for a more definite integration of the many types of health promoting agen-

•Read before the Section on Preventive and Industrial Medicine and Public Health at the Eightieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Portland, Ore., July 12, 1929.

Digitized by UaOOQle
304

ties and the mobilization of our financial resources in order to speed up the production of service to the people is of critical importance throughout the country. Especially is this true in relation to adequate public health and medical service in the smaller cities and rural districts in many sections. While science has produced the knowledge and technic to prolong human life, the administrative machinery to make .this technic applicable to a considerable percentage of the population is largely lacking.

The special significance of the developments in Los Angeles County rests on the fact that our organization has been accomplished through the official county government without outside subsidy or assistance. When it is considered that nearly 50 per cent of the people of the United States reside in small cities and rural areas and that these areas are the sources of the accessories of urban life, the necessity for encouragement of county organization becomes paramount. At the present rate at which counties are organizing in the United States, it will require, according to Dr. L. L. Lumsden of the United States Public Health Sendee, about fifty-one years before a reasonably adequate whole-time local rural health service can be extended to these communities. The mutual interdependence of urban and rural districts is of national importance and it is hoped that our experience during the past fourteen years in Los Angeles County may stimulate the development of other county health work.

I took office as health officer in Los Angeles County in April, 1915. A survey made of the situation at that time showed briefly the following facts: The public health and allied medical and social resources were largely unrelated and disconnected and no plan of coordination existed. The county health officer had authority only over the unincorporated area in the county. The county office itself was a one-man office with an annual appropriation of about $7,000. The area of the county was 4,000 square miles with about fifty towns and villages varying in population from 500 to 25,000. There were no local branches or centers, no local public clinics, and no free hospital beds outside the county hospital, and the only ordinances had to do with quarantine and rudimentary sanitation. Outside of the three large incorporated cities in the county which were well provided with public health service, there were thirty-three small cities with an average per capita appropriation annually for the health department itself of about $9.07. None of the smaller cities had a full-time health officer and in five of the towns ther> was no regularly constituted board of health. For the total urban population of approximately 73,000 persons there was available an annual appropriation of less than $6,000. There was in addition no statutory relationship between the county government and the incorporated cities for health purposes.

The situation in regard to the school districts was even more undeveloped. There were 167 independent school boards each with authority to employ public health nurses and others, but

Digitized by kjOOQle
305

in the small cities and rural districts no use had been made of this law.

Services to the sick or services for the correction of developmental or health defects were entirely centralized in the county hospital located in the city of Los Angeles, and such services were limited to the absolutely indigent class; but there existed no local social service or other means of determining eligibility. Such service was centralized at the headquarters of the Outdoor Relief Department in Los Angeles. Other accessory services, such as local clinics, home visitation of the sick and local emergency hospital service, were utterly lacking.

PLANS FOR DEVELOPMENT

A study that I made during the years 1915 and 1916 brought out the following basic principles and plans for development:

Financial.—The county government under the state law was required to pay the costs of caring for the indigent sick and the dependent poor representing in a large measure the end-results of the lack of prevention. The county functioned in this respect for both incorporated and unincorporated territory. Therefore, since the county as a unit was required to tax itself for the end-results of social and medical maladjustment, it was logical that the county should take the initiative in cutting down this burden as far as possible. To this end an enabling act was secured from the state legislature which provided a means for legal agreements between the county board of supervisors and the city governments whereby the county appropriated equal sums of money with the cities and took over the health administration of these incorporated cities. Since 1915, thirty-four of the incorporated cities have thus been organized and the per capita expenditure of the combined city and county health departments is now $0.92. This program has solved the financial situation.

Child Hygiene:—Since the basis of much of our preventive medicine has to do with the child, it was necessary to coordinate the disconnected school district plan. As legal provision already existed for the school boards to employ health workers, we easily reached an agreement with the school boards to employ jointly nurses, physicians and dentists. As a result nearly all of the school districts under our jurisdiction have merged their work with our child hygiene and nursing division, and thus some

65,000	school children are receiving a modem health and development program.

Organization for the Care and Accessory Medical Sendees.—It was obviously impossible to render adequate service through a single general hospital located in the city of Los Angeles. It was clear that part of the service had to be taken closer to the people. At this point the integration of our community services through the health center was presented to the county board of supervisors. During the early years of this development, the health centers were specialized in their services and primarily were child welfare

Digitized by LjOOQle
306

stations. Nevertheless as early as 1919 we began constructing our own buildings to lay the foundation for a concrete local neighborhood center devoted primarily to the public health. It has been a fundamental principle in our work to visualize and make concrete to the public what the health service meant. Our conception was a health service station which would gradually increase in its facilities until all necessary units were in operation. It is my opinion that the multiplicity of activities under many different types of organization, each with its own independent service, occupying a part of the public health field appealing to the public for its funds has without doubt often delayed the bringing into being of a well balanced official health sendee with a local habitation and a concrete easily defined program.

During the years from 1919 to 1926 many child welfare stations were opened throughout the county in each instance with the integration of all local health services. During these years we were able to demonstrate to our governing body the following principles:

1. The need for adopting a definite plan of decentralized service not only for the health department but also for the related social and medical services.

2.	The necessity for conserving hospital beds by providing local clinics to screen out by careful examination patients who could be treated as ambulatory.

3.	The economic factor, namely, that service could be rendered in outpatient clinics at a cost of less than one-fourth that of institutional care. Also patients could be given after-care at such stations, permitting of fewer patient days in the county institutions, affording more free beds for acutely ill patients and enabling completion of the cure.

4.	The unprecedented increase in automobile accidents, amounting to a rate varying from 35 per hundred thousand population to at present 42 per hundred thousand, accentuating the need for local emergency hospital service.

5.	The obvious necessity of correcting remedial defects found in school children and cf truly preventive work in finding early cases of tuberculosis, together with the widening scope of public health activities in relation to the prevention of heart disease, cancer, mental hygiene and the degenerative diseases.

6.	The serious injustice of expecting the local private practitioner to care for the indigent and socially underprivileged persons gratuitously and often without the technical assistance now so seriously needed in diagnosis and treatment.

7.	The need for complete epidemiologic services with adequate local laboratory, field, sanitary and food inspection covering areas through which as a consequence of local conditions the spread of diesase might ensue.

This program was materially aided in its adoption by the report of a board of experts employed by the county board of supervisors in 1924 headed by the late Dr. Richard G. Broderick
307

of San Francisco. The recommendations of this board of experts endorsed the plan of the county health department for a type of health center which mobilized all of the related units, as will be subsequently described. The general plan therefore comprised:

1. The enlargement of the present general hospital from 1,400 beds to 3,300 beds.

2. The enlargement of the tuberculosis sanatorium from 250 beds to 700 beds.

3.	Increasing the facilities at the county farm by the building of an infirmary to take care of those dependent persons in need of medical aid, but with chronic or subacute disabling diseases.

4.	The building in local districts of health centers to furnish the following services:

(a)	The local offices of the health department with a comple-plete laboratory service and all other necessary units.

(b)	A small emergency hospital of from four to six beds.

(c)	The decentralization of the county welfare department and the attachment to each health center of a staff of social workers to care for the problem of eligibility, food, clothing and general rehabilitation of all dependents in the district.

(d)	The adequate provision of all types of clinics for all types of the ambulant sick with accessory services such as roentgen ray, physical therapy and adequate nursing.

(e)	The creation in the health department, and so far as I know for the first time in any health department in the United States, of a medial social service bureau to act as a correlating-agency on all social, medical and public health problems not only-in the health center but also in the home; to assist not only in local indigent cases but in solving the problem of the borderline patient who was not quite able to meet economically his medical social problem.

As a result of these studics, reports and investigations since 1914, the county health department has through its annual budgets had appropriated nearly $600,000 for major health center buildings and their equipment. To date five buildings have been completed and one is in process of construction. Two buildings not included in this total have been secured by gift and three additional buildings are contemplated in the near future.

GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT

The organization of the county health department consists of the central office and the district administration.

Central Office.—The health officer of Los Angeles County operates directly under the board of supervisors and is a charter officer. Civil service rules prevail. In order to meet the many medical and medical social problems encountered, there is a medical advisory board appointed by the county board of supervisors, which medical board regulates the affairs of all the local medical clinic and hospital staffs of the health centers. All applicants to the staff must be passed on by the advisory board. In case of any dispute, this board acts as a board of arbitration.
308

At present the board consists of Dr. George Kress, past president of the state medical society, editor of California and Western Medicine and prominent committee leader in medical and other affairs; Dr. Mery Magan, president of the faculty of the School of Medical Evangelists of Loma Linda and of the White Memorial Hospital Board of Los Angeles; Dr. Charles Bennett, internist, in active practice in Los Angeles; Dr. Ernest Gallant, orthopedic surgeon, member of the outpatient staff of the general hospital, the committee on clinics and dispensaries of the county medical society, together with the county health officer, ex officio.

The central office is in the Hall of Justice at the county seat in the city of Los Angeles and the general organization is that of staff and line officers as in the army. There are seven bureaus, each with a bureau director, as follows:

Bureau of General Administration.

Bureau of Medical and Social Service.

Bureau of Maternal and Child Hygiene.

Bureau of Inspections.

Bureau of Public Health Nursing.

Bureau of Communicable Disease Control.

Bureau of Laboratories.

The laboratory maintains at the central office a service for both chemical and biologic research, serving not only the health department but also thirteen of the county departments as well in both bacteriology and chemistry. This brings into the bureau much related public health material, such as investigations of sudden deaths by the coroner’s office, analyses of food supplies of all county institutions, research and investigations in sewage disposal, and many other related problems.

Close affiliations have been built up with the dental school of the University of Southern California, the medical schools of the College of Medical Evangelists and of the University of Southern California, and the public health nursing and other courses in the University of California at Los Angeles culminating in the creation of a teaching center at our largest health center located in Belvedere Gardens. Medical and other students are actually in course of training in public health while in college and are paid salaries while under our supervision. The heads of each bureau are required to accept teaching positions and to organize their work for teaching purposes in the colleges mentioned.

Besides the ordinary administrative work, the Holerith tabulating machine system has been installed and we are accumulating valuable cost data which are available to guide us in our work.

District Organization.—The county is divided into eleven administrative districts. Each district consists of one or more incorporated cities together with a section of the unincorporated area varying from 300 to 400 square miles in size and from 50,-

Digitized by v^ooQle
309

000 to 100,000 in population. A deputy health officer of the department is the executive of each health center and in charge of all employees of the district. Besides the major health centers, there are small branch centers located at strategic points and operated by the district staffs for special work according to the needs of the smaller towns and cities in the locality. The employees of the district represent the functions of their different bureaus. Nearly all employees of the health department are on a full-time basis.

Correlation of all social and public health work in the district is secured by the formation of a local health center association made up of representatives of all community workers in the district. The affairs of each local health center association are managed by the adoption of a uniform constitution and by-laws.

Perhaps of greater interest is the method of the organization of the medical staff for curative services. As soon as the building is equipped and ready for use, all practicing physicians in the health district are called together and an invitation to form a medical and surgical staff for the center is presented. A model constitution and by-laws as drawn up by the medical advisory board is presented by a member of this board. Within the legal and other regulations of the county government the medical staff functions as a governing body through the election of a chief of staff and a medical executive board. Rules for eligibility for membership on the staff are drawn up and no physician may join the staff who is not eligible to membership in the county medical society and who does not receive a favorable vote of the membership committee. The medical staff divides itself according to the training of each man and his desires into special clinic groups. These services include emergency work, both medical and surgical, pediatrics, eye, ear, nose and throat, orthopedics, psychiatry, surgery and gynecology and other clinics as the district needs indicate their necessity. Accessory services furnished by paid employees of the health department include dentistry, venereal disease, tuberculosis, child hygiene and special clinics such as cardiac, nutrition, health education, reontgen-ray, physical therapy and laboratory, as well as the usual communicable disease control as needed.

ELIGIBILITY

Service to the public regardless of financial status is rendered on all statutory public health work and educational service of the usual character. The medical social service division of the health department is the key-note to the success of the solution of the delicate problem of determining eligibility to curative clinics. We realize the danger of abuse of such a system by patients who can or should pay their way, and great care is used to prevent this happening. Emergency service is rendered to all persons regardless of financial status, the physician being permitted to bill the patient if subsequently it is found that the patient can afford to pay. Entrance to all clinics staffed by the

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
310

local practicing physicians is secured only after careful financial investigation. The medical staff, together with our medical social service worker, determines for each district what standards of eligibility shall be applied. It is impossible in many cases to make an absolute hard and fast rule merely on the basis of salaries, since many patients have debts and obligations which complicate the situation. In our work we employ only the highest trained medical social worker we can secure. These workers must have had university training, plus at least six months’ practical experience. We have found that our success has been dependent on the training of the medical social service worker and her personality. Of equal importance to the determining of eligibility is the interpretation to the patient of the medical and social factors in his case, the prevention of duplication of work by clearing through our community exchange, the adequate follow-up of the case in the home, and the mobilization of all the existing community resources to complete the rehabilitation of the patient. As a matter of record the number of actual paupers receivng treatment in our health centers comprises less than one fourth of the total cases treated, because the definition of an indigent person by law is so rigid that many needy and worthy persons would be left uncared for. This group, highly important to the success of our public health program, pay such fees as their means afford. The money from the work of the medical and surgical staff in these cases remains the property of the medical staff and is disbursed as the staff sees fit—in some cases in proportion to the number of hours of service spent by each man and in other cases placed in a fund for a district professional library.

SUMMARY

In every situation two processes seem to be involved:	the

making of a medical and social diagnosis, and the development of a plan of treatment, social or medical, or both.

In the great field of public health it appears that the various agencies involved in both processes are not only unrelated in physical continuity of operation but also frequently competing for public support. None of the many agencies involved are able to mobilize all of the factors necessary to bring about an efficient result with economy. Since after all the taxpayer must pay the costs not only of service rendered but of end-results, it seems to me that the great principle involved is to apply modem business principles to the chaotic conditions in public health and related medical services throughout the United States. It is not so important that we disagree on details, but it is highly necessary that we agree to pool our resources and work together. Too long public health, the medical profession and the social services of the community have been disconnected, working with the same high ideal of services but using entirely separate plans of approach and rarely even speaking the same language. Old conceptions of service are crumbling. The field of public health is broadening

Digitized by kjOOQle
311

by virtue of necessity. Environmental sanitation has in a large measure been accomplished. The line between curative medicine and public health is an imaginary one. Deaths by accident, by cardiac disease, by cancer and by other related conditions now challenge our ability not only in a technical but also in an administrative and organization sense.

I believe that our Los Angeles County district and health center plan fulfills the fundamental requisites for proper community organization. The health officer and the medical profession work together, thus assuring medical leadership and safeguarding the interests of both public health and private personal health «• Through medical social service work, thorough eligibility investigation is assured and yet flexibility is provided for the borderline cases. Adequate financial support is assured by joint support from the county, from the municipalities, from the school district and from local unofficial agencies. Duplication of effort and overlapping is prevented by centralized authority and regional planning, Thorough scientific medical and social service is made possible by coordination of all technical accessory services, which are amply equipped. I submit the plan for consideration by the profession of uniting local public health service with district hospital and outpatient clinic service, supported by adequate accessory social and community welfare work under the direction of trained full-time persons, with a local medical volunteer staff in charge of all curative services, to the end that the applications of modem preventive medicine to a large proportion of our national population may be speeded up.

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION.

By William A. Stecher

(Continued from last month.)

PART III. PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN ELEMENTARY

SCHOOLS

I.	The Aims Of Physical Education Are As Follows:

1.	Provide for vigorous muscular exercise.

2.	Help to improve general health.

3.	Correct individual physical defects.

4.	Develop skill in running, jumping, throwing, climbing.

5.	Provide opportunities for organized physical activities.

6.	Help in the development of character traits: Judgment, Courtesy, Courage, Industry, Cooperation, Fair Play, Leadership, Self-Control, Loyalty.

II.	Organization

In Grades 4, 5 and 6 the pupils should be organized into teams. Each classroom should have two boys teams and two

Digitized by UaOOQle
312

girls teams. If only one sex is present in a room there should be four teams. Each team has a captain. In grades 1, 2 and 3 the pupils are too young to be formed into permanent teams; or-ganizatoion there is left to the teacher.

III.	Administration

Each captain should have a correct list of the members of his team. These members are chosen by the different captains at the first physical training period in each half year. For the arrangement of the captain’s sheet see succeeding pages.

In every physical training period in which track and field events are practiced the captain should heep an accurate account of the best performance of his team members entering this on the captains sheet.

Team members that after several attempts do not equal the age-aims outlined in the course of study should be reported to the teachers.

The teacher shall keep a record of accomplishments on a check sheet, see succeeding pages. Pupils that are much below grade should receive a medical examination.

IV.	Organization Of Materials

Activities for Grade I

A.	Group Games: Cat and Mouse, Drop the Handkerchief, Squirrel and Trees, Flowers and the Wind, Trades, Dodge Ball.

B.	Team Games: Ball Relay, Eraser Relay, Auto Tire Rolling (Short Distance), Through the Tire.

C.	Song Games & Folk Dances: I see you, Clap, Clap, Bow; Go Round and Round the Valley, Shoemaker’s Dance, Little Sally Waters, The Farmer in the Dell.

D.	Miscellaneous Games: Leap Frog, Crawl Through, Sack Race, Ring Around the Roses, London Bridge is Falling Down.

E.	Marching: March Around the Room (Emphasizing Good Posture).

Grade II

A.	Group Games: Musical Arms, Three Deep, Fruit Basket, Blind Man’s Buff, Follow the Leader, Black Man.

B.	Team Games: O’Leary, Sack Relay, Ball Relay, Dodge Ball in a Circle, Wheelbarrow, Over and Under Relay.

C.	Song Games & Folk Dances: Jolly is the Miller, Charlie Over the Water, First of May, How do You do my Partner? The Thread Follows the Needle, I Put my Right Hand in.

Grade III

A.	Group Games: Midnight, Hill Dill, Simon Says, I say,

‘ Stoop” Tag the Wall Relay, Fox & Ch ckens.

B.	Team Games Baseball (simple), Pass Ball, Bean Bag Circle, Toss, All-up Relay, Arch Ball, Chariot Race.

C.	Sougs Games & Folk Dances: Oats, Peas, Beans & Barley, The Muffin Man, Looby Loo, Did You Ever See A Lassie?. A-Hunting We Will Go, Clap Dance.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Digitized by

Term Ending............................. Captains Sheet..................................... Boy’s

Room................... Grade.................. Team...........................   Teacher..-......

Name	Age  Yea-s	H.	W.	BROAD JUMP					FAR THROW					50 YARD DASH				
				Aim	Result				Aim	Result				Aim	Result			
Jones, W. Smith, J. Black, B. Trask, H.	12  II  10  11			5’.°”  4\io”  4.8”  4i.io”					35’  3°’  2S’  30’					00	00 00 00  P U I-) H  1	III  KSy				
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		

O

n
314

TEACHER’S CHECK SHEET

Term Ending........... Room.......... Grade.......... Team

Name	Age	Hght.	Wght.	Running  Broad  Jump	Standing  Broad  Jump	Basket  Ball  Throw	5°  Yds.  Dash	Remarks
								•
								
								
	i							
								
								
								
					i 				

D.	Field & Track Events: Running Short Races, Standing Broad Jump, Ball Throw.

E.	Marching by Twos and by Fours.

Grade IV.

A.	Team Games: Kick Ball, End Ball, Long Ball, Indoor Baseball, Ball Relay, Arch Ball.

B. Group Games: Three Deep, Change Tag, Prisoner’s Base, Pom Pom Pullaway, Beetle is Out, The Farmer is Coming.

C.	Folk Dances: Swedish Clap Dance, Danish Dance of Greeting, Kinderpolka, Ace of Diamonds, Hop Mother Annika, Norwegian Mountain March.

D.	Track Events: Short Dashes, Standing Broad Jump, Ball Throw, 20 Yard Hopping Race, Obstacle Relay, Shuttle Relay, Chariot Race.

Grade V.

A. Group Games: Change Tag, Touch Ball, Swat Tag, Circle Ball, Pom, Pom, Pull away; Horse and Rider

(boys).

B.	Team Games: Endball, Kickball, Indoor Baseball, Wheelbarrow race, Backward Run Relay.

C.	Folk Dances: Chebogar, Ace of Diamonds, Tantole, Bleking, Norwegian Mountain March, Klapdance.

D.	Track Events: 50 yard dash—20 Yard Hopping Race. Relay Races: a) Backward, b) Centipede, c) Horseback, d) Shuttle Relay.

E.	Field Events: Standing Broad Jump, Progressive Broad Jump, Ball Farthrow (Overhead and Freestyle), Running Broad Jump.

Digitized by CjOOQle
315

F.	Stunts: Tumbling, Indian Wrestle, Head Knock, Wheelbarrow, Jumping Jack, Knee Dip.

G.	Marching Pupils march and run in column of fours.

Grade VI.

A.	Group Games: Catch and Pull, Three Deep, Pass Ball, Horse and Rider, Partner Tag, Hook Arm Tag.

B.	Team Games: Playground Ball, Overhead Passball, All Four, Volley Ball, Ball Rolling, Long Ball.

C.	Folk Dances: Maypole Dance, Pop Goes the Weasel, Ribbon Dance, German Broom Dance, Irish Jig, Highland Fling.

D.	Track Events: 50 Yard Dash, 100 Yard Dash, 120 Yard Low Hurdles, 75 Yard Dash, 500 Yard Relay (4 boys) Medley Relay.

E.	Field Events: Standing Broad Jump, Basketball Throw, High Jump, Chinning the Bar, Running Broad Jump, Baseball Throw for Distance.

F.	Stunts: Crab Walk, Forward Roll, Foot Jump, Tumbling, Cartwheel, Wrestling.

(To be Continued.)

HIGH LIGHTS OF THE 42ND ANNUAL CONVENTION OF

THE A. A. U.

The forty-second annual convention of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, held at the Hamilton Hotel, Washington, D. C., on November 16, 17 and 18, was the best attended and most interesting in the history of the Union. With one exception, all the twenty-six direct associations which comprise the active membership of the Union were represented by fron one to twelve delegates. The allied groups were also well represented.

Maccabe Death Palls Banquet

The annual banquet on Monday evening was attended by about three hundred. Col. Julius I. Peyser was the toastmaster and President Brundage and Secretary of Labor James J. Davis were the only speakers.

The death of Joseph B. Maccabe, former President of the Union and a delegate to the convention, late Monday evening cast a pall over the convention. Only a few moments before his death, due to apoplexy, he appeared to be in the best of spirits. Following the adoption of resolutions on his death at the opening session on Tuesday morning, the convention appropriated $500 towards a suitable memorial for its late leader.

A.	A. U. Oflicers Elected

The awards of championships for the coming year and the election of officers were the principal items of business of the closing session. The election of officers resulted as follows:

Digitized by UaOOQle
316

President, Avery Brundage of Chicago, Major Walsh, New York, first vice-president, T. Morris Dunne, Portland, Oregon, second vice-president; Harold A. Bruce, Schenectady, third vice-president; and Ben H. Giffen, fourth vice-president. Daniel J. Ferris of New York was re-elected Secretary-Treasurer.

Three New Associations Approved

Permission for the formation of three new district associations of the A.A.U. was granted. The total number of district associations in the Union is thereby increased to twenty-nine, showing an Increase of twenty associations in the last twenty-five years. The new associations are the Gulf Association, with headquarters at Houston, Texas; Missouri Valley Association, with headquarters at Kansas City, Mo., and the North Eastern Ohio Association with headquarters at Cleveland.

Rule Changes

The following are some of the changes in the A.A.U. rules adopted at the convention:

No one shall compete or be granted permission to compete as a representative of any club, educational institution or other organization, in a national championship in basket ball, volley ball or hockey, unless such competitor has been a member of the organization he represents for a period of not less than 30 days, and played in not less than three regularly scheduled games as a member of such team.

During term time no under-graduate student of an educational institution shall compete or be granted permission to compete in any competition, exhibition game or entertainment, given or sanctioned by the Amateur Athletic Union as a representative of any club or other organization, unless he presents a certificate from the proper official of his institution stating that such participation is with the knowledge and consent of his educational institution, and does not render him ineligible for further Intercollegiate competition.

In the formation of new associations, athletes residing in the territory of the newly formed association, may continue to represent the organization with which they are registered in the A.A.U. if they so desire.

Hereafter basket bill or volley ball players cannot transfer from one club to another without one full year intervening since his last competition for his old club.

Henceforth membership in an active association of this Union shall be limited to bona fide clubs, educational institutions or other organizations of a permanent character actively promoting or participating in amateur sports or games.

No organization whose interest in sports or games is purely commercial shall be eligible for membership. Any income derived from the promotion of any sport by members of the A.A.U. must be used for the further promotion of amateur sport, for an approved charity, or for the general welfare of the promoting or-

Digitized by Google
317

ganization as a whole and any organization promoting any amateur sport solely for a profit or the advertising value to be derived therefrom, shall not be eligible for membership.

After January 1st, traveling permits shall be made out in triplicate, the original going to the athlete who will present it to the chairman of the committee in charge of the event in which he has been given a permit to compete. He will fill in the information called for on the blank and turn it back to the athlete. The athlete must return the form to the Registration Committee which issued same within ten days following the competition for which the permit was issued. The duplicate copy shall be mailed by the issuing Registration Committee to the Registration Committee of the district following the competition to be held.

Swimmers who accept positions as life guards must hereafter notify the local Registration Committee of such employment, returning his registration card with such notification and at the conclusion of such employnent notify the local Registration Committee to that effect, and the Committee will return his registration card one month after the abandonment of such employment.

No record claimed for any event on which time is taken shall be allowed unless it is timed by three official watches of standard make, certified within one week before the record performance by a reputable jeweler or watch maker, designated as such by this Union, one of its district associations or allied bodies, and held by officials whose names appear on the approved list of timers of a district association of this Union or one of its allied bodies. The certificates of the timers on a record performance shall be inspected by the Chairman of the Record Committee of the association or by the Referee and a record of such inspection shall be noted on the Record application.

It shall be the duty of every district association of this Union to designate in the principal athletic centers of their territory, a reputable jeweler or watchmaker as official checker of timing watches to examine and certify watches for record performances. Each district association shall also appoint and place at the disposal of organizations conducting meets or events, a list of approved timers who have proven by experience that they possess the ability to accurately time contests in the sport for which they have been approved.

Unless otherwise stated on the entry blank issued for a hand ball tournament or match, doubles teams shall be composed of representatives of one organization.

A number of changes were also made in the wrestling rules. These changes, as well as all other changes in the rules, will be found in the A.A.U. Handbook, which will be published about January 1st.

National Championship Awards

Basket Ball—(Men)—Tentatively awarded Kansas City A. C.; (Women)—Southern Association, Dallas Recreation Commission, Dallas, Tex.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
318

Boxing—Junior, New England Association, Boston, Mass; Senior, Metropolitan Association, New York, N. Y.

Gymnastics—New England Ass’n., Springfield, Mass.

Handball—Senior Four Wall Singles and Doubles, Central Ass’n., Minneapolis, Minn.; Junior Four Wall Singles and Doubles, Met. Ass’n., New York; Senior One Wall Singles and Doubles, Met. Ass’n., New York; Senior One Wall Hardball Singles and Doubles, Available.

Track and Field—(Men)—Indoor Junior, Available; Indoor Senior, New York City, February 25; Outdoor Junior and Senior, Club Relays, Decathlon, Lincoln, Neb., July 3, 4; Association Relays, not awarded; Pentathlon, New Jersey Ass’n., Elizabeth, N. J.

Track and Field—(Women)—Indoor, New Jersey Ass’n., Newark, N. J.; Outdoor, Available.

Marathon Run—South Atlantic Ass'n., Baltimore, Md.; 50 Kilometer Walk (31 1-4 Miles, Available; 7-Mile Walk, Southern Pacific Ass’n., Los Angeles, Cal.

Cross Country—Junior, New Jersey Ass’n., Jersey City, N. J.; Senior, Michigan Ass’n. 10-Mile Run, Connecticut Ass’n. 15-Mile Run, Michigan Ass’n. 20-Mile Run, Gulf Ass'n., Houston, Tex.

Tug of War—Available.

Wrestling—Greco-Roman, Available; Catch-as-Catch-Can, Michigan Ass’n., Grand Rapids, Mich.

Weight Lifting—Middle Atlantic Ass’n., Philadelphia, Pa.

Volley Ball—Available.

Indoor Baseball—Available.

Squash Handball—Los Angeles, Cal.

Field Handball—Available.

Code Ball—Available.

Bob Sleigh and Tobogganing—Adirondack Ass’n., Lake Placid, N. Y.

Hockey—Available.

Swimming (Diving)—Indoor, Men. Central Ass’n., Chicago, 111.;

Indoor, Women, Metropolitan Ass’n., New York, N. Y. Outdoor, Indoor, Women, Metropolitan Ass’n., New York, N. Y.; Outdoor, Men, Hawaiian Ass’n., Honolulu, T. H.;Outddoor, Women, Available; Long Distance, Individual and Team, Men, Metropolitan Ass’n.; Long Distance, Individual and Team, Women, Middle Atlantic, Ventnor City, N. J.

Water Polo—Indoor, Senior, Men, Metropolitan Ass’n., New York N. Y.; Indoor, Junior, Men, Southern Pacific Ass’n., Los Angeles, Cal.; Outdoor, Senior, Men, Available; Outdoor, Junior, Men, Available.

Swimming—Junior, Indoor (Men)—50 yards, New Jersey; 100 Yards, Connecticut; 220 Yards, Southern Pacific; 500 Yards, Michigan; 150 Yards Back Stroke, Metropolitan; 220 Yards

Digitized by C^ooQle
319

Breast Stroke, Michigan; Low Springboard Dive, Michigan; 10 Foot Springboard Dive, Metropolitan; 200 Yards Relay, Connecticut; 400 Yards Relay, Michigan; 300 Yards Medley Swim, Middle Atlantic; 300 Yards Medley Reiser, Connecticut; Water Polo, Southern Pacific. (Women)—50 Yards, Midwestern; 100 Yards, New England; 220 Yards, Michigan; 500 Yards, Metropolitan; 100 Yards Back Stroke, Metropolitan; 100 Yards Breast Stroke, Southern Pacific; Low Springboard Dive, Midwestern; 10 Foot Springboard Dive, Southern Pacific; 200 Yards Relay, Michigan; 400 Yards Relay, 300 Yards Medley Swim, New Jersey; 300 Yards Medley Relay, Michigan; Water Polo, Available.

Swimming, Junior, Outdoor (Men)—100 Meters, New Jersey; 440 Yards, Indiana-Kentucky; 880 Yards, New England; 1-Mile, Hawaiian; 220 Yards Back Stroke, Indiana-Kentucky; 440 Yards Breast Stroke., Connecticut; Fancy Springboard Dive, Adirondack; Plain High Dive from Platform, Southern Pacific; Fancy High Dive from Platform, Southern Pacific; 880 Yards Relay, New England; 300 Meters Medley Swim, Metropolitan; Long Distance, Ind., Metropolitan; Long Distance, Team, Metropolitan; Water Polo, Pacific. (Women)— 100 Meters, New Jersey; 440 Yards, Connecticut; 880 Yards, New England; 1-Mile, Hawaiian; 100 Meters Back Stroke, Indiana-Kentucky; 100 Meters Breast Stroke, Hawaiian; Fancy Springboard Dive, Southern Pacific; Plain High Dive from Platform, Southern Pacific; Fancy High Dive from Platform, Southern Pacific; 880 Yards Relay, 300 Meters Medley Swim Metropolitan; Long Distance, Ind., Hawaiian; Long Distance Team, Hawaiian; Water Polo, Available.

Miami Beach in 1931

Among the other developments of a busy closing day were the selection of Miami Beach for the 1931 convention, and the announcement that an anonymous donor has offered the A.A.U. a gift of $2,000,000 to be used in establishing an endowment fund.

The gift undoubtedly will be accepted and the income, amounting to $90,000 to $100,000 a year, is to be used in expanding the activities of the union.

LIGHT IN SHADOWED LIVES—THE SIGHT SAVING CLASS.

By Alice F. Loomis, American Child Health Association.

Among the millions of children attending our public schools there are some tens of thousands who have such poor eyesight that even with properly fitted glasses they cannot see and cannot hope to see well enough to go through school in the usual way. There are others suffering from progressive eye diseases who could only do so at the expense of ruined eyes or eyes seriously

Digitized by (^.ooQle
320

impaired. What are such chilrden to do to secure an education? In recent years, in a few places, special sight-saving classes have been organized. The number is growing rapidly and at the end of 1929, 350, distributed in 95 cities and 21 states, could be counted. But this number seems a mere drop in the bucket when we learn that approximately 4650 such classes are needed to accommodate the children who should have this special care. This crying need is being made the chief concern of the Sub-Committee on the Blind and Visually Handicapped, of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection.

What are sight-saving classes and why are they so few?

The fundamental problems in sight-saving classes are to save the residue of sight in each child in the class, and to keep him on the same educational level as other children of his age in the regular classes.

There are two types of sight-saving class. In the first, the children remain through their school life as a segregated group. In the other, they are thrown as much as possible with the normal children of their are. They go to the regular grades for oral work, physical education, or rote singing, returning to the special class for any work requiring concentrated use of the eyes. The latter type of class is growing in favor since it tends to throw the children more nearly into normal life. Since each child is an individual problem the classes must necessarily be small and as one class usually serves a whole school or perhaps a whole neighborhood the pupils are of all ages. Though the methods of conducting sight-saving classes are constantly being revised and improved there are certain conditions and certain equipment which are fundamental: sufficient light for every child; absence of glare from blackboards, desk tops, walls, or books; adjustable seats and desks; typewriters with large size type, and books printed in 24 point or larger type. The children are given enough “book knowledge” to supply them with an educational foundation, but no effort is made to encourage in them a love of reading, which in later life could never be safely indulged. Throughout thei school career they are being taught how to adapt themselv to their limitations, and how to care for their sight after they leave school. To a certain extent the schools are pre-vocational, and experiments are being tried in making a truly vocational junior high school for children handicapped through poor vi i n. In Detroit and Cleveland vocations for girls and boys respectively are being analyzed to determine the opportunities they offer. It is sometimes harder for these boys and girls to fit themselves into life than for the blind, since for the latter there is no question of eyestrain, whereas for the partially sighted this is a constant menace.

Sight-saving classes are too few, both because the movement is yet young and the need for them not universally recognized, and because there is a scarcity of teachers qualified to teach them. Courses for the training of supervisiors and teachers in this work

Digitized by Google
321

are being offered in a few but an increasing number of educational institutions. Columbia University, New York University, the Universities of Southern California, Cincinnati, Chicago, and Detroit, and the State Normal Colleges at Buffalo, New York and Ypsilanti, Michigan, are among those offering courses. Also, a few state departments of education have formulated training requirements. Where the need is urgent, teachers are sometimes prepared for this work by special reading followed by examination, or by training given to the teacher in service by the supervisor. Whatever the training, the prime objects are a knowledge of eye conditions and a flexibility of method that will insure day by day the maximum protection for each individual child.

OUR DAILY BREAD.

During the last two decades there has been a running debate in this country and abroad with respect to the nutritive merits of bread made from so-called whole-wheat flour and of bread prepared from milled wheat in the form commonly known as white flour. Certain significant festures of the controversy deserve emphasis at the outset. “White Bread” has established itself as a staple constituent of the American dietary. Despite persistent propaganda against the familiar daily loaf, its popularity cannot truthfully be said to have waned except so far as there has been a general decrease in the consumption of all cereal breads as a characteristic incident of our growing national prosperity. Cereals represent the cheapest sources of energy for man. In times of stress they are depended on to furnish most of his calories. But when great economies are no longer necessary there is a universal tendency to include more foods from other and more expensive sources—meats, poultry, fish, milk, vegetables and fruits—in the human dietary. Furthermore, the nutritive quality of much of the white bread has gradually undergone improvement through the incorporation of larger quantities of milk in the loaf. “Milk bread” seems to be gaining in popularity; its comparative superiority over the older type has been demonstrated by actual experiment. Milling processes have been adapted to the production of the "refined” flours which have superior keeping properties, so that the welfare of a large industry is involved in proposed innovations.

The advocates of the use of “whole wheat” correctly refer to the chemical advantages of this food product. It contains more of the bran with its constituent proteins and salts, together with a slight increment of vitamins B and G. Cereals are not to be looked on as the dominant source of vitamins in any event, so that the comparison of wheat in different degrees of milling extraction seems somewhat gratuitous. The branny coats are admittedly resistant to digestion; witness the use of bran as a laxative. One may well argue, therefore, that any inherent chemical advantages in the richer content of protein in whole wheat are off-

Digitized by UjOOQle
322

set in some degree as least by its poorer utilization. The choice may therefore well be left to individual preferneces and tastes.

These arguments are familiar to every student of nutri'ion and to most physicians. They would scarcely deserve reiteration here except for the insidiousness of some of the propaganda on the subject. White bread is sometimes referred to by the protagonists of whole wheat products as a deadly menace to mankind—as though men were accustomed to “live by bread alone.” It has been linked with cancer by the most unscrupulous of the promoters. What food has not been charged with complicity in the genesis of this dreaded malady? White bread has been charged with responsibility for other ills to which flesh is heir. The opponents are sometimes swayed by a frenzy of belief; often they are merely profiteers in a cult; sometimes they are well reasoning advocates of whole cereal. Yet even during the stress of war-time needs the U. S. Food Administration, under unselfish guidance, declined to foist the use of whole wheat on a patriotic American public.

It is interesting at this juncture to record the sane conclusions of recent independent investigators of the problem in Great Britain:

In advocating whole-meal bread for general use, whether in times of need or in times of plenty, it should be remembered that not only men but also women and children are concerned, and that all the experiments on which the arguments are based have been carried out on animals or adult males. Children are very intolerant of high cellulose diets, and, for some, brown bread is far too irritating, even if given with the idea of relieving constipation. Appetite is such an important factor in all digestive considerations that no one who dislikes a food of unproved value should be forced to eat it if it can be avoided. In time of peace, of course, the grown-up population, if they have the choice, will never eat whole-meal bread unless they like it, no matter how specious the advertisement, but they may force their children to eat it in the belief that they are doing them good. One should, therefore, be cautious in advising whole-meal bread generally, and wait until careful unbiased experiments have been done on a sufficient number of men, women and children. Thus only can accurate conclusions be drawn.

The subject has been approached from a somewhat different angle by Abelin of Bern, who points out that, paradoxic as it may sound, the bread problem really is apart from bread and cannot be solved by means of bread. If we wished to avert all the dietary shortcomings of bread and produce an ideal loaf— one in which the proteins are nutritively ideal, the mineral ingredients are adequate and the vitamin content is satisfactory— the product would no longer be recognized as bread. It would probably be a dietary innovation that few persons would be

Digitized by v^ooQle
323

willing to accept in their daily food. There are no perfect single foods. One food product makes up for the deficiencies of another. The secret of perfect nutrition and the lessons of the science of physiology are expressed in the dictum of a proper choice of more than one food. Bread of any sort needs to be supplemented suitably in the modem diet.

THE SOCIAL AND LEISURE TIME VALUE OF THIRTY SPORTS AND GAMES

In the April, 1930, number of Sportsmanship, Professor Ralph LaPorte, Professor of Physical Education at the University of Southern California, makes a special report on the Social and Leisure Time Value of Thirty Different Sports and Games. Professor LaPorte’s Committee has been securing the opinions of about 500 experts in the various grades of physical education as to five different possible types of value in various physical education activities,—the organic growth value, the social and moral traits value, the psychological value, the safety value and the carry-over value for future leisure time. This particular report relates only to the social and leisure time value and covers only the college division. Other grades will be completed in the future. The physical activities are listed under major headings of Aquatics, Combative or Defensive Sports, Gymnastics, Individual Sports, Rhythmics and Team Games.

As would be expected, the Team Games division received many votes as to social adjustment value. On a scale of 10, none of the team games group ranks lower than 7; football ranks 9, basketball, soccer and speed ball are rated at 8; life saving, gymnastic games and relays, golf and tennis under the other major headings are rated at 7 and squash and squash tennis at 6.

From the point of view of leisure time value, the ratings are, of course, quite different. Three activities are rated at the maximum, 10—swimming and diving, golf and tennis; handball averages 9, horseshoes, squash, sauash tennis, baseball and volley ball, 8, archery and playground ball, 7, and soccer, basketball, modified games, 6.

From the findings, Professor LaPorte makes certain suggestions: “In the past relatively a small percentage of the student body has had an adequate opportunity to participate in highly socialized team games, consequently tne social benefits of sucn participation have been confined to a small percentage of the group. It is estimated by many educators that these highly socialized activities offer the finest single medium for the development of the social traits needed by the future citizen.”

. . The type of results obtained is dependent solely on the nature of the leadership, . . . both in individual and in team activities. ... A coach or teacher of team activities has the power

Digitized by UjOOQie
324

to create or to destroy fine social ideals. . . . The development of some kind of social trait as the result of some kind of social participation is inevitable. . . . Better mutual understanding, greater respect for the ability of others, more intelligent cooperation, less of blind loyalty and more of intelligent appreciation should be the outgrowth of an adequate program of socialized activities in the educational program of today.”—Playground and Recreation.

ARE WE EDUCATED?

In its issue of October 6, 1928 the Christian Herald published an article under the above title by Dr. Herman Harrell Home, a professor in New York University. This article is a most comprehensive discussion of the subject of education. Of special interest to our North Carolina readers is the fact that Dr. Home is a native of North Carolina, and is a man who has made a distinguished record as a professor in the School of Education of New York University.

It would be well worth while for any of our readers to procure a full copy of Dr. Home’s paper. He states in his article that “education is adjustment.” He says further that “the ideally educated person, who, of course, does not exist, has, we think, the following characteristics.” Then Dr. Home proceeds to enumerate on a percentage basis thirty-three especial characteristics which an ideally educated person would be found possessing. He rates each point at a fraction of over 3, making a total of 100 points, if it were possible to reach, for the fully educated person.

We quote here, as especially fitting, the first four items, which he enumerates, exactly as he has written them down in his article. It is more than significant that the very first item begins with the physical fitness of the individual. We have not the space to publish the article in full, but as these first four items should be of especial interest to all our readers we herewith set them forth:

“1. He is physically fit. He is not usually below par. He pays the necessary price for physical fitness in regularity of habits, no health-destroying habits, proper diet, outdoor exercise, adequate sleep, enough work, but not too much, and the absence of worry. I do not say, ‘Never overwork,’ but this; ‘If you do overwork, make the period short, and allow time to recuperate.' While the nervous system is young and growing, better omit the cigarette. Read Elbert Hubbard on ‘The Cigarettist,’ a valuable brochure more pertinent by half to the American scene now than when written years ago. The memory of Roosevelt is an inspiration for all the weak who would be strong. Physical fitness is itself a form of adjustment and is a condition of efficiency in the other adjustments to come.

Digitized by UaOOQle
325

“2. He lives near the maximum of his efficiency.—His physical fitness allows him to do so. He is not doing just enough to get along in the world. He is doing, without strain, all he can do. Most of us do not utilize more than half the energies we have available. Nor do we expend that half to greatest advantage. Efficiency is a fraction whose numerator is production and whose denominator is expenditure. You become more efficient by either increasing production or diminishing expenditure or both. That human machine is most efficient which accomplishes most with least damage to itself.

“3. He has a body which is the ready servant of his mil. This means mind and body are adjusted. The phrase is Huxley’s. We must master our bodies or they will master us. The weakest body is the greatest tyrant. The head of man is carried by the body, but should be able to command whither. The body was made to serve, and it will serve well, if well served. Every man should know his own machine, respect its limitations, and utilize ij;s power.

“4. He is capable of earning a living for himself. This is economic adjustment. He is not dependent upon the earnings of another. This refers, of course, to adults, not to the sick or children in school. This is economic independence, equally desirable for women and men. The married woman who is making a home is more than supporting herself, she is actually increasing the family income by her service. Be able to earn your own living, and do so for self-respect, even if above financial worries.”

MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY OF CHILDREN OF SCHOOL AGE

The number of deaths of children of school age would be “shocking” if we were not so accustomed to their daily and hourly occurrence. There is such a death every 10 minutes.

The latest statistics are those for 1925. These are for the “registration area” which at that time had an estimated population of 103,109,000 persons of all ages (about 90 per cent of the total population) of whom 9,057,000 (or about 9 per cent) were colored. Statistics by groups are given for children 5 to 9 years and 10 to 14 which represent fairly well the ages of the school population. While comparatively few children are in school onring their fifth year and the death rate is a trifle higher than for those who have reached six years the figures can be considered approximately those for children 6 to 15 years of age. In the 5 to 9 years group there were about 11,027,664 children and in the 10 to 14 group 10,222,908. The deaths in the former group in 1925 were 22,513 (white, 19,488; colored, 3,025) and in the latter 18,448 (white, 15,218: colored, 3,230). The total deaths from 5 to 14 years of age was 40,961. Roughly one in every 500 children at these ages died in an average recent year

Digitized by ^.ooQie
326

in the registration area. As the registration area represented about 90 per cent of the total population the estimated deaths at 5 to 14 years of age for the country at large would therefore be about 45,000. Many children attend school after their fifteenth year and the total enrollment for this year at school ages as determined by the Bureau of Education was 24,650,292 so that the total number of deaths in children of school age was probably around 50,000 or about 135 for each day of the year. The deaths among colored children were relatively much higher than those for white children, being approximately 3 per 1,000; thus lowering the rate for white children to about 1.95 per 1,000 at ages 5 to 9 and to about 1.65 per 1,000 at ages 10 to 14. (There are proportionately fewer colored children at the latter ages.)—North Carolina Health Bulletin.

<>-- ■ '»

Health education notes

*►_____________________________________________f •

Baths as Artificial Climates:	Treatment	of	Rheuma-

tism in Winter.—Fox, in the Biitish Medical Journal, lays down what appear to him to be the essential features and conditions of success of a center for physical treatment of rheumatic diseases in a northern climate. In the first place, the center must have for its nucleus a bath clinic, with its proper therapeutic elements —heat, moisture, mechanical stimulation and time. The bath and its surroundings will actually represent a climate in miniature, and it will operate by counteracting climatic influences in those who are injuriously affected by them. . To serve this purpose a large warmed building will be required, with a temperature approaching 70 F. in all its parts. The main feature will be the central pool or pools of moving water with its complement of gases, at the selected degree or degrees of heat. In association with these, departments will be provided for treatment by mud, with the proper mud kitchen, by vapor at various temperatures, or by thermal brine. Light and artificial sunshine will certainly have a place, as well as a judicious selection of local and accessory physical treatment. There will also be ample accommodation for manipulations, movements, frictions and switching, and couches for packs and prolonged and quiet resting. An artificial climate will pervade the place, and winter gardens with a subtropical temperature, refreshment rooms, library, games and recreations, and a gymnasium, may properly be included in the scheme. Last, but not least, fountains of soft drinking water, hot and cold, will be provided in all departments for treatment, as the free use of water internally is of great assistance to the external treatment of rheumatism. The great majority of rhematic persons, in both the early and the later stages of the disease, and many others who suffer from
327

chill, might well be recommended to spend from two to three hours a day in a medical establishment of this description. Men and women after the day’s work could take with advantage a couple of hours for treatment, rest and recreation at such a bath clinic. For all serious cases, especially of arthritis, warmed hostels should be available in close proximity.

Increased Growth of Underweight Children Secured Through Use of Wheat Germ.—Two groups, including from thirty-one to forty-seven underweight children from 11 to 13 years of age, were compared by Morgan and Barry sis to growth in weight, height and certain other physical measurements over three periods totaling thirty weeks. Each child in one of these groups in each period was required to include in the noon meal 3 ounces (85 Gm) of rolls made with 50 per cent wheat germ and 50 per cent white flour. The control group took the usual white flour rolls; thus the former group ingested a total of 5 ounces of wheat germ per week. The weight increases in each of the wheat germ periods were about three times as great as in the control periods. The difference in all cases was five or more times greater than the probable error of the difference. The height increases were significantly greater in two of the wheat germ periods than in the corresponding control groups. Alveolar carbon dioxide tension was increased in a larger percentage of the children fed wheat germ than in the controls, a change possibly due to the diminished acidosis following increased food intake. The significance of these observations is discussed in relation to the recent discovery of the multiple nature of vitamin B and of the poverty of the major foods—fruits, vegetables, milk and meat—in the antineuritic substance (vitamins B, Bl, F). The importance of whole cereals, but more particularly of grain embryos, such as those of wheat and of rice, as a possible source of this vitamin is pointed out. The probable relation of the decreasing vitamin B content of the modern diet to decreased appetite in children, nervousness, constipation and possibly other gastro-intestinal disturbances is also discussed.

REEDUCATION OF THE MORALLY UNBALANCED

Mr. Titeca has been elected president of the Societe de mede-cine mentale in Belgium. In keeping with the occasion, he delivered an addresfe on “The Reeducation of the Morally Unbalanced.” The person who is morally unbalanced must not be regarded as definitively lost to society until all attempts at reeducation shall have failed. Persons morally unbalanced understand perfectly the distinction between evil and moral goodness, but they lack an equilibrium between their weak aptitudes for the good and their powerful tendencies toward evil. One must question somewhat all information furnished by the family, which

Digitized by L^ooQle
328

sometimes seeks, owing to family pride, to attenuate or conceal the defects of its members, or sometimes exaggerates under the influence of the indignation provoked by some grave act. One must assure oneself, of course, that the person in question is not a mental weakling or a mentally backward subject. One should not assume too hastily the existence of hereditary defects. As for the remedy or remedies, they are in practice often difficult to apply. The best remedy is early treatment based on the triad of discipline, surveillance and punishment. What such persons need is neither an asylum nor a prison. With the first appearance of moral disorders, the psychiatrist should be allowed to place his patient in an open service that affords the opportunity of early treatment and the application of therapeutic penalties.

The patient is put to bed and his clothing is removed from the room. He must accept the discipline that is imposed on the group undergoing similar treatment. All calls except those of the family physician are prohibited for several weeks. The patient realizes that, while he is deprived of his liberty, it is purely for medical reasons. The period of confinement to the bed having been completed, the patient passes to the reeducation treatment proper. With extreme prudence, the physician authorizes the progressive use of certain liberties. This reeducation is gradually extended until the patient has been progressively but completely reintroduced to a normal social life. Even after the patient has been set at liberty, he must still visit, from time to time, his physician, who should have become his friend and counselor.

THE MEN OF THE LAST ICE AGE IN EUROPE

Lecturing at the Royal College of Surgeons, Sir Arthur Keith described the pioneers of the white race who took possession of Europe during the last phase of glaciation and displaced Neanderthal man, until then in sole possession. The increasing severity of climatic conditions in the opening phase of the ice age may have pushed Neanderthal man toward extinction but would not account for his complete disappearance, for many men of that race lived in Spain, southern France and Italy beyond the arctic conditions. A glance at the forerunners of the man of today explains why Neanderthal man disappeared. The discoveries in the caves of central and southern France revealed the tall, bigheaded, strong Cromagnon people. Recently Moravia has begun to rival France in contributions to knowledge of the early white or Caucasian settlers. In the middle or cold and dry phase of the ice age, parts of Moravia became covered by loess, a fine earth which drifted over the open camps of the mammoth hunters burying their hearths, refuse heaps, utensils and weapons, which were thus preserved. In the loess at Predmost, Professor Maska discovered a tomb of the mammoth hunters containing twenty people. The brains of the mammoth hunters, even when meas-

Digitized by v^ooQle
329

ured by modern standards for Europeans, were large and richly convoluted. The Predomostians, like the Cromagnons of southern France, were big-headed and muscular but of shorter stature. By following Europeans through the third stage of the last ice age by means > of dated burials it has been found that in the rigors of the last phase tallness disappeared, but the people remained stout and big-headed. They lived under such conditions as the modern Eskimo, and their jaws and certain portions of their skull took on an Eskimo form, but they showed the essential marks of the Caucasian. Later, when modem climatic conditions were dawning, from 10,000 to 12,000 years ago, European physique became reduced. There were no tall people, and big heads and strong jaws became uncommon. The people became small with slender bones, but whether they were the degenerate descendants of the great pioneers or were new invaders could not be stated. It was just when glacial conditions were giving way to more temperate times that knowledge of our ancestors was most deficient.

NOTES

Physical Achievement Standards.—The National Physical Achievement Standards were finally adopted at a recent meeting in New York City and should soon be available for use. Some modification of the original standards was made following extensive experimentation in several cities during the past year. Standards in play skills, gymnastic skills, field and tr^ck skills, are included.

School Marks And Health—From Germany comes the report of a study by Dr. Hermann Pauli of 1400 children between the ages of six and fourteen who had failed at some time to be promoted. In each of sixteen age groups into which they were divided for the study, these “repeaters” were found to be inferior in weight and height to children who were non-repeaters. Social study revealed that only a few were from very poor homes. In another study Dr. Pauli divided 1500 school children into three groups according to their marks and found that the group with the best marks contained the largest number of children with height and weight above the average and that among those with the lowest marks the majority were below the average in these particulars. From these and earlier investigations he concludes that there is a relationship between a child’s physical development and his mental condition.

Interschool Competition—Conditions in California with respect to high school interscholastic competition in athletic activities are gradually improving. With a few exceptions the girls have substituted play days for the old type interscholastic games, resulting now in a larger number participating in whole-

Digitized by CaOOQle
330

some activity where girls play with each other rather than against each other. For boys, state championships have been eliminated in all sports except in track and field. Oakland and San Francisco limit all championship competition to those cities, and the North Coast section now limits it to the two divisions recently formed. What real values there may be inherent in championships can be attained without going to extremes, and if all athletic championships in California high schools were limited to the local league some of the bad features of the program would be eliminated. Leagues should be redrawn in such a way as to throw schools of about the same size into competition and then provide a limitation on the length of season, number of games and length of practice period after school. It is hoped high school principals and physical education instructors will work toward this ideal as rapidly as possible.—California News Letter.

The American Legion has been active in promoting physical education. It has been one of the best helpers in the development of state-wide physical education laws and programs. They have been responsible for the passing of many of the thirty-six state laws and have obtained the budget for the employment of state directors. In Alabama they have been particularly active. The officers of the American Legion are planning to get back of a state movement for getting on the staff of every county superintendent, a county director of physical and health education.

The following is a platform for girls’ athletics presented by

J.	E. Rogers before the deans of women at a southern state

education conference:

1.	The principle that girls should participate in athletics is wise and good, but the problem is one of control and conduct.

2.	Girls should not imitate the men’s and boys’ activities. They should have programs of activities based on their interests and needs.

3.	The program should include more than basketball. It should be a varied program of all kinds of sports including volley ball, captain ball, dodge ball, field ball, soccer, swimming, hiking, etc.

4.	Girls’ games should not be staged with boys’ games. The pernicious habit of having girls’ games serve as curtain raisers and as interludes for the boys’ games should be stopped.

5.	Girls should not participate in state tournaments nor in overnight and week-end trips.

6.	Girls should have a program of activities that is broad and the environment in which they play and compete should be conducive to their health and well being, and no one but

Digitized by Google
331

trained women leaders should be in charge. The great need, therefore, is for a right program under scientific leadership.

7.	There should be no gate receipts; this presupposes a contest ‘‘worth the' money”. Admission should be by invitation.

Important Notice—The national American Physical Education Association and the Middle West section will meet in Detroit from April 1 to 4.

The eastern section of the A. P. E. A. will meet in Trenton, April 29 to May 2.

The southern section of the A. P. E. A. will meet in Louisville.

The Gymnastic Association of Teachers of Berlin recently adopted a series of resolutions in reference to the physical training facilities at the schools of Berlin, among which we find the following:

1.	The present gymnasium facilities should be increased three fold.

2.	Most of the gymnasiums are unhygienic if measured by the demands of modem school hygiene.

3.	Modem physical education demands an adequate outdoor space for running, jumping and throwing; also for many of the most valuable games.

4.	The minimum size of such an outdoor field should be 70 by 120 meters (about 220 by 375 feet). The minimum space per enrolled pupil should be 15 square meters (about 47 square feet) and for each pupil of a grade school, 25 square meters (about 78 square feet).

BOOK REVIEWS

“A Health Revue”—A Pageant of Health Activities and Rules Adapted for Junior High Schools—by Margaret Strassler. Bound in cloth, 6 1-4” x 9 1-4”, published by A. S. Barnes and Co. Price $1.50.

This health pageant is suitable for Junior High School pupils and would make a splendid project as the culmination of a term’s work, as it includes many of the health habits that have been stressed during the term.

It consists of two parts, preceded by a processional and followed by a recessional. In Part I the Health Queen, anxious to see what physical activities foreign countries engage in to promote health, invites various countries to demonstrate. This gives opportunity for a varied program of drills and dances. Descriptions of these original dances and drills are included in the book.

In Part II, ten of the familiar health rules are pantomimed. They include “Have a physical examination every year,” “Drink

Digitized by AaOOQle
332

a quart of milk every day instead of tea and coffee,” “Eat some fruit every day,” “Brush the teeth every day,” and others. The actions for these are all described in a chapter headed “Staring, entrances, exits, and lights”. Another chapter is devoted to costumes. In it each costume is described and the amount, color, and kind of material needed is stated.

A pageant of this kind forms a good means of entertainment and an excellent method of impressing in a visual way the content of the health program.—Janet B. Walter.

“Growing Straight”—Maud Smith Williams—Clothbound, —$2.00. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, N. Y.

At first glance the title suggests a book on posture but upon opening the cover we find the supplementary statement “A New System of Physical Education with Mental Control”. It has to do with a “method of body building and corrective physical; training” founded upon the secret knowledge of old Indian adepts and true Medicine Men.

Chapter II contains some very interesting reading about Indians and is used presumably to establ'sh a foundation for the chapters which follow. One of these chapters, the third, expounds “The Powers of Breath”. In this connection the author prints out that “Man alternates in polarity with every breath,” and that “he may adjust his polarity to breathing and thereby control the life current making it positive or negative at will”. Further on we learn that “One nostril is used for the positive and the other for the negative life currents”. Another chapter the fourth, may be summarized in the paragraph—

“No matter what activity the Indian undertakes, he follows certain rules of thought. The process of thinking correlates directly with the action. A flash of thought accompanies each move. This method should be used when directionalizing the action of the muscles in the exercises given in this book. Remember: energy follows thought.”

Chapter V, explaining the “Art of Relaxation” completes the first part of the book. Here we find many pertinent suggestions for combating the evils of modem hustle and bustle.

The second part of the book, especially chapters VII to XI inclusive, consists primarily of descriptions of exercises expressed in terms of Indian tradition. Most of these are familiar to the well trained teacher of physical education. Some of the information will be found amusing if not illuminating.

As a book depicting some colorful Indian methods of practicing physical and mental activities it is very interesting but it falls far short of being a source of reliable scientific information in Physical education. It smacks too much of the mysterious, occult, and intangible to make much contribution to a field needing more rather than less scientific information on which to base its practices.—John C. Kiefer.

Digitized by

Go< _. _ - ^ -