MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	NOVEMBER, 1922	No.	312

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, MHul

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, ip/6, at the postoffice at Netc Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 1879.

Qriginal articles and

REPRINT^

EXERCISES UPON APPARATUS*

BY L. ZWARG, PHILADELPHIA.

There is an increasing demand for easy exercises upon apparatus exercises that readily may be used by a teacher and at the same time appeal to the pupil. In the following compilation the exercises have been arranged in the form of lessons; that is, the suggested exercises are to form the material for one lesson upon a particular piece of apparatus. As a rule there are four lessons upon each piece of apparatus for three groups of pupils. The first group consists of pupils in the first, second, and third school grades. The next set of four lessons is for the middle group comprising school grades four, five and six. The Last group is for grades seven and eight. In this group a sex division has been made so that there are exercises for boys and exercises for girls.

The exercises are upon the Ladder, oblique Ladder, vertical Ladder, horizontal, low Ladder, horizontal, high Horizontal bar, low

*A11 rights reserved.

following pieces of apparatus: Side Horse Long Horse Parallel Bars Tumbling Giant Stride

Digitized by C^ooQle
242

Horizontal bar, head and jump

high	Buck

Climbing Poles and Ropes	Stall Bars

Rings, shoulder high Rings, reach high Rings, jump high

Mr. Zwarg’s long and successful experience as a teacher not only of boys and of gi.ls but also of adults, coupled with the fact that personally he ts an apparatus performer of the highest grade gives assurance that the exercises selected by him are usable and that they will be of interest to pupils.

William A. Stec her.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER, HIP-HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades i, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

From side-stand frontways.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position. Return with jump.

2.	Hang-lying position frontways. Raise knees alternately.

3.	Support-stand frontways. Alternately raise legs backward.

4.	Hang-lying position frontways. Alternately lift hands.

2. Lesson.

1.	Hang-lying position frontways. Chin.

2.	Hang-lying position frontways. Move hands far apart. Return.

3.	Support-stand frontways. Bend, straighten arms.

4.	From cross-stand under Ladder jump to hang-lying position. Change grip from beams to round and return.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk left (right) and place left hand on floor. Return.

2.	From cross-stand under ladder raise feet to hang-lying position, (feet on round).

3.	In hang-lying position (cross), grip on beams, travel backward, dragging feet over the floor.

4.	From support-stand frontways jump to momentary hang-lying position front ways and return.

4. Lesson.

1.	Support-stand frontways. Turn trunk left (right) and swing left arm sideward.

2.	From cross-stand under ladder jump to knee-hang over round, grip on round or beams.

3.	Hang-lying position frontways. Travel sideward with hands and feet.

4.	From side-stand frontways jump to support (for strong pupils). (Keep arms straight. Lean well forward).

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

/. Lesson. Ladder hip-high.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Chin. Return with a jump.

2.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

Digitized by CjOOQle
*43

j. From cross-stand under ladder jump to knee-hang left. Change to right.

4. Hang-lying position under ladder, feet on round, hands on beams. Travel forward.

2.	Lesson. Ladder jump high.

(It is safe to have the ladder rather low and let the children raise

the feet backward in the hang.)

t. From cross-stand under ladder jump to hang. Raise knees as high as possible. Lower, jump, bending knees.

2.	From side-stand frontways jump to hang, grip on beam. Move hands apart and close again.

3.	Cross-stand. Jump to hang, grip on beams. Swing sideward (Moderately). Halt. Jump.

4.	Side hang, grip on beam. Raise knees, Straighten. Forward. Return.

3.	Lesson. Ladder hip-high.

I.	Jump to support, (arms straight, lean well forward). Jump, bending knees.

2.Jump to a cross-seat in rear of hands. Jump down, facing and grasping ladder.

3.	Hang-lying position under ladder, hands on round. Travel backward from round to round, dragging feet over floor.

4.	Jump to support. Lean over ladder. Turn-over forward over bar beam. (Assistance).

4.	Lesson. Ladder jump-high.

1.	From cross-stand under ladder jump to hang, grip on beams. Raise knees to inverted squat-hang. Return slowly.

2.	From side-stand frontways jump to hang, grip on beam. Travel sideward.

3.	Jump to hang, grip on round. Slowly release one hand and place arm down at side.

4.	Cross-hang, g*ip on beams. Travel forward.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER, HIP-HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk, releasing one arm.

2.	Jump to cross-seat in rear of hands. Swing to cross-seat on opposite side. Dismount.

3.	Jump to support. Lean forward over ladder. Turn-over forward over far beam.

4.	Hang-stand frontways under ladder, hands on rounds or beams. Travel backward with hands, dragging over the floor.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

2.	Jump to cross-seat in rear of hands. Change to straddle-seat in front of hands. Rear-vault-dismount.

3.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to knee-hang, grip on beams. Straighten to inverted hang.

Digitized by CjOOQle
244

4. Jump to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Change to support-lying position frontways on top of ladder, Bend and straighten arms. Front-vault-dismount.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hang-stand rearways, grip on beams. Raise knees forward.

2.	Jump to straddle-seat in rear of hands. Change to lying-position rear-ways on top of ladder. Raise legs. Swing to cross-seat. Dismount.

3.	Hang-lying position frontways under ladder, hands and feet on rounds. Travel backward (or forward).

4.	Side-stand under ladder, under grip on far bar, Hip-swing-up.

4. Lesson.

1.	Side-stand frontways. Jump to momentary hang-lying position frontways and return (try without touching floor).

2.	Jump to cross-seat in rear of hands. Rear-vault dismount over ladder.

3.	Hip-swing-up to support-lying position frontways. Under grip left. Front-vault right.

4.	Jump to support. Under grip on near bar. Swing to chest-stand on far bar. Turn-over forward to elbow-hang.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER, HIP-HIGH.

For Girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk, releasing one arm.

2.	Jump to a cross-seat in rear of hands. Dismount.

3.	Jump to support (lean well forward).

4.	Hang-stand frontways under ladder, hands on rounds or beams. Travel backward with hands, dragging feet over the floor.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

2.	Jump to support. Lean over forward. Turn-over forward over far beam.

3.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to knee-hang, grip on beams or rounds.

4.	Jump to cross-seat in rear of hands. Swing to cross-seat on opposite side. Dismount.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Hang-stand rearways, grip on beams. Raise knees forward.

2.	Jump to cross-seat in rear of hands. Change to straddle-seat in front of hands. Return.

3.	Hang-lying position frontways under ladder, hands and feet on rounds. Travel backward (or forward).

4.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to knee-hang. Straighten to inverted hang.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Side-stand frontways. Jump to momentary hang-lying-position front-ways and return (try without touching floor).

2.	Jump to cross-seat. Change to sitting position on ladder. Lower trunk backward to lying position rearways. Return.

Digitized by CjOOQle
*45

3.	Jump to cross-seat. Change to straddle-seat. Swing to support-lying position frontways on top of ladder. Front-vault dismount.

4.	Side-stand under ladder, under grip on far beam. Hip-swing-up.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER, JUMP HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to hang. Raise knees as high as possible.

2.	Side-stand frontways. Jump to hang. Move hands far apart and straddle legs sideward. Return.

3.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to hang. Grip on beams. Swing sideward. Halt. Jump.

4.	Side-hang, grip on beam. Raise knees. Straighten forward. Return.

2.	Lesson.

1.	From cross-stand under ladder jump to hang, grip on beams. Raise knees to inverted squat-hang, Return slowly.

2.	From side-stand frontways jump to hang, grip on beam. Travel sideward.

3.	Jump to hang, grip on round. Slowly release one hand and place arm down at side.

4.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Travel forward.

3.	Lesson.

1.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Raise knees t;o knee-hang. Straighten to inverted hang. Return.

2.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Swing sideward with hand-lifting.

3.	Side-stand under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on rounds, left hand reversed grip, yi turn left around left arm. The right arm swings down to side of body and then up to grasp a new round with reversed grip. The turning can be repeated around the right arm.

4.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Change to grip on rounds. Return.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Raise knees to inverted squat hang. Travel backward with feet to hang-lying position rearways (or nest-hang.) Return.

2.	Cross-hang grip on beams. Short swings.

3.	Travel forward in bent-arm hang, grip on rounds.

4.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Turn over backward to hang rearways. Return.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL LADDER, JUMP-HIGH.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to hang. Raise knees as high as possible.

2.	Side-stand frontways. Jump to hang. Move hands far apart and straddle legs sideward. Return.

3.	Cross-stand under ladder. Jump to hang. Grip on beams. Swing sideward. Halt. Jump.

4.	Side-hang, grip on beam. Raise knees. Straighten forward. Return.

Digitized by Google
246

2.	Lesson.

x. From cross-stand under ladder jump to hang, grip on beams, raise knees to inverted squat-hang. Return slowly.

2.	From side-stand frontways jump to hang, grip on beam. Travel side-ward.

3.	Jump to hang, grip on round. Slowly release one hand and place arm down at side.

4.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Travel forward.

j. Lesson.

1.	Cross-hang grip on beams. Raise knees to knee-hang over round. Return.

2.	Cross-hang, grip on beams. Swing sideward with hand-lifting.

3.	Side-stand under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on rounds, left hand reversed grip. turn left around left arm. The right arm swings down to side of body and then up to grasp a new round with reversed grip. The turning can then be repeated around the right arm.

4.	Cross-hang grip on beams. Change to grip on rounds.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Raise knees to inverted squat-hang. Walk forward with feet to hang-lying position frontways, feet on round. Return.

2.	Cross-hang grip on beams. Short swings.

3.	Cross-hang grip on beams. Travel forward with sideward swings.

4.	Cross-hang-grip on beams. Travel backward.

EXERCISES ON THE LADDER, (OBLIQUE.)

For boys and girls of grades I, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward halfways. Return walking.

2.	Walk upward halfways. Slide down in straddle-seat (knees hooked around beams), hands on rounds.

3.	Stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams.

4.	Repeat with grip on round.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Walk upward, Slide down in straddle-seat, hands on round.

2.	Lying position rearways, hands grasped over head. Raise knees alternately.

3.	Stand under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on round. Raise knees alternately.

4.	Lying position frontways, hands grasped over-head. Raise head and legs backward.

j. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward five rounds. Sit on round. Grasp next highest round. Between the two rounds lower body to stand.

2.	Stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on round. Slowly place one hand on hip.

3.	Stand frontways under ladder. Crawl to floor on other side (head first over second round).

4.	Support-stand frontways on upper side. Raise legs backward alternately.

Digitized by CjOOQle
* v

247

4. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward, skipping one round with each step. Slide down in straddle-seat.

2.	Hang-lying position rearways, hands grasped over-head. Raise legs alternately. Raise knees.

3.	Stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams. Raise legs forward and step on round to hang-lying position frontways.

4.	From hand under ladder, grip on round. Chin. Try to catch next highest round.

EXERCISES ON THE OBLIQUE LADDER.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

(The exercises, unless otherwise stated, are to be executed on the

upper side of the ladder).

/ Lesson.

1.	Walk to top. Slide down in straddle-seat (knees hooked around beams) hands on rounds.

2.	Lying position rearways. Raise knees alternately.

3.	Walk upward 10 rounds. Sit on round. Grasp next highest round, between the two rounds lower body to hang. Jump bending knees deep.

4.	Walk upward halfways. Support-stand, raise legs backward alternately.

2. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward halfways. }4 turn. Walk downward rearways.

2.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams. Swing sideward, Halt. Jump.

Walk upward on under side of ladder. Walk down.

Run upward (race). Slide down in straddle-seat.

j. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward seven rounds. Climb around one beam to stand on under side of ladder.

2.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to bent-arm hang, grip on beams. Change to grip on rounds.

3.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Walk upward five rounds. Feet first, crawl to lying-position rearways on top of ladder.

4.	Walk to top, skipping two rounds with each step. Glide down in support lying position frontways, feet (insteps) placed on beams, hands on rounds.

4. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward halfways. Turn to lying-position learways, hands grasped ovei head. Raise knees high. Return.

2. From hang-stand on second round (under ladder) crawl around one beam to support-stand on upper side of ladder. Bend arms and straighten.

3.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams*. Swing sideward with hand-lifting. Halt. Jump.

4* Walk to top on undei side of ladder. Hook legs around beams. Slide down, hands on beams or rounds.

Digitized by Google
248

EXERCISES ON THE OBLIQUE LADDER.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Walk to top. Slide down in straddle-seat (knees hooked around beams) hands on rounds.

2.	Lying-position rearways. Raise knees as high as possible.

3.	Walk upward halfway. Turn around beam to a hang under ladder. Jump bending knees.

4.	Walk upward. Support-stand. Raise legs backward alternately.

2. Lesson.

1.	Run upward, yi turn to straddle-seat rearways in front of hands, knee hooked around beams. Slide down.

2.	Crors-hang frontways under ladder, grip on beams. Travel upward with sideward swings and return.

3.	Wralk upward on under-side of ladder. Hook knee around beams. Slide down.

4.	Walk upward halfway. Sit on round. Lower trunk backward to lying-position rearways (bend knees well over round).

3.	Lesson.

1.	Walk to top. Turn to hang on under side, grip on beams slowly travel downward.

2.	Cross-hang frontways under ladder, grip on round. Travel upward in bent-arm hang.

3.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Walk upward five rounds. Feet first, crawl to lying-position rearways on top of ladder.

4.	Walk to top, skipping two rounds with each step. Glide down in hang-lying position frontways, feet (insteps) placed on beams, hands on rounds.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Lying-position rearways, hands grasped overhead. Raise legs.

2.	Run to top. yi turn to straddle-seat. Change to support-lying position frontways, hands on round, feet on beams, head downward. Slowly travel downward.

3.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams. Swing body around one beam to upper-side of ladder.

4.	Run to top. Support lying-position frontways, hands on round, feet on beams. Travel downward in support.

EXERCISES ON THE OBLIQUE LADDER.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

(The exercises unless otherwise stated, are to be executed on the

upper side of the ladder.)

/. Lesson.

1.	Walk to top. Slide down in straddle-seat (knees hooked around beams) hands on rounds.

2.	Lying-position rearways. Raise knees as high as possible.

3.	Walk upward halfways. Turn around beam to a hang under ladder. Jump, bending knees.

4.	Walk upward. Support-stand. Raise legs backward alternately.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
249

2.	Lesson.

1.	Run upward, yi turn to straddle-seat rearways in front of hands, knees hooked around beams. Slide down.

2.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Swing sideward with hand lifting.

3.	Walk upward on under-side of ladder. Hook knees around beams. Slide down.

4.	Walk upward halfway. Sit on round. Lower trunk backward to lying position rearways (bend knees well over round).

j. Lesson.

1.	Walk to top. Turn to a hang on under side, grip on beams. Slowly travel downward.

2.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to bent-arm hang, grip on beams. Change to grip on round and return.

3.	Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Walk upward five rounds. Feet first, crawl to lying position rearways on top of ladder.

4.	Walk to top, skipping two rounds with each step. Glide down in hang-lying position frontways, feet (Insteps) placed on beams, hands on rounds.

4. Lesson.

I* Lying position rearways, hands grasped overhead. Raise legs.

Cross-stand frontways under ladder. Jump to hang, grip on beams. Swing body around one beam to upper side of ladder.

3.	Cross-hang frontways under ladder, grip on beams. Travel upward with sideward swings. Return.

4.	Run to top. yi turn to straddle-seat. Change to support lying-position frontways, hands on round, feet on beams, head downward Slowly travel downward.

EXERCISES ON THE LADDERS, VERTICAL.

For boys and girls of grades 1, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward, grip on rounds. Return walking.

2.	Step to hang rearways. Step down.

3.	Stand frontways on second round, grasp round about hip-high, arms straight. Bend knees deep and straighten.

4.	Walk upward, skipping one round. Return walking.

2. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward. Slide down with grip on rounds, legs straddled around beams.

2.	Support-stand frontways on toes. Raise legs backward alternately.

3.	Hang rearways. Raise knees alternately.

4.	From stand rearways wind body between two rounds to opposite side (first one arm, then head and other arm, trunk and legs) to stand frontways.

j. Lesson.

1. Walk upward five rounds. Climb around one beam to opposite side.

2. Walk upward three rounds. Hang frontways. Straddle legs sideward. Return.

Digitized by Google
2JO

3.	Stand frontways, grasp round hip-high. Bend knees. Straighten knees and bend hips. Return.

4.	Run upward, grip on rounds. (Race).

4. Lesson.

1.	Hang-stand rearways, outer grip on beams or upper (reversed) grip on round. Raise knees forward alternately.

a. Hang rearways. Raise knees. Return.

3.	From hang-stand frontways on round turn trunk left and release left arm. (Hang-stand sideways). Return.

4.	Run upward, skipping one round. (Race).

EXERCISES ON THE LADDER, VERTICAL.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.	•

/. Lesson.

1.	Walk upward, grip on rounds. Slide down, legs straddled around beams.

2.	Stand frontways on second round, grasp round about hip-high, arms straight. Bend knees deep. Straighten.

3.	Support-stand frontways on toes. Raise legs backward alternately.

4.	Run upward, (Race), grip on rounds. Slide down.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Straddle legs sidewards.

2.	From stand rearways wind body head first between two rounds to stand frontways on opposite side. (Contest).

3. Walk upward halfways. Raise legs backward alternately (arms extended.)

4.	Run to top. Climb to opposite side and run down. (Race).

3.	Lesson.

1.	Walk upward five rounds. Sit on round, lock toes on round below. Bend trunk backward, hands on hips.

2.	Walk upward five rounds. Wind body between two rounds to opposite side to stand rearways.

3.	Support-lying position frontways, hands on floor, feet on second or third round.

4. Walk upward halfways. Return in bent-arm hang, feet (in steps) placed against beams.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Raise knees. Raise legs alternately.

2.	Walk upward five rounds. Hang-stand sideways on one foot and one arm; the free leg and arm raised sideward.

3.	From hang-stand frontways, upper grip on rounds walk toward hands to a squat-hang.

4.	WTalk to top. Return in bent-arm hang, feet (insteps) placed against beams.

(To Be Continued)

Digitized by
251

YOUTH AND MILITARY TRAINING.

BY HAZEL O. PUTNAM, GRADUATE STUDENT IN THE PSYCHOLOGY OF ADO-LBSCKNCE, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, WORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

Shall military training be given our adolescent youths? This is one of the many questions which are puzzling educational and military authorities today. They agree that when the time comes to fight, then we must fight, and above everything else, let us be prepared to fight. But we should not register a faulty blunder by electing a faulty means of preparation. Military training no doubt has great merit when it is given in its proper institution, a military school, but it should find no place in the American public high school.

We must not forget that at the time when military proponents would force the boy into military training, between the ages of twelve and eighteen, he is undergoing important life changes. It is the period of adolescence when the b*y is passing from boyhood to manhood. It is absolutely wrong to take a boy and place him in what surely is a man’s job. We are subjecting the boy to both mental and physical injury.

Let us consider the meaning of military training. The terms military training and military drill are commonly used synonymously. But there is a great difference in the two. Military training refers to the direct, practical, and intensive training which is given to the recruit in the army or to one who is preparing for actual warfare. Military drill is the name used to designate the exercises which, years ago, were intended to train the soldier.

The object of military training is to produce good soldiers. Good soldiers are men who are alert, obedient, accurate, responsible, courageous, able to dig trenches, to climb mountains, to go on long hikes, to carry heavy packs, and to perform the many more tasks that are required of a soldier. There is no high school in the United States, which is thinking seriously of introducing military training into its school, that can carry on intensive work as described above. The curriculum of the high school is already over-crowded. Yet to establish a system of true military training it is necessary to put into practice these various maneuvers. The high school proposes to substitute military training for physical. The most of military value that any high school hopes to accomplish is to develop habits of order, obedience, and to give instruction in fundamental tactics.

Concerning the instruction military authorities agree that if young men who are sound in body and in mind are sent to them, they can teach them in a few months, some even say in a few weeks, all of the tactics that could be learned in many months of high school training. Military training in the high school must necessarily interfere with the youth’s progress in his school course. On entering high school the youth has entered the period when he must choose his life career. Most of his time is devoted to this self-selected study. The duty of military training would divert his attention from his aim in life and would take a great deal of time which should be devoted to the preparation of his studies. If military training is made compulsory in the high school, a

Digitized by LjOOQle
2$2

great many of the boys would leave school. At present every effort is being made to create a curriculum as attractive as possible so as to interest the boys and keep them in school.

In Chicago recently the women have started a campaign against military training for high school boys. The opposition to military training in the public schools is based on three arguments:

1.	Because not even Germany deemed it advisable to maintain military training for school boys in time of peace.

2.	Because military training is not an adequate substitute for physical training.

3.	Because militarism should be discouraged and not encouraged.

The advocates of military training give the following as the chief

arguments in its defense:

1. They claim that it is a necessary factor in national safety.

2. They assert that it furnishes the boy with a good sound physical de velopment.

3.	They believe it will give the boy necessary training in discipline and make him into a good citizen.

4.	They are sure that it develops in him patriotism and love of country.

Most of the foremost educators in America are against military training in the elementary and high schools and in the universities.

Military training in the elementary and high schools does not prepare for national defense. The practical training which prepares for actual warfare cannot be worked into the school curriculum. If it were possible to include military training in the schools it is too hard for the boy under twenty years of age. Generals Wood, Goethals, and Young, military leaders, urge that military education must not begin before the nineteenth or twentieth year.

From a military standpoint the drill such as is given in the high school cadet companies is a waste of time. General Baden-Powell has expressed his opinion of military activities in these words: “Drill a boy and you spoil a soldier.”

The second argument that the youth gains ideal physical development from military training is hardly a true statement. Dr. Dudley Sargent of Harvard University says: “Militaiy drills, constrained positions and closely localized movements do not afford the essential requisites for developing the muscles and improving the respiration and circulation thereby improving the general health and condition of the system. It is not an adequate means for physical training, being not only very limited in its activity but actually harmful in its effects on boys less than eighteen or twenty years of age. In the case of any malformation, local weakness, or constitutional debility, the drill tends, by its strain upon the nerves and prolonged tension on the muscles, to increase the defects rather than to relieve them.”

The time for development is childhood and youth. It can not be gained after maturity and it can not be gained in one year or a single period of years, either in childhood or youth. There is a growth order in the child which must be observed and theie is a normal development possible for each age period of child life. The growth order must be followed in order to secure orderly and harmonious development.
*53

The most militaristic nations of Europe do not use military training during the years of youth. They depend on continuous physical training to prepare boys for the real military training of military age. Both West Point and Annapolis depend upon physical training, not upon their military drill, for physical development. The military commission of Massachusetts pronounced against military drill and recommended physical training. The military commission of New York has established compulsory physical training.

Military drill has been maintained in the schools of a number of cities of Masaschusetts for many years. Ex-President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard University says: “Military drill seems to me one of the poorest forms of bodily exercise; very inferior to most gymnastic exercises and to all free sports. There is too much routine and automatic action in it and too much repression of individual freedom. The only good part of it is the ‘setting-up drill,* which can easily be made a gymnastic exercise without military accompaniments.**

Dr. Darby of London adds:	“Physical training should not be

military. Experiments in public schools with a view to ascertain the relative value of gymnastics and military drill showed the average result yielded by the former was more than three times as great as that yielded by the latter,**

In reply to the third argument, Dr. Dewey, the great educator, says: “The kind of obedience that military training tends to create is the kind that all real teaching seeks to avoid, and the kind that America has always despised. The experience of military schools shows that the rigid discipline of this part of the training is accompanied by relaxed discipline in everything else.**

It is often claimed that military training offers the best method of training the youths in obedience, promptness, and other traits. The New Jersey Commission on Military Training reports this comment:

“It is sometimes claimed that military training is the best agency for inculcating obedience. But if this claim is carefully considered it will be found that obedience to military authority is generally unthinking. During actual war, men willingly undergo training because the work is definitely motivated; but when peace comes and men go into barracks, they feel that there is nothing of value in drill, and there is a consequent tendency to evade its requirements. This kind of obedience has been and may be, secured by similar school methods. It is obedience under restraint. It is by no means capable of demonstration that those who have had military training, or been subject to military discipline, are superior to other citizens in the possession of such qualities as alertness, truthfulness, industry, and promptness.**

Statistics have shown that the youths who are members of the school cadet corps are not better morally and are not more free from moral defects than the youths who do not belong.

The last argument is that military training develops patriotism. The business of the school is to prepare for peace, to make war impossible, to develop an international consciousness, to teach respect for law and order, to train to live and to help live, and to educate for true world democracy. The military training of our boys will not develop these aims.

Digitized by v^ooQle


*54

It is said that military patriotism may be no deeper and no more lasting than military obedience. Many times patriotism is mistaken for the excitement and the showy exhibitions. The quiet, peace-loving citizen may be and often is the true patriot.

In being taught patriotism the children are told that it is the result in the minds and hearts of the citizens of the study of the history of our country and of their reflection upon the lives of the men who have made it great and of the sacrifices they made to establish a nation. These studies will make the children patriotic citizens in time of peace and when a war does come they will willingly sacrifice themselves. Military training can not make this spirit, but tends to prevent it.

Finally, it may be concluded that military training has many advantages if taught at the proper age and in the proper place. Twenty years, or even nineteen, has been accepted as the age most suitable for the youth to receive instruction in military training and drill. It should not find any place in the secondary schools.

PLAYGROUNDS AND CHARACTER BUILDING OF OUR YOUNG PEOPLE.

T. J. 3MERQALSKI, SUPERINTENDENT OF RECREATION CENTERS, WEST CICHAGO PARK COMMISSIONERS.

“Happy hearts and happy faces, happy play in grassy places; that was how in ancient ages children grew to kings and sages.”

Robert Louis Stevenson.

To the average layman, play is a mere pastime, a form of luxury, and playgrounds are places of amusement where children can spend their idle moments in wholesome fun and pleasure by the use of play apparatus provided therein, such as swings, seesaws, teeter ladders, climbing poles, slides, etc. This conception of the meaning of play and the function of playgrounds, is only partly true. The fact is, that play is essential to child life, — a necessity and not a luxury, and playgrounds are schools of character. It is for this reason that playgrounds have been established. If so, they deserve recognition in the program of education, and the general public should be made acquainted with this proper view-point, for a greater use and appreciation of the playgrounds may follow.

Hence where lies this value in play and what particular education do the playgrounds afford the child?

It is generally known that in our large cities there is an appalling number of physical ailments among children; that there is a steady increase in juvenile delinquency and crime; that there is a certain lack of physical and mental vigor in children, and a deficiency in certain qualities of character essential in modern industry, business and citizenship, and this condition is attributed by educators, scientists and experts, after considerable study, to the present congestion and cramped livihg conditions of the people, — the machine industry, the whirl and complexity of modern city life, the ever surrounding temptations, dangers and the negative influences and effects that are apparent in the keenness of the

Digitized by t^-ooQle
255

modern competitive mode of living. In a word, the condition is due to a lack of proper environment in our cities for a natural and a normal expression of child life, an environment that does not allow for the natural exercise of the play instinct and for a natural unfolding of the powers of a child.

In addition to this, because of the many profound industrial, economic and social changes which have taken place, in the last hundred years, life has become quickened, and all about us, a demand is made for training, ability, judgment, social qualities, adaptability, physical and mental powers, unequalled in history. More than that, life in any pursuit for a livelihood appears to be strained and unnatural a great portion of the time. Thus a great need arises from this closer and greater number of contacts of different peoples, for a more suitable environment and proper education.

To counteract these evil tendencies and influences, play has been capitalized among children and playgrounds have been established for this capitalization and to improve the environment of the child, for the study of play has revealed that play is a natural instinct of a child, and that too, its expression has a biological significance; that it is a part of the law of his growth; that it serves the purpose of education during the period of immaturity, during which time habits are formed and lessons are learned that prepare the child for the serious activities of later life, and that such places as playgrounds are required for the promotion of play activities in the absence of such natural avenues as open fields and prairies, extensive woods, spacious back yards, home industry and simple living, blessed with ample sunshine and air, the playground of informal play in years back which made for driving power and strong characters.

The movement began in 1886 with a little unsupervised sand garden m Boston. This expanded in a few years into the small open ground without any apparatus. From this into the outdoor playground and gymnasium with apparatus, then into the recreation center with a building, a swimming pool, tennis courts, ball fields, etc., such as we have today in Chicago.

At first, play was limited to hours of daylight; now, it includes evening hours. At first, it was limited to children; now it includes persons of all ages. At first, it was unsupervised; now it is directed by trained and paid leaders. At first, it was a private effort; now it is a public function, supported by public taxation.

Of so great importance has play become that municipalities are conducting recreation as a public utility for the physical, moral and social welfare of their future citizens, for certain physical standards must be maintained for efficient production; for good morality rests upon the good health of citizens; for education rests upon principles which provide for the building and practice of relationships as well as their application. In other words, we are arriving at a realization of the necessity for a harmonious physical and mental development and a recognition of play as an important means to this end. Such a conception of the value of our playgrounds makes the playgrounds worthy of recognition as valuable institutions for child life and the training of citizens. This fact cannot be emphasized too strongly. So today, the playground is the center of the boy's and girls play life. Here it is that they play and build

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
256

objects in the sand, romp from one piece of apparatus to another, exercising their muscles and ingenuity in doing tricks and stunts, play games of high and low organization under competent and trained leadership, engage in all sorts of handicraft work, athletics, dramatics, etc., sing, imitate, listen to stories, learn folk dancing, participate in contests, pageants, festivals, races and group activities, swim, skate, etc., with thousands of other children, neighbors, friends and strangers of various nationalities, creeds and races, of various stations in life. Here in their play activities, in their multitudinous contacts, the children gain a consciousness of their relationship to each other. They gain a true estimate of themselves as members of society and the foundation for the development of sympathy, kindness, love, justice, obedience, honesty and correct mental habits is laid. Here in the playgrounds, the social nature of man comes into its own in the play of the child. The children learn co-operation, rivalry, tolerance and friendship in their contact with their companions. They learn the power of blame and praise of the other children. They learn to suppress their ego and develop loyalty to their group. In their team games they learn how to make sacrifices for the good of the whole team, develop courage, the power of quick thinking and action, all fundamental traits of leadership. In their intercourse with other children in play, there is a contact of other’s ideas, beliefs, personalities and emotions which are necessarily modified. Discipline is learned in childhood and a definite personality is formed. These are lessons in character training and building and these are elements of character that are necces-sary in adult life. Thus playgrounds are places of accomplishment, not mere amusement — schools of character building for boys and girls.

The following sayings of prominent men concerning the value of play and playgrounds in the field of child protection and training, are apropos of our subject:

It is the gravest kind of wrong, not only to the children, but to the whole community, to turn out the boys and girls, especially in congested parts of the city, with no place to play but in the streets.

Theodore Roosevelt.

The universal impulse to play is a divinely ordered thing. If God gives the instinct, man ought to provide the playground.

Josiak Strong.

In fact I think it would be difficult to find any point at which in our largest cities a dollar will go further in the making of those things for which the city exists than in the provision and maintenance of playgrounds.

Elmer E. Brown, U. S. Commissioner of Education.

Playing, the child grows character — therefore there is nothing in the whole range of schooling that is as educational.

Jacob Riis.

It is during leisure rather than during work time that character is formed. The basis of character is the will, and at no time does this function of the mind have so free a scope as during recreation. It is then that all restraint is removed and we do as we will. The excellent

Digitized by <^.ooQle
257

effect of recreation on character is seen in children at play. Often for the first time they learn the meaning of self-restraint. They learn the significance of co-operation and group action in those games requiring team work. At play the cheat is quickly discovered and punished with ostracism by his fellows. Such object lessons in the fundamentals of morality are invaluable in the normal development of any child. After all, character is acquired from the environment and not from the blood. Amusement is gaining recognition as a force as potent as formal instruction.

Frank D, Watson.

Why have playgrounds? Why? Why does a flower need the light? The child needs a playground because his growth is through activity which his nature has prescribed; and because he will never grow up, or will grow up stunted and perverted if he is denied those opportunities and objects to which his vital instinctive and formative activities relate.

Joseph Lee.

In dealing with the problem of crime in youth, we shall make progress just in proportion as we appreciate the absurdity of limiting our remedies to the court, the jailer and the hangman. Our plea for public playgrounds is a plea for justice to the boy. We are literally crowding him off the earth. We have no right to deny him his heritage, but that is just what we are doing in nearly every large city in this country, and he is hitting back, hitting hard, when he does not mean to, while we vaguely understand and stupidly punish him for crime. Why shouldn’t he rebel? The amazing thing is that he is not worse than he is.

Judge Benjamin B. Lindsay.

A fundamental condition for the permanent development of a free people is that they shall in childhood learn to govern themselves. Self-government is to be learned as an experience rather than taught as a theory. Hence, in a permanent democracy adequate playgrounds for all children are a necessity.

When a municipality makes it illegal to play in the streets it should provide places where play will not only be lawful but encouraged.

Dr. Luther Halsey Guliek.

There is no better way to teach a boy to be honorable and straight than to give him an opportunity to play normally with his fellows.

Gov. Charles Evans Hughes.

The organized games under the direction of good trainers, develop respect for the rights of others, fairness and self-control; cement the school and homes, and counteract the lawlessness and destructiveness which are the lesson of the vacant lot.

Amusement is stronger than vice, and it alone can stifle the lust for it

Jane Addams.

Take care of the boys and girls and the welfare of society will be insured.

To learn to play by the “rules of the game,” to be a courteous winner and a good loser, are teachings of the playground. Qualities that are fundamental to good citizenship.

Digitized by ^ooQle
*58

A boy is a man in the cocoon — you don’t know what it is going to become. His life is big with possibilities; he may make or unmake kings, change boundary lines between states, write books that will mould character, or invent machines that will revolutionize the commerce of the world.	Elbert Hubbard.

The play of children has the mightiest influence on the maintenance or non-maintenance of laws.

Plato.

The task of education is to assist natural development toward its destined end. As the beginning gives a bias to the whole after-development, so the early beginnings of education are of the most importance.

FroebeL

The children begin their education when they begin to play; for play not only affords an outlet for their energy, and so supplys one great means of growth and training, but places them in social relation with their mates and in conscious contact with the world about them. The old games that have been played by generations of children not only precede the training of the school and supplement it, but accomplish some results in the nature of the child which are beyond the, reach of the school.

Hamilton Wright Mabie

SWIMMING POOLS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

BY WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Philadelphia is at the beginning of a large program of school building. In discussing the needs of future elementary and high schools the questions arose, is swimming an essential part of school extension work; what is the present tendency relative to pools in such cities that have pools in public school buildings? In order to answer these questions intelligently a questionaire was sent to such cities that were supposed to have pools. The following is a resume of the answers received.

1.	The questionaire was sent to thirty-four (34) large cities. Twenty one (21) cities responded. Thirteen of these cities have 73 pools in operation.

2.	The general tendency seems to be to put in more pools in senior high, junior high and especially in elementary schools. The number of pools in elementary schools in increasing so rapidly that they now equal those in senior high schools.

3.	The favorite size of pools in elementary schools appears to be 25'x6o', and in high schools 25'x75'.

4.	So far as the sanitary condition is concerned, the consensus of opinion is that by means of the modern method? of sterilization the water in a pool can be kept clean and sanitary at a moderate cost.

5.	It is very difficult to get exact estimates of cost, because the cost of a pool is usually taken care of in the general cost of a building. The estimates we received range from $10,000 to $40*000.

Digitized by Google
2 59

6.	The number of pupils using the pools daily is (a) approximately 400 pupils per day during school days; (b) Saturdays, 200 pupils; (c) evenings, 100 pupils; (d) vacation days, 200.

7.	The salaries seem to run the same as those of the regular teachers, one or more teachers being employed, according to the number of pupils using the pool.

8.	The heating of the pool is so intimately connected with the heating of the rest of the building that it appears to be impossible to get exact figures. One answer stated that the yearly cost of heating the pool amounted to $475.

9.	Based on these figures a conservative estimate of the number of pupils and adults using a pool during one year would be 98,000. This estimate is based upon the following figures:

A.	During the regular school term,

150 school days	400	pupils	equals	60,000

30 Saturdays	200	pupils	equals	6,000

150 evenings,	100	pupils	equals	15,000

B.	Vacation Time,

60 days,	200	pupils	equals	12,000

50 evenings,	100	pupils	equals	5,000

98,000

10.	Allowing one teacher, one assistant teacher and one janitor per pool, the yearly cost would be approximately $7,500.00 based on the following figures:

A.	During the regular schc 2 teachers and 1 janitor Extra hours for 3 persons:

30 Saturdays 5 hours each, 150 Evenings, 2 hours each,

B.	Vacation Time (for 3 p< 60 days, 5 hours each,

50 evenings, 2 hours each,

Add to this for light and heat

$3400.00	$3,400.00
$6.00 per person	540.00
$2.50 per person	1,125.00
sons).	
$6.00 per person	1,080.00
2.50 per person	375.00
	$6,520.00
	980.00

$7,500.00

11.	Based on these figures (excluding the cost of the pool) the cost for each person using the pool for one hour either for receiving instruction or for swimming would be approximately 8 cents.

12.	The following cities answered the questionaire from which the above statistics were gathered.

New York City—4 pools in Elementary Schools. 4 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in new buildings.

Chicago—3 pools in Elementary Schools. 10 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in new buildings.

Pittsburgh—6 pools in Elementary Schools. 3 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in new high school buildings.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
i6o

St. Louis—o in Elementary Schools. 4 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in new buildings.

Cincinnati—4 pools in Elementary Schools. 7 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in some elementary and all high schools.

Kansas City, Mo.— 1 pool in Elementary Schools, 2 in High Schools. Plans to put pools in some elementary and in all high schools.

Jersey City—7 pools in Elementary Schools. 1 in High School. Plans to put pools in new buildings.

Buffalo—7 pools in Elementary Schools. 2 in High Schools. Plans for more pools.

Los Angeles—1 pool in Elementary School. 1 in High School. Favors pools in separate buildings, not in gymnasia.

Washington, D. C.—o in Elementary Schools. 1 in High Schools. Says nothing about desirability or not.

Cleveland, 0.— 1 pool in Elementary Schools. 2 in Junior High School. Does not favor pools. Says: “Cleveland Schools do so nearly nothing with pools that it is impossible to answer questionnaire satisfactorily.”

Evansville, Ina.—o in Elementary Schools. 1 in High Schools. Does not favor pools. “Have so much trouble with parents over use of present one in winter weather.”

Syracuse, N. Y.—1 pool in Elementary Schools, o in High Schools. States that pool never has been used.

13. Total 73 pools, 35 in Elementary Schools and 38 in Junior and Senior High Schools.

9 cities with a total of 67 pools report in favor of the extension of this type of physical education and of recreation.

2 cities with a total of 4 pools report against the pools and 2 cities with 2 pools do not express themselves either for or against them. I would state, however, that I do not consider them as favoring pools. The summary, therefore, is 9 cities with 67 pools are for an extension, while 4 cities with 6 pools are against an extension.

HEALTH WEEK, MONTGOMERY COUNTY, MARYLAND.

BDWINW. BROOME, SUPERINTENDENT OFSCHOOLS, MONTGOMERY CO., MARYLAND.

Health Week, May 8 to 13, 1922.

H is for Hope, the anchor bright E is for Exercise, athlete’s delight A is for Ailments, that disappear,

L is for Living, without a fear.

This we shall do if we strive without fail.

Health’s Crusade to follow, in every detail.

Introduction.

The foundation for health, as well as for character, is laid in the early years of life. Many a weakness in the adult character can be traced

Note—Our readers will surely be interested in this circular letter that a progressive county superintendent of schools sent to his teachers emphasizing a “Health Week” preceding the county athletic meet. Supt. Broome asks for more than medical inspection. Editor.

Digitized by L.ooQle
i6i

to habits formed in childhood, where laxity and indifference pervaded the home, and many a physical weakness can be traced to the parents* ignorance or indifference as to the proper care of the body and the need of certain food values properly prepared.

The value of Health, the direct motive is not sufficient to arouse the child's will. Health habit activities supply , the child with a powerful indirect motive for constructive work, in acquiring good health habits.

The method of telling children that they ought to be healthy; trying to teach habits in an irksome manner or by means of a set routine, is a waste of time. The desire for good health comes from within. It is one of the chief assets of a human being, for without it no one can become a useful, intelligent, happy citizen. Health habits are only formed when health is seen as a glorious ideal, and hygiene is taught in an interesting manner to establish good health habits. If every citizen were to take an active part in this great health movement, our community would soon become a healthier and happier place in which to live.

Any good device that has the power of arousing and retaining the pupil's interest is worth using. The teacher indirectly provides the stimulus so as to create the proper atmosphere for any lesson, but the pupils, once they have been interested in the problem, are to be guided so that they may produce the best results.

The following will, in a general way, give you a definite idea of the method. Assignment and elaboration of problems are left to the discretion of the teacher.

Monday—

Problem: “ Value of Health to the Pupil .”

Slogan: “All for Health For AIL"

Health Rules:

Clean teeth.

Clean hands, face, neck and ears.

Full bath more than once a week.

Breathe through nose.

Sleep long hours; plenty of fresh air.

Play out in the open.

Keep unclean things out of mouth.

Standing and sitting positions.

When sneezing and coughing use handkerchief.

Never swap candy or give “dibs” upon anything you may be eating. Questions:

Why does the Maryland Tuberculosis Association want boys and girls to organize health clubs?

How did the Crusaders of old prove their strength and skill?

What are the unseen enemies that the health doctors and school nurses fight today?

How can you help to conquer them?

What happens when a disease germ invades our school room?

Why are health rules good?

What ought you do to become a Health Crusader?

Can you do them?

Digitized by t^ooQle
262

How will this affect our homes? Our school? Our city?

What will it help you become?

Note: Have the pupils give some of their own ideas, formulate health slogans and rhymes. Use during writing period. Have the pupils make up “health slogans.” Get them to illustrate these with magazine cuts. Next, have the class formulate a set of “health rules” and also illustrate them. Have each pupil copy “health rules” and keep a record for himself. Every morning after opening exercises go over the health rules, and in a general way, see how many are trying to keep them. Discuss the different kinds of food; Hygiene and Physiology and effect upon body; value of exercise.

Tuesday—

Problem: “ Value of Health to the School.”

Use the following outline for the development of paragraphs in oral and written English. (The pupils are expected to give topics. This is merely an illustration.)

I.	Clean teeth a-After meals b-Before going to bed c-Prevents decay.

II.	Clean hands, face, neck and ears a-In the morning

b-Before each meal c-Bcfore going to bed.

III.	Bathing

a-At least twice a week b-Clean body means good health.

IV.	Breathing a-Th rough nose b-Unhealthful, through mouth.

V.	Sleep

a-At least ten hours b-Body needs rest.

VI.	Play a-Outdoors b-Park playground

c-Play helps to develop muscles of the body.

VII.	Keep unclean things out of mouth and nose a-Causes injury

b-Spreads disease.

VIII.	Sitting and standing positions a-Injuries growth of lungs and chest b-Causes shoulders to drop.

IX.	Eating a-Eat slowly

b-Cho Cho's list of good things to eat c-Food should be clean d-Carefully prepared.

Digitized by v^ooQle
263

X.	Use handkerchief when coughing or sneezing a-Prevents spread of germs b-Protects playmate.

Class Activities:

Discuss health conditions relative to interior and exterior of school building. Appoint committees to supervise premises. Have pupils suggest topics for minute health talks. Train for thought expression. Make a list of health rules for school.

Print and hang up in classroom.

If possible illustrate.

(Outlines and questions can be developed as illustrated in the preceding lesson plans.)

Wednesday—

Problem: “Value of Health to Home”

Discuss relation existing between home and school.

Why we must be careful.

Make a list of children’s diseases.

Discuss preventive measures.

Make a list of contagious diseases and their danger to the home. What to do when ill.

Value of physical examination yearly.

Plan out a definite anti-fly, mosquito, vermin, and clean up campaign.

Thursday—

Problems: “Value of Health to the Community ”

Discuss value of health campaigns to school, home and community. Draw up a petition for physical inspection of schools.

Plan a clean up campaign for community.

Enlist aid of parents and authorities.

Write to various manufacturers for useful toilet articles.

Appoint committees to weigh and measure pupils of school.

Make a list of nourishing foods.

How to handle and prepare foods.

Make a list of harmful foods.

Friday—

Organization plan for a Modern Health Club:

Constitution:

Article I —Name.

Article II—Object.

Article III—General plans and program.

Article IV—Amendment.

By-Laws:

Number 1—Membership.

Number 2—Officers.

Number 3—Executive Committee.

Number 4—Meetings.

Number 5—Election of Officers.

Number 6—Procedure of meetings.

Digitized by v^ooQle
264

The development of this plan would make the work in English both oral and written, very instructive.

Pupil Participation.

Pupils in every grade under the guidance of their teachers can plan m “health booklet” in which to keep their slogans, menus, illustrations, reference, and personal health records. This not only furnishes excellent seat work material but also correlation with drawing, arithmetic and English.

Put together several sheets of drawing paper, fold in center and fasten with cord. Print on front page “My Health Booklet.” Add more pages whenever necessary.

Notts:

Have class make up its own list of health habits, but do not have too many on first record sheet. A better plan would be to add new ones.

Get height and weight wall charts for boys and girls from the County Nurse. Keep posted in prominent place in classroom for use of the pupils, in comparing their monthly gains.

Once the class becomes interested, the reaction in teaching the value of “health habits” in the home will become more effective, and all indirectly through the efforts and co-operation of Pupils and Teachers in trying to make their school a real part of the Community.

Height and weight classroom records are now being supplied by the school nurse free of charge to the teachers of the schools. No doubt, she will also be glad to co-operate in weighing and measuring the pupils.

If possible, record pupil’s progress in keeping health habits on his monthly report card. This would also be a very good way by which to retain his interest in the work.

“most PHYSIC1ALLY FIT” CONTEST.

Score Sheet for Judges.

Pupil....................................School............................

Contest: For larger graded schools—Class A; for high schools— Class B; for one and two teacher scoois—Class C.

I.	Attitude—8 points	Perfect	Score for

score	pupil

1.	How much do you believe in Health Habits?... i	...........

2.	How long have you practiced Health Habits'.. I	...........

3.	Why do you practice the Health Habits?......... 1	...........

4.	How much would you give up for the practice

of them? ....................................... 1	...........

5.	How are you getting others to practice them?.. 1	...........

6.	Do you know of good Health Habits you do

not use? ......................................  1	...........

7.	Is your weight correct?........................ 1	...........

8.	Does your practice of Health Habits affect

other people? .................................. 1	...........

II.	Effort—8 points.

1.	A full bath oftener than once a week .......... 1	...........

2.	Brushing the teeth at least once every day_____ 1	...........

3.	Sleeping long hours with windows open.......... 1	...........

Digitized by
a65

4* Drinking as much milk as possible but no coffee or tea................................. I

5.	Eating some vegetable or fruit every day.. 1

6.	Drinking at least four glasses of water a day .. I

7. Playing part of every day out of doors..... I

8. A bowel movement every morning............. I

III.	Physical Examination for Defects and Deviations—60 points.

1.	Head ...................................... 2

2.	Scalp - hair	...................... 1

3.	Skin ...................................... 2

4.	Nutrition ..................................4

5.	Carnage of Body............................ 2

6.	Musculature	- Tone, development.............2

7.	Glands .................................... 2

8.	Eyes....................................... 4

9.	Ears ...................................... 3

10.	Nose....................................... 1

11.	Tongue .................................... 1

12.	Pharynx and	Palate......................... 1

13.	Teeth ..................................... 4

14.	Tonsils.................................... 4

15.	Adenoids ...................................4

16.	Lungs...................................... 5

17.	Heart ....................................  8

18.	Abdomen.................................... 2

19.	Hernia .................................... 4

20.	Genitalia ................................. 2

21.	Weak feet-flat .............................2

IV.	Accomplishments at School—4 points.

1.	Hot lunch ................................. 1

2.	Organized play at school................... 1

3.	Entries for Athletic Meet.................. 1

4.	Helping to keep the school and yard clean .... 1

V.	Personal Appearance—20 points.

1. Dress - clothes and shoes...................5

2.	Cleanliness—

Face...................................... 1

Ears ..................................... 1

Hair ..................................... *

Nails .................................... 1

Teeth..................................... *

3.	Carriage ..................................... 5

a.	In standing

b.	In sitting

c.	In walking.

Digitized by IjOOQle
266

4.	Manners—

Politeness .............................. i

Helpfulness ............................. I

Get along with	others ................... I

5.	Expression (facial	and	general) ............. 2

Total points ...............................100

LEFT-HANDEDNESS AND PHYSICAL TRAINING.*

BY JAMES KERR, M. A., M. D.

The Evolution of Right-handedness.—There has always been something mysterious about people being right-or left-handed. There have also been many ingenious explanations as to why the right is so generally used, such as that the left has had to be kept free to defend the heart, and other theorizings, which will not bear analysis. Righthandedness has as yet had no worthy explanation better than that the right hand is directly driven from the left side of the brain, and that that is the hemisphere which for some unknown reason has undergone the greatest functional specialization, as shown by its being the main repository of the human mechanisms of speech and writing. In the majority o people of all races, the left side of the brain gives evidence of a higher state of functional evolution than the other. This goes back further than human history. A drawing of paleolithic man in the cave of La Madelaine represents him with a stick in the right hand, and another depicting an aurochs hunt shows the stalking hunter with his javelin in the right. But there is evidence of an earlier history than paleolithic drawings, for the infant who epitomises the order of evolution develops righthandedness before it begins to use speech.

Cross-education. Habit.—Most actions involve both hands, usually the right is chief and the left accessory; but, as in playing the fiddle, the left can take up fine and accurate work. Even then the left hand is probably driven through its motor centres in the right hemisphere, which here are ultimately under control of higher centres in the left side. Experiments on learning by means of mirror drawing—that is tracing with a pencil over a design, where design and pencil point are only seen in a mirror—show that practice with either hand gives considerable crosseducation or transfer to the other hand, demonstrating that the same central factors are being trained through either hand. Whilst righthandedness is the rule, men button their clothes in one direction, women in the other, and further evidence can be adduced showing that much of the division of labour between the hands is a matter of habit or custom, rather than of physiological necessity.

Speech and Hand Dexterity.—The functional aptitude or capacity associated with the psychical phenomena of speech which is so marked on the left side of the brain is best described as dextrality, and it is

* Reprint from “Journal of Scientific Physical Training.”

Digitized by v<jOOQle
167

associated with the specialization of the right hand, whose motor centres lie in the same left hemisphere. In a small proportion of individuals, mainly through heredity, the reverse happens, and the right side of the brain is the more highly developed in function, so that the left hand becomes principal and the right accessory. These are the pure lefthanders. In many individuals of good mental quality where there is excellent dextrality the left hand is sometimes almost as good as the right. A great proportion of famous masters of expression, most great artists, many linguists, and some ophthalmic surgeons have made more use of the left hand than have their ordinary fellows.

From the developmental standpoint, then, there are three main classes of functional attainment.

I.	The highest development of both hands in a true ambidexterity.

II.	The ordinary development; one hand (in the great majority the right) well developed in function, the other merely accessory; this includes the pure lefthanded. (The Americans call this condition “Master-handed-ness.”—Ed.)

III.	Defective functioning in both hands; a poor dextrality (more often an ambi-sinistrality) which probably includes a large proportion of the group of lefthanded.

The first class is usually associated with high intellectual expressive attainments, and with few of the groups showing defects. In the second class right or lefthandedness is an accident not affecting mentality in any degree, and other defects are present in the average proportion. The third and last class includes individuals whose dextrality has not developed properly, and in this sense they are in some degree mentally defective, and on further examination may be expected to show not merely gaucherie, but speech defects and other stigmata of degeneration in excessive proportion.

Incidence of Lefthandedness.—Training and practice and imitation of others may either spontaneously or by directed education develop further grades of capacity. Poor dextrality may be improved, and many left-handed trained to righthanded work, and thus appear only partially left-handed. The prevalence of sinistrality of all types runs to about four per cent; there are probably three girls to five boys left-handed, and many give a family history of the tendency. Lefthandedness is really only one sign of right-brainedness, compared with the normal individual who may be called left-brained from that being the side most specialized in function. Left-handedness may show itself in many ways by tricks of reversal in tying bows, wearing clothes, lacing boots, or parting the hair. Before the war Stier observed 4.6 per cent of German soldiers as left handers, and 75.9 per cent of these kicked with the left foot. Of the righthanders 95.0 per cent kicked with the right foot.

The tests for dextrality are all those for the preferred use of the right hand over the left, in unpremeditated acts; such as polishing shoes, cutting bread, dealing cards, spinning coins, and so on. Mr. Hugh Gordon used as an ingenious test a pair of scissors with a rather loose joint; used in the left hand the normal person could not cut paper with

Digitized by i^ooele
268

them, wh'lst the lefthander did so without trouble. In looking at an object the normal person, whose eyes are otherwise equal, fixes it with the right eye. If a distant steeple or chimney be looked at, and then the forefinger held up at arm’s length to cover the steeple, on closing the left eye there will be no change noticed in the relative positions of finger and chimney. If now the left eye is opened and the right closed, the finger will appear to have become displaced to several degrees right of the steeple and no longer covers it. This shows that to cover the image of the steeple the finger had been interposed between it and the right eye. Had the left eye been used to fix the object, the finger would have appeared displaced to the left when the right eye alone was used. This test is very rough, but will show that about half the lefthanders fix with the left eye. Wherever, in absence of noticeable peripheral cause, there is more efficient action on the left side than on the right, this may be taken as an indication of a tendency to be left-handed. Where there is no great difference and both sides are below the average, it may be regarded as probably merely a case of poorly-developed mental function, a weak dextrality. A retarded appearance of dextrality is really a sign of mental backwardness.

Mirror writing.—Normal healthy children, in learning to write, often at first mirror some of their letters. It is interesting to know that Leonardo da Vinci covered his sheets of anatomical drawings with closely-written descriptions in mirrored writing, which an author in the same century describes as “i brutti caratteri scrisse lettere, che sono fatte con la mano mancina a roversio;”—that is, he wrote in rude characters made backwards and with the left hand. This represents the normal actions of writing as they would be done by the left hand if it went through the same anatomical movements as the right does. It is one of the tests of the true congenital lefthander as distinguished from one due to early pathological causes, that he can easily write mirrorwise with the left hand. Usually the mirrored letters written by developing children disappear in a few months, but where this persists it suggests some mental inability at adjustment. Children becoming deaf soon after birth are said generally to mirror with the left, but not if deafness supervenes later, showing the corrective effect of experience and education. So, too, village signboards sometimes show that older but comparatively unpractised hands have mirrored S and N and sometimes R. The ordinary child attempting to write with the left would do the same writing actions as with the right, and produce mirror writing, but a short experience teaches it to correct this, and by a different set of muscles to produce a poor but correctly oriented imitation of its righthanded script. Where ordinary school life has not produced this correction, something amiss in mentality is to be suspected. A child of ten with speech defect who writes mirror-wise with the left hand is a very doubtful subject for improvement by speech training. The ease with which children learn capital letters, and the avoidance of many lateral movements in manuscript or print-writing which makes it so easy to learn, points to the dextrality of these children being not yet fully fixed, and that exercise and practice will help them.

Lefthandedness and Co-ordination.—Some recent American observations suggest that lefthanded people have not the perfect sense of muscle

Digitized by
269

co-ordination that should develop normally. They have difficulties, mental uncertainties or conflicts, in orienting complicated movements, such as reversing in waltzing, or are lacking in exactness of movement or rhythm, having constantly to suppress lefthanded tendencies. Possibly the lack of ready muscle co-ordination and variation in eye fixation may lead to difficulties in balancing. During the war it was thought that lefthanders, or even with latent leftness, were disposed to have some ocular difficulties which made flying awkward, or rather disposed to troubles in landing. If it was asked what is to be done with the four per cent of lefthanders in their education for life, the answer would be clear. Develop dextrality to its utmost, and encourage the use oj the right hand. The contention that this would lead to strain and cause conflicts leading to speech defects would at the most only hold for a few neurotic cases likely to go wrong in any case. For the average leftha ider, nothing but benefit can be got from training the defective right hand to its utmost. A very specialized set of acts like writing, calling for a set of new adjustments in movement, might be a strain for a time, but for the drdinary purposes of life, such as the use of tools, mostly made for the righthanded, the proper course is to develop dextrality by using the right hand. It takes learners fourteen days in the classes at Copenhagen to learn to saw, bore or hammer with either hand.

Balance.—In the ordinary physical exercises any consideration of strain such as adduced for writing does not hold, as the movements of physical exercises are largely symmetrical, further they mostly affect the larger muscles, the smaller and more special muscles coming in chiefly in finely-graduated movements. Remembering what has been said about want of readiness in co-ordination, about want of rhythm, and also ocular difficulties, any gaucherie in a lefthander would seem to call chiefly for balance exercises, frequent and short rather than continuous or prolonged efforts. Walking the plank, first on the flat, then sloped, is within the capacity of the smallest child in school. Later the difficulty can be increased till the edge is used. For the school child this would appear one of the fundamentals for developing balance and grace of movement, as the automatic and subconscious adjustment constantly called for rapidly leads to ready and fine co-ordination. In the matter of games the lefthander will at first be at a great disadvantage. A game of rounders can easily be conceived as a cause of constant confusion in action at first, but it is useful and indeed important, where the community or herd depends on every member, that each one should always be able to respond smartly to the rule of the road, whatever it may be, or to play the game like his fellows.

Stammering.—The bogey of inducing stammering in the born lefthander by such righthanded training is constantly being brought up. If, however, the converse condition is considered, there will probably be found no case on record of stammering produced by loss of the right hand, where the left has had to take on its work. The stammering prevalence, which some suppose has been demonstrated statistically, is like the prevalence of supernumerary digits or any other stigmata almost certainly an associated sign in the (third) class, who have poor dextrality as a result of defective nervous development. Rare individual cases may

Digitized by Google
270

possibly be shown, but as a general risk this is hardly to be set against the advantages of good training.

Ambidexterity.—The pure lefthander class will never come to harm from attempting this training of the right side as well, and it is only for some infants’ work and for lefthanders of class III. that ambidextrous training should be entertained. Training the defective righthander is not really ambidextrous in the sense that an association some years ago attempted to put forward as a desideratum for all, “ambidexterity in education,” forgetting that in the case of normals the left hand would still be driven indirectly through its right motor centres by the higher centres of the left hemisphere, and that they were not training the right side of the brain, but merely adding to the task without any particular advantage. Ambidexterity in education for the ordinary individual is merely waste of time, but it is quite otherwise for the lefthander, whose right hand wants training, and unless early training is begun, much extra work and strain will be called for. Still this addition to their education is well worth the trouble, if in the end they take their place in the community as able to do as others do. Although the State of Indiana has made a special provision in regard to illumination for the lefthanded, it is inadvisable that physical training should make any special allowance or relief for the lefthander, but rather that they should be encouraged to develop their wanting capacity directly, or better, indirectly, up to the normal standards.

FOOTBALL GENERALSHIP AND TACTICS

JAMES G. BLISS, OXFORD, OHIO

The day of the game is here. The coach has given the squad its final instructions and sent the team on the field. The battle is on. The quarter-back represents the general and as such, he must make a careful study of the defense of the enemy and decide as to the best method of attack. In sizing up and outguessing the opposition, he must direct his linemen as infantrymen and his backs as cavalrymen, ever mindful that the strength of both forces should be reserved for a final charge over the enemy’s goal. In deciding upon the style of attack, he should be governed by the direction of the wind, position of the sun, condition of the field, offensive strength of the opposition, defensive strength of the opposition, position of the ball, down, distance to go, time to play, and score.

The team winning the choice should select the goal with the wind behind them. If there is no wind a team should be governed by the position of the sun, and choose the goal with the sun at their backs or to one side. In all probability, the wind may shift or die down altogether, so the choice should be made to get the benefit at the start.

In the event that a team is fighting directly against the wind or one blowing across the field, it would be good policy to retain possession of the ball and consume as much time as possible in running plays, and kick-

Digitized by v^ooQle
271

ing only when forced to do so on fourth down, the idea being to play for time until the quarter ends. No attempt should be made to speed up the plays, but on the contrary, they should be carefully and deliberately attempted, so as to guard against possible fumbles. As a rule this plan should be followed in all parts of the field, attempting, at the same time, to maneuver the ball into the most favorable part, so as not to be compelled to kick directly into the teeth of the wind, but rather in the direction where the most benefit will be derived. The ball should be kicked low and as far away from the receiver as safety permits.

In the case of a muddy field and slippery ball, the attack should consist largely of straight line plays and plenty of punting. All wide running plays and those involving double passes and most accurate handling of the ball should be eliminated. It is a good plan to boot the ball often, allow the opponents to rush it, play for the breaks, and recover fumbles. Mud cleats should be worn and the defense instructed to play in closer than on a dry day.

Where the opposition is exceedingly strong offensively and able to make consistent gains, the kicking game is not advisable. In such a case, a team should retain possession of the ball as long as possible, use more time in running plays, and only punt when necessary upon fourth down. At the kick-off, it would be best to choose to receive.

If the opponents are characterized by a powerful and formidable defense, and only a mediocre offense, it is wise to resort to the kicking game, booting the ball into offensive territory, and then fighting hard to take it away. The kicking game is especially advisable here if a team has a good punter. If possible, a team should choose to kick at the kick-off.

If the score is against a team in the second half and its regular system of offense fails to carry the ball down the field, a whirlwind attack consisting of forward pass and trick plays should be opened up. With only a few minutes to play and a touchdown needed to tie or win, every possible chance should be taken of completing a long forward pass. Straight football should be the order in the latter part of a game when the team is ahead, so as to offset any risk of losing the ball. Possession of the ball is the big factor here, and should not be forgotten. If the game is close and hard fought with only a few minutes to play before the close of either half, it would be wise to place or drop kick on fourth down, in the event that conditions were right. In order to do this, the ball should be maneuvered into a favorable position ahead of time.

On the assumption that it is a fair day with little or no wind, or the wind and sun at the back, and the contesting teams about on a par, it would be a good plan for the quarter-back to know before hand just what tactics he will employ in driving the ball up the field. In the application of such tactics, he must have constantly in mind the position of the ball in the field, the down, and the distance to go. A strategic map whereby the football field is divided transversely into five equal zones of twenty yards each, measured from a team’s own goal to that of the opponents, would be a big asset to a quarter-back in the application of certain specific principles of offense. We shall number these zones i - 2 - 3 - 4 and 5.

Digitized by LjOOQie
27*

Zones i — 2 and 3 constitute the defensive area. There should be no chances taken of losing the ball to the opponents in this territory. The kicking game is advisable here and it is a good policy to kick before fourth down, otherwise, the opponents know that a kick is the only thing that can happen, prepare for it, and as a result is given the advantage. It is splendid tactics to boot the ball down the field on first, second, or third down, and then fight hard to take it away in offensive territory. In this way, the opposition is placed at a disadvantage because it does not know whether the play will be a run, kick, or pass.

Zones 4 and 5 constitute the offensive area. In rushing the ball in this territory, a team must think, hustle, drive, smash, rip, tear, plug, and outguess its way across the goal.

Zone I is the kicking zone. Under no circumstances should a chance be taken of losing the ball to the opposition in this territory. If the goal posts or cross bar interfere, one play should be carefully run to one side, otherwise, the ball should always be kicked on first down.

Zone II is the running and kicking zone. A good strong play with a speedy back carrying the ball should be attempted here. Two plays might be tried but never three unless the ball is carried to the center of the field. Punt formation should be used, and the ball kicked either on second or third down, never wait until fourth.

Zone III is the running, long forward passing, and kicking zone. At least three plays should be tried in this part of the field in an endeavor to plant the ball in offensive territory. If the first play gains 3 or 4 yards, straight football should be the order to make first down, but in the event that it fails, a long forward pass should be attempted on second down, or under certain conditions, reserved until third down. It is inadvisable to use a short pass here as interception of it might prove the turning point in the game, while the long pass if intercepted is just as good as a punt. The regular or stock formation should be used in addition to punt formation. No chances of making first down should be taken, but the ball kicked either high or out of bounds at the corners, on fourth down if only an inch to go.

Zone IV is the running, trick play, short forward pass, and kicking zone. If straight football is sufficient to advance the ball in this area, the trick plays, passes and others should be forgotten for the time being. If unable to make headway by straight football, tricks and short passes should be attempted, and a team should not wait until fourth down *0 pass. It is splendid tactics to pass on 1st, 2nd or 3rd down with the chance of outguessing the opponents and catching them off guard. Regular or stock formation and punt formation with a good drop kicker should be. used in this area. If it is absolutely necessary to kick on fourth down, or time is short, a place or drop kick should be tried.

Zone V is the running and short forward pass zone. It is the zone which calls for lots of action along with hustle and brains in order to plant the ball across the goal for a touchdown. A shift formation, special scoring plays, and series plays are all good in this area. In case of a weak spot in the opposing line it should be hammered. Short forward passes might be attempted on first, second, or third down, and not wait until fourth. Care should be taken not to give the opposition a touch-

Digitized'by
m

back by an incomplete pass behind the goal line. Straight football should be used if it gains and the other plays forgotten. It might be wise to place or drop kick.

In the running of plays, the position of the ball in relation to either side line must also be taken into consideration. The quarter-back should endeavor to maneuver so as to keep the ball well toward the middle of the field most of the time in order not to be restricted in the choice of plays. In the event that the ball is downed in close proximity to either side line, the attack should consist of special types of line bucks, double pass plays, split bucks, and tricks up the side line.

TRAINING HINTS BATHING, SLEEPING, DIETING, ETC. SAMPLE MENU FOR DAY OF GAME.

GENERAL.

The vital element in the success of any football team is directly dependent upon the physical and mental condition of its personnel. If a player is to give his best to the team, it is highly essential that he keep in good condition. This means that he not only must attend practice regularly, but that he must use good judgment in the matters of bathing, sleeping, dieting, etc. Only in this way will he be able to successfully meet the tremendous demand upon his muscular strength, endurance, vitality and mental powers. A man unable to stand the wears and tears of a football season is surely not in condition, a liability to his team, and an athlete in name only.

[BATHING.

A healthy condition of the skin, which is essential to a healthy condition of the body, is best secured by bathing. Cold baths are taken for their invigorating effect, and warm baths for cleanliness. Always follow a warm bath with a cool one. Never take a bath within one hour before, or one hour after a meal. Always spend as much time drying the body as you do in the bath, being especially careful to dry thoroughly between the toes and in the crotch. Carelessness in the drying of these parts invites soft corns in case of the toes, and gym itch in the latter case. Never allow the shower to strike directly on top of the head. Be careful about remaining in the bath too long. Always use good soap in cleansing the body; pure castile is the best.

When the coach chases the players to the showers, the order of procedure should be as follows: a short warm shower followed by a short cold one, and this in turn followed by a sitz bath and sponging, after which they should dry themselves thoroughly, receive their rub, and then report for the treatment of ailments and injuries.

The shower bath is the athlete's mainstay. A short hot shower followed by a short graded cold one aids recuperation after violent exercise, and is the ideal bath. A prolonged hot shower, or a prolonged cold shower, both reduce the resistance of the body, and are detrimental. A short cold shower if followed by a pleasant reaction and a feeling of warmth, is an effective invigorant, otherwise it should be let alone. Avoid cold bathing if chilly, or in a state of profuse perspiration or fatigue.

Digitized by Tooele
*74

The Sitz Bath for athletes is one of the best means of relieving fatigue and re-invigorating the body. Common galvanized iron wash tubs will answer the purpose. Fill a tub with hot or cold water according to the effect desired. The effect sought is to stimulate the stomach, liver, intestines, etc., located in the abdominal and pelvic cavities. The athlete should sit down in the tub keeping his feet and the upper body out, and immersing the abdominal and pelvic regions only. The immersion should last about two minutes, and be taken immediately after the shower bath. Hot sitz baths increase the local blood circulation, thereby stimulating the digestive and eliminative organs with the result of better digestion and quickened elimination. They are especially desirable for cases of severe constipation. Cold sitz baths are especially desirable in the case of hemorrhoids, as they tend to relieve the pain and stop the bleeding incidental to this very bothersome complaint. The combination hot and cold sitz baths used in alternation are even more effective in helping digestion and elimination.

The Salt Sponge Bath should be used by all athletes, especially football players, immediately following the sitz bath. The bath is made by filling a tub with tepid or cold water in which is dissolved to saturation common sea salt. The athlete should sponge his body with this solution which will act as an envigorant, and also as an antiseptic in preventing infections such as boils and itch. The turkish bath is recommended for breaking up a cold.

SLEEPING.

Sleep must follow activity of mind or body. The best time to sleep is at night. The amount of sleep used varies with the age, health and activity of the individual. The average athlete requires eight hours as the minimum, and two of these should come before midnight. Cultivate the habit of retiring, sleeping and rising at regular hours. Dozing is not sleeping, and be careful of reading yourself to sleep. Sleep in a well ventilated room, which is neither cold nor damp. The body should be kept comfortably warm with the use of sufficient bed clothes. Do not sleep in feather beds nor use feather pillows. Cultivate the habit of sleeping while the moon shines. The gospel of the athlete is,“No les9 than one-third of my life should be spent in restful, natural sleep, and two hours of this time before midnight.”

DIETING.

Food supplies the body with building material, replaces that which is lost thru exertion, sustains animal heat and furnishes force giving properties. From the above, it follows that an athlete is no better than his diet. The appetite is a safe guide to the choice of foods, but care must be taken not to eat from force of habit. Rely on the taste as to the quality of food, keeping in mind that neither coarse food nor poor cooking are conducive to vim, vigor and vitality. Avoid eating between meals and allow at least five hours between meals. Avoid food that is very hot or very cold. Eat slowly, masticate thoroughly, and do not use water to wash the fcod down. Avoid eating immediately after strenuous exercise, nor should active exercise follow immediately after a hasty meal. Be careful about wearing tight clothing after eating or sitting in a cramped position so as to restrict the movement of the ribs and diaphragm.

Digitized by CjOOQle
*75

ATHLETE’S DIETARY.

Soups—Any kind.

Meats—Beef, Mutton, Lamb, fowl in any form except fried. Veal and pork are barred.

Vegetables—Any kind except cabbage in any form except fried.

Potatoes—Any form except fried, preferably baked or boiled.

Eggs—In any form except fried.

Desserts—A most important article in the diet of an athlete. Bread pudding, tapioca, rice, custard, in fact any kind of pudding except plum or suet may be eaten. Ice cream may be eaten two or three times a week, but not on day of games. Rich pastries must be avoided.

Water—Do not drink ice water at any time. Water with meals is permissable provided it is not used to wash down food. Salty or preserved foods should be avoided as should all foods that create an unnatural thirst.

Tea and Coffee—May be used once a day but should be weak. Do not drink milk in combination with acid fruits such as oranges, grapefruit, etc. Milk and tomatoes are a bad combination. Postum, cocoa, milk and buttermilk are to be preferred to coffee and tea.

Cereals—Breakfast foods are good. Whole grain cereals should be preferred to those made of refined flour.

Fruits—Any kind except bananas. Stewed prunes, apples and figs are laxative and prevent constipation.

Breads—All breads should be at least a day old. Whole wheat, whole rye corn and bran breads and toast are to be preferred.

Tobacco—Avoid tobacco and alcohol as you would po:son.

Teeth—Digestion of food begins in the mouth; use the teeth when eating. Thats what they are for. Be careful of bolting the food. Many of the serious diseases are now known to be caused by poor teeth. Brush them thoroughly twice a day. In case of injuring a tooth, consult a dentist at once. Visit the dentist at least twice a year for an examination and thorough cleansing of the teeth.

SAMPLE MENUS FOR DAY OF CONTEST.

I. Two soft-boiled eggs, dry toast, weak tea.

a. Small piece of sirloin steak, dry toast, cocoa or weak tea.

3. A couple of poached eggs, dry toast, cocoa or weak tea.

Make the breakfast the hearty meal. The meal before the contest should be eaten at least two hours ahead of time.

Digitized by Google
276

Gymnasium and playgrount^

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittaburg, Pa. JL/

Tennis Drill

JOSEPH WEISSMU ELLER.

Model Exercises of the ladies class of the Louisville Turngemeinde. Music:—“The Mill in the Black Forest** by Richard Eilenberg.

Polka Time—Two counts to a measure.

Formation—Ranks of four in open order.

The short introduction is used thus:

Stand still, the racket is held in right hand, right arm straight, left arm bent, rim of racket resting in left hand, position of racket obliquely in front of chest. This position of racket will be referred to as starting position....................................................... 4	M

In Exercise 2 of each group the racket changes from left hand to right hand.

group no. 1.

No. 1. Serving the Ball.

A—Bend knees lightly, toss imaginary ball with left hand,

swing right in front of head over left shoulder, count one, straighten knees and raise heels high - strike for high ball with right, left arm forward, count 2 ................................................ 1	M.

Repeat same, count 3-4.....................................  1	M.

B—Cross step turn left, hold right in starting position count 5-6, bend knees and trunk right, lightly strike for low ball obliquely right sidedownward. Racket touching floor, left arm is held forward count 7, to starting position, count 8........................... 2	M.

Repeat all three times more count 9-32 .....................12	M.

16 M.

No. 2.

A—Layout left sideward, trunk erect (racket in left hand)

Swing left arm obliquely sideupward right arm opposite, turn head left, count 1 - 2............................................. 1	M.

B—Close left foot to right, bend trunk right, swing racket over left shoulder, pointing obliquely right back-downward, left elbow bent and raised high, right hand on hip, count 3-4............ 1	M.

$C—Layout left obliquely backward inward left foot on toes, lower trunk forward, strike left obliquely forward for low ball racket resting on rim, right hand touches floor beside right foot, count 5-6. 1 M.

^D—Lunge obliquely forward outward, swing racket to striking position overhead, right hand on hip, count 7-8 .............. 1	M.

Digitized by LjOOQ Le
a77

E—Return movements counts -9-16 (change racket to right

hand ................................................... 4	M.

F—Repeat all right, left and right, counts 17-64.....24	M.

Note: Omit the next three measures.

32 M.

GROUP NO. 2.

No. 1.

Racket Starting position in right hand.

A—Slide hop left forward raise arms obliquely forward upward count 1-2, two small steps backward right and left, lower arms

count 3-4 ........................................... 2	M.

B—Same as “A” but right foot, count 5-8 ......... 2	M.

C—Three step turn left. (Racket to starting position) count 1-2-3 cross right foot in rear of left foot bend both knees at the same time straighten right arm obliquely left sidedownward in front of body, racket resting on floor for low ball; left arm obliquely side-

downward, count 4............................................. 2	M.

D—Step right sideward cross left in rear of right foot, bend both knees % arm circle right starting upward, racket resting on floor, for low ball on right side, left arm obliquely sidedownward count 5 - 6 ................................................... 1	M.

Swing racket to striking position over right shoufder, count 7, jump off* the floor lightly, strike for high ball left arm sideward (body, right arm racket in one line) count 8 .................. 1	M.

8 M.

Repeat all starting right foot, count 17-32 ................... 8	sM.

16 M.

Note: Omit the next 12 measures.

No. 2. Racket in left hand.

A—Place left foot obliquely backward outward, swing racket over right shoulder, right hand on hip, count 1-2.................. 1 M.

B—Lunge left obliquely forward inward and strike obliquely forward upward right leg trunk and left arm in one line, raise right arm sideward, count 3-4 ......................................1 M.

C—Close left foot to right swing racket to striking position over left shoulder and place right hand on hip, count 5-6.......... 1 M.

D—Jump upward and strike high with left arm, raise right arm sideward, count 7-8................................................ 1 M.

Return movements count 9-16 ................................... 4M.

Repeat all right count 17-32 ................................ 8 M.

16 M.

Note: Omit the next four measures.

Now repeat exercise (No. 2) of Group No. 2 right and left, count 1-32............................................................16	M.

32 M.

Digitized by CjOOQle
2J*

Note: Omit the next 14 measures and the Introduction.

group no. 3.

The music from now on will be played as in Group 1 and 2.

No. 1.

A—In this exercise executed yi turn left on the first of every eight counts. Step swing hop left and right. Racket to starting position, count 1 - 4 ..............................................   l	M.

Slide hop left forward, count 5 - 6, swing racket over head to striking position on count 5, strike high for ball, count 6....... 1	M.

Step swing right backward, racket to starting position 7-8____1	M..

Repeat all three times more .................................12	M.

16 M.

No. a. Racket in left hand.

A—Raise left leg sideward, straighten left arm upward, raise

right arm sideward, count 1-2................................... I	M.

B—Fall out left sideward, lower left arm sideward rim of racket resting on floor, place right hand on hip, count 3-4............ 1	M.

C—yi turn, change knee bending, yi arm circle left with left arm to strike over head, right arm obliquely backdownward, count 5-6............................................................. 1	M.

D—Raise left leg off floor, straighten right knee and strike left obliquely forward, upward right arm sideward, count 7-8 ........ 1	M.

Return movement ........................................... 4	M.

Repeat all right, left and right ..........................24	M.

32 M.

group no. 4.

No. 1.

A—Files No. 1 start left foot and face left pass in front

Files No. 2 start right foot and face right in rear No. 1 - part.

Two polka hops forward left and right racket in starting position, count 1-4..................................................   2	M.

B—Two leaps forward left and right slide hop left forward, swing racket to striking position overhead, count 7, strike high and hop, count 8 ...................................................... 2	M.

C—yi turn right,	repeat	all right............................. 4	M.

No. 2 do same, but	reverse ................................... 8	M.

D—No. 1 face front racket in left hand, left arm obliquely side-upward, right arm sideward, step left sideward count one, cross right in rear of left foot, count one and repeat three times more count 2-8 ......................................................... 4	M.

yi arm circle left sidedownward, change racket to right arm, now reverse “D”.................................................... 4	M.

8 M.

No. 1 pass in front, No. 2 in rear, count ....................... 8	M.

16 M.

Digitized by CjOOQle
i?9

No. i.

A—Place left foot backward, swing racket backward over left shoulder, right arm raised forward and slightly curved, count i - a. I M.

B—Toss an imaginary ball with the right hand, lunge left forward and strike for high ball right arm opposite, count 3-4.... 1	M.

C—turn right change knee bending % arm circle left forward over head, right hand on hip, count 5-6................... 1	M.

D—Bend trunk forward and strike forward for low ball rim of racket resting on floor, right hand opposite, count 7-8 ......  1	M.

Return movement count 9 -16 .............................. 4	M.

Repeat all right, left and right .........................14	M.

31	M.

(Omit Introduction.)

group no. 5.

No. 1. All do exercise (1) of Group No. 1 twice.

A—No. 1 starting left and right )

) ............................16	M.

No. 2 starting right and left )

B—Repeat exercise (1) of Group No. 4 .........................16	M.

C—No. 1 and No. 2 of Ranks one and two form mill wheel right racket in right hand, left arm raised in two polka hops and 4 skip

steps and repeat .................................................16	M.

No. 3 and No. 4 of rank one and two do same.......... ........ 8	M.

Reverse same /. r., - millwheel left etc., count 16 .......... 8	M.

D—No. 1 and No. 2 of first rank stand still form arbor with racket inner arm up facing audience, No. 1 and No. 2 of rank two pass through, so do the remaining four, in four skip steps, now second couple forms arbor until off stage.

Reed and Wand Drill

ARRANGED BY HENRY MEYER.

Model Exercises of the Ladies* and Men’s Class of the Turnverein Vorwaerts of Fort Wayne, Indiana.

jr Formation:	Ranks	of fives, man, lady, man, lady, man. Ladies,

reeds, men, wands.

The two files on the left side begin with left foot, the two files on the right side with right foot (outer foot.) The middle file begins with left foot.

Music 2-4 or 6-8 time.

WAND, OUTER FILES, GROUP I.

All exercises outward, inward, outward, inward.

1.	Place outer foot forward, and raise arms forward - 1-2. Lunge sideward with outer foot and move arms outward, inner arm bent, hand in front of outer shoulder - 3-4. Return - 5-8.

2.	Lunge sideward with outer foot and raise arms outward, inner hand in front of outer shoulder - 1-2. Bend trunk outward, swing arms downward and inner arm upward, outer hand in front of inner shoulder-

Digitized by Google
28o

3-4. Return - 5-8.

3.	1-8 turn outward, place outer foot forward and raise arms forward-1-2. Place outer foot backward, bend inner knee and raise arms upward-3-4. Return - 5-8.

4.	Lunge forward with outer foot and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Turn trunk outward, swing arms downward and outward, inner hand in front of outer shoulder-3-4. Return-5-8.

WAND, OUTER FILES, GROUP 2.

1.	Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Bend knees and lower arms forward and fold arms, outer arm over inner-3-4. Retum-5-8.

2a. 4-4 turn outward in 16 steps on place, a quarter turn on the first of every four steps, combine with raising arms fore-upward, lower arms forward and fold arms, outer arm over inner, return arms to upward position, and lower fore-downward one movement on the first of every four steps-1-16.

2b. Postures 17-24, and 25-32.

3.	Stride sideward with outer foot, bend trunk backward and raise

arms fore-upward-1-2.	Bend trunk forward and swing arms fore-

upward-1-2. Bend trunk forward and swing arms fore-downward-3-4. Return-5-8.

4a. Four steps forward, }4 turn outward in four steps on place and repeat all; combine with the same arm exericse as in 2a-i-i6.

4b. Postures, same as in 2b.

WAND, OUTER FILES, GROUP 3.

ia.	Lunge sideward with outer foot, raise outer arm obliquely side-upward, inner hand in front of outer shoulder-1-2. Change kneebending and the arm position through the downward position-3-4. Return-5-8.

ib.	Hop into side-stride position and return-9-1-, repeat from 11-16, raise arms fore-upward on 9, lower arms on 16. Repeat a and b inward-17-32.

2.	Repeat exercise i>.

3a. Lunge forward with outer foot and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. turn inward on the heels, straighten outer knee, bend trunk backward, and bend arms wand in rear of shoulders-3-4. Return-5-8.

3b. Same as ib-9-16.

Repeat a and b, beginning with inner foot 17-32.

4.	Repeat excerise 3.

REEDS, GROUP I

Reed is always in vertical position in relation to the trunk unless stated otherwise. All exercises begin and return to starting position, arms bent, hands at width and height of shoulders.

All exercises outward, inward, outward, inward.

1.	Place outer foot forward and straighten arms forward-1-2. Lunge sideward with outer foot and move arms sideward-3-4. Return-5-8. Inward-8-16. Repeat-17-32.

2.	Place outer foot forward and straighten arms forward-1-2. Bend trunk outward and move arms sideward-3-4. Return-5-6. In ward-9-16. Repeat 17-32.

Digitized by Google
28l

3.	i-8 turn outward, place outer foot forward and straighten arms

forward-1-2. Place outer foot backward, bend inner knee and move arms sideward-3-4. Return-5-8. In ward-9-16.	Repeat-17-32.

4.	Place outer foot forward and straighten arms forward-1-2. Turn trunk outward and move arms sideward-3-4. Return-5-8. Inward-9-16. Repeat-17-32.

REEDS, GROUP 2.

1.	Bend knees, straighten arms forward-1-2. Rise on toes and raise arms upward, reed to a loop-3-4. Return-5-8. Repeat three times-9 ”32-

2a. Four steps forward, yi turn outward in four steps on place, repeat all; combine with straightening arms sideward, raise arms upward reed to a loop, return arms to sideward position and return to starting position, one movement on the first of every four steps-1-16.

2b. Postures 17-24. 25-32.

3.	Stride sideward with outer foot and straighten arms sideward-1-2 Bend trunk backward and raise arms upward, reed to a loop-3-4. Return-5-8.

4a. 4-4 turn outward in 16 steps on place, a quarter turn on the first of every four steps; combine with the same arm exercise as in 2a-i-i6.

4b. Postures same as in 2b.

REEDS, GROUP 3.

I a. Step outward, stretch inner foot and straighten arms sideward-1-2. Cross inner foot in front of outer, rise on toes and raise arms upward, reed to a loop-3-4. Return-5-8.

b. Circle reed forward and hop over it outer foot eading-9-10. Repeat-11-16. Repeat a and b inward-17-32.

2.	Repeat exercise No. 1-1-32.

3a. Step outward, stretch inner foot and straighten arms sideward-1-2. Place inner foot in rear of outer, bend outer knee, turn slightly inward, lower trunk and the arms obliquely fore-downward, reed to a loop in line with arms-3-4. Return-5-6.

3b. As b of No. 1-9-16. Repeat a and b to other side-17-32.

4.	Repeat exercise No. 3-1-32.

WAND, MIDDLE FILE, GROUP I.

All exercises left, right, left and right.

1.	Place left foot forward and raise arms forward-1-2. Lunge left forward, raise arms upward-3-4. Return-5-6.

2.	Lunge left forward, raise left arm upward, right hand in front of left shoulder-1-2. Bend trunk backward and raise right arm upward-3-4. Return-5-8.

3.	Place left foot forward, raise arms forward and fold arms, left arm over right-1-2. Place left foot backward, bend right knee, unfold arms and raise them upward-3-4. Return-5-8.

4.	Hop into side-stride position and raise arms upward-1-2. Turn trunk left, swing arms downward and to the left, right hand in front of left shoulder-3-4. Return-5-8.

WAND, MIDDLE FILE, GROUP 2.

I. Rise on toes, raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Bend knees, lower arms forward and fold arms, left arm over right-3-4. Return-5-8. Repeat three times-9-32.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
282

2a. 4-4 turn left in 16 steps on place, a quarter turn on the first of every four steps; combine with raising arms fore-upward, lower arms forward and fold arms, left arm over right, return to upward position, and lower fore-downward, one movement on the first of every four stepe-1-16*

2b. Postures 17-24, and 25-32.

3.	Hop into side-stride position, bend trunk backward and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Bend trunk forward and lower arms fore-downward-3-4. Return-5-8.

4a. Four steps forward, yi turn outward in four steps on place and repeat all; combine with the same arm exercise as in 2a. 1-16.

4b. Postures, same as in 2b.

WAND, MIDDLE FILE, CROUP 3.

i a. Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Change knee bending, lower trunk forward and swing arms fore-do wnward-3-4. Return-5-8.

ib. Hop into side-stride position and return-9-10. Repeat from 11-16, raise arms fore-upward on 9, lower arms on 16. Repeat a and b beginning right-17-32.

2.	Repeat exercise I.

3a. Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward-1-2. Bend trunk backward and bend arms, wand in rear of shoulders-3-4. Return-5-d.

3b. Same as ib-9-16. Repeat a and b, beginning right-17-32.

4.	Repeat exercise 2.

GYMNASIUM SUITS.

So far as suits for boys are concerned there has been a gradual development towards a type of suit that so far as the boy is concerned, permits greatest freedonm, and that at the same time gives to the teacher a chance to really see the boy and watch the effect of exercise upon development and upon carriage. The so-called track suit is gradually displacing all older types of gymnasium clothing. In some universities this track suit is giving way to a bathing suit or even to bathing trunks.

So far as the girl is concerned there seems to be an awakening to the fact that the customary gymnasium suit, consisting of bloomers and a middy waist, has passed the day of its usefulness. In Detroit we saw Junior High School girls wearing track suits. In other places a sort of knickerbocker is being used. Pictures of European women gymnasts and athletes show a cross between a bathing suit and a track suit. The tendency seems to have girls wear some kind of suit that will give them greater freedom of action, and that at the same time gives the teachers an opportunity to observe the effects of exercise. The greater participation of girls in games and in athletics is bound to bring with it a new kind of .gymnasium suit that will be not only more hygienic than the present one, but also more useful and cheaper.

Digitized by boogie
**3

T H L E T I C Q

EMANUEL HAUG, New York Cit> O

MAJOR GRIFFITH APPOINTED TO LEAD “BIG TEN”

ATHLETICS.

Chicago, July 29.—Major John L. Griffith, founder of the Drake relays and head of the department of physical education at the University of Illinois, was chosen Commissioner of Athletics of the Western Con. ference. Announcement of the appointment was made by L. W. St. John, director of athletics at Ohio State University and chairman of the “Big Ten” athletic directors.

The new commissioner will be charged with conducting an educational campaign looking toward the development of better sportsmanship, belief in the amateur law and understanding of the values of competitive athletics. He will study athletic problems of the various western con. ference universities and will assist in enforcing the eligibility rules which govern “big ten” athletics. Another duty will be to foster relations among students and alumni.

Announcement of Major Griffith’s appointment made clear that he will not be the “Judge Landis” of big ten athletics. Appeal can be made from his rulings and decisions to the big ten athletic directors.

SWIMMING RECORDS.

July 29—Miss Helen Wainright shatters WTorld’s Record: 220 yds. in 110 yd. lagoon at Manhattan Beach Baths, N. Y.. Time: 2 min. 41 i-j sec. Previous time in a 75 ft. pool made by Mrs. Charlotte Boyle Clune was 2 min. 47 3-5 sec. and 2 min. 52 4-5 sec. made by Miss Web-, selau of Honolulu in open water.

July 15—Thomas E. Elake of Los Angeles won the 10 mile National Swimming Championship over the course from Philadelphia to Riverton, N. J. in 2 hrs. 24 min. 30 sec. There were 28 starters. Blake finished 800 yds. ahead of his nearest competitor.

Aug. 1—John Weissmuller shatters 2 World’s Records: 75 yds. B'ackstroke in 46 3-5 sec. Cld time: 49 4-5 sec., his own record. 50 yds. Free Style in 22 4.5 sec. Cld time 23 sec. (Duke Kahanamoku).

' A tig. 5-—Miss Hilda James of the Garstdn Swimming Club of Liver* pool, England broke the World’s Record for Women for 300 meters free style and displaced the American mark for 300 yds. at the Brighton* Beach Baths 300 meters; time 4 min. 33 4-5 sec. Previous record: 4 min. 34 sec. held by Miss Ethelda Bleibtrey.

300 yds. time 4 min. 8 4-5 sec. Previous record: 4 min. 16 2-5 sec., held by Miss Helen Riggin. The World’s Record for this distance » 4 min. 8 2-5 sec. made by Miss James shortly before coming to America.

Aug. io—Weismuller breaks 80 yds. mark: 80 yds. Free Stykr' 40 3-5 sec. Old time 42 sec.	'

Digitized by CjOOQle
284

Helen Wainright of New York also a winner:	59	Y^s.	National

Senior Free Style for Women in 29 4-5 sec. 100 yds. National Back Stroke for Women in 1 min. 26 2-5 sec.

Navy’s Crew won the Intercollegiate Varsity Race for 3 miles last June at Poughkeepsie in 13 min. 33 3-5 sec. creating a new record for the distance. The results were as follows:

Varsity Race—Three Miles.

Finish.	Crew.

1.	Naval Academy...........

2.	Washington..............

3.	Syracuse.

4.	Cornell.

5.	Columbia.

6.	Pensylvania.

* New three-mile record.

Junior Varsity Race—Two Miles.

Finish.	Crew.

1.	Cornell.................

2.	Columbia.

3.	Syracuse.

4.	Pennsylvania.

5.	Pennsylvania (150 lb.)

* New record.

Freshman Race—Two Miles.

Finish.	Crew.

1.	Syracuse ...

2.	Cornell.

3.	Columbia.

4.	Pennsylvania.

The Navy’s record-breaking time—13 minutes 3353-5 seconds— was partially accounted for by the fact that rowing conditions were ideal— the river as smooth as glass, the tide beginning to turn down the course and the wind a following breeze. This favoring condition is the more apparent when it is stated that of all the six competing crews not one failed to beat the record made last year at Poughkeepsie by the Navy— 14 minutes 7 seconds—an achievement justly hailed as extraordinary and likely to stand for years.

Walter M. Hoover of Duluth, Minn., won the World’s Sculling Championship and the famous Diamond Sculls last July on the Thames in England. The distance was 1 5-16 miles and the time 9 min. 32 sec.

Hoover is the third American who succeeded in capturing the coveted prize. Edward Ten Eyck of Worcester won in 1897 and B- H. Howell of New York in 1899 and 1900.

Gene Sarazen, 21 year old golf professional at the Highland Country Club, Pittsburgh, recently won the Open Golf Championship at Glencoe,

Time.

9 *.20 1-5

Time.

*9 =45 3-5

Time.

*13 :33 3-5 13	-33 3-5

Digitized by Tooele
*85

111., with a card of 288 for 72 holes. Sarazen was the dark horse of th£ tournament. Following is the order of scores of those who competed:

CHAMPIONSHIP ROUND, QUALIFYING ROUND.

	First	Second	Total	First	Second	Total
	36	36	for	18	18	for
PLAYER AND CITY—	Holes.	Holes. 72	Holes.	Holes,	. Holes	Holes.
Gene Sarzen, Pittsburgh		.143	>45	288	74	74	148
•Robert T. Jones, Atlanta ....	. .I46	143	289	72	76	148
John L. Black, Los Angeles ...	..142	147	289	70	76	146
W. Melhorn, Shreveport, La. .	. .144	146	290	74	7i	us
Walter Hagen, New York .... George Duncan, England		.145	146	291	7i	70	141
	. .149	>47	296	75	76	ISI
Leo Diegel, New Orleans		• • *53	144	297	72	74	146
Jock Hutchison, Chicago 		..152	146	298	67	68	*35
Mike Brady, Detroit		. . I48	150	298	70	73	143
John Golden, Tuxedo, N. Y. ..	..150	148	298	74	72	146
J. Farrell, Quaker Ridge, N. Y,	.. .149	150	299	76	68	144
Laurie Ayton Evanston, 111. ..	.. 148	151	299	72	78	150
Bob MacDonald, Chicago .. .. Joe Kirkwood, Australia 		■ 149	151	3°°	72	75	*43
	..151	149	3°°	74	72	146

Other scores, made by those who were not among the prize winners, were: *Charles Evans Jr., Chicago, 302; Abe Mitchell, England, 303; Clarence W. Hackney, Atlantic City, N. J, 303; *Jesse Guilford Boston, 30J; *William I. Hunter, England, 306; Jim Barnes, New York, 306; *Fred Wright, Los Angeles, 306; *H. R. Johnston, St. Paul, 309.

ALCOHOL AND SPORT.

Dr. H. Herxheimer, Physician of the Police Dept. Spandau, conducted a series of experiments to ascertain if under certain conditions the use of alcohol, for sport purposes, would be of advantage.

He published the results of his experiments in the “Weekly Medical Journal of Munich 1922.” Here is what he briefly reported I tested 31 persons, their age, strength and endurance being nearly equal. The tests consisted of a 100 metre dash and a 100 metre swim. To avoid possible interference, precautions were taken not to interrupt the tests. When alcohol was used, it was given in proper quantities. Summarizing he states: When shortly before a test alcohol was given in even small quantities, the records were lower than when no alcohol was used. Those experiments prove, that alcohol, even taken in small quantities, was of no advantage to the athletes during the tests.

Digitized by LjOOQle
a86

BOOS REVIEWS.

“manual or gymnastic dancing” by Joseph Cermsk. 58 pages, 6" by 9 inches, paper cover. Published by the author 2533 & Central Park Ave., Chicago, 111. Price 75 cents.

Mr. Cermak is teacher at the Med ill High School, Chicago. The object of his publication is to help teachers who are busy by presenting to them a manual containing material ready for use. The dance steps have been arranged in three grades of difficulty /. e. for beginners, for intermediate classes and for advanced classes. In each grade there is a series of polka steps, then come schottische, waltz and mazurka steps. The steps in each series progress from simple combinations to quite lengthy sequences. As there is a natural progression throughout the whole manual the publication should be of great help not only to young and inexperienced teachers, but also to those older in the service who at times find it profitable to see how other successful teachers arrange and present this work.—W. A. Stecher.

“spontaneous and supervised play in childhood” by Alice Corbin Stes. 442 pages, 5# by 7)4 inches, illustrated. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $2.00.

The author formerly was assistant professor of childhood education at the University of Pittsburg, and supervisor of playgrounds for small children, city of Pittsburg. The book is divided into four parts. Part I. deals with play and work in childhood, part II. with dramatic plays in childhood, part III. with movement plays of children and part IV. with plays involving movement, impulse and curiosity. Two appendices offer topical references and a bibliography.

Prof. George E. Johnson has written a short introduction from which we quote the following:	“The	author	has	made	a	genuine	contribution

to education in classifying the philosophy underlying the spontaneous play of children in the various fields of human endeavor and achievement, and in showing how environment may be adapted to tapping the deep reservoirs of child nature, of human nature, in education work.” The book should be of great help not only to playground teachers and teachers of physical education, but also to all parents in helping them to understand the ceaseless activities of children.

“the organization and administration or physical education” by Jesse F. Williams, M. D. 325 pages, 5y4 by 8 inches with charts and diagrams. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Price $2.00.

Dr. Williams is associate professor of physical education at Teachers College, Columbia University. The book he has written is a message, the first chapters being really a philosophy of physical education. To me it is most refreshing to have the author denounce in most vigorous language the outgrowths found in formal gymnastics of the German type of physical education work. The Swedish system gets off no better, but I do not feel that I am competent to try to explain its shortcomings.

Digitized by Google
187

What the author apparently does not know is the fact that for more than fifty years back, up to the present time, there has been no lack of -critics, fully as positive as Dr. Williams, condemning the formalism that has crept into much of the physical training work conducted in Germany— and in this country. Among others, the physidogist, Dr. F. A. Schmidt of Bonn, has been an untiring critic of everything that smacks of formalism. But—Physical Education all over the world is no better nor perhaps worse than are other types of education. And so in this work we also find many teachers more interested in their exercises, their drills, their tests, etc., than in their pupils. But the founders of German gymnastics should not be held responsible for all the things their followers do.

From several sentences in his book I take it that Dr. Williams never has read Jahn. He therefore errs in some of his statements and deductions. In fact, on page 17 he presents one proof of his error in a quotation by Stanley Hall regarding the ideal teacher, reading as follows:

“Such a man................will be the savior to the bodies of men and will,

like Jahn, feel his calling and work sacred, and his institution a temple in which every physical act will be for the sake of the soul.”

It is this ideal of Jahn’s that every true teacher of physical education is striving for, irrespective of the “system.” But—what a prophet preaches and what his followers do often differs greatly. Recently I had an opportunity to see the work of some of the disciples of Dr. Williams. I am convinced that had he seen how his ideals were interpreted he would be as definite in the expression of his feelings as Jahn often was reported to have reacted when he saw what some of his followers were doing.

What we need, therefore, is better trained teachers, teachers who besides their materia gymnastica have had a broad training in allied subjects and especially in psychology and in the philosophy of education. We need teachers who are capable of putting into practice the message conveyed in Dr. Williams’ wonderful book. No teacher of phvsical education can afford to miss its stimulating thoughts. If we could get every teacher of physical education, every superintendent of schools to read— and understand—it, the millennium would be near.—William A. Stecher.

A Reading List on Publicity Methods has been prepared by Mary Swain Routzahn, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, Russell Sage Foundation.

This is a first draft of a selected reading list for practical use by workers in social welfare publicity. Criticisms and suggestions are earnestly invited so that the list may become more useful to the greatest number.

A copy of the limited first edition will be sent to anyone who ask9 for it. Address E. G. Routzahn, 130 East 22nd Street, New York City.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
288

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for Oct. 1, 1922.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 30th day of Sept. 1922.

A. L. GAG,

(My commission expires November 1, 1925.)

Digitized by boogie