rjleasftr D(i> NQX PASTE §lip in yo^r books/Lvit,inside front cover and we will paste it in.

C:c

Tol. 23.

MIND AND BODY

MARCH, 1916.

V K'j

No 247

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editpr, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at lhe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

PREPARATION FOR CITIZENSHIP.

Note:—The Wyoming plan of military drill is being advocated by the War Department of the United States. As the following extracts from this plan will show, the Wyoming plan really has very little of what generally is known and advocated as “Military Drill.” The extracts further will show that any city that has a system of physical training that really deserves it's name does at least as much, if not |nore, for citizenship training than is accomplished under the Wyoming plan.

< These extracts were prepared for the superintendent of schools in Philadelphia by the Physical Training Division. They will apply to many cities.—Editor.

In all recent plans for the training of efficient citizens one finds great emphasis placed upon different forms of physical training. A feature that stands out preeminently in these plans is the value that is placed upon competition as a means for mental and moral training. It is insisted upon, however, that this competition must take in every pupil in a school, not only the physically strongest.

The public school is the state’s foremost institution for the training of its future citizens. Much has been written recently upon the part the public school should take in the preparation for military efficiency. Many plans for the introduction of military training have been suggested. The plan spoken of most is the so-called Wyoming plan. This is recommended by the War Department of the United States in a pamphlet issued in November, 1915.

The following comparisons of the Wyoming and the Philadelphia plans are presented in tabular form. In the column at the left the essentials of the Wyoming plan are presented, while in the column at the right the activities employed in the Philadelphia Public Schools are presented. The headings are taken from the Wyoming plan.

Digitized by Google
THE WYOMING PLAN.

The Wyoming school authorities hold:

1.	That good citizenship involves a willingness on the part of each able-bodied youth to make such effort and sacrifice as will prepare him for his obligations and duties as a citizen.

2.	That this preparation embraces the following:

(a)	Military preparation;

(b)	Moral preparation;

(c)	Civic preparation;

(d)	Business preparation;

(e)	Educational preparation;

2

THE PHILADELPHIA PLAN.

The Philadelphia school work, as will be shown later, is based upon the same belief.

Physical Education as used in the Philadelphia school system means the employment of all sane means and methods to increase the health and strength of the pupils, also the employment of these means for mental and moral ends—in brief toward general citizenship training.

A.	MILITARY PREPARATION.

1.	The school year is divided into short training periods (see 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.)

2.	All cadets are organized into “competition unit's.” All work is so organized that at the end of a training period groups of cadets may compete against other groups.

3.	All work is done by competition units. They are

Wall scaling units;

Infantry drill units;

Troop leadership units;

Scholarship units;

Field firing units;

Camp and field units.

4.	Sponsors are elected from the girls in the mixed schools and assigned to the competition units. The sponsors are in every sense members of the cadet organization. They attend all drills, are the leaders in all social functions, and while they do not actually drill, the sponsors are entitled to and receive such individual rewards as may be won by their units.

Medals, ribbons, and distinctive marks on the uniform are given each member of a winning unit, the sponsor, of course, included.

5.	Each cadet organized is based on the voluntary enlistment plan. The cadet classes are held generally during, and not after school hours, and credit toward graduation is awarded therefor.

6 Cadet tournaments are held during the school year between the different high schools, to which the public is invited, and at which are held infantry drill, wall scaling, field firing, and camp and field and troop leadership competition “games.’'

1.	For physical training ends the school year is divided into fall, winter, spring and summer quarters.

2.	In physical training activities contests are carried on by groups termed either “teams," “grades" or “colors.” In “color" contests a whole school from the first to the last grade is divided into two sides, each side known by one of the school colors.

3.	For the types of work done in our schools see the activities grouped under 7, 8. 9, 10 and 11.

4.	We have no sponsors. Their functions appear to be mainly of a social character.

5.	Physical training by the law of Pennsylvania is compulsory for every pupil in school. The work is done during and after school hours, credit toward graduation is given for work done.

6.	The state law holds Boards of Education responsible for the conduct of its competitions. As will be shown later wo have many forms of competition. All contests are under the control of the Supervising Committee on athletics appointed by the Superintendent of Schools.

Digitized by Google
3

7. September 1st to December 31st, wall scaling and calisthenic events; minimum of drill, maximum of body building.

(Note by edito”:—Physical training teachers will quickly see that much can be read into the above. Minimum of drill, we understand, means a minimum of what the general public understands and expects under the title of “military drill.’*)

8. January 1st to February 28th, troop leadership competitions, 12-inch Gettysburg war game map. Include military policy of the United States.

(Note by editor:—The war map game consists of a chess-like game in which squads, platoons, companies, etc., are moved on a map in an attempt to outwit the opponent.)

9. January 1st to February 28th, minimum of drill, maximum of gallery practice, group competitions.

March 1st to May 7th, minimum of drill, maximum of range practice and field firing competitions.

(Note by editor:—Gallery practice consists oT shooting indoors, while range practice consists of shooting out in the op#"' , %

This committee consists of a member of the faculty of each high school, two teachers representing the Grammar School Athletic League and two members of the Department of Superintendence. The director of Physical Education is chairman of the committee.

7.	Our work is subdivided into indoor and outdoor work.

A.	Outdoor Work.

(a)	Group Games in which all pupils take part.

(b)	Running events, such as short runs for young pupils, cross country runs, etc., for older pupils..

(c)	Field events for all pupils, including jumping, hurdling, shot put, throwing, etc.

(d)	Special events for the older high school pupils like Soccer and Football.

B.	Indoor Work.

(a)	Marching tactics.

(b)	Climbing, jumping, vaulting, throwing, also apparatus work.

(c)	Gymnastic games in which all can take part.

(d)	Vigorous exercises with iron wands and dumbbells.

(e)	The study and application of hygiene (creating good living habits.)

8.	A. Outdoor Work.

(a)	Games of soccer and group games whenever the weather permits.

(b)	The encouragement of skating and tramping, the groups being led by our teachers of physical training.

B. Indoor Work.

(a)	Marching tactics.

(b)	Climbing, jumping, vaulting, throwing, also apparatus work.

(c)	Vigorous gymnastic games, team games, basketball, indoor baseball, swimming.

(d)	Exercises with dumbbells and iron wands.

(e)	Team competitions in gymnastic events; indoor Track and Field meets.

(f)	The study of hygiene with reference to good habits of living.

9.	A. Outdoor.

(a)	Baseball.

(b)	Track and Field work in all events (hurdling, jumping, running, etc.) for all students.

(c)	Track and Field meets.

B. Indoor.

(a)	Climbing, jumping, hurdling, vaulting, throwing.

(b)	Apparatus work.

(c)	Exercises with dumbbells, iron wands,

(d)	Personal and community hygiene.

Digitized by LjOOQle
4

10.	May 8th to June 15th, minimum of drill, maximum of camp and field problems, competitive between high schools.

(Note by editor:—What the problems are is not stated in the pamphlet.)

11.	All through school year commencing in the spring and running through the following fall and winter, take boys into camp each week-end and harden them to the rigors of camp life. Teach them sanitation, cooking, woodcraft, simple field engineering, plains-craft, castrame-tation, sketching, scouting, patrolling, the service of security and information, and qualify them as guides in their own immediate surrounding territory.

Summer camp immediately after closing of school, 14 days.

12.	Discussion of Course In Military Preparation.

The organization that puts into effect the “game” idea differs fundamentally, from the modern American athletic system. The cadet leaders choose up each in turn so that each fixed competition unit represents a certain proportion of strong, of medium, and of weak lads.

In football and basketball, and track events, only the few physically fit take part. In this system each squad represents an average and every boy takes part. There is as much “in it” for the weak as for the strong, and the survival of the fittest units — whether they be squads, platoons, or companies—gives the competition spirit.

10 (a) 128 playgrounds open all summer with trained teachers in charge.

(b)	16 swimming centers open all summer with trained teachers in charge.

(c)	Garden work should be mentioned on account of its excellent results in the formation of good habits.

11.	Supplementary Outdoor Activities.

(d)	Every Saturday afternoon during the whole year the Board conducts Wanderlust trips. During the year the Wanderlust has several trips taking one or two full days, and during the first week in September there is a week’s tramp.

(e)	After school the gymnasiums of our high schools are open every day, at least two hours for free play, under the guidance of our physical training teachers.

(f)	The yards of over 200 schools are equipped with play apparatus, and in 20 school-yards, situated in the congested districts, the Board maintains supervised playgrounds open all year.

(g)	Camps for boys and girls, operated as private ventures by schoolmen.

12.	Unfortunately, the general public judges the character of competitive work done in our schools by reports on the sporting pages of some newspapers.

It may be stated definitely, first, that in our school system competition is fostered primarily because of its value in mental and moral training, and second that whenever it is possible all pupils are included in our “competition units.”

B. MORAL PREPARATION.

13.	A nation stands or falls, succeeds or fails, just in proportion to the highmindedness, cleanliness, and manliness of each succeeding generation of men. There can be no question but that the single standard of, morality is the only one worthy of a great people, and history shows countless examples of nations that have fallen when they departed from this rule.

In the Wyoming system the fundamental factor is the competition between equally balanced units. The individuals are forced by public opinion amongst their fellows to go into training, and this training means clean, moral youth. It

13.	Competition as fostered by our schools is fully as effective as an agent for promoting the growth of morality as the means advocated and used by any other system of training. Moral training, however, rests more upon the type of the teacher than upon the means employed.

Digitized by
5

is shown conclusively in the various competitions that clean men morally are the surest kind of winners. Smoking and immoral practices must go. Under the fiercest kind of competition, and a new and fascinating interest in life, the adolescent youth is better enabled to negotiate that difficult period of life.

It is only necessary to point to Casper’s marvelous third squad, all of them boys, no one of whom had ever smoked, and a squad that sucessively lowered the world’s wall scaling record from 10 seconds to 8 seconds, to 7 1-5 seconds, to 6 4-5 seconds, to 6 1-5 seconds. This squad was not a picked squad—just an average squad.

The single standard of morality is taught frankly and fearlessly and efficiently to each and every individual in the Wyoming cadet organization.

C.	CIVIC PREPARATION.

14.	It is almost a fundamental principle of correct military organization that the leader should not be voted for. The Wyoming system is not intended to make soldiers. The Wyoming school masters are of the opinion that soldiers can only be made from mature manhood, and that the preparation of the adolescent youth should be such that when he reaches manhood he may then be made into the highest type of soldier. Hence the objection to voting for leaders does not obtain in the cadet organization, whereas the objection is perfectly valid in a military organization.

The cadet leaders are chosen at the beginning of each year by vote of the older cadets. The leaders are selected on merit, very much as the captain of the football team is selected for his merit: It has been noticeable that on the first organization, boy politics elect a certain percentage of popular but inefficient leaders, whose very inefficiency Is later a terrible punishment to the members of their own units. The stress of competition soon brings out the real leaders. The cadets never repeat their mistake. After the first election they take steps to insure a very wise and careful selection of leaders.

This civic lesson can not be wholly lost to them in years to come, when they are called upon as citizens to elect the leaders of their city, county, state, and national governments.

14. The results spoken of are known to every teacher of physical training. They influence the decision he so often makes in spite of the protests of over-zealous members of Alumni Associations and often of faculty members, who as yet have not grasped the significance of athletics for citizenship training.

Digitized by Google
D. BUSINESS PREPARATION.

15 Team-work and efficiency are prime requisites in the business life of to-day.

The soldier game can be made the keenest, as well as the most fascinating of all games, and efficiency is a necessity if a competition unit is to win. Not only must each man be worked to the limit of his capacity, but each competition unit leader must analyze his men and fit each to his proper place. The leaders are always leading and learning efficiency. 6 1-5 second wall scaling requires the highest type of efficiency.

15.	See note under 14.

E.	EDUCATIONAL PREPARATION.

16.	This subject is a matter wholly within the province of school boards and school masters, and embraces the entire school* curriculum, which obviously can not be discussed in this report.

16. It may be of some interest to know that in our high schools there are groups of boys ranking very high in athletics and in mental work that are helping their less fortunate comrades in their academic work.

Sane athletics and good scholarship and also good school spirit always go hand in hand.

CONCLUSIONS AND REQUESTS.

17.	(1) That school boards throughout the United States be encouraged by the War Department to institute in their school systems, a citizenship training similar to that outlined above.

(2)	"That the proper authority request Congress to authorize the detail of United States Army officers as instructors in public school systems.

(3)	That tentage and field equipment of obsolete or modern pattern be issued to school boards under bond in the same manner that Krag rifles and ammunitions are now furnished.

17. The above statements show that physical training as conducted in our schools places most weight upon subjects that develop character. Based upon the opinion of all who have carefully looked into our work, and upon our own observation, it is believed that the results secured compare favorably with those reached by means of the Wyoming plan of military training, or by those secured in Switzerland, Australia or any foreign country.

We are anxious to extend the work. Like in all forms of training success depends upon efficient teachers. We hope that the Board will grant us six additional teachers, one in every boys’ high school, whose duty it shall be to carry on such additional forms of citizenship training that we have been unable to undertake on account of a lack of teachers.

VACATION CAMPS FOR ALL BOYS.

DOUBLING THE EFFICIENCY OF THE SCHOOL BOY.

By ,T. MADISON TAYLOR. M. D.. Philadelphia.

The American public school boy—God bless him—is chock full of possibilities seldom ingathered to factors of stable efficiency. Rioting in an overgrowth of normal forces (prepotencies) his initiative too often runs away with his thoroughness or power to assemble his energies. Hence his outlook is too diffuse, standards too vague, his

Digitized by CjOOQle
ambitions too scattered. To be sure he makes many individual successes leading to all sorts of personal advancements mainly through a hit or miss seizing of accidental opportunities and by displaying vast inventiveness and resourcefulness.

If all these excellent powers could be concentrated into lines of consistent advance, protected by systematic standards and'Centralizations of energies, we might well defy the earth. No such safeguards are furnished, no completely efficient methods of education either in school or in the preliminary lines of industries. What is lacking? Obviously few and wholly inadequate means of motor training are supplied, which are the foundations of mental power. “We think in terms of muscular movement.” Motion is the forerunner of mind, an essential part of the process. How can this be obtained? By compulsory neuro-muscular, psychomotor, education.

The American boy deserves much more in his public-school course than he gets. He needs a uniform discipline and motor training such as is so well afforded by the schools of Germany. The young man also needs an equivalent supplied by the best features of army training. Join these two fundamentals, viz., what he gets and what he might easily get, and you have the making of a citizen body which can and should rule the world of thought, of industry, of the more scholarly and scientific advances which constitute a “triumphant democracy.”

Let me briefly sketch the plan I have offered to the newspapers last summer, and endorsed by many high in the confidence of the American public. Make no mistakes; I am advocating no militarism, no bellicose features whatsoever, but solelv certain practical qualifications which would put our toys in the forefront of home-makers and home-defenders.

I proposed that during the summer vacations following the three final years in the primary schools, in which the boys average in age, fourteen, fifteen and sixteen years, that each state shall provide two months of life in camp with systematic physical, engineering and disciplinary training similar to the best, most practical forms of education furnished by the European army service, but without any special military or naval features. These three periods of two months each total six months, the least time in which to supply systematic physical and moral disciplinary instruction.

Let these camps be in reach of all big centers, let transportation be free, let food, lodging, directors, caretakers and teachers be provided by the state and the federal government. Let the teachings be in such fundamentals as prompt obedience, bearing of responsibilities, orderliness, systematic care of tent, clothing, food, its selection and preparation, in mass maneuvers, drills, also in competitive forms of athletics, e. g., baseball, football, soccer, lacrosse, etc. Also the elements of forestry, woodcraft, of engineering, surveying, road-

Digitized by
8

building, bridge-building, the use of small boats, rowing, sailing, construction of rafts, in elements of varied physical proficiencies, of self-mastery, taking care of oneself in the open on land or water; tracking of animals or men, scouting, map-making, signalling, camp facilities such as bed- and fire-making, outdoor cooking and especially in first aid to the injured.

It is obvious that those boys who happen to learn something of these arts and handicrafts are merely small selected groups; no opportunities are enjoyed by others. I maintain that all our boys should be provided with chances to acquire skill in such practical arts, crafts and procedures. They would thus become vastly more adaptable and useful in any line of industry whatsoever. The stronger and cleverer boys would soon become teachers of the others, would themselves gain immensely by bearing and directing responsibilities and would soon reduce the cost of expert teachers. Timid and weak boys would be gradually led on, encouraged and carefully handled till they become vigorous, confident and proficient.

Teams would then not be, as now, made up of selected individuals; the vast majority being unable to get opportunities for systematic play. Every single boy should thus have an equal chance. If a boy be not strong enough, or if he needs to earn a wage in summer, he could be excused.

Among other subjects useful to teach are: elements of steam, electric and marine engineering, or wireless telegraphy, of signalling, how to launch and command small boats, use of compass, steering by the stars, elements of weather science, charting, etc. Our merchant marine is always in need of officers and here is a way to lay foundations for the best commanders.

Should there arise any fear of foreign invasion, or any need for army or navy service, boys so trained have already got the foundations well laid. The best boys should get certificates of proficiency of utmost use in securing good jobs; also the military and naval schools will have to look to the scout masters for appointments to West Point and to Annapolis.

SOME MORE VIEWS ON AMATEURISM.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

According to the recommendations of the Intercollegiate Association, a man who teaches for money is a professional for life. The man who merely teaches in a playground, in a summer camp, or who capitalizes his name in newspaper articles or otherwise, is only punished according to the seriousness of his offense.

At the recent New York meeting Major Cook, representing the Military Athletic League, said that “the biggest prize at a rifle competition known as the President’s Match, carries with it the na-

Digitized by CjOOQie
9

tional individual championship of the United States, a bronze and a money prize, besides a letter of commendation from the President of the United States.” The winner of this event, however, because he is a member of a military organization, remains an amateur. Other citizens of the United States are “punished according to the serious ness of the offense” by being allowed to ask for a reinstatement at the end of five years.	«

At this same meeting Dr. Sayre, representing the U. S. Revolver Association, said that the association never made any distinction between amateurs and professionals. Speaking of his experiences in France at the Olympic Games in 1900, he said that a captain in the French army said to him: “I am a professional, of course. Every week I go out and instruct the men in shooting; that is my business” —and there was not any question in the minds of any of us, said Dr. Sayre, that he certainly ought to be allowed to shoot in the matches, and we all considered him an amateur.

Why, then, should a teacher of physical training whos.e business it is to teach games, or track and field events, etc., be considered a professional, or be called a non-competing amateur? Why should such person be punished? Isn't be doing fully as much for his country in training his pupils to be law-abiding citizens, as the man who is paid by the people to teach others to march, to shoot, etc.? Why this class distinction? Haven't we here another cropping out of that European distinction between what kind of work a “gentleman” may do for pay and still be an amateur, and what kind of work a “gentleman” should not do?

Supporting the arguments printed in the last issue of “Mind and Body” we find the following interesting news-item coming from Los Angeles, Cal.:

Maurice E. McLoughlin and Thomas F. Bundy, former tennis champions in doubles, this week opened their sporting goods store in Los Angeles, Cal., despite the warning sent them several weeks ago that if they did so they would be in grave danger of losing their amateur standing and being barred from further participation in the tournaments of the United States Lawn Tennis Association.

“Will you go ahead with your plans if the Lawn Tennis Association rules you professionals?” McLoughlin was asked.

“'Most assuredly we will,” replied McLoughlin. “To stop then would be to acknowledge we were really professionals, and we're not. I'm not commercializing my tennis fame. I'm just trying to make a living selling athletic goods instead of real estate or bonds or the like. Naturally, I am more interested in athletics than anything else and know more about it.

“I have known many tennis players in the East,” added McLoughlin, “who use their tennis reputations to sell bonds and nobody thinks of their being professionals. I never was paid for havingy

Digitized by Google
10

my name on a certain racket. I wrote a book on tennis and was paid for it, but nobody thought of that making me a professional. I had to know something about tennis to even presume to write such a book.”

Mr. Bundy, while refusing to state what his action would be in case the Tennis Association ruled against him and McLoughlin for the sporting goods store, had some pretty plain things to say about the way their business project was being looked upon.

“The application of the Eastern idea of amateurism to our case is ridiculous,” he said. “Johnston, who works for an Eastern sporting goods firm in San Francisco, would be a professional. Alexanr* der, who, with Hackett, was doubles champion so long, would be a professional, for he manages a sporting goods store in New York. There are hundreds of players who would be affected all over the country.

Mr. Bundy went on to say that it is impossible to keep a man’s reputation as a tennis player out of his business relations.

“Why, the biggest deals that I’ve put over in the real estate business have come to me through friends made by my tennis playing. Simpson Sinsabaugh probably has a larger personal acquaintance than any tennis player in the West. He is in the insurance business. One sells insurances to his personal friends.

“Why R. D. Wrenn, the president of the Lawn Tennis Association, uses tennis to make a living. He is a stock broker. It is through his tennis connections that he meets the wealthy people whose stock he handles. What difference does it make what the business is. It would be foolish for them to declare either of us professionals—I because my money is invested in it, McLoughlin because he is part owner and manager of the business!”

CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

Cincinnati extends a cordial welcome to the members of the American Physical Education Association and their friends to attend the twenty-second annual convention April 19-22, 1916.

There are many reasons why this meeting should attract a large attendance. The program committee is planning especially good programs, with strong speakers on interesting subjects at every session. The meeting places will be commodious and accessible, so that members will be able to go from their hotels to the meeting places without inconvenience or loss of time. There is every reason to expect this meeting to equal any that have preceded it in the character and value of the program.

As has become customary at the annual convention, there will

Digitized by LjOOQle
11

be several exhibitions. These will take place in Emery Auditorium, a beautiful and convenient hall. The pupils of the public schools, both elementary and high, will participate in the exhibition, and there will also be displays by students of the University, Y. M. C. A., and by members of various Turner and Gymnastic Associations.

Cincinnati offers a unique opportunity to study various forms of gymnastic training. The public school system has given much attention to it, as has the University of Cincinnati (the oldest and largest municipally supported university in the country). There are strong organizations of Turners and a number of flourishing private gymnastic organizations. The whole makes a situation full of interest and suggestion to the visitor.

The recent school buildings, all of which contain gymnasia, and many of which contain swimming pools, will be available for inspection and study, as will the fine new gymnasium at the University of Cincinnati, the building of the Cincinnati Gymnasium Athletic Club and other educational and athletic plants.

Cincinnati has ample first-class hotel accommodations for all visitors, and just a year ago entertained the largest Superintendents’ meeting in the history of the National Educational Association. The leading hotels are very centrally located, near to each other and close to all meeting places.

A live interest in gymnastics and athletics is manifest throughout the city, and visitors may come with every assurance of a hearty welcome from a city whose hospitality is famed as having the true southern quality. All the civic and educational organizations have joined in the work of preparing for the convention and there is no doubt of all the arrangements being satisfactory. The executive committee has as its chairman, the Assistant Superintendent of the Public Schools, Edward D. Roberts, and associated with him in the work is Dr. Carl Ziegler, Director of Physical Education in the Public Schools and others.

The Queen City is preparing to receive you with open arms, members of the American Physical Education Association, and gives you a cordial invitation to be its guests on the occasion of the annual convention.

SINGLE STICK FENCING.*

By FRElD. E. FOERTSCH, New Haven Conn.

The use of the stick in offensive and defensive movements similar to those in broad sword fencing has been found to be an interesting form of antagonistic work for high school boys and young men. The movements are not of such a fine character as those in

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by
12

foil fencing, are more readily learned, require but little individual attention and are therefore particularly well suited for class work. The consciousness of progress, the large range of action which appeals to the eye, the rapidity of movement possible with the light weight stick and the anticipation of out-doing the opponent, become a source of satisfaction and heighten the interest. The educative value of single stick fencing such as training the eye, promoting skill of hand and control of body, disciplining the mind, etc., remain the same but do not reach as high a stage of development as in foil fencing. Except for the difference in the cutting movement, with the stick and the point thrusting movement, with the foil the general characters of the two types of fencing are the same, and since the former is the simpler it may be regarded as a development of the latter. Single stick fencing may be carried on to bout work with a great deal of enthusiasm by forming teams in different classes or schools and having them compete. However, this type of fencing has not been widely known and it rests with the instructors to give it the test which will decide whether or not its extension is desirable.

The series of lessons which will follow are arranged in a progressive order. This first part will be devoted to the descriptions of the equipment needed and the essential movements of the first series of lessons. The description of new movements will precede the series of lessons in which they occur.

EQUIPMENT NEEDED.

1.	The Stick. For convenience the stick is divided into three parts, the upper one-third or the point, the middle one-third called the middle, and the lower one-third or the handle. It should be made of hickory or some other wood which will not splinter, should have no knots and should be round. The fiber of the wood should run lengthwise in the stick and never oblique. The stick should taper toward a point. At the handle it should have a minimum diameter of 5-8 inch, not exceeding 3-4 inch and the diameter of the point should not be less than 5-16 inch. The tip of the point must be blunt. The length of the stick is 42 inches and its weight should not exceed 8 or 10 ounces.

2.	The Mask. In stick fencing the mask should cover the top of the head and the front and sides of the face, extending far enough backward to cover the ears. The wire netting used in the mask used for foil fencing will suffice.

3.	The Basket or Glove. If a glove is used it should be made of thin material to insure a firm grip and should have padding over the knuckles extending far enough upward to protect the wrist.

A small basket made of willow twigs, woven into the shape of a semi-spherical form large enough to cover the hand when closed to a fist is the customary protection. It has two perforations, one on either side about an inch from the rim. The handle of the stick

Digitized by LjOOQle
13

when inserted into these perforations passes through the diameter. The use of the basket insures a better grip on the stick and allows a greater freedom of movement in the wrist.

4.	The Body-Protection. The protection of the body, whether it be a plastron or a padded jacket, should cover the front and sides of the neck, the chest and the abdomen as far down as six inches below the waist line. It should also afford protection to the top of the shoulder and to the right side of the body extending from the arm-pit downward covering the hip and as far backward as the spine.

DESCRIPTIONS OF MOVEMENTS AND POSITIONS.

I.	Passing the Guard. The Fundamental Position. Stand in fundamental gymnastic position facing your opponent with the stick held vertical at the right side, the pointed end passing in front of the right shoulder while the handle end is held between the fingers and thumb of the right hand, much in the manner of holding a pencil, with the fingers directed downward and the knuckles turned forward.

First Movement. Execute an eighth turn left, pivoting on the heel of the left foot. The feet at the end of this movement are at a right angle to each other. The heels are together and the right foot is pointing directly at the opponent. The head remains face forward with the chin over the right shoulder. Simultaneous with the above movements the extended right arm is raised to an oblique fore-downward position pointing in the same direction with the right foot. The stick is lowered with the raising of the right arm forming a straight line with it; the point is directed fore-downward and about four inches from the floor. The hand immediately assumes a firm grip with the thumb downward and the knuckles upward. The extended left arm assumes the same oblique downward position as the right arm, pointing backward in the opposite direction with the fingers together and the palm of the hand turned forward.

Second Movement. The extended right arm is raised vertically upward (the stick and arm remaining in a straight line) to an oblique fore-upward position so that the stick crosses on the left side of that of the opponent about eight inches from the point. The hand does not change its position from the former. The other parts of the body retain their former positions.

Third Position. Bend the right arm, bringing the hand slightly below and in front of the chin. The stick must retain relatively the same position as in the elevated position, pointing obliquely fore-upward. The hand during the movement is supinated so that the thumb is turned outward toward the right side and the knuckles forward. The other parts of the body hold their former positions.

Fourth Movement. Execute a circle with the stick by raising it to the vertical position continuing backward and downward and then forward passing by the left side of the head and body. The greater part of this circular movement from the chin to the point

Digitized by LjOOQle
14

where the stick reaches the vertical position with the point downward is purely a wrist movement. From here a straightening of the arm to an almost complete extension forward accompanies the remainder of the circular movement at the termination of which the hand is at the level of the shoulders with the knuckles upward. At the same time the left shoulder is well pressed backward so that the two shoulder-points and the right hand are in a straight line. The stick is pointing obliquely fore-downward toward the left side so that in taking a front view of the fencer the stick would draw an oblique line across the body beginning from the point of the right shoulder passing through a point on the left side of the waist line. The left arm is bent, the forearm resting in the small of the back. Simultaneous with the above movements the right foot is placed forward (flat on the floor), still maintaining the right angular relation to the left foot, with bending both knees well. The distance between the feet varies with the individual but is generally from twenty to twenty-four^ inches. The body weight is equally divided on both feet. The bent knee position, the distance between the feet and the carriage of the body weight must be regulated by the individual. It must be a comfortable, elastic, easy and almost relaxed position.

2.	Advance and Retreat. After the guard position has been assumed the advance begins by placing the right foot forward to a convenient distance and immediately following with the left foot with the same sized step, care being taken not to derange the former position of the body. This movement must .be practised for speed.

The retreat is identical with the advance except that the movement is backward with the left foot leading and the right foot following. In both the advance and retreat the feet must be kept close to the floor.

3.	The Double Appel. The appel is taken in the guard position and is executed by striking the floor sharply twice with the right foot in rapid succession. The whole foot strikes the floor and care must be taken not to derange the position of the body during its execution. It is mainly practised to determine whether the equilibrium of the body is properly preserved. It also precedes the closing to the rear or front.

4.	Closing to the Rear or Front. From the guard position the closing to the rear begins with a straightening of the knees and bringing the right foot to the left with heels together and feet at right angles. The right arm is extended and elevated so that the stick is pointing obliquely fore-upward. This is identical to the elevated position with the “Half left face.”

The closing to the front corresponds to the closing to the rear except that the left foot closes to the right.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
15

The closing to the rear and front may be preceded by a double appel, the closing immediately following the appel.

5.	The Lunge. This movement begins from the guard position with a vigorous extension of the left leg while the right foot is raised about one inch above the floor and placed forward. At the end of the movement the foot remains pointing forward, the knee is bent so that a perpendicular dropped from the point of the knee would fall in front of the toe of the foot. Most of the body weight is carried on the right foot. Both during the lim^e and in the lunge the head and trunk retain the same position as in the guard. Both feet are flat on the floor. The return movement is the reverse of the lunge, bending both knees and assuming the guard position. Both the lunge and the return must be practiced for speed, raising the right foot no higher than is absolutely necessary.

(To be followed by the first series of lessons.)

CHANGES IN BASKET BALL RULES.

By D. M. F. KROG'H, M. D., Cleveland School. Newark. N. ,T.

For several years I have given the subject of basketball for school boys special attention. It occurred to me that a competitive game like basketball, which involves much running and strain, a game originated for men should be played under modified rules when indulged in by school boys. The question arose in my mind: Is the twenty-minute period of play without danger to the boy? If it is the correct time for each of the two periods for men it seems to me to be too long for boys. I was glad, therefore, to see in the January issue of “Mind and Body” the article by Mr. E. C. Delaporte of Chicago, 111., which shows that others have thoughts similar to mine. Mr. Delaporte reports that the Chicago High School Basket Ball League has changed the rules so that the game consists of four quarters of seven minutes each, with rest periods of two, ten and again two minutes between the respective quarters, and, that a player taken out of the game may re-enter once during the game. The latter has my unqualified approval, but whether it is sufficient to have but two minutes between the first and second and again between the third and fourth quarters is a question I cannot answer at present. I have my doubts about it. Here in Newark the seniors, boys over thirteen years, play two halves, the first lasting fifteen minutes, a rest period of five minutes follows, and the game is finished by playing another period lasting twenty minutes. The junior teams play for fifteen minutes in each half. I have instituted inter-class games in my school, the seniors and juniors playing alternately. The seniors, for example, play fifteen minutes, then the juniors play ten minutes, during which time the seniors rest. The seniors resume their game after the juniors have played a period of ten minutes, and

Digitized by C^ooQle
16

again play for fifteen minutes. The juniors then finish their game in ten minutes, and then the seniors finish their third period of fifteen minutes. It will be seen that the seniors thus play* three fifteen minute periods with a rest between each of ten minutes while the juniors have two ten minute periods with a rest of fifteen minutes between the two. This seems to me to be a correct division of time from a physiological point of view. And yet, I would propose that four quarters of ten minutes each with rest periods of five minutes between each quarter should be the rule for immature boys.

Why was .the time of periods in football (played by men) reduced to four fifteen-minute periods? The objection to short periods of play by the strong, healthy basketball bov is that long periods give a better chance at scoring points. Men with whom I have debated argue that in football the players are on the run during the entire time of play and in basketball they are not. I do not believe that this argument will stand the test. Proof to the contrary can readily be furnished. Since the football rules, soccer or rugby have been changed, there are at times periods of less strenuous play for some of the players, just as we find this to occur in basketball. And, again, in a good strenuous, quick game of basketball almost all the players are on the go all the time, many boys becoming winded and tired out, thus making fouls frequently, as Mr. Delaporte correctly points out in his article alluded to above. Making a poor showing and playing a poor game does not bother me at all, it is the danger to the players that causes me concern. The chief danger is a physiologic-pathologic one. Do we want to run the risk of wrecking a boy by allowing.him to overdo what he likes to do, or it is our duty to guard him against over-exertion ? Hypertrophy of the heart, with its accompanying or consequent sequelae, sets in very easily in energetic, strong, healthy boys. As long as they practice continually ill-effects are usually not noticed, but the danger of dilatation with its accompanying insufficiency of the valves of the heart-chambers and of the cardiac walls is to be prevented. A note of warning has frequently been sounded along these lines in the past five years by eminent physicians and men of experience. Readers of “Mind and Body” are reminded of our reprints from “The Journal of the American Medical Association” on the subject of over-doing competitive athletics and games. I would welcome a lively discussion of this question, and I invite physical directors, especially those who have also had a" medical education, to freely express their unbiased views on this subject, and, in conclusion, I hope for a speedy revision of basketball rules for school boys of a certain age. But this is not all we should do. Among the most necessary changes to be made in competitive athletics is the discarding of races like the 440-yard dash and half-mile run. Train the boy for the boy’s sake, but don’t overexert him for your own glory or for the school's sake.

Digitized by Google
17

EXTRACTS FROM AN ADDRESS

DELIVERED IN CHICAGO, DEC. 10, 1915, BEFORE THE EUGENICS EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY, BY CASPER L. REDFIELD, CHICAGO, ILL.

It has been said frequently that each man is the product of his environment. In a measure that is true, but no environment will make a Shakespeare out of an ordinary man. A great man is born, which means that he is the product of a particular kind of breeding. Similarly, the feeble-minded man is born, which also means that he is the product of a particular kind of breeding. The kinds of breeding which produce our great men and our feeble-minded men are as widely separated as are the men themselves. I cannot, in the time at my disposal, go into all of the intricacies by which different kinds of men are produced by breeding, but I can give some of the main essentials, and from these you can obtain a fairly clear understanding of what it is that leads toward improvement, and what it is that leads toward degeneracy.

They tell us that man and the other higher animals have evolved from lower forms of animals by selection, but those who make that statement overlook a very obvious absurdity in their claim. To have selection, parents must have offspring, and to have more selection the offspring must produce another generation, and these in turn another. Each generation gives opportunity for selection, and the more generations the more selection. Anything which would reduce the number of generations in a given period of time would reduce the opportunities for selection to accomplish anything.

At some time in the past there was a common ancestor for man and the higher apes. There have been less generations, and consequently less selection, in the line leading from that common ancestor to man, than in the lines leading to the apes. Further back in the past there was a common ancestor for the higher apes and the lower monkeys. There have been less generations, and consequently less selection, in the lines leading to the higher apes than in the lines

Birth  Ranks	A	i	CHANCESC  0 IB 2		>F BECOMlN  O P5 3i		IG EMINENT  O 35	4		O	45	5		0
24*  25~29  30-34  35-39  40-44  45-49	I 1.00  E	35  355  5.43	0.41	1467					'		
50-54		■■i	■■1		■■■	12532					
55-59		hbi	HBI	■■■	■■i	■■■	M3	3.14			
(50+		Bi							■■■	■■■	ff.56
							i				

Relative chances of becoming eminent, as measured by age of father at birth of son. From “Great Men.” by Redfield.

Digitized by t^ooQle
18

leading to the lower monkeys. Extend that examination to the different species of active animals and you will find that each advance from a lower to a higher stage involved the elimination of selection, and that the actual advance has been inversely proportional to the amount of selection. Carried to its logical conclusion this means that the greatest possible advance will occur when selection is reduced to zero.

They tell us that acquired characters are not inherited, but I am telling you that the persons that make that statement never investigated the matter and know nothing whatever about it. They simply repeat what they have been taught, and they cling to the dogma because it agrees with their preconceived ideas. The theory that acquired characters are not inherited originated in a misconception of what an acquired character is, and in an experiment which is absurd on its face.

To acquire means to obtain by effort, by exertion, by the performance of work. An acquired character is one obtained by exercising an organ, or by the work performed by the organ. It consists of a physiological change occuring within the organ which is dynamic in character and is called dynamic development. The amount of an acquirement is proportional to the amount of work performed. A mentally active man has a better developed brain at the age of fifty than he had at the age of twenty, and the difference is due to the extra amount of mental work performed.

If an acquirement is to be inherited, the parent must make the acquirement first and get the offspring afterwards, not get the offspring first and make the acquirement afterwards. Of those who deny the inheritance of acquired characters, what one ever took this into consideration and compared the progeny of parents of different ages on the basis of acquirements? Not one. They have failed to take even the first step in such an investigation whereas they should carry such a one through three or four generations of ancestors.

Among certain eugenists there is a theory that it is impossible to produce an individual which is superior to anything which previously existed. That is, if some very superior individual exists it is because there was, somewhere in his ancestry, a similar superior individual. This theory amounts to a denial of evolution and a return to the Garden of Eden story with Adam and Eve originally created equal to any individual who has since existed.

It is not clear how widely extended this theory is, but it seems to be back of the proposition to sterilize a large part of the population. That proposition is a public confession, by those who make it, that they know absolutely nothing about what causes improvement and what causes degeneracy. In their despair at seeing no way to improve the race other than that of killing off the inferior, they propose the killing process by indirection.

Digitized by v^ooQle
19

It seems never to have occurred to these gentlemen to write out the pedigree of some remarkable individual for three or four generations and then examine that pedigree for the purpose of learning if there was anything remarkable about the way he was produced. Wedded to a preconceived theory which they are anxious to support, they make statements without stopping to consider what those statements mean when carried to their logical conclusion.

Let us consider the horse. A century ago there was no horse in the world capable of trotting a mile in three minutes. Now we have horses which have trotted a mile in two minutes. This is an absolute and very great advance in power made in the past ioo years. It has been said repeatedly that this improvement came about through selection, but the statement is not true and is made in complete ignorance of the facts. Selection has been used abundantly among horses, but that selection is not connected with the improvement which has taken place.

High speed at the trot is not a natural gait for horses. It is an artificial gait which never existed in any breed of horses until forced there by the art of man. Less than a century ago the only high speed gait for horses was the run, and when trotters were forced for speed they would break into a run. Now we have “born trotters” which will stick to the trot no matter how hard they are forced, and trotting speed approaches running speed. Here is a new character in the trotters of today.

To have selection a mare must have several foals. If she produces but one foal in her entire life, there can be no selection in her line. It is take that foal or none. Write out the pedigree of any 2:10 trotter, it matters not what one, and extend that pedigree to the time when there was no such thing in the world as a 2 130 trotter. In that pedigree there will be from 5 to 20 mares, no one of which ever had more than one foal in her life. The other mares, and the sires in the pedigrees, will be found, on investigation, to have produced less than the normal number of foals. Also, the lines of improvement to our high speed trotters average only 7 generations to the century, while the normal number is 10 generations. Actual improvement came in those lines in which opportunity for selection was reduced to its lowest limit.

The same thing is true in intellectual power in man. Take any list of intellectually eminent men and you will find that they were sons of men much older than the average age of fathers when sons are born. A few will be found to be sons of comparatively young fathers, but push the investigation in those cases a little further and you will find that while it is possible to get an eminent man from a young father it is impossible to get one from a succession of young parents. A succession of young parents always results in the production of mental inferiority, and, if the parents are unusually young, in such a succession the product is weak mentality.

Digitized by LjOOQie
20

To maintain any group of animals on a level in its power capabilities there must be a certain amount of acquirement per generation before reproduction. If the amount of acquirement is decreased there is a decline in power capabilities toward a lower corresponding level. If the acquirement is increased there is a rise toward a higher corresponding level. The age of parents at time of reproducing is one factor in measuring the amount of acquirement, and an investigation which did not consider this factor in at least three generations of ancestors would be superficial.

PROPOSED NEW VENTILATION METHODS FOR CHICAGO’S PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By W. A. EVANS, Commissioner of Health of Chicago.

Editor’s Note:—The buildings and grounds committee of the Chicago Board of Education has adopted a new type of building after which all future school edifices will be constructed. Mr. Evans’s article is in condemnation of the present “down draft” type of ventilation and a plea for its elimination in future school construction.

Roughly speaking, every child between six and sixteen years of age spends six hours out of each twenty-four for five days of the seven, for ten months of the twelve, in the school room.

The years represent the most important of the child's life. He goes in a little over 3 ft. high and weighing about 50 lbs.; he comes out nearly 6 ft. high and weighing 125 lbs.

If the ventilation is not good, several things may happen to children: First, they contract some form of air-bone infection; second, they become pale and lifeless; third, they get headaches; fourth, they become nervous. All of these last suffer both in their physical and mental development, ordinarily.

There are certain principles of ventilation which should be adhered to. No system should ever be adopted which prevents the rooms from being thrown open and aired several times each day. This airing should be by volumes of cold, fresh air directly introduced in strong, blowing currents. A good descriptive phrase is to give the room a good blowing out. We know that a consumptive will do much better in the open where the wind will blow directly over him than he will in a room with the windows thrown full up. Maybe the effect of the strong draft is to blow away harmful chemicals and bacteria. Maybe the better effect is due to oxygen rendered nascent and with bonds made active by the electricity generated by friction.

The inlets and exits for air should be so arranged as to permit of only smallest degree of admixture of the foul and the fresh air. It is not alone that the foul air is full of C O2 and other excretory gaseous substances, but that it contains a bacterial flora which should be led out of the breathing zone as rapidly as possible. The bacteria which one child has coughed, sneezed, or even breathed out should

Digitized by v^ooQle
21

be lifted as rapidly as possible above the breathing zone of the other children.

Another factor of great importance, according to Pfliigge, is that the air which has been warmed by contact with the interior of the lungs or the exterior of the body is very harmful when kept in contact with the body.

Another factor of less importance is economy. If you are to furnish 3,000 cu. ft. of air each hour to each of 60 children and the outside temperature is io° above zero, a great deal of heat will be required. These children, relatively inactive physically and not warmly clothed, will not be able to contribute much heat to warm the air. This large volume of air will not be required if the principle of dilution is abandoned and the principle of direct removal is striven for. When a smaller volume of air is required per pupil, not only is there a saving in heating but there is also a diminution of the force with which the air is delivered in the room.

The heating should be by radiators. In a schoolroom the air as introduced should be heated enough not to feel cold as it strikes the pupils. The remaining requirements of heating should be supplied by coils. The air should be introduced under the seats through ducts having many openings. The exits should be at the ceiling. This, of course, applis only to those few months when the windows cannot be used for ventilation.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

REPORT UPON SWIMMING CENTERS CONDUCTED DURING FIVE SEASONS—1911-1915.

The Board of Public Education, Philadelphia, Pa.

Note:—The summer activities of the Board consist of School and Home Gardens, Playgrounds and Swimming centers. Each activity is in special care of one or more supervisors. The whole work is in charge of the Director of Physical Education. Separate report's of each activity are submitted to the Superintendent of Schools.

In the spring of the year 1911 the Board of Education authorized the establishment of six centers in which swimming was to be taught to the pupils in the elementary schools. It was further decided that pupils entering the fifth grade, i. e., those approximately eleven years old, were to be enrolled in the swimming classes. Six of the city’s public bath houses situated in different parts of the

Digitized by LjOOQle
22

city were selected for the swimming centers. The children registered in a nearby public school on the Saturday preceding the opening of the centers. The centers were open ten weeks, from the end of June until the beginning of September. During the very hot days the free public baths often are crowded to such an extent that it is impossible to give swimming lessons except at certain hours. It was therefore decided to give only sixteen hours of instruction for boys and the same number of hours for girls per week. As the experiment proved a success the number of centers was increased year by year until we had sixteen centers in operation last summer and the preceding season.

It if gratifying to be able to report that as a rule our swimming classes are filled to the limit. Teaching swimming is no easy task. It cannot be done in large classes. If it is attempted in a bath house crowded with noisy bathers, timid beginners can only be made into swimmers by painstaking effort. The accompanying reports show the result, also the enrollment by years. An interesting fact of the report are those figures which show an increasing attendance of pupils from the parochial schools.

TABLE NO. I. TOTAL REGISTRATION BY SEXES, ALSO BY PUBLIC AND PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS.

l8l PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Year		Boys	Girls	Total
1911 				 139	481	620
1912 				 422	612	1,034
1913				 I>S9I	1,029	2,620
1914				 1,634	1,516	3T50
1915				 T547	1,903	3,450
Total, five years					 3>333	5,54i	10,874
	53	PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS.		
Year		Boys	Girls	Total
1911 				 97	7i	168
1912 				 158	98	256
1913 				 117	278	395
1914 				 412	36	448
1915 				 234	406	640
Total,	five years			1,018	889	1,907
		Boys	Girls	T otal
Public Schools				-	 5,333	5,541	10,874
Parochial	Schools				 1,018	889	1,907
Grand	. totals				 6,351	6,430	12,781

Digitized by v^ooQle
23

TABLE NO. 2. RESULTS AND COSTS.

Total

Swimming season 			1911	1912	1913	1914	1915	5 yrs.
Number of centers		6	10	14	16	16	
Total expenses 		$968.45 $1,652.55		$2,739.33 $3,	275.15 $3,	,219.34	$11,854.82
Number of pupils enrolled		788	1,290	3,015	3,598	4,090	12,781
Number who learned to swim		684	1,174	2,061	2,119	2,016	8,054
Number of pupils who could swim continuously for 10 minutes		200	333	627	761	764	2,685
Cost per pupil, based upon the number who learned to swim...	$1.42	$1.41	$1.33	$1.54	$1.59	*$1.45
Cost per pupil, based upon the number enrolled 		$1.23	$1.28	$0.91	$0.91	$0.80	$0.93

* Average cost.

It would be wrong not to mention in this report that the results accomplished would have been impossible but for the conscientious and enthusiastic work done by the men and women teachers under the direction of the supervisor of swimming, Mr. Harry R. Allen. Thanks also are due to the superintendents of the bath houses, who, in practically all cases, were a great help to our teachers. After these men, and also, on women’s day, the matrons, once saw that we were working in the interest of the boys and girls of the city, they were our staunch supporters.

Swimming is an excellent form of physical training. I would respectfully urge the extension of this work, so that at the end of its school life every child in the city can swim.

Respectfully submitted,

(Signed) William A. Stecher,

Director Physical Education.

Digitized by LjOoq le
24

AESTHETIC FREE EXERCISES.

As used at the Pacific Kreis-Turnfest, San Francisco, Cal., July 25-26, 1915. Music:—“Impromptu” Opus 142 No. 3, by Franz Schubert. All exercises begin from the starting position as depicted in Fig. A. Gilbert terminology used in describing the movements.

GROUP I.

Exercise I.

1.	Place left foot in fourth position and raise arms to third position. Fig. 1.

		QPtfr jij _
		
		t
' • V 1 ' -		
. . . • 	— -		

/Fig. A.	Fig.	1.

2.	Move left foot to second position and move arms to third ampli-

fied position, Fig. 2.

3.	Move left foot to third position, bend trunk left, and move right

arm to fifth position (look at right hand) Fig. 3.

Fig. 2.	Fig.	3.

Digitized by CjOOQie
4-	Place left foot in fourth, straighten trunk, and move left arm to first position Fig. 4.

5.	Move left foot to third position, and move left arm to fifth position (look at hands) Fig. 5.

Fig. 4.	Fig.	6.

6.	Place right foot in second position and move arms to third amp:

position. Fig. 6.

7.	Turn palms upward.

8.	Replace foot—arms lowered to starting position.

9-16. Repeat right.

17-32. Repeat left and right.

Exercise II.

1. Place left foot in second and raise arms to third amplified.

2. Move left arm to third position and look over left foot. Fig. 7.

Fig. 6.	Fig.	7.

Digitized by L^ooQle
3-	Place left foot obliquely back-inward. Move left arm through first and third position to fifth position (look at hand). Fig. 8.

4.	Circle left arm inward to third amplified position, and move the right arm to fifth position, and circle the left foot to third position. Fig. 9.

Fig. 8.	Fig.	9.

5.	As 4, but opposite.

6.	As 5 but opposite.

7.	Place right foot in second and lower right arm as in Fig. 2.

8.	Replace right and lower arms.

9-16. Repeat right.

17-32. Repeat left and right.

Exercise III.

1.	Raise left leg to high fourth in rear—arms to intermediate—

right hand high. Fig. 10.

2.	li turn left on right foot; stride left sideward; arms raised to

fifth position. Fig. 11.

Fig. 10.

FIg. 11.

Digitized by

Google
3- Bend left knee, lower arms to third amplified position, palms up.

4.	Bend trunk forward, and move arms to low third position.

Fig. 12.

5.	Straighten trunk; change knee bending; move left arm to third

amplified position; right arm to fifth position. Fig. 13.

fir. 12.	Fig.	13.

6.	Straighten knee; place left foot in fourth and move left arm to

low third position. Fig. 14.

7.	Y turn right on ball of right foot and move arms through fifth

position to third amplified position.

8.	Replace left foot and lower arms.

9-16. Repeat right.

17-32. Repeat left and right.

Exercise IV.

1.	Raise arms to third position; turn trunk left; move the left arm through fifth to third amplified position. Right hand moves slowly to third amplified position (palms up). Fig. 15. (Look at left hand).
28

2.	Bend trunk left. Turn it right, move arms to third position,

moving right arm through fifth to third amplified position, moving left arm to high second position. Fig. 16.

3.	Turn trunk forward. Bend trunk left sideward, move arms to

right lateral position. Fig. 7.

4.	Place right foot in fourth, bend trunk forward, move right arm .

through fifth to position over foot, palm forward. Move left arm to third amplified position palms up. Fig. 17.

Fig. 16.	Fig.	17.

5.	Straighten trunk, raise left leg oblinuely back outward, arms

moving through third amplified position to fifth position. Fig. 18.

6.	Step left sideward, move arms to third amplified position.

7.	Stride right obliquely fore-inward (on toes), pirouette left, arms

to fifth position to third amplified position.

8.	Lower arms side downward.

9-16. Repeat right.

17-32. Repeat left and right.

Digitized by LjOOQle
29

' GROUP II.

Music:—“La Czarina,” by Louis Canne.

Exercise I.

i- 4. Three steps forward beginning left, and point right foot in fourth, raising arms sideward. Fig. 19.

Fig. 18.	Fig.	19.

5- 8. Three steps backward (lower arms) beginning right, point left in fourth and raise arms sideward.

9-10. Lunge left forward, raise left arm obliquely fore-upward, right arm opposite. Fig. 20.

11-12. Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward, and raise right arm to half circle over head, lowering the left arm sideward. Fig. 21.

Fig. 20.

Fig. 21.

Digitized by CjOOQie

,
13-14* Stride right sidew., and lower right arm sidew. Fig. 22.

15-16. Replace right foot and lower arms.

17-32. Repeat right. 1-32. Repeat left and right.

Exercise II.

1-4. Raise arms sideward and step left sideward, step right in rear, bending left knee, step left sideward, and point right foot in second position, moving right arm to third position as shown in Fig. 7. 5- 8. Repeat to the right.

9-10. Lunge left sideward, arms sideward. Fig. 23.

Fig. 22.	Fig.	23.

11-12. Raise arms upw. 13-14. Bend trunk to the left. Fig. 24. 15-16. Replace left foot and return to fundamental position.

17-32. Repeat to the right. 1-32. Repeat left and right. Exercise III.

1- 4. Raise arms to third position and raise left leg forward (low fourth position) cut left backward, moving arms to third amplified position, and hop 6 times on the left foot. Fig. 25.

Fig. 25.

Fig. 24.

Digitized by v^ooQle
5-	8. Swing the right leg forward and arms, and repeat right, movement 1-4.

9-10. Lay out left backward, arms bent upward. Fig. 26.

11-12. Change knee bending, bend trunk backward and stretch arms sideward, palms up. Fig. 27.

~ir

Fig. 26.	Fig.	27.

13-14. Change knee bending, straighten trunk and place hands in rear of head. Fig. 28.

15-16. Replace left foot and lower arms side downward.

17-32. Repeat to the right.

1-32. Repeat left and right.

Exercise IV.

1- 4. Raise arms to third amplified position, 3 glides obliquely left forward (closing on glides), rise on toes and raise arms to fifth position (high.)

5- 8. Repeat right.

9-10. Lunge obliquely left forward, lower trunk forward, and stretch arms upward. Fig. 29.

if

Fig. 29.

Digitized by

Google

Fig. 28.
32

II-I2. Change knee bending; straighten trunk, circle right arm i-i circle inward to fifth position, lower obliquely forward outward, look at left hand. Fig. 30.

13-14. Change knee bending, circle right arm Y\ circle inward to sideward position. Place left hand back of neck and look toward right arm. Fig. 31.

15-16. Replace left and lower arms.

17-32. Repeat to the right.

1-32. Repeat left and right.

Fig. 30.	Fig.	31.

COMBINATIONS ON THE PARALLEL BARS FOR THIRD GRADE TURNERS.

By PAUL KRIMMEL, Normal College, N. A. G. U.t Indianapolis, Ind.

Note:—In the following combinations, and. in fact, in all exercises on the apparatus, the utmost care should be taken to execute them with perfect form. The most common fault of 3rd grade Turners, is to become “careless.” Exercises on the apparatus are never “complete,’' unless they are “polished” and executed accurately. Common faults are: Drooping of the head; Bent knees; Feet apart; Careless approach and dismount.

Do not make the exercises or “moves” more difficult than they are in reality, but use up all the swings, instead of strength, wherever possible.

EXERCISES.

From a cross stand frontways with inner grip:

1.	Glide kipp at end of bars to straddle seat in front of hands;

grasp in front (straightening the hips) and raise to an upper arm stand. Roll forward with straight body to swing stem backward; immediately rear vault left or right, to stand.

2.	Same as No. 1, adding Ya and Y* turns inward or outward to

the rear vault.

Digitized by v^ooQle
33

3.	Same as No. I except: after swing stem backward, intermediate

swing to hand stand. Front vault left or right to stand.

4.	Same as No. 3 except: instead of vault, Ya turn in the hand

stand and squat vault to stand.

5.	Same as No. 4, but straddle.vault to stand.

6.	Glide kipp to balance support (Stuetz mit vorhebhalten der

Beine). Swing to hand stand; lower to upper arm stand; roll forward with straight body to upper arm hang; intermediate swing, and upper arm kipp to front vault left or right to stand.

7.	Same as No. 6, but add ^2 turn inward to the front vault (front

to rear vault; Wende-kehre).

8.	Same as No. 6, but complete forward roll, then intermediate

swing, etc.

9.	Same as No. 6, but complete front roll and kipp, leaving out

the intermediate swing which follows the roll in No. 6.

10.	Same as No. 6, but kipp to hand stand, Ya turn and squat or

straddle vault to stand.

11.	From cross stand frontways, jump to upper arm hang in centre

of bars. Kipp to outer cross seat in front of left or right hand; Ya turn inward to support lying frontways. Dismount over both bars, either front; flank; rear; squat; or straddle vaults.

12.	Same as No. 11 preceded by a backward roll.

(To be 'continued.) *

* Mr. Krimmel won first place in all around work (apparatus and field work) at the National Turnfest in 1913 at Denver. Col. This is the first of a series of articles alons this line.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Dust and Tuberculosis.—In an article on tuberculosis in Public Health Reports, Oct. 29, 1915, Dr. George M. Kober considers the influence of dust on the prevalence of disease, particularly tuberculosis. The tuberculosis rate among 472,000 males in the United States exposed in fifteen occupations to the inhalation of organic dust was 2.29 per thousand, against a rate of 1.55 for all occupied males; 42.05 per cent, of the deaths of printers, lithographers, and pressmen, who died at ages between 25 and 44, were from tuberculosis, as compared with 21.88 per cent, for farmers, planters and overseers.

In Berlin, as shown by Sommerfeld, the average tuberculosis death rate was 4.93 per thousand of the population. In nondusty trades it was 2.39, and in dusty trades 5.42.

Digitized by UooQle
34

In Vermont in towns where granite and marble cutting is carried on, in a population of 34,899 the tuberculosis rate was 2.2 per thousand, against a rate of 1.3 for the entire state.

Kober says it is estimated that industrial workers, constituting about one-third of the population, contribute about one-half of all the deaths from tuberculosis. By factory sanitation and effective methods for the prevention and removal of dust, fully one-half of these lives could be saved. That this is not speculative is indicated by the figures from Solingen, Germany, where the population is made up largely of employees in the cutlery industry. The mortality had been reduced from 20.63 per thousand in 1885 to 9.3 per thousand in 1910, and the tuberculosis rate from 5.4 in 1885 to 1.8 in 1910 per thousand population. In the German cement works also diseases of the respiratory organs have been reduced from 9.3 to 3.3 per cent, after the installation of dust-preventing apparatus.—journ. Am. Med. Assoc., Jan. 1, 1916.

Free Meals for Schoolchildren.—According to Commerce Reports, dinners are served to the Leeds, England, children of sixteen schools, the cost of which is defrayed, one-half from the city rates and one-half from the government grant by the board of education. For the four weeks beginning with November, 1914, there were 48,055 dinners served. In the corresponding period in 1915, the number declined to 8,889. Typical menus were as follows: Irish stew, brown and white bread, currant cake, pea soup; brown and white bread, parkin; crust pie, brown and white bread, currant cake, etc.

Selection Necessary for Race Betterment.—Abundant well balanced nourishment and thorough culture of plants or animals will always produce good results in holding any species or variety up to its best hereditary possibilities, beyond which it cannot carry them, and lacking which, maximum development can never be realized.

There is no doubt that the school is often an important factor in the spread of diphtheria. This is frequently due to the occurrence among the schoolchildren of carriers of diphtheria bacilli. Closing the schools is now generally regarded as a less effective means of combating the spread of infection than the detection-and isolation of the diphtheria carriers. In case of a diphtheria outbreak, the throat and nose of pupils, teachers and others in the school known to have been in contact with the infected children should be examined. The examination should consist in inspection for “sore throat,” and also in taking cultures from the nose and throat. Those with a “sore throat” should be at once isolated and not be permitted to attend school until proved by bacteriologic examination to be free from

Digitized by

Google
35

diphtheria bacilli. Proved carriers, with or without sore throat, should be isolated until two successive negative tests are obtained. In a number of instances, measures of this character have been more effective in checking diphtheria outbreaks in schools than a closing of the schools and resort to the ordinary methods of fumigation (Ward and Henderson: California State Jour. Med., August, 1897. Lind: Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 1913, iii, 976).

The Schick test has been found of great value in detecting susceptible persons in an epidemic of diphtheria. This consists in injecting superficially beneath the skin one-fifteenth dose of diphtheria toxin fatal for a guinea-pig. In a susceptible person a red spot develops at the site of injection in about forty-eight hours. If no reaction occurs, it is assumed that the person is immune to diphtheria. Under some conditions a prophylactic dose of 1:1,000 diphtheria antitoxin units should be given to exposed persons, although this is generally found more applicable in institutions than in public schools. It is not yet clear what are the best methods for freeing diphtheria carriers from virulent bacilli. Spraying with antiseptics has not always given satisfactory results. Special attention to the hygiene and cleansing of the mucous membranes of the throat and nose, accompanied by frequent washing with large volumes of physiologic salt solution, is likely to be of service. It may be emphasized, finally, that the most important single step to be taken in checking the spread of diphtheria in all schools and institutions is the detection and isolation of carriers. Arbitrary quarantine of those exposed and of convalescents, without bacteriologic examination, is not likely to be successful.—From an anszver to a query in the Journ. of the A. M. A.

A fezv probable developments in water purification in the United States can be forecast. It seems likely that the public demand for a clear, as well as a purified water will increase, and that sand filtration of the mechanical type will become more general. It is also probable that the increase in pollution of surface waters consequent on growing density of population will tend to overburden filter plants, and that if the raw water cannot be protected, chlorination will be generally resorted to as an adjunct to filtration. In the near future practically all surface waters not adequately purified by protected storage will be treated by some purifying process. Already approximately 80 per cent, of the population of cities of over 10,000 inhabitants and over 50 per cent, of the total population of the country are supplied with purified surface water, or from ground water sources of excellent sanitary quality. At the present rate of progress, water-borne disease in the cities and larger towns of this country will be relatively rare within ten years.—Conclusion of an article on (CThe purification of zvater supplies,” by Edztnn O. Jordan,

Digitized by U.ooQle
36

Ph. D., University of Chicago, published in The Journ. of the Am. Med. Assoc. Feb. 12, 1916.

Report of the Children's Bureau.—The third annual report oi the federal Children’s Bureau, just issued, emphasizes the need for developing standards for rural child welfare work, physical standards for children in industry and standards of laws for the protection of children. Three fifths of the 30,000,000 children in the United States, we are told, live outside of the cities. But we are also told that the percentage of illiteracy in rural communities according to the 1910 census is double that in the cities, and where rural child labor is extensively employed, the percentage of child illiteracy is increased. Juvenile delinquency laws in most states are ineffective because rural probation officers are lacking. With reference to infant mortality, the report says that two items of inquiry completed during the past year reveal an average infant death rate of 134 out of 1,000 infants in a-steel-making and a coal-mining town, as against a rate of 84 out of every thousand in a residential suburb. It is said that even a greater contrast is found between the most congested section and the choicest residential section in each of these communities. The report comments that “the more favorable the civic and family surroundings and the better general conditions of life, the more clearly are they reflected in a lessened infant mortality.” The bureau is pursuing its inquiry into the relations of babies’ deaths to wages and social conditions. As a constructive measure in the effort to improve infant mortality conditions, the bureau has prepared for distribution pamphlets on prenatal care and infant care which are sent on request to inquirers. The bureau’s work during the year comprises eight different phases of child welfare: causes of infant mortality, child hygiene, co-operation in a general test of birth registration, social care of mental defectives and of illegitimate children, principles of community provision for recreation, compilation of laws relating to children, analysis of the administration of child labor laws, and detailed studies of rural child welfare and the physical effects of child labor.—From the Journ. A. M. A.

Studies in Blood Pressure in Physically Trained Persons.—Dr.

G.	V. Dearborn has recently announced the results of some studies of blood pressure among gymnasium athletes in Hemenwav Gymnasium of Harvard University (Am. Phys. Educ. Rev., June, October, 1915). The subjects were thirty-nine in number, twenty-eight of whom were females ranging in a^e from n to 32 years, and eleven males, the youngest 21 and the oldest 60. The latter were well-trained athletes, all being students or instructors in the physical education department of the summer school of Harvard University.

Digitized by UiOOQie
37

The experiments were conducted during the warm weather of July, the majority of the measurements being made in the afternoon after a moderately strenuous day of mental and physical work. The experiments, it is believed, represent normal conditions in healthy, active men and women between the ages named. Blood pressures were taken with the Stanton wide-cuff instrument, under the usual conditions of blood pressure taking. Dearborn sets forth a thorough analysis of the findings in these experiments in both tabular and textual form. He summarizes his findings as follows: The posterior tibial blood pressure when the leg is horizontal is about 118 per cent, of the “sitting” brachial pressure; when the leg is in the usual standing position, about 133 per cent., and when the leg is held vertically upward, about 70 per cent., or frequently much less. These numbers seem to corroborate the supposition of_a pumping mechanism in the muscle masses of the thigh. Strenuous gymnastic feats are most often followed by raised brachial blood pressure, in 58 per cent, of the cases here reviewed, less often by lowered pressure, 39 per cent., while seldom is there no change or slight change. The reactions are so various and uncertain as to imply (especially as the results of overturning exercises) vasomotor reactions far too complex to be as yet explained. Forty-four trained males, with an average age of 32.7 years, had an average brachial pressure of 120.3 mm., while sixty-eight trained females, with an average age of 25.2, had 114.1 mm. One hundred forty-seven untrained young women, with an average age of 19.8 years, had an average pressure of 107.9 mm. In these two sets of numbers there is evidence that adequate physical training raises the blood pressure to a definite maximum of efficiency, which, however, is not high. It is possible, however, that age has a part in this difference. As a very rough rule (with almost as many exceptions as corroborations, perhaps) from the age of 10, each of the following twenty years is represented by 1 mm. rise of brachial pressure above 100.—Reprinted from The Journ. of the Am. Med. Assoc.

131G71.

Digitized by LjOOQle
38

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUQ, DeWItt Clinton High School Now York City.

HEADS OF 41 COLLEGES FOR ATHLETIC REFORM.

Presidents of the forty-one colleges in Pennsylvania or their personal representatives, who met at the University of Pennsylvania in the annual session of the College Presidents’ Association, denounced the migration of athletes from one college to another purely for the purposes of athletic gain. They sup-o-ested drastic reforms and appointed a committee to investigate and report their findings on the situation.

The keynote of the day’s discussion was to make study more important to the college man than play, and when he plays, make it more for recreation, the originally intended purpose, than for personal glorification at the expense of educational work.

Dr. Edwin E. Sparks, president of State College, opened the discussion with a criticism of the specialization of athletics which results in the multitude standing on the side lines, thus defeating the purpose of athletics for recreation.

Dr. William A. Granville, president of Pennsylvania College, Gettysburg, said that the catering to influential alumni and those who have no interest other than their own amusement, was the prime factor in the system which is demoralizing classroom work by putting a premium on the athlete through offering him scholarships and free tuition to go from one college to another to play on athletic teams, and encouraging bartering for the most promising youngsters from the preparatory schools.

The committee appointed to investigate was composed of Dr.

J.	W. A. Haas, Muhlenberg College; Dr. Edwin E. Sparks, State College; Dr. William A. Granville, Gettysburg; Dr. Isaac Sharpless, Haverford, and Dr. S. B. Lenhart, University of Pittsburgh.

At a conference they adopted a resolution suggesting that all colleges in the state adopt the anti-mi oration rule, requiring that athletes entering one college from another of equal rank be required to reside one year before participating in athletics, and second, that no scholarships should be granted to athletes as a reward for their athletic ability alone.

Provost Edgar F. Smith, of the University of, Pennsylvania, urged that students be given a greater hand in the management of athletics. They were declared to be as capable as alumni and graduate managers and Jess likely to sacrifice the best interests of the institution to the demands of alumni and the public who care only for amusement when attending athletic contests.

The struggle of the smaller colleges to keep up with their larger

Digitized by Google
39

rivals was said by President Haas, of Muhlenberg, to be responsible in no small degree for the practice of procuring the best athletes from the preparatory schools. To correct this evil a central arbitration board composed of disinterested persons, with power to settle disputes quietly and without publicity, was advocated.—Phila. Bulletin.

MINNESOTA HONOR SYSTEM IN SPORTS.

The University of Minnesota football team candidates of 1916 voluntarily went on record against any infraction of the rule of amateurism, and adopted the honor system for Minnesota football, thus taking the first step in what is expected to be a countrywide move to solve the Summer baseball problem.

The meeting was attended by coaches, alumni football stars, and candidates for this year's team. The students pledged themselves to refrain from committing “any act which is forbidden by the eligibility rules of the Western Conference/' and to maintain their amateur standing.

Representatives of the University of Chicago and Northwestern University expressed themselves as heartily in favor of the honor system adopted by the University of Minnesota for the enforcement of the amateur rule in football and other college sports, and urged that the plan be adopted by every member of the Big Nine.

NEW YORK COLLEGE AUTHORITIES ELAN TO CURTAIL POWER OF SPECIAL ATHLETIC DIRECTORS.

With the primary view of bringing about faculty control of athletics in all colleges in New York, if possible, the State Association of College Presidents, decided to appoint a committee to go into the entire subject of college athletics.

The present system of athletic direction by coaches who are not officers of the college is considered by many executives an abuse which should be so corrected that the coaches would be directly responsible to the faculty.

Under the present plan, it was the consensus of opinion that the “alumni subsidy” of athletics works toward giving inducements for athletic prowess rather than for scholarship. Another abuse criticised is the limitation of the benefits of college athletics to the few participants out of the large college body.

world's SKATING RECORD-----JOHN KARLSEN MAKES TWENTY-FIVE

MILE DISTANCE IN 1:30:15.

John Karlsen, 41 years old, of Minneapolis, established a world's record for twenty-five miles at the Northwestern amateur ice-skating carnival recently, covering the distance in 1:30:15.

The previous record of 1:31 .*29 was made by J. F. Donohue of

Digitized by UiOOQie
40

Stamford, Conn., Jan. 26, 1893. The tournament, which closed Feb. 6th, was sanctioned by the Western Skating Association and was held out of doors.

NOW THE SWEDES INVITE US TO PLAY THEM FOOTBALL.

The Swedish Football Association has invited the American Football Association to play a match in Sweden next summer. If this is impossible a Swedish football team will come to the United States, accompanied by an athletic team.

Ira Nelson Morris, the American minister to Sweden, in a statement in the Stockholm newspapers, expresses enthusiasm over the prospects of an athletic meeting between teams of Sweden and the United States.

GROWTH OF THE PLAYGROUND IDEA.

It is a cheerful sign of sociological progress that almost 4,000 supervised neighborhood playgrounds, an increase of 1,000 over the year before, were maintained last year in 432 American cities or towns, and that more than $4,000,000 was spent upon them, according to the annual report of the Playground and Recreation Association of America. Besides these activities, municipalities have done a great work in providing recreation centers for adults as well as children.

It is scarcely more than a decade since systematic public work along these lines began. Its development has been phenomenal. When physically and morally healthful play is afforded for youth the highest good of our future citizenship is promoted, and it is also no small contribution to the national welfare to have general provision of the same sort made up for children of a larger growth.—Evening Star.

New Haven, Conn., Feb. 3.—Just as had been forecasted right along, official announcement was made last night by a special committee from the Yale Athletic Association of the unanimous selection of T. A. D. Jones, as head coach of the Yale football team for the next three years.

Jones was graduated from the Sheffield Scientific School in 1908. He was Varsity quarterback for three years, and in his senior year was captain of the baseball team. For the last few years he has successfully coached the eleven of Phillips-Exeter Academy.

Michael Sweeney, now at the Hill School in Pennsylvania, was also chosen as general athletic adviser, to serve for 1916-1917. The committee did not make public any financial details of either appointment.

Digitized by UiOOQle
41

SKI JUMPING RECORD---RAGNAR OMTVEDT CLEARS DISTANCE OF I92.9

FEET ON SNOW.

All ski-jumping records were broken in the annual midwinter ski carnival at Steamboat Springs, Col., by Ragnar Omtvedt of Chicago, who cleared a distance of 192.9 feet. The former world's record was 177 feet, held by Amble Omundsen of the University Ski Club of Christiania, Norway. The previous American record of 169 feet was held by Omtvedt. The record, it is said, was made under prescribed tournament conditions and will stand.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

The next meeting of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Cincinnati, O., April 19, 20 and 21, the week preceding Easter. We hope to be able to print the program in our next issue. In the meantime our readers should make preparations to attend this convention. Cincinnati, with its university, high school, and elementary schools gymnasiums, its playgrounds, and recreation centers, should be a great attraction for all people interested in any phase of our work.

A SUMMARY OF THE STATISTICAL RESEARCHES OF THE IMPERIAL SEMINARY FOR TEACHERS AT SALZBURG,

A three years' investigation made upon 90c pupils gives the following results for Salzburg:

1.	The increase of weight is in inverse proportion to that of stature, inasmuch as great increase of weight takes place between the 8~9th and 10-nth years of age, the ones namely in which the increase of stature is less. Between the i6-i9th years considerable increase of weight is likewise observable only when growth in stature has almost ceased.

2.	The margin of thoracic elasticity increases between the 7-1 ith years. It amounts to 3 cm. at the 7th year and 9 cm. in the nth. The increase is not so great between the i6-i9th years. In the 16th year it amounts to 10 cm., in the 19th to 8.5 cm.

3.	The records of weight and stature of Quetelet, Camerer and myself agree in the result that the annual average increase in both respects is fairly constant in a given race and climate, but that the periods of growth differ according to race and climate.

4.	Statistics prove that change of air in the shape of touring, vacation colonies in the country, etc., (Jugendwanderung) produce increase of weight and chest-measurement, much greater than the average increase. They fortify the growing organism against all sources of injury and are of special service against the incidence of tuberculosis.

Digitized by U-ooQle
42

The National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis sends out the following:

TUBERCULOSIS TENSES

Past 1905—When the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis began active operations in the winter of 1905, the poorly equipped and relatively inefficient fighting force against tuberculosis consisted approximately of:

39 Anti-tuberculosis Associations and Committees.

115 Sanatoria, hospitals and day camps, having a capacity of only

9,000	beds.

20	Special tuberculosis clinics or dispensaries, treating less than 10,-000 patients a year, and with little or no home nursing supervision.

No open air schools, fresh air classes, or special provision for tuberculous children.

The death rate in the registration area was 166.7 Per 100,coo population from tuberculosis of the lungs.

All told, probably not more than 5,000 people were interested actively in the prevention of tuberculosis.

Not more than $5,000,000 approximately was spent in the United States for all forms of anti-tuberculosis work in 1905.

Present 1915—In 10 years, under the leadership of The National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, the fight against this disease has been organized in almost every state and in hundreds of cities, towns and villages. The present highly efficient and well standardized fighting force against tuberculosis consists approximately of:

1,500 Anti-tuberculosis associations and committees, including 50 state organizations.

600 Sanatoria, hospitals and day camps, with a combined bed capacity of over 35,000.

450 Tuberculosis dispensaries and clinics treating annually over 100,-oco cases, and with several thousand visiting nurses working in the homes.

800 Open Air schools, fresh air classes, and special institutions for tuberculous and anemic children.

The death rate in the registration area for 1913, the last available report, was 127.7 per 100,000 population from tuberculosis of the lungs.

All told, the army engaged in the active campaign against tuberculosis now numbers over 100,000 people, and at certain seasons of the year this is swelled to over 500,000.

Over $22,000,000 was spent in 1915 for anti-tuberculosis work in the United States.

Digitized by U-ooQle
43

Future 1925—The ideal which The National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis has set is the provision of adequate care for all consumptives either at home or in institutions. In an effort to reach this ideal, the association will strive by 1925 to increase the tuberculosis fighting force of the country to the following :

150,000	Hospitals and sanatorium beds for indigent consumptives in the early and advanced stages of the disease. Anti-tuberculosis Associations and committees in every state, city, town and village, with adequate support and programs to meet local needs.

Clinics in every city or county, so that anyone who suspects he has tuberculosis may be examined and treated free of charge, if he cannot afford medical care.

Visiting nurses in every urban and rural community of 5,000 or over in the United States.

Open air schools and fresh air classes in every city of 10,000 population or over.

Special campaigns for workingmen, physicians, school children and others.

Continuous education in every possible way of the 100,000,000 people of the United States, concerning the necessity for proper personal and community hygiene in the prevention of tuberculosis. Shifting of the burden of institutional and home care from the shoulders of private philanthropy to the public purse.

Steady reduction of the death rate through the application of preventive measures already in practice and others that may be devised.

Have you helped? Are you helping? Will you help?

Chicago, III.—In connection with the fresh-air surface cars being run on the elevated lines in Chicago, the company has devoted sixty cars for such use, five being operated on each of twelve lines. Varying opinions of the advantages of the innovation have brought forth the expression from President Leonard A. Busby, of the Chicago surface lines, speaking before the Institute of Electrical Engineers, that “the reformers and faddists don’t know what they want. One passenger wants heat regardless of ventilation and complains. Another wants fresh air regardless of anything else, and complains. And what are we, who get the complaints, going to do?”

WISCONSIN PHYSICAL EDUCATION SOCIETY.

The Wisconsin Physical Education Society brought a successful year to a close at its annual meeting in Milwaukee on November 5th, 1915, with about thirty-five people in attendance. After a short

Digitized by UiOOQle
44

talk by the president, Mr. George Wittich, a practical demonstration was given by grade school teachers under direction of Mr. Wittich. The work of the children was such as one does not often find in the grammar schools, and being preceded and followed by explanations, these demonstrations greatly pleased the members of the society. An excellent paper was read by Miss Lane (Oshkosh) Normal, which led to an interesting discussion led by Mr. Hoppe (Milwaukee). Mr. Hetherington then led an argument against formal gymnastics and in favor of the “all play” theory. Mr. Heinemann (La-Crosse Normal) opposed him and followed with a clear outline of the work being done in the State School of Physical Education in La Crosse.

It was evident from all proceedings that Wisconsin is on the border line of a physical educational awakening. Not many years ago Wisconsin was proud to claim the greatest number of societies belonging to the Turnerbund. Now she is proud to have this work not only in societies but it has been firmly incorporated into her school curriculum.

The W. P. E. S. will, in the next few years, be the nucleus for the growth of, and the propelling force for the state-wide advancement in systematized physical education.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Dr. Carl Sputh (La Crosse Normal) President; Mr. G. Heinemann (La-Crosse Normal) Sec’y-Treas.

SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,

LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

The annual gymnastic exhibition held Sat. evening, Feb. 5, was a marked success. An immense crowd witnessed the work which the School of Physical Education is doing. It is difficult to describe the program and do justice to each number. The program which followed selections by the orchestra was as follows:

1.	Exercises on Apparatus,........School	of Physical Education

2.	Folk Dances.................Women’s Country School Course

(a) Carousel; (b) English Harvester’s Dance; (c) Vineyard Dance.

3.	Free Exercises......................Women	of	Normal	School

4.	Fencing, Juniors and Seniors....School of Physical Education

5.	Games..............................  Women’s	College	Course

6.	Esthetic Dance, Juniors and Seniors...School of Physical Ed.

7.	Exercises on the Side Horse.............Men, Normal School

8.	Tactics and Grouping....Men of School of Physical Education

9.	Wand Drill..............................Men, College Course

10.	Reed and Dumbbell Drill........School	of Physical Education

Digitized by CjOOQie
45

Much credit is due Dr. Sputh, director, and his assistants, Mr. Heineman and Miss Thompson. After the exhibition the School of Physical Education were entertained by Dr. and Mrs. Sputh. A luncheon was served in the gymnasium, after which dancing came.

The school was favored last week by having as guest Mr. George Wittich of Milwaukee. He read an excellent paper on the “Needs of Physical Education.” He also gave two lessons in the Model School, showing that good work can be accomplished in the grade schools. Mr. Wittich was an inspiration to those students who met him personally and saw his work.

Dr. Winship of Boston visited us last week and lectured to the school at assembly hour. His clear line of thought and advanced ideas pf education greatly impressed those who heard him.

John Masefield, poet, appeared on the lecture course program Feb. 7. Mme. Julia Claussen, famous singer of Wagner, will appear Feb. 12 at the Normal auditorium.

The basketball team defeated Platteville Normal 60-20 on Jan. 22, and on Jan. 28-29 they defeated Rochester Y. M. C. A. 53-28 and the Minnesota Aggies 57-6.

Arthur Strum, Recorder.

NEWARK NOTES.

The celebration of the 250th anniversary of the founding of Newark, New Jersey, in May is the topic that will most absorb the interest of the citizens of this city for some time. Preparations have long since been made, committees appointed, and the various assignments in reference to parades, entertainments, pageants, etc., made.

The public schools will have no small part to play. Probably the biggest undertaking for the high, elementary, parochial and private school children will be the parade. The Committee of One Hundred has placed the responsibility for this feature upon the physical education department of the public schools. The organization will be aided by the physical directors of gymnasium schools, numerous principals and selected teachers. The parade will be composed of boys and girls who pass the posture test, who are either in the sixth, seventh, or eighth grades and who are over four feet eight inches in height. Fifteen thousand children are expected to march. All the features of the usual parade will be introduced with the usual fanfare of trumpets, floats, costumes, flags, ribbons, etc., but the novel and difficult task of marching evolutions and arm exercises will be added while on the march. The Physical Education depart-partment is proceeding with the work and by perseverence a parade will be held that will fittingly exhibit Newark's growing future citizens. Special exhibitions by the four high as well as the elementary schools of Newark will be given on the Waverly Athletic Field, which was planned just for this celebration and is now being completed.

Digitized by LjOOQle
46

Examinations will be held in June for the positions of physical director; three teachers will be needed at the opening of the fall term.

“English Folk-Chanteys” collected by Cecil J. Sharp; 75 pages, 8yi by 11 inches, paper cover. - Published by H. W. Gray Company, New York, sole agents for Novello and Company. Price $1.00.

In this volume Mr. Sharp has made available 60 sailor chanteys (chants, songs) that should appeal to many teachers, especially to teachers that are looking for characteristic music. The piano-forte accompaniment is very good.

“The Country Dance Book” by Cevil J. Sharp. Three parts; Part I, 64 pages; Part II, 125 pages; Part III, 107 pages; each 5 by yYi inches, paper covers. Published by Novello and Company, London; H. W. Gray Company, New York, sole agents. Price for each part $1.25.

In the introduction Mr. Sharp says: “Up till a few years ago it was commonly believed that the English race was the only one in Europe that was unable to make any contribution to the literature of folk-song.” Well, Mr. Sharp certainly has shown that this belief has no foundation, for these three books, following the issue of his book on Morris Dances, prove that there is a# wealth of material that simply needs the hands of a master to make it available. It is to be regretted that the music to these dances is issued in separate books, or sets. Each book as spoken of above has two sets of music at 75 cents each; book 1 having sets 1 and 2; book 2 having sets 3 and 4, while book 3 has sets 5 and 6. A number of the more popular tunes have been printed separately and may be bought at 10 cents each.

Nutritional Physiology, by Percy G. Stiles, Instructor in Physiology at Harvard University, formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology in Simmons College, Boston. Second edition; thoroughly revised; 5% by 8 inches; 288 pages, illustrated. Philadelphia and London: W. B. Saunders Company. Cloth, $1.25 net.

The Nervous System and its Conservation, by the same author and the same publishers; 229 pages, 5^ by 8 inches. Cloth, $1.25 net.

These two books by Dr. Stiles should be in the hands of every teacher, especially of every teacher of physical education. In the first book the physiology as well as the hygiene of nutrition is dealt with in the most thorough manner, while the second book has chap-

Special Teacher of Physical Education,

Ernest A. Seibert.

BOOK REVIEW.

Digitized by
47

ters on all parts of the nervous system, the elements of nerve physiology, the neuro-muscular mechanism, the autonomic nervous system, etc., as well as on subjects like emotion, sleep, dreams. Both books are warmly recommended.

Keeping Physically Fity by William J. Cromie; 146 pages, fully illustrated; 5 by yYz inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.00.

In this book Mr. Cromie, who is instructor in physical education in the University of Pennsylvania, has gathered many exercises that should be welcome to the man or woman who is looking for exercises that can be done at home. The chapter on exercises that very young children can do will be of interest to many. The numerous illustrations will help those not technically trained to perform the movements spoken of in a correct manner.

“Graded Apparatus Work for Men” by Emil Rath; 92 pages 4 by 6 inches, flexible cloth cover. Published by the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Irid. Price 50 cents.

This handy little booklet by Mr. Rath, the director of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., is a guide for apparatus work for older boys and young men who have had little or no previous training in work upon the stationary apparatus. It is just the book to be placed in the hands of leaders. Beginning with the nomenclature relating to the gymnast and to the apparatus, the different stands, seats, grips, etc., etc., are taken up in succession and explained in a manner that will give to the users of the booklet a clear insight into the groups of exercises arranged in graded lessons on the horizontal bar, side horse, long horse, parallel bars, buck and rings that make up the second half of the book.

“Theory and Practice of Physical Education ” by Emil Rath, Indianapolis, Ind. 156 pages, 6 by 9 inches, fully illustrated, stiff cloth cover. Published by the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind. Price $1.25.

This book is volume three of the set of four books that Mr. Rath is writing on the theory and practice of physical education. It treats of the apparatus, and the track and field work for girls and women. In the apparatus work the theory, technique and terminology of the exercises on the different pieces of gvmnastic apparatus are treated in a thorough manner, while the track and field work consists of detailed descriptions of events that are popular with the female sex. The illustrations are good. Every part of the book is clear and concise. Like the other books written by Mr. Rath, the present volume is one of the best contributions to the science of modern physical ed-

Digitized by
48

ucation. No teacher or student of physical training can afford to be without the book.

“A Survey of the Activities of Municipal Health Departments in the United Statesby Franz Schneider, Jr.; 22 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by the Department of Surveys and Exhibits of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York. Price 20 cents.

“That public health work in this conutry is still in its infancy” is the outstanding conclusion drawn from this study of municipal health department activities in each of the 227 cities of the United States haying a population of 25,000 or more. The average per capita expenditure for public health was 22 cents. The largest figure was that of Seattle, $.98; the smallest that of Clinton, Iowa, three-fourths of one cent. Others of the larger expenditures were Memphis, Tenn., $.93 ; Pittsburgh, Pa., $.61; Augusta, Ga., $.61; and New York City, $.58; among the smaller were Easton, Pa., $.02; Aurora, 111., and South Bend, Ind., $.03; Woonsocket, R. I., $.04; and Lewiston, Me., $.06. Such ridiculously small appropriations are by no means rare, and are to be found in almost any part of the country.

“Psychology, General and A belied,” by Hugo Muensterberg; 432 pages; cloth; 5 by 8 inches. Published by D. Appleton & Co., New York. $1.75 net.

The author presents theoretical psychology with its practical application to the various phases of life, such as education, industry, health, art and society. The style sacrifices clearness of expression to verbosity. The book, however, should prove attractive to those who are especially interested in this subject.

“Health and the Woman Movement ” by Clelia Duel Mosher, A. M., M. D.; 47 pages 4J2 by 6 inches, paper cover. Published by. The National Board Y. W. C. A., 600 Lexington Ave., N. Y. C.

A monograph dealing with the health and physical efficiency of woman, especially in relation to the normal physiologic function of menstruation. The author’s own views, largely following the animal law, is a sound medical exposition of the subject, which we can heartily recommend as expressed. Evolution is continually effecting the mental and physical characteristics of the species. It has been the potent factor in woman’s present conformation, it will be the potent factor in the future; yet it must be remembered that woman’s peculiar and intimate relation with the perpetuation of the species is distinctly different from that of man and this must have some subtle effect upon her character.

Digitized by LjOOQle