Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR, EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis,

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H- ARNOLD.

IN the preceding articles we have considered the commands as sentences and determined from a grammatical standpoint the different component parts of our sentence, namely the subject, predicated object, the limiting parts of the sentence, the adverb limiting the verb, the adjective limiting the subject or object. We have also determined the words to be used as subjects, as objects and as adverbs in free gymnastics. It remains now for us to select the verbs designating the activities of the body. We shall consider them in free gymnastics only, they being fundamental. The question as to the choice of terms in general arrises. Are we going to name the movements anatomically ? Before answering this question let us see what movements are possible anatomicalhr considered. According to Gray the movements permitted in joints are “gliding, angular •movements, rotation, and circumduction.” These movements are often more or less combined in the various joints and produce an infinite variety. This is the first obstacle to the use of anatomical terms. In order to name these combination movements by anatomical terms several words are needed to describe the movement.

Digitized by D ;le
-218-

This will make our nomenclature bulky. The anatomical terms for movements are few, to afccurately describe combined movements by them would produce the occurrence of the same term in movements which, from any but the anatomical point of view, seem totally different. This would cause no end of confusion. The anatomical terms are, gliding, flexion and extension (angular movements forward and backward) adduction and abduction (angular movements from side to side), circumduction and rotation, that is to say, seven terms in all to describe an infinite variety of movements with. That is an insufficient number. Another objection to their use is their derivation .from Latin. That makes them foreign to the understanding of the average adult of ordinary education, but absolutely unintelligible to the pupils in the lower grades of common schools. The use of anatomical terms wrould be further confusing to the lay mind because it would name with the same term movements which the popular idea would designate as opposite in form, while it would call by opposite terms what com* iponly would be believed to. befthe same form. It would finally apply its terms to movements which in common usage are not thought of as having any possible connection with that type of movement. For all these reasons the idea of using anatomical terms in gymnastic nomenclature must once and for all be dropped. We shall substitute common English terms, having mechanical significance and being as much as possible of Teutonic origin.

What are then the movements of the parts of the body?

In the first place we have “Raising.”

A part of the body is being raised if it is being lifted or brought up bodily in space, if it is being moved to a higher place.

The condition is that the part be lifted bodily, as a whole, without changing markedly the relation of its subdivisions, if there be any. What parts of the body may be raised ? Plainly those that are pendant in the usual upright position of the body. That is to say the arms and the legs.

RAISING THE ARMS.

The arms are raised forward, sideward (left and right) and backward. The latter movement is limited in degree. Not so the raising forward or sideward. These movements may be continued upward. We are here seemingly confronted by the necessity of limiting the movement by some word designating the degree. Seemingly only, for on closer inspection it will be seen that the words forward or sideward indicate the degree of the same movement at the same time that they designate the direction of the movement, its degree, direction.

It is apparent that only when the arm is so raised that it is at a right angle with the body, is every part and parcel of it as far forward as possibly can be. Any angle larger or smaller than a right one brings any given point on the arm closer to the body than it is possible to bring it. Taking the term forward then not as the positive nor comparative, but as the superlative it asks that each point on the arm be brought to the most forward position possible, which is, as above shown, the position at a right angle to the body. It follows

Digitized by LjOOQle
-219-

therefore that forward as well as sideward designate the degree as well as the direction making the addition of any other word, indicating degree, superfluous. If the arm be raised forward (i. e. to a right angle with the body) the body standing fairly vertically, it follows that the arm is horizontal, that it is shoulder high. If both arms be raised forward it follows from the foregoing reasoning that they must be equally high. If two lines emanate from two different points and run in the same direction they must be parallel. If the arms are raised forward they must necessarily be parallel. This shows how the term forward is practically all-comprising, how it makes unnecessary any addition to our command in order to get the mentioned detail in position. Similar reasoning will fix the arms at the command “sideward raise’9 at right angles, shoulder high and in a straight line.

Whether we raise the arms sideward or forward the movement may be continued upward. For the same reasons that determined the position of the arm when the term forward was used, we now find the term upward makes it mandatory that the arm be brought to a vertical position, in a straight line with the rest of the body, at two right angles with its own former position, if both arms are raised they must once more be vertical. The commands are (for example): “Arms fore-upward—raise!” or if the contraction of the two abverbs seem inadvisable, “Left arm sideward-upward—raise!”

WHAT IS AN EDUCATIONAL FAD?

By WILLIAM K. FOWLER. State Superintendent of Instruction, Nebraska.

A SCHOOL fad is a part or a line of school work with which one is not in full accord or sympathy, through ignorance of its purport or on account of an honest difference of opinion. It is a schoolroom innovation in the experimental stage. It is an advance breeze from the progressive educators of the Windy City. It is a perennial topic for a Chicago newspaper editorial. Fads vary in degree, in the elements of time, and locality. They are different things in different times at different places. They have their exits and their entrances. Time alone proves their value or their worthlessness, and that which is righteously dubbed a fad will fade as a fashion of the hour. A fad’s advocate is called a faddist. Faddists are of two kinds, zealots and advertisers. The former require protection, caution, sound council. The latter require exposure—long time! .F^ds are .of two kinds, ephemeral and eternal, and mortal man, be he editor or educator, cannot always classify. A fancy to-day may be a fad tomorrow, a foible the next day, and, in the hands of some unbalanced enthusiast, a fool thing thereafter.

We do not consider geography a fad, but the courtiers of Isabella of Spain said that subject was a fad with one Christopher Columbus. A half century ago the Spencerian system was hailed as a fad; it was opposed because it was said to destroy individuality and character in penmanship. To-day the vertical system is termed a fad and opposed for precisely the same reasons but the one had and the other has a mission to perform; each was a distinct step in advance; each received

Digitized by kjOOQle
-220-

or will receive modification, but each systeraized the work and called attention anew to the most important subject. Music is sometimes and in some places called a fad. But the fifteen minutes daily of instruction in vocal music in the schoolroom has a distinct temporary and permanent value; we may say it has a temporal and a spiritual value. Condemn sooner the two or three hours daily instrumental practice in the home.

In many central States the consolidation of small rural schools and the transportation of pupils by puplic conveyance may be considered and is sometimes termed a fad, but it is a fad that will grow in favor as its advantages are better understood by the public. Whatever tends to improve the rural schools and to keep the boys on the farm should receive universal appropriation, be it fad, fact, or fancy. In Nebraska at present the elements of agriculture, including a fair knowledge of the habits and structure of the common plants, birds, insects, and quadrupeds, is a fad, perhaps, but that great agricultural State will instruct its youth through in the causes and dependencies of its commonwealth.

Dr. Soldan says that in a certain school loud reading has been abandoned altogether and silent reading has taken its place. On the other hand, in certain schools oratory forms a part of the high school course. Of the two evils, or fads, give us the latter. Fifteen county superintendents in my own State, whose institutes I visited last month, were unanimous in the opinion that reading was more poorly taught in the rural schools than any other subject. Give us back the good, old-fashioned oral reading. “The Boy and His Burning Deck,” “Marco Bozzaris,” and Emmet’s “Vindication.” Send to the high schools pupils who can read readily, pleasantly, expressively; pupils who have mastered the mechanics of reading, even though they may not have read the great mass of English literature or all the myths of ancient Greece.

Drawing and elementary science are not fads, and they have a distinct economic value in industrial centers. Manual training in its various phases, domestic science, etc., may or may not be fads, according to local conditions. Extending the department store plan of the great universities and colleges down through the high schools into the grammar grades is, I fear, a dangerous fad.

We lack the time and the public lacks the patience to wait for results in uncertain experimentation in the grammar grades. Less than one hour in eight is passed by the child in the schoolroom when he attends regulary throughout the school year. The average attendance would not equal one hour in twelve. Perhaps there are fads in the home, on the street, in society, that influence the child for good or for ill. Society may train out youth for social function, pink teas, and midnight revels, while the school is endeavoring to train for better citizenship. Our schools for delinquents and defectives are now striving fo give each individual therein that equipment which will enable him to live an independent life in the world, and the public schools should do no less; they should do more; that which they do in the direction of developing and strengthening an earnest desire for better living, for honest labor, for higher citizenship, for independence, for self-reliance, is no fadism.

Digitized by

Google
-221-

“God, give us men! A time like this demands

Strong minds, great hearts, true faith, and ready hands;

Men who possess opinions and a will;

Men who have honor and who will not lie.”

Strenghten the will, develop purpose, build up character, these are not fads; the results will be a true measure of the success or failure of the public school system and its legal guardians.

(From 29th Annual Report. Public Schools, Moline, III., 1902.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Introduced under the direction of a special teacher in the fall of 1890, physical training has been taught in the public schools of Moline without interruption during the past twelve years. In mentioning its first introduction President Edwin B. Knox of the Board of Education made the following comments in the President’s Report for 1890:

“But foremost of all, the physical condition of the pupil should be looked after—for where is the profit of the pupil, if, after his intellectual achievenients, he is returned to his parents a physical wreck?

“Each and every teacher should have some conception of the rules of ventilation, hygiene and physical culture. The employment of a physical director was, in my opinion, a wise venture, and I sincerely hope that the office of physical director may hereafter be maintained as a special feature, with the best of talent its occupant. A feeble body is a poor stimulus to an active brain.”

This department is fortunate in still having at its head Mr. Adolf Oppenheimer, the efficient director who has had charge of the instruction in physical training from the first.

Medical science and practical experience unite in hearty approval of regular, systematic exercise for pupils throughout the years devoted to school attendance. During the years spent in the grade schools all pupils have the benefits of regular training in the most approved forms of physical exercise. It is unfortunate that the pressure of work in the high school prevents some students from continuing the systematic exercises in the physical training classes. No students need this training so much as those who are confined most closely to their studies, but so long as physical training is merely an elective in the high school these ambitious boys and girls are too often disposed to feel that they cannot afford to spend the time for systematic exercise.

In the “strenuous life” of many high schools and higher institutions of learning, now-a-davs, the over-exertion incident to the wild participation in competitive athletic sports—football in particular—is a menace to the health of students. If all athletic sports were under the absolute control of the special directors of physical training it is probable that most if not all the dangers would be eliminated. After spending eight or ten years in systematic efforts to build up the health and strength of their pupils, men competent to direct this work are very careful to avoid any training or games calculated to injure health or limbs.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-222-

THE GYMNASTIC TRAINING OF COLLEGE MEN-METH-ODS EMPLOYED IN THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS GYMNASIUM.

By F. HOMER CURTIS, B. S., Physical Director of the Gymnasium, University of Texas. ^ (From The Texas Medical News.)

IN acquainting the members of the medical profession with the work attempted in the State University gymnasium it will be well to state briefly the typical defects to be corrected in the students as we find them and the means to accomplish this end.

The two most noticeable defects are a lack of development, due to a state of general malnutrition and lack of exercise, and the prolapsed condition of the thorax, due to lack of training and muscular development. These two conditions are most frequently found together, each helping to increase the effect of the other, but we frequently find men with well nourished and well developed bodies, but whose chests are flat and whose carriage and poise of body is without dignity, power or character.

The general poor physical condition found is due to a number of causes, among which are excessive mental work at a period when the body is growing most rapidly ; a corresponding lack of exercise during this period, when the rapid growth of all the tissues calls for the extra blood supply regularly brought to the .muscles by exercise; bad habits of eating, and of breathing; bad postures; lack of sleep and overwork.

The working brain requires a greater blood supply than when at rest, and in return the greater supply increases its development. But the repeated and prolonged periods of studies diminish the blood supply to other growing tissues, where a full supply is needed for their development quite as much as at the brain. The prolonged study also produces a congested condition of the cerebro-spinal system, which frequently causes a feeling of lassitude and physical fatigue, which makes the student less inclined to physical exertion than before, although the muscles have not been used enough to be tired. This lack of exercise reacts on the body through poor appetite, poor digestion and assimilation, and therefore poorly developed tissues.

The bad postures that are the results of this poor nutrition and lack of training are typified by the so-called “student stoop”. This posture is by no means confined to the students, but frequently found among clerks, book-keepers, draughtsmen and others whose work keeps them confined behind counter, desk or drawing table. Among students, however, the condition is more noticeable on account of the large number of cases found, but the causes are the same in both instances. The causes are, fundamentally, a bad posture while reading or studying which goes uncorrected until it becomes habitual. This in turn owing to its restriction of the respiration and interference with the circulation, affects the nutrition of the entire body and therefore of the very muscles whose weakness and lack of development allow the bad posture to become habitual. The student almost invariably leans over the desk

Digitized by e^ooQle
—223—

or study table with the back bent, the chest depressed and the neck craned forward. Or else he slides down in his seat until his pelvis is horizontal, his back bent like a bow, the normal lumbar anteroposterior curve obliterated, and he is sitting on his spine instead on the tuberosities of the ischium.

The organs of the thorax and abdomen in accommodating them-■selves to these bad postures are retarded both in development and in function. The sunken condition of the chest prohibits deep respiration and induces the bad habit of shallow breathing. This habit not only retards the development of the lungs, but during all the period of mental labor the blood is receiving much less than the normal amount of oxygen and far less than should be supplied to a working organ, in this case the brain. In the abdomen, too, the organs instead of being properly supported are crushed and crowded downward, interfering with their own circulation and that' of the intestines. This congested condition of the intestines and the portal circulation, together with the enfeabled peristaltic action due to continued pressure and flaccid abdominal walls, rapidly grows on the patient until it becomes so habitual as to be scarcely noticed. I have repeatedly discovered on -questioning students that many did not consider themselves constipated if there was a movement of the bowels every other day or four or five times a week.

In their sluggish action of the intestines and liver and in the constant absorption by the blood of the fecal matter and gases from the intestines (the blood being so heavily laden with it that frequently I can smell it on their breath several feet away) we have a ready explanation of the impoverished condition of the blood and one of the most potent and fundamental reasons for the malnutrition. But in an .article written for physicians I do not need to dwell upon the poisonous effects of constipation nor upon what state of health the muscles and organs must be in which are nourished by such a polluted blood stream. You meet the conditions too frequently.

The above mentioned faulty postures, lack of exercise, and the abnormal position and condition of the internal organs, form the background for the conditions which I find in so large a number of cases and'which generally have their local expression in stomach and liver troubles, weak heart and lung's, and anemia.

Since we meet with comparatively few actual pathological cases (and these are referred to the Medical Director) our most important work is body-building. In this work we try to bring the student up to bis normal healthy condition and then improve his development. This work is necessarily carried out in large classes, for nearly three hundred and sixty men attend the gymnasium at least twice a week. These classes are given a vigorous series of movements, some having a decidedly local effect, promoting nutrition in the. several parts affected by them, and some are given more for the general improvement of the whole system. Among the latter are found exercises for strengthening the heart and blood vessels by rapidly increasing the circulation; developing the lungs by improving the respiration; and improving the eliminating power of the skin by producing an abundant sweat.

Digitized by Google
-224-

As most of the students come to the gymnasium directly from the class room, the exercises are so arranged that each of the large groups of muscles in the legs are thoroughly warmed up and exercised first, thus drawing large quantities of blood to them and relieving the cerebro-spinal congestion due the continual mental work. Then follow in order, series of deep breathing exercises; exercises of the head and neck, tending both to the development of the neck itself and the correction of its carriage and the poise of the chest. Exercises for straightening the antero-posterior cervical curve of the spine, which had become exaggerated during the study period, come next, and are followed by others for deepening and widening the chest and securing greater mobility of the ribs, expanding the lungs and increasing the thoracic aspiration. Then come groups of exercises for strenghtening the waist, back, sides and front* to give a firmer support to the abdominal viscera, increase peristalsis and the absorption of the intestines, increase the secretion of the glands, relieve the portal congestion and wake up things generally in that region. These exercises are followed by more vigorous groups designed to affect the body as a. whole without special reference to their local action. This group includes running, jumping, tumbling and different forms of wrestling. It is followed by a series of breathing exercises which tend to reduce the heart and respiratory states] to the normal and have a calming and restful effect. Each movement in the program is carefully selected and predetermined with regard to its direction, extent and duration, so that the work as a whole will be harmonious and produce the desired effect. At the conclusion of this program, which lasts about fifty minutes, each member of the class has had a good sweat, has had each part of the body exercised, and, while somewhat tired, yet does not have that fagged out feeling that comes from overwork, whether physical or mental. He is now ready to repair to the bath room, where eight large shower bath stalls, equipped with hot and cold water, await him. By the time he reaches the bath room the average student is feeling so good that he cannot restrain the primitive impulse to yell and whoop. And if this feeling of elation is any indication of the benefit derived from the work no one who has stood in the bath room door for a few moments will have any doubts on the subject thereafter.

The above is a brief description of the regular body-building class work that is required twice a week of all who -use the gymnasium. But in addition to each man, during his physical examination by the Director, has been given a series of exercises especially designed ta develop his weak points and correct his bad postures. The special exercises he is directed to take each night and morning aud before the class work on his regular gymnasium days. In addition he is given advice regarding his diet, sleep and work, and the Director tries to keep track of his personal improvement as far as he can with so large a body of men.

It will be noticed that in the above description of the work no mention has been made of the educational side of gymnastics. This very important branch is especially important to our students as they come to us without any previous physical training in the high schools.

Digitized by tjOOQLe
—225—

And yet it cannot be successfully taken up on account of the confusion due to ouc cramped and crowded quarters. The overcrowded condition of the ,gymnasium also prevents taking up advanced *work on the apparatus with the more experienced men, the time of the Director and his assistant being almost entirely taken up in teaching the elementary work of the freshmen year. To attempt to handle over six hundred men each week in our little room naturally limits the nature of the work to the most elementary body-building and corrective exercises. But we hope it will not be long before the legislature will see the serious disadvantages under which we labor, and, recognizing the importance of the work, will give us an appropriation for a new gymnasium in which we can expand and develop those iinporcant phases of the work that we are now perforce obliged to omit.

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

. _____________________________

ENGLISH CHAMPIONSHIP PERFORMANCES.

ON Saturday, July 5, 1902, the Amateur Athletic Association held its meet on the Stamford Bridge track. This competition can in no way be compared to our German gymnastic festivals although this is not only the most important sport meet of England, but of the world at large. America has been sending delegates for a number of years, and this year Hungary had several competitors in the field.

The exercises in themselves, the previous training for several months, in fact, everything differs ver}' markedly- from our plain popular contests. With us hundreds of men compete, here many events were contested by only six, five, or even two men. It is true that the performances of the few surpass those of our masses, but for practical intrinsic utility and for the benefit of the masses of the people the question certainly is: “What is of greater value to our people, a dozen record-breakers after the English type, or our masses of victors at our festivals?”

But our festivals are not to be popular as some of our learned judges of German gymnastics claim. Only four thousand spectators had gathered in the metropolis of London to watch these performances. This is a ridiculous small figure compared with the enormous masses that viewed the gymastic festivals at Hamburg and Munich. Yet there are some people persistingly pointing out to us the advantage of English sport over our simple evening’s work in a Turnverein.

THE MARATHON RACE FROM CONFLANS TO PARIS (40 km) took place July 6, with one-hundred twenty-nine participants. The Englishman, Lew Hurst, who had won the race three different times was defeated this time by a Frenchman named Charbonnel. The time absorbed was two hours, fifty-two minutes and five seconds, while in the year 1900 Hurst won in two hours, twenty-six minutes, forty-seven and two-fifths seconds.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-226-

ITALIAN CONGRESS FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Due to the efforts of the Federazione Gimnastica Italiana, this conference was effected on June 3, in Milan.

More than one-hundred persons attended these conferences and many noted men and women were present. The minister of public instruction, Nasi, opened the meeting in a very fitting manner. Many valuable papers viewing the different phases of physical training were read and dismissed, and finally the following resolutions adopted:

Social and national interests make it necessary that physical education be made obligatory in all schools. The teachers must be given a place as is worthy of an intellectual nation. Every undertaking advantageous to bodily training must be favored by the State.

1.	In our school regulations a paragraph is to be inserted to compel pupils to attend classes of physical training regularly. School directors must give physical training sufficient consideration in making up the school curriculum.

2.	Exemption from these exercises can only be granted upon thorough examination by a military physician, who acts entirely under the instruction of the state.

3.	The instructors are to be so compensated as to enable them to live as their work makes it necessary, and be ranked with teachers of other subjects.

Private organizations promoting physical training are to be encouraged and assisted by the state. In all schools physical training must be taught.

Another resolution embodies the following demands:

1.	Municipalities are obliged to grant private organizations the use of public gymnasia free of charge.

2.	The lowest railroad fares are to be charged for gymnastic festivals (contests).

3.	For festivals the military tents are given free of charge for the use of contestants while camping over night.

NUERNBERG TURNFEST.

Prince-Regent Luitpold of Bavaria has accepted the protectorate of the 19th German Gymnastic Festival, to be held 1603.

REMARKABLE STRENGTH FEAT.

H. Grabau, a member of a Bremen Turnverein, raised a 25 kg weight 80 times in succession with one arm.

% _____________________________

A NEW PUBLICATION.

* “Psico-Civeria ovvero L’arte di formare il carattere” (training of mind and will or the art of character building). Dr. Emilio Bauman, the director of the Teachers’ Institute in Rome is the author of this work. It is published for the purpose of impressing his nation with the importance of bodily training. In the preface of the book the author

Digitized by ^ooQle
-227-

empbasises the necessity for energetic and prompt steps to counteract the ever increasing weakness of nerves, known as neurasthenia; and he claims that in gymnastics the best remedy can be found.

From a correct application he expects the following results: a) Physically: Harmonious bodily development, strength, resistibility, constancy, speed and certainty of movement, sense of balance, ease, beauty of movements, skill and endurance of pain and exertion, b) Mentally:	Readiness	and	surety of decision, persevering and manifold

attention, c) Morally: Joyfulness, propriety, rest, power of action, perseverance, courage and presence of mind.

In five chapters the author treats of the means necessary to reach this goal.

THE FIRST EXHIBITION FOR PROMOTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE

was held in Insterburg and contained the following groups: 1) The combat against tuberculosis; 2) Home hygiene; 3) Bathing, (public baths) artificial baths. 4) Dietetic hygiene, sick diet, diet for the public, children and infants; 5) Hygiene of dress, dress reform for women; 6) Trade hygiene; 7) Street hygiene; 8) Military sanitation; 9) Red Cross; 10) Care of the sick; 11) Sport; 12) Children's games; 13) Movement games, etc.; 14) Stable and animal hygiene.

INFLUENCE OF PHYSICAL EXERCISE UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE

GROWING YOUTH.

Dr. R. Godin made some interesting observations upon 100 children of ages varying from 14V& to 18 years. The measurements were taken every six months. One half of this number (a) was obliged to exercise upon apparatus, preferable the parallel bars, while the other half (b) was not to indulge in this sort of exercise. The result of1 the apparatus work was especially marked in chest circumference. The difierence between the two,groups was from 8 to 10 centimeter at the end of four years which ended the school life. The general differences were as follows:

Group b.’

Girth of chest................... 3	cm

Girth of upper-arm.. ............ 4	cm

Girth of forearm................. 3	cm

Girth of calf.................... 5	cm

Group a. 5 cm

5	cm

6	cm 6 cm

Simultaneous with this development was the increase of weight. While the weight of those not doing the heavy or apparatus work increased about 14kg, the weight of the others increased 20 to 25 and even 27 and 29 kg. To a slight degree the growth in height was also influenced by the apparatus work.

—That was a very queer ruling made by James Sullivan, secretary of the American Athletic Union, in regard to the status of Alvin Kraenzlein and I. K. Baxter, the two ex-University of Pennsylvania athletes who received $250 a piece for taking part in games in Ireland. When the facts leaked out, the Irish A. A. A. declared that the paid athletes could no longer take part in amateur games. Secretary Sullivan, however, says that the suspension will not be recognized in this country, as the A. A. U. has no alliance with the Irish A. A. A.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
X X rurrv w	.	LJ	Published	Monthly.

Misp ftND B0DY' * FREIDBNKER PUBLISHING CO

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to Ft PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

HE training of saleswomen, with a model department store en ,

miniature fitted up for this course, is to be a great part of the Manhattan public school system and thus to form one of the features of the New York new girl’s trade schools.—

If there is one vocation for woman that proves detrimental to her health it is that of working in the department store.—Confined to an assigned place behind the counter during the greater part of the day in an atmosphere filled with foul odors and exhalations and always ♦ poorly lighted, continously under nervous strain from the exactions of the up-to-date shopping woman, the clerk very rarely finds leisure to even hurriedly eat her cold lunch.

No wonder that these girls all look pale and frail and are unfit to carry out the requirements of a normal housewife, should they get married.

Although receiving but small pay they are expected to appear well-dressed, both while at their place of business and on the street.

Their physical and moral standards are too often at par after several years in an establishment of this kind.

Yet school authorities consider it meritorious to pay special attention to this form of employment and to clandestinely encourage it.

Would it not be the far better policy to consider more the physical development of the young girls so as to make them stronger, healthier and more resistant to the evil influences of such a life than to induce them to abuse their best years, by establishing trades schools?

In these large establishments one person is only a small wheel in the machinery, a part that is day by day newly recruited and so easily trained for the monotonous, nerve-killing work. We can tolerate a cooking department in our public schools although we consider it at best a waste of time:	we can sympathise with the advocates of

manual training, if it is not allowed to take wholly the place of physical training as is sometimes done, but we must class all such efforts toward educational improvements, as the above named attempt on the part of the New York school authorities, as ill-advised and destructive to the proper uses of the public school system.

—Field Hockey is a game that is rapidly growing in popularity. In England it is almost as popular as association football, and at the American colleges for women the sport has caught on immensely, and is quite generally played throughout the United States.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Mll-w aruJcM, •Wlacovualyx.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

A NEW FAD!

Digitized by

Google
-229-

REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

To the School Committee of the City of Providence, R. I.

ALTHOUGH physical training as a part of the public school course is supposed to be of very recent date and often referred to as an addition to the modern curriculum, yet thirty-nine years ago, in the school report of Providence for the year 1861, there is found mention that “A decided step forward in our school economy was made during the past year in provision for physical exercises in the High School. A building was errected upon its premises and appropriate gymnastic exercises freely indulged in by the pupils fostered by teachers and the committee.” This movement is parallel with the gymnastic revival of 1860 throughout America, dating from the meeting of the American Institute of Instruction at Boston in that year, at which meeting Dr. Rio Lewis made his great plea for “calisthenics and gymnastics a part of school teaching.” This report of progress in 1861 in the Providence schools concluded with the words: “More attention than usual has been paid in all our schools to this indispensable branch of culture and we augur favorably for the increased mental development of the pupils from this bodily training.” In the school statement of 1865 a special report was made upon the subject of school hygiene and the prophecy made, “That the mind of the child might become emasculated by too much teaching, while his energies may not be properly developed in consequence of overmuch study and confinement during school hours.” In February of 1866, the superintendent, Dr. Daniel Leach, said: “Now, while our schools have attained to a high degree of excellence in our intellectual department, there is a great defect in our physical culture.,’ An inquiry is made in this report as to the causes and their relation to the school system and conditions. In 1868 the special committee, Messrs. H. H. Burrington and M. B. Scribner, appointed to make the annual report of the School Committee to the Common Council stated, “The great and pressing want in our public schools is a teacher of elocution and physical culture. More attention,” these gentlemen thought, “should be given to physical training in our schools, and if a portion of each session were devoted to these exercises the welfare of the pupils would be greatly promoted.” From subsequent records in the school annals it is evident that many teachers practiced daily some form of gymnastic exercise. In school reports that follow, notably in 1870, the question arises, “Is not mental culture receiving too exclusive attention to the neglect of the physical?” In November 1869, Dr. Leach recommended the appointment of a committee, who may ascertain all the facts that have an important bearing upon the health of our schools. This special committee was made up of Dr. Edwin M. Stone, Dr. C. W. Fayban, and William A. Mowry. In an exhaustive report, in which much attention was given to school deseases, ventilation, and optical defects of school children, the summary was made in the forcible demand, “Let physical exercise be made a part of the daily routine of the school. Light gymnastics may be practiced twice each da}r with great advantage. This exercise should not be spasmodic as has sometimes been the case, but regular through each successive term during the entire school years.”

Digitized by CaOOQle
—230—

From this report, however, no special results in the way of the appointment of a director resulted, and in 1872 attention was again drawn to the urgent need of systematic daily physical exercise. In the report for 1875 a section was devoted to physical development. In this it was noted that, in addition to the recess, five minutes each session should be devoted to light gymnastics, and that these should be as carefully and persistently supervised by the teachers as the lessons in grammar, geography, arithmetic, or history.

The era of building college gymnasia, resumed after the close of the Civil War,’led to the general belief in and knowledge of their value, and in 1874 at the dedication of the Point Street Grammar School we find Dr. Greer wishing that a gymnasium should be connected with each schooihouse. Various school reports made of the Providence schools between 1876 and 1880, noted improvements in ventilation and school hygiene. In reports that followed from Dr. Horace S. Tarbell the same careful attention was given to this necessary part of school life, and the report of the sub-committee from the Committee on Qualifications in 1891, in a discussion upon the greater need of normal training for those intending to teach, is the statement that the subjects of “School Hygiene, Ventilation, School Gymnastics, and kindred topics are of the greatest importance to everyone who expects to teach, and are better pursued before, rather than after, assuming the responsibility.”

Definite steps were not taken to employ a specially trained instructor until the end of April, 1892. A preliminary course in physical training was introduced as an experiment in the girls’ department of the High School, with very satisfactory results. The system demonstrated that it would be atvantageous to make it a permanent part of the High School course in the girls’ department. The committee investigating the work recommended that authority be given to employ a supervising teacher.

About this period from 1890 to 1892 there was a general awakening throughout educational circles with regard to the value of physical education and its place in the public schools. Boston and vicinity had become the most influential center in the United States for a movement to promote Swedish educational gymnastics, and their adoption in Boston by the school board in 1890 led to other cities like Providence, with excellent school systems, inquiring into the success of the experiment.

At a meeting of the school board, January 29, 1892, Gen. Hunter C. White presented the following lesolution: “That a committee of five, consisting of the President and four others be appointed to consider the question of introducing a system of physical training into the public schools of this city, such as is taught in other cities, and the expense to be incurred in securing a competent teacher and the necessary apparatus for the same, and report as soon as possible the result of their investigations.” The President, Mr. Walter H. Barney, appointed General Elisha Dyer and Drs. White, Blaisdell, and Hill.

General Dyer, in June of the same year, presented the report of this committee on physical training. This briefly stated that the introduction of some form of gymnastic or calisthenic exercises was adocated for the

Digitized by Tooele
-231-

Providence schools, both upon hygienic and educational grounds. That it would counteract the evil effects of confinement in a sitting posture, not infrequently awkward and constrained. That in expanding the lungs and rendering equable the circulation of the blood, symmetry would be given to the body, and grace and poise in bearing. That gymnastics in the schoolroom can be made effectively educational in giving the will control over the body and teaching the value of order, uniformity, and obedience. The committe believed that the work must start with the training of the teachers, and one person suitably qualified would suffice to begin the work of training the teachers.

This report being adopted by the School Committee, the Common Council was petitioned to grant authority to appoint a supervisor of physical training. By an ordinance approved and passed by the Common Council, December 30, 1892, the School Committee was authorized to appoint such supervisor as it deemed qualified, and at a meeting held January 30, 1893, the undersigned was appointed to the position named.

For the remaining months of the school year the work taught was given only to the teachers in the primary grades, and lessons illustrated daily by the instructor in the primary schools. Beginning with September of 1893, the training of the grammar teachers was undertaken, and instructions given to the grammar pupils with the general oversight of the primary work. In June of 1894, Miss Marion L. Earle, a primary teacher from the Warren Street School, and a pupil of the Anderson plan of school gymnastics, was appointed assitant, the work having proved more than one instructor could oversee. In November 1894, the subject of physical training in the Providence schools was given to a special committee termed that on “Hygiene.” This committee as at present was made up mainly of physicians. The growth of the number of schools and the weekly training of the pupil teachers necessitated the appointment of a second assistant. In June of 1897, Miss Flora A. Fraser of the Sargent School of Physical Training, was elected to the position. During the same time the work for boys in the English High School was under the care of Mr. John Howland, for girls directed by Miss Sybil Avery. In the Classical High School Miss Charlotte Morrill had charge, and in the East Side High School Miss Florence H. Slack.

in June of 1899 the services of Misses Earle and Fraser were dispensed with, the charge of the work being left in the care of a director of ph3'sical training, instead of, as formerly, one chief supervisor and two assistants.

From the start in 1893 the work has been carried along educational and hygienic lines. Swedish forms of gymnastic exercises were found in many of the schools when the present system was introduced. These were retained for a time, but gradually a composite plan of work was adopted, more nearly approaching the scope of physical training and school hygiene as carried on in the schools of Germany. Reference to the work is made by Dr. E. M. Hartwell in his last report on physical training to the United States Bureau of Education, where he classes it

Digitized by tjOOQle
-232-

wit h the teaching in Brooklyn, New York, and Washington, D. C. Inspection of the work has been made by physical directors from all over the United States and Canada, and the director has had the honor of an invitation to explain the plan at the meeting of the National Educational Association and at a meeting of the New England branch of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education held at Clark University,

The director oversees the seating of each child twice a year after promotion, directing the teachers where and how to place pupils so that each shall be correctly seated according to size, height, and range of vision and hearing. Since 1893 adjustable seats have been placed in every Providence schoolroom. Specially constructed seats are arranged for crippled children of which there are many in our schools. Each child is examined for physical defects, particularly for spinal curvature. Corrective work has been given where needed and some 400 boys needing special exercises for minor defects of physique, have during the past six years been placed in the junior classes of the Y. M. C. Association by the advice of the teachers of physical training. The director is much indebted to Mr. 0. L. Hebbert of the Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. Until recently the city has not had as good a gymnasium for girls as that recommended to boys in the schools, but parents have been seen and advised where similar defects of body existed in girls in onr shools.

The director has sent to the various hospitals and to orthopaedic surgeons cases demanding urgent care, and often unknown to parents that such causes existed affecting health and proper growth, A. general and large oversight is made of the eyes of the children in the primary and grammar schools. Great assitance and generous aid has been rendered in the free clinics of the Rhode* Island and St. Joseph’s Hospitals, and particular care given to the school children sent to the Roger Williams Eye and Ear Infirmary. Over 500 cases from the schools of defective sight, many of an extreme nature, have been treated at the latter place. A close oversight has been kept at all times of the ventilation and such matters as affect the bodily health and progress of the children. Great assistance has been rendered by Drs. Chapin and King, and by the City Inspector of Plumbing, Mr. Reuben Bemis. With the elimination of the Smead system the schools may be said to be as nearly perfect as can be.

The appreciation by the teachers of the value of the exercises, and the faithfulness with which they daily practice them, has resulted in a better appearance of the whole school population. Pupils stand and walk better, vigilant attention is given to poise and grace of attitude. Diligent and intelligent effort is made towards overcoming any physical deficiency, and the child who enters our schools from any com-muity, not having physical exercise daily in its schools, is noticeable at once from his lack of gymnastic training. If any measure of success has been attained credit should be given the corps of teachers who have been active and intelligent aids to all that will help the physical improvement of the pupils under their care.

That the work of directing the physical exercises of the large body of children in the Providence schools, cannot be said to be as well done

Digitized by Google
-233-

by one person as when formerly three had charge will readily be seen. It is hoped the future will see a restoration of the assistant teachers of the subject.

Respectfully submitted,

Ellen Le Garde,

September, 1900.	Director	of	Physical	Training.

PHYSICAL TRAINING. *

From Superintendent Public Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

I take great pleasure in referring to much of the physical culture and gymnastic work in the High Schools as of a high order. The course is arranged for both girls and boys, and for all classes, including general gymnastic exercise, occasional out-of-door practice, to which is added some team work with the boys in field sports, and indoor games for the girls. The general effect of health and vigor and studious interest is obvious. The justification of such courses must be found in the comfort and fertility of health conditions and in the endurance of long-continued and taxing labor rather than in mere feats of strength under temporary stress or athletic achievement. The exercises should be such, primarily, as to make restful sleep surer, digestion better, reduce the number of headaches from nervous strain, and lessen the tension of the adolescent years.

The gymnasium equipment has been generally well chosen for these purposes. Each school has its own collection af apparatus and a fairly commodious floor space. The machinery is not elaborate nor expensive, but well suited to use by pupils of high school age. It was planned for classes of fifty pupils each, and for class work rather than individual or squad work.

The gymnasiums at Hughes and Woodward are very inaquately heated and should receive early attention, either by increasing the heating capacity of the furnaces, or, which is perhaps quite as good, by the errection of a ceiling in each room, thus reducing the space to be warmed. The practice room at Walnut Hills is on the third floor, and is the scource of no little annoyance to both pupils and teachers. Pupils in all of the schools, both boys and girls, should be required to use gymnasium shoes when on the floor, both for their own comfort and the protection of the floor. Practice, too, in a full gymnasium suit would greatly improve the health results; but this may not be wisely attempted at present.

HOME EXERCISE.

By Dr. GEO. L. MEVLAN, Boston, Mass.

Alluring advertisements appear in the magazines constantly, offering all the advantages of physical training to anyone who will buy a certain prescription of home exercise.

The idea of securing all the benefits of exercise by simply going x through a few movements in one’s room for ten minutes a day is certainly very attractive. Many men pay from two to ten dollars for

Digitized by G-ooQle
—234—

these prescriptions and attempt to work their money’s worth out of the prescription. But without the all-important personal direction and inspiration of a teacher, the once enthusiastic pupil in a few days becomes discouraged of the monotony of the ‘work and gives it up in disgust. Of course it is human nature to tell of good bargains made and to keep silent about poor investments; consequently very little is heard from the scores who have two or three sheets of paper at home, each representing^ five or ten dollar note. Many prospective investors in these unique prescriptions wish to know something about their value before investing. Just a few facts:

1.	These home exercise lessons are purely and simply money-making schemes.

2.	All these lessons can be bought for one-half to one-tenth of the price advertised by simply answering the advertisement, and waiting for propositions. These will come at intervals of about two weeks, each offering a reduction of twentyjfive or fifty per cent on the previous price.

3.	There is absolutely nothing new in any of these so-called “new systems.” ' They all use a few well-known exercises. The much lauded resistive movements have been introduced periodically for the past twenty-five years.

4.	Serious permanent injury has resulted in many cases" from these exercises precribed by a stranger to a stranger.

5.	Only a very small fraction of the benefits oi exercise can possibly be derived from the best of these “systems”, und there is great risk of injury because these dispensers of prescriptions are not medical men and do not know the condition of their pupils.

6.	The object sought by these men is simply increase in the size and strength of the muscles; whereas, scientific physical training aims to increase vitality and endurance.

7.	All the benefits of physical training can be secured in every well-conducted gymnasium, where a personal examination by a medical man, a scientific prescription of exercise, direct instruction by a teacher, bathing facilities and the inspiration of numbers are provided for a normal sum.

—The University of Maine is becoming quite prominent in athletics. It won the state championship in football, baseball and track athletics last summer, and Watson of Maine broke the discus record in the New England intercollegiate meet.

—There is a good story told of Stagg, the former Yale star, who for several years has been the athletic director at the University of Chicago. One day last week he kept his players at work until dark and then sent them to the gymnasium. He remained on the field so long talking over the prospects of the eleven and expounding his ideas to a member of the faculty that the gatekeepers, thinking every one off the field, locked up and went home. Director Stagg and the faculty member had to climb over a 12-foot fence to get home.

—It would seem from a cursory view of the records that all the new figures in the weight contests are made in the autumn. This is the case with John Flanagan, the record holder of the 16-pound hammer and 56-pound weight, ‘and also Jim Mitchell, the former record holder. They explain this by saying that a heavy man cannot be in proper shape in spring after a long lay-off during the winter, and the heat of the summer is too weakening for them to do their best work. Flanagan, who before this year never knew defeat, is now smarting from the experience, and is going through unusual efforts to put himself in condition. Mitchell, who before Flanagan’s arrival in this country, was the best weight thrower, and who astonished the spectators at the Metropolitan championships by defeating Flanagan, asserts that he is by no means a “has been,” and that he will prove this to Flanagan’s admirers when they meet again.

Digitized by
-235-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

f Continued.

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus, and closing with the game: “Rider Ball.” Preliminary as in former lessons. After receiving dumbbells, form a front line, count off by fours or sixes, and open order forw. to two steps distance, then face to the left or right.

DUMBBELL-DRILL.

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg alternately and both arms forw. and return, 1—4!	%	'

b) Raise 1. and r. leg alternately and both arms sidew. and return, 1-4!

c) Raise 1. and r. leg alternately backw. and both arms forw. overhead and return, 1—4!

2.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Raise heels and raise arms forw. overhead—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

3.	Stride position backw. 1. and raise arms forw. overhead—1 ! Kneel on 1. and lower arms sidew. on a level with shoulders (chest elevated)-^2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4!

Alternately, 1—8!

Dumbbells on shoulders—place!

4.	a) Turh trunk to the 1. and stretch arms sidew.—1, 2! b) Turn trunk to the r. and stretch arms sidew.—1, 2! c) a and b alternately, 1—4!

In front leaning rest.

<5. a) Raise 1. leg backw. (upw.) and raise r. arm forw.—1, 2! Same opposite—3, 4!

Class rise to fundamental position for a brief rest before continuing with b.

b) Bend and extend arms 8 to 12 times in the front leaning rest.

6.	Stride position forw. 1. obliquely and bend arms to thrust—1! Bend 1. knee, turn and bend trunk forw. 1. obliquely and thrust arms forw. (arms in line with the trunk and the head raised)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4!

Alternately, 1—8!

Resting position or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

7.	Raise 1. knee and rais^ forearms upw. (dumbbells in front of shoulders)—!! Extend 1. leg and arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4!

Alternately, 1—8!

8.	Stride position backw. 1. obliquely and raise arms forw.—1! Bend

1.	knee, turn and bend trunk obliquely to the 1. side (weight resting over 1. foot) and raise arms overhead (arms in line with the trunk) —2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4!

Alternately, 1—8!

Digitized by C-ooQle
-236-

9.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Raise 1. kneeforw. and arms overhead—2! Lunge sidew. 1. and lower arms sidew. 1. (arms on level with shoulder)—3! Starting position—4! Same r., 1—4 1 Alternately, 1—8!

10.	Stationary run with raising lower legs and raising arms in the various directions and holding the same a given number <5f counts.

11.	Breathing exercises as in previous lessons.

Class face left or right and close ranks forw. Turn to the left or right and deposit dumbbells. Then march to assigned places for division work on the apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal bar and long buck.

Second	44	Long buck and horizontal bar.

Third	44	Combination flying rings (height of reach with

high jump and low parallel bars).

Fourth Division: Low parallel bars and combination flying rings with high jump.

Exchange places; Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

All exercises are preceded by a jump to a straight arm hang, ordinary grasp.

1. Swing; kip to front rest; underswing to rear side stand.

2. Swing; 1. knee circle forw. outside of 1. hand; Yz circle 1. with 1. leg to free front rest, drop swing, ankles to bar and kip to free front rest; underswirtg.

3.	Swing; 1. knee cirele forw. between hands to cross-rest; reverse grasp of 1. hand, then Y2 turn 1., Yz circle 1. with r. leg to front rest on further side of bar; drop kip and underswing, as in ex. 2.

4.	Swing; at front swing raise ankles to bar, squat legs backw. and extend legs and hips over bar (back circle forw.) to rear rest; drop backw., squat forw., ankles to bar, and kip to front rest; underswing.

5.	Swing: kip to front rest; front circle backw. to straight arm hang; swing forw. Yz turn 1. (release grasp of r. hand and re-grasp bar on further side) at the next front swing again kip to front rest arid immediately front vault.

6.	Swing; kip to free front rest; front circle forw. to free front rest; front circle backw. to straight arm hang and at the next front swing raise ankles to bar, squat backw. and circle forw. with legs at right angle to body over bar, and down.

7.	Jump to straight armhang and immediately free front circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw., raise ankles to bar, squat backw. and circle forward with legs at r. angle to body to straight arm rest (legs still held forw.); drop backw., squat forw., ankles to bar, and kip to front rest, and underswing.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with second division on the long buck.

First Division.—Long Buck (height of shoulders.)

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Rear vault swing r. to riding seat; rear vault dismount r. with *4 turn 1. to front side-stand.

Digitized by o.ooQle
-237-

2.	As ex. 1; then straddle vault forw.

3.	Rear vault swing r. with ^4 turn 1. to front rest; straddle vault forw. with *4 turn r. to cross-stand.

4.	Straddle vault forw. with V2 turn left to riding seat, (front scissors mount), rear vault dismount r. with *4 turn 1. to cross-stand.

5.	Rear vault swing r. with Vfc turn 1. to riding seat; front scissors dismount 1. to rear cross-stand.

6.	Rear vault r. with *4 turn 1. to front side-stand; stride vault sidew. toward the right with 1. leg and ^4 turn 1. *to front crossstand ; front scissors to momentary free rest on 1. arm and straddle off forw.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Remark: Execute all movements left and right.

Second Division.—Long Buck.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Stride vault 1.

2.	Stride vault 1. with *4 turn 1. to front.side-stand.

3.	As ex. 2; then straddle vault forw.

4.	As ex. 2; then straddle vault forw. with V6 turn 1.

5.	As ex. 2; then rear vault r.

6.	Vault with % circle r. of leg and % turn 1. to front rest (or r. side of buck); straddle dismount forw.

7.	As	ex.	6;	to front	rtst,	then	flank vault 1.

8.	As	ex.	6;	to front	rest,	then	rear vault r.

9.	As	ex.	6;	to front	rest,	then	front vault 1.

10.	Rear vault r. with	*4 turn 1.	to front side-stand and immediately

flank vault 1.

11.	An exercise free to all.

Change place with first division to the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

All exercises are^ preceded by a jump to a straight armhang, ordinary grasp.

1.	Swing; at the front swing, raise ankles to bar and 1. knee circle forw. outside of left hand, then place 1. hand in reverse grasp on. outside of 1. leg; screw dismount forw. 1.

2.	Swing; as ex. 1, but 1. knee circle backw. outside of 1. hand to straight arm rest (the 1. leg remaining in position); % circle 1. with

1.	leg to free front rest; drop kip and underswing.

3.	As ex. 1, but 1. leg between hands and extended to cross-rest; 14 circle backw.; drop backw., squat forw. with 1. leg, and underswing.

4.	As ex. 3 ; after 14 circle backw. V6 turn r. (changing position to further side of bar); drop backw. squat forw. r. and immediately kip to front rest; flank vault r.

5.	As ex. 3; but with reversed grasp of both hands, then 14 circle forw.; V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest and change grasp to ordinal again; drop backw., squat forw. and kip to front rest and underswing.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Remak: Execute all movements left and right.

Digitized by Google
-238-

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. Third division begins on the flying rings combined with high-jump, and the fourth division on the low parallel bars. Exhange places.

The flying rings raised within at few inches above the height of the head; the jumping standard to be placed about six to eight feet in advance of the rings, the cross-bar started at a height of about three feet and raised three or four inches after each jump.

1.	Walk forw. as near as possible to the cross-bar; run backw.; run forw. again and jump to bent arm position with knees raised and clear the cross-bar.

2.	As ex. 1; with 14 turn 1. after clearing the cross-bar. Same 14 turn r.

3.	As ex. 2; with 14 turn 1. Same 14 turn r.

4.	As ex. 1; but jump to bent arm position with raising knees at the backw. swing; swing forw. in this position and clear crossbar.

5.	As ex. 4; but flex thighs over body; swing forw. in this position, extend hips and clear cross-bar. Repeat for height.

Low Parallel Bars,—-(Height of chest.)

In front cross-stand, hands placed on ends.

1.	Jump to straight arm rest, swing both legs forw. to straddle seat; dismount sidew. r.

In rear cross-stand, hands placed on ends.

2.	Jump to straight arm rest; swing both le^fs forw. and backw. to straddle seat behind hands; dismount sidew. r.

In front cross-stand, hands placed on ends.

3.	Jump to straight arm rest; cross r. leg in front of 1. hand and screw mount forw. (14 turn r.) to straddle seat behind hands; swing forw. and rear vault r.

4.	Jump to straight arm rest; cross r. leg in front of 1. hand and screw mount forw. by swinging the 1. leg between the bars and rest in straddle seat in front of 1. hand, the r. is then placed in rear of r. thigh; raise both legs forw., swing backw. and front vault r

In the center of the bars.

5.	Jump to straight arm rest; lower 1. arm to elbow rest, then the sanje with r.; alternate in extending arms to straight arm rest; repeat; raise legs forw.; intermediate swing and rear vault r. with 14 turn 1.

6.	As ex. 5; but lower both arms simultaneously to double elbow rest; extend both arms; repeat; raise both legs forw., intermediate swing and rear vault r. with 14 turn 1.

7.	Tump to straight arm rest with raising both legs forw.; swing backw. and at the beginning of the next front swing lower to double elbow rest; swing forw. and at the next backw. swing extend both arms; swing forw. and rear vault r. with 14 turn r.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form one large double circle for the game “Rider Ball.” After conclusion of the game stand in fundamental position, clap hands and break rank.

(To be continued.)
-239-

PLAN OP GIANT STADIUM FOR THE OLYMPIAN GAMES.

Harry J. Furber, Jr., president of the Olympian Games Association of Chicago, has just received the preliminary plans for the great stadium in which the athletic contests of 1904 are to be held.	.

These plans provide for a stadium that will seat 75,000 persons, and which in point of size, elegance and excellence of arrangement will excel any other building ever errected for a similar purpose.

The building called for, it is asserted, will house the Olympian games of 1904 which are to be held in Chicago on a scale of magnificence never equaled either in ancient or modern times.

The building will cover approximately eleven acres. The arena alone will be 800 feet long and 130 feet wide. As the stadium at Athens, which was reconstructed when the Olympian games where resurrected in 1896 was but 670 feet long and 109 feet wide, while other Greek arenas of ancient times were even smaller, it may be readily seen that the Chicago stadium will eclipse anything of the kind ever before devoted to trials of athletic prowess.

With the approval of Mr. Furber and expert assurances of its feasibility, a striking novelty in the matter of roofs has been planned. The arena where the seats are placed will be roofed in the usual way, but the arena will be protected by a roof or left without one almost with the ease and celerity with which an umbrella can be openend and closed.

Briefly the roof of the arena will consist of a series of gigantic curtains arranged and operated by electric motors. They will be so arranged that when in place not a drop of water can enter.

As to the design of the building it will compare favorably with any of the architectural tiumphs which made the World’s Columbian exposition notable. The architect followed closely old classic ideals in his outline, borrowing the best in the old stadium of Greece and the Coliseum at Rome and adding the improvements evolved by modern minds.

An exact reproduction of the Grecian stadium is not practicable in Chicago owing to the nature of the ground. The ancient stadium was built on the base of hills, the hollow between being used as an arena. It was without a roof and the seats were of marble, built tier on tier up the slope of the hills.

The visitor will approach the building on gravel paths laid out through a park studded with flower gardens and fountains. He will pass through the main entrance to a corridor leading clear around the building. To each section, holding about 700 persons, there will be a separate entrance from this corridor and the visitor will be directed by a uniformed guard to the entrance of his section.

So far as exits and entrances are concerned the problem of emtying the immense buitding is merely the problem of emptying one section. The architect claims that a crowd of 75,000 persons could be taken through the doors in four minutes.

In designing the stadium the architect had in mind the comfort of the spectators and the imperative direction that the interior be so arranged that the view of no spectator be in any way interrupted.

To do this the building planned will be constructed around steel trusses with a span twenty feet greater than the span of the trusses of the Manufacturers’ building at the Columbian exposition. This is an immense scale, the span being 400 feet and the height 150 feet. There will be fifteen of these trusses, but not a pillar or post in the whole interior to rise up and shut off the view. Fifty rows of seats are provided in the plans.

The first row of seats will be five feet above the arena and the topmost row sixty feet higher. The line of cornice around the building will be seventy-five feet from the ground, or fifteen feet higher than the peristyle at the world’s fair. The columns in the decorative treatment of the structure will be of the colossal Corinthian order and will be sixty-three feet in height.

An unusual feature in the construction of the stadium will be an arrangement for dividing it into three or more buildings for special occasions where the whole building will not be required*

Digitized by

Google
-240-

Pier re de Coubertin, chairman of the international Olympian committee, in a letter to President Furber says that he has recently conferred with the king of Belgium regarding the athletic congress to be held at Brussels in anticipation of the international Olympian games to be held in Chicago in 1904.

The purpose of this congress is to propose a code of athletic rules to be accepted internationally, it being the purpose to invite the attendance of dele* gates from the principal athletic associations ot all countries.

HURLING.

By J. E. SULLIVAN, President of A. A. U.

JJffrow that it is evident that there is to be formed an American Gaelic Athletic O*' Association, through the efforts of Victor Dowling, P. T. Conway, Joseph Cavanaugh and others, Hurling, the national game of Ireland, will receive a great deal of attention, and one of the most important matches played in America was played October 19th at Celtic Park, between the Mahers, champions of America, and the Dalys.

Hurling is one of the oldest sports on record. Strictly the national game of Ireland, it dates its history as far back as the history of the Emerald Isle itself. As an all-around athletic exercise it ranks with the Irish game of handball and its strenuous features ars well calculated to develop every muscle in the human frame. In olden times the ancients played the game in a somewhat different style of that in vogue with the present-day hurlers and were adepts at it.* In fact, it may be safely stated that the best hurlers of the present time are scarcely to be compared with their ancestors.

To become expert at hurling requires, above all other games, the strictest attention and daily practice ere one can hope to master its simple looking, but very difficult points. The breaking of one’s hurley and the replacing of it by another not exactly the same in weight, shape and size may instantly cripple a man’s play until he becomes used to the new hurley. This accounts for the various styles and shapes in hurleys The pick of the ancient hurlers did not know what it was to miss a ball, no matter at what speed it might be traveling, and they would, if accounts are to be believed, take it off an opponent's nose without touching him. It was often the case in the oldtime matches, where the play was all overhead—that is to say, when the ball was sent through the air—that it traveled rapidly from one hurley to another in circus fashion and came to ground only when it struck where there was no player. In those days it was accounted a great piece of bad play for a man to miss at all in a match.

OLDTIME CHALLENGE PLAY,

A challenge match was played by those veterans with 21 men a side—42 players in all—composed of a goalkeeper, backs, halfbacks, centers, forwards, extreme forwards or whip and wingmen. On each team there were frequently from one to two expert wrestlers, whose chief duties fell to protecting the wing-men and blocking his opponent’s attack while he got away with the ball along the sides or wings. This was done by running with it on the hurley at top speed, by dribbling or pucking it along the ground in front of him or in the air. Thus the wing work called for some of the most exiting plays in the game. These men were the best runners on the team, along with their partners, the wrestlers, and when two opposing wrestlers came together, a combined wrestling and hurling contest was generally witnessed. However, this did not often occur in the match, for the simple reason that the wrestler was principally relied upon to trip up and throw his partner’s opponent while running.

The goalkeeper protected the goal and at times would block with the hurley a ball that, had he missed it, would knock him down, such was the speed at which it was sent for a goal. The backs and halfbacks were strong, able-bodied men who, when they struck the sphere, usually sent it in the neighorhood of a quarter of a mile toward their opponents’ goal. The goals were generally called upon for scrimmage work and to cripple as many as possible of their opponents in the true Rugby style. For smart, brainy work, tricky runs and hits and good shots for goal the forwards were relied upon, and thus a first-

Digitized by L.ooQle