MIND AND BODY

Vol. 18.

MAY, 1911.

No. 199

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M.!D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Masf.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

The Value of Regular and Special Physical Exercises in the

I desire herewith to present one of the cases of this disease for your consideration and discussion. The following statement concerns the existing conditions in a case of empyema, that of a boy of eight years and eight months, that may be of interest and enable you to better understand this disease.

Some of you may be called upon to treat similar cases under the guidance of a family physician (or without) and if the presentation of this case will help you, my efforts of today will have been rewarded.

A definition of the word empyema is:—“Pus in the pleural cavity or in the chest. It is most frequently encountered in children, but may occur from pleurisy, tuberculosis, septic conditions and infectious fevers in any individual.”

One of the ablest writers on childrens’ diseases, L. Emmett Holt, A. M,. M. ID., has the following to state, regarding the diseased conditions:—

“Fully nine-tenths of the cases of empyema in children either occur with or follow pneumonia, it being usually the result of the form described pleuro-pneumonia.

Empyema may complicate scarlet fever, measles, or any other acute infectious diseases.” While empyema may complicate suppurative processes in the abdomen, we will only consider the conditions relative to the case before you today.

When a large amount of fluid is present, the lung does not float on the surface of the same, but the fluid surrounds the lung, which is compressed on all sides. The amount of fluid in ordinary cases is from half a pint to two pints, although in neglected cases, or those that refuse surgical interference, it may accumulate until it amounts to four or five pints.

The effect upon the lung, heart, diaphragm and abdominal contents, depends upon the amount of fluid and duration of the compression. When

* Read at the regular meeting of the Physical Training Society, Cincinnati, O., March 4th, 1911.

Final Treatment of Empyema/

By Robert Nohr, M.D., Cincinnati, O.

Digitized by

Google
the quantity is small, or when pressure is removed early, the lung in most cases readily expands, air being forced into it from the opposite lung, especially during, the act of coughing. If the pressure is great and has been long continued, the adhesions over the lung may become so dense and firm that expansion is difficult and can at best be only partial. In such cases depression of the chest wall occurs. In very ol'd cases, expansion is still further interfered with by the changes taking place in the lung itself.

The cases that receive proper surgical treatment reasonably early, full expansion of the lung occurs, and, with the exception of adhesions, recovery may be complete. Although wide in extent', the adhesions are not usually strong enough to interfere seriously with the function of the lung.

In cases receiving no treatment, absorption of the pus is possible, but is not to be expected. The pus generally seeks an external outlet; the lung mdy be perforated and the pus evacuated through the bronchi, or external rupture may occur, generally in the neighborhood of the nipple.

Empyema is more often of the left than the right side, the proportion being about three to two. One of the most frequent complications in older children is pulmonary tuberculosis.”

I’ll omit the symptoms and diagnosis usually made by a physician and only refer to that stated to me in the present, when I met the boy for the first time.

1 He took sick on Feb. 15, *06. Diagnosis was not made until the third day, when his case was declared pleuro-pneumonia.

He gradually grew worse and empyema followed. Although the family physician advised to incise the tumor of pus, which was very large at the end of the seventh week, the parents did not consent to surgical interference until the boy had coughed up a great amount of pus that had perforated the lung. After opening the tumor the coughing subsided almost at once and general relief was felt by the patient.

The usual course of drainage was carried out and gradual improvement followed, but he was still far from, being well enough without further treatment. The family physician advised physical exercises to be practiced from this stage on as a final1 treatment. He was brought to me during the fourteenth week from the time he took sick.

I regret very much that I did not photograph him before I began my treatment, because his case would have been all the more interesting to you I am sure.

The first glance at this walking skeleton, looked so hopeless to me, I felt that a few lessons would be all that he needed to send him to an early grave, rather than save him from it. Further, he looked too weak to show any improvement in a few weeks, but the parents were anxious to have me treat him. I therefore consented to do my best. (See first photographs that were taken at the end of the second week.)

Following is a statement of the first examination and measurements:—

Age eight years and eight months.	.

Height 4 ft.

Weight 48 lbs.

Chest—a) natural 22y2“, b) contracted 22“, c) inflated 23“.

Waist 22“.

Digitized by
—99— s

After lO treatments. Began treatment June 18, 06. 3 treatments per week.

After 30 treatments.

Digitized by
-100-

Upper arm (1. and r. same) 5*4“.

Forearm	44 44 44	44 / 644.

Thigh	44 44 44	4 4	liy244.

}	Calf	44	4	4	4	4	“	8^4“

Heart—Fairly good considering his illness.

Pulse 100.

Respirations 25 per minute, but rather shallow.

The right breast was badly depressed. The middle and lower lobes of the right lung were consolidated. The left lung was not diseased. Two lateral curvatures of the spine and some rotation were present.

The greatest convexity was on the left side in the region of the fourth dorsal vertebra. The second curvature and smaller one was toward the right side in the region of the first and second lumbar vertebrae.

He informed me that his left thigh and lower leg became tired earlier than the right while riding on a tricycle.

TREATMENT.

To correct the dorsal' curvature was the first attempted. Standing behind him I grasped his right upper arm with my right hand; with my left hand placed against his left axillary region, I raised him off of the floor, making considerable pressure with my left hand and pulling his right "irm overhead. After holding him up in this position from fifteen ^o twenty seconds, he was lowered for a brief rest. This was repeated four or five times. (See Fig. I.) For general development the following exercises' were added:—

2.	Raise arms sideward height of shoulders and straighten as far as possible.

Hands on hips—place!

3.	Bend trunk forward (slowly) and straighten (slowly.) Repeat 4 to 6

times. Note:—Also added straightening arms downward gradually touching the floor with the fingers.

4.	Breathing exercise. Slowly and deeply 4 or 5 times.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

5.	Repeat exercise 1, (i. e. treatment for lateral dorsal curvature.)

6.	Rise on toes and lower. 6 times.

7.	Half bent-knee position and straighten. 6 times.

8.	Breathing exercise.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

Hands on hips—place!

9.	Bend trunk backward and straighten. 6 times. Arms-lower!

id. (a) Raise arms forward upward, straighten as far as possible and lower forward downward.

(b) Raise arms sideward upward, straighten as far as possible and low^er sideward downward.

11.	Run on place with raising lower legs backward.

Note:—On account of the distressed breathing, he was unable to run more than % to minute.

Repeated this exercise twice after brief rests.

12.	Breathing exercise with slowly raising the arms forward upward and

lowering forward downward with exhaling. Repeated 4 to 6 times.

Note:—This lesson was repeated daily for one week. As he grew stronger he was urged to repeat each exercise more frequent than

Digitized by CjOOQle
-101-

before. I treated him only three days of each week, while his parents had him practice the above routine during the alternate days the best they knew how. Sufficient rest was allowed as fatigue set in between the various exercises.

Second Week:—;

1.	Repeated exercise I, lesson i.

Hands behind neck—place!

2.	Move bent arms forward and backward as far as possible for contrac-

tion and expansion. Slowly 6 to 7 times. Arms-lower!

3.	Raise arms forward upward-1! Bend trunk downward, lower arms

touch floor-2! Return-3, 4! Repeated 5 times.

4.	Breathing exercise. Raise arms sideward upward and lower sideward

downward.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

Hands on hips—place!

5.	Bend knees deeply and straighten.

Arms to thrust—bend!

6.	Thrust arms forward, sideward, upward, downward each direction sep-

arately 6 to 8 times. Arms-lower!

7.	Repeat exercise 1, 4 to 6 times.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

Standing behind him and grasping upraised arms by the wrists.

8.	Rise on toes, bend trunk backward (chest raised high as possible)-1!

Hold several seconds, then lower-2! Repeat 4 to 6 times slowly. (See Fig. 2.)

9.	Breathing exercise, etc.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

Arms backward-fold!

10.	(a) Raise left and right lower leg backward alternately-1, 4!	6 to 8

times.

(b) Raise left and right knee forward alternately-1, 4! 6 to 8 times. Arms-lower!

Hands on hips—place!

11. (a) Raise left and right leg forward alternately-1, 4! 6 to 8 times, (b) Raise left and right leg sideward alternately-1, 4! 6 to 8 times.

Arms-lower!

With body lowered forward over seat of chair, while I grasped his ankles for support he executed the following:

Digitized by
-102-

12.	Raise trunk forward, held several seconds, then lower.

After brief rests between each trial he repeated this exercise four times. Later he added raising arms forward. (See Fig. 3 and 4.) This exercise was added for the purpose of strengthening the muscles of the back.

. During the second week electricity was applied on all sides of the left thigh and lower leg with good effect. The dry cell battery was used.

Third Week:—

1.	Repeat exercise 1, lesson 1.

5 lb. dumbbell irt) left and right hand.

2.	Raise left hand under shoulder-1! Lower l'eft and raise right hand under

shoulder 2!

Hands on hips—place!

2.	(a) Bend trunk forward and return. Arms-lower!

(b) Bend trunk backward, etc., as in exercise 8 second week.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

4.	Raise arms sideward and lower. (I resisted the movement by light

pressure upon his arms.)

Hands on hips—place!

5.	Raise heels-1! Bend knees deeply-2! Straighten knees-3! Lower heels-4!

Arms-lower!

6.	Breathing exercise with raising arms forward upward slowly, then ex-

hale and lower arms sideward downward.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

Stride position sideward and place hands on hips-step!

^7.	(a) Bend left_knee-i! Straighten-2! Same right-3, 4!

(b)	Bend both knees (trunk to remain erect)-i! Return-2!

Arms sideward-raise!

(c)	Repeat b, and move straight arms inward (crosswise)-1! Return-2! Note:—Move arms in either direction as far as possible. Position-

stand !

8.	Repeat exercise 1, l'esson 1.

Rest 3 to 5 minutes.

5 lb. dumbbells held over shoulders.

9.	Straighten left arm upward-1! Return and straighten right arm upward-

2! Repeat. Note:—He could push them up five times only. Arms-lower!

10.	Repeat exercise 10 and 11 of second week.

11.	Repeat exercise 1, lesson 1.

12.	Breathing exercise with raising arms, etc.

Note:—By this time breathing had become gradually better. At the end of the third week the left leg showed greater endurance than before applying electricity.

Before the fourth weeks work was begun a second examination was made. However, only slight changes from the first could be recognized as: Increase of height one inch. Heart had more force. Pulse 94, six less than at first examination. Respirations 21. Breathing, although better, still shallow on the right side. Absorption and expansion progressing slowly but surely.

Digitized by
—103—

The general appearance of the chest and back looked pretty much the same as at first. However, the dorsal curvature was not so great. The lower lobe of the right lung was still consolidated, both in front and behind. The left lung, although healthy, did not expand enough. This may have been mostly due to the patient not understanding enough about deep breathing, further, • that his intercostal muscles were too emaciated to do better. Considerable bulging occurred on the left side in the region of the 9th rib during deep inhalation, while the depression was very marked on the right side on account of the sunken ribs. The abdomen bulged considerably too, during deep inhalation.

Although the dorsal curvature was not so prominent as at the beginning of the treatment, the right shoulder still drooped out of proportion to the curvature. On that account, he practiced thereafter, in addition to the above exercises, the extra high lifting of the right shoulder while I resisted the movement by pressing down upon the same in the hope of increasing the strength of /the right Trapezius muscle. I also added the inward move-

ment of the right arm, from the position—arm raised sideward, with again offering resistance on my part to strengthen the right Pectoralis major muscle.

The curvature in the lumbar region could be hardly recognized by this time. To further benefit both curvatures, I further added stretching of the spinal column by placing one hand behind his neck, the other under the chin and lifted him up slowly and held him for about 15 to 20 seconds. After brief rests this was repeated 5 or 6 times. Also repeated this procedure during a number of days until the curvature disappeared.

All exercises were continued with additional changes that are generally used to tone up the muscular system.

Because of his youth the increase in muscular development as one might' expect of an adult was not possible nor expected.

His left leg had, after three weeks of electrical treatment regained sufficient tone and endurance, that this course was discontinued.

The third examination was made at the close of the tenth week and photographed a second time with a gradual increase of all parts and general improvement of the whole muscular system as the photographs show.

Four weeks later, the last and fourth examination was made with general improvement continuing.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-104-

THIRD EXAMINATION (10th Week). FOURTH EXAMINATION (14th Week)

Height ................. 4 ft.	1%“.

Weight.................52	lbs......

Chest a) natural.....,..23“ .......

b)	contracted ..22“	........

c)	inflated ....24“	........

Neck.................9V2“..........

Waist.................22“	..........

Upper arm (down) right 6“, left 6“.

Forearm................6“ 0%“ •

Thigh..................12%“	“	12^2“

Calf.................. 834“	“	8%“

Heart-Good.........................

Pulse—82...........................

Respirations—21....................

.... 4 ft. li/3“

....54% lbs.

....23%“

....22“

....24%“

.... 9%“

....22“

right 6%“, left 6%“ “ 6%“ “ 6%“ “ 13%“	“	13%“

“	9“	“	9“

....Good.

....82.

.....21.

The patient was dismissed the following week, but the family was advised to continue the exercises for some time thereafter. This was done with good effect.

I consulted him two years later and learned that he had enjoyed continued good health.

In conclusion, I wish to briefly report a second case of the same nature, however, that of a young man of twenty, who was treated by the same physician during the fall of the same year, that the first case was under my care, but who absolutely refused to take the physician’s advice to be treated by the above method, had the following termination:—

After he was able to be out of bed he dismissed the physician, followed the advice of his neighbors and tried one patent remedy after the other with no improvement at all, rather lowering his vitality to the extent, that during the month of June the following year he was obliged to undergo an operation on the affected (left) side. Aside from removing one quart of pus, sections of six necrossed ribs had to be removed. A large cavity had also formed, pulmonary tuberculosis had developed and death ended his miserable days not long after.

Of the two cases, the little boy had a better chance for recovery on account of his age; the lungs having a more favorable opportunity to expand with further growth, but the family physician believed, had he followed his advice in time, there might have been a different story to tell.

—A comparison of the cost of athletics at both Harvard and Yale is interesting. Last year it cost the Cambridge university $127,945 to run athletics, or about $425 a day for the ten months through which the college season lasts. The football expenditures were approximately $31,000, an average of about $1,000 a man to the squad of thi^-one players. Track athletics cost $8,994.90, baseball $11,177.31, and crew $15,480.18.

At Yale the approximate for maintaining football was $40,000. It meant for every man who got in a “championship” game, as the contests with Harvard and Princeton at New Haven are called, $2,500 was expended. On baseball, which returned a net profit of $5,700, Yale put out a total of $22,887, while track athletics, with a total income of only $3,811, cost $13,369. Rowing is practically a flat financial loss, since no admission can be charged, and more than $20,000 is appropriated every year for it.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-105-

PHYSICAL EDUCATION, ITS RELATION TO MEDICINE.

By Geo. B. Mullison, Department of Physical Education, Phila. Public Schools.

To determine the relation between Physical Education and Medicine is one of the problems of today. Some, medical practicioners vehemently discry the opinions of men of Physical Training in its effects produced by physical training; while some, enthused with its benefits, claim that it is a substitute for all remedial agents. These two factions represent the extremes, the enthusiasts of each profession; and, though the man holding to either of these ideas may have gained a reputation in his circle, it is the narrow view; for both Physical Education and Medicine are intimately related, they go hand in hand assisting one another and the thorough understanding and knowledge of both will increase a man’s efficiency in assisting his fel-lowmen in the alleviations of disease. The biogenetic characteristics of the cell should always be the primary considerations and anything which influences this property should be one of the weapons used against the devastation of disease.

Is it any wonder that reputable physicians are very conservative in lauding Physical Training when so many advertisements appear daily in our leading magazines and newspapers for the cure ofe “what ails you” by the physical methods, mechanisms or manipulations? The lure of lucre debases every profession and the recent experiments of scientific exercise, either active or passive, upon metabolism and therefore upon the biogenetic activity of the cell has offered ample opportunity for men of questionable character to reap a rich and plentiful harvest. According to such posters, anyone can become strong, anyone can regain health, the fat can be made thin, the thin can become fat, and I know' not what else, for a mere sum, a trifling pittance which should be sent before they are all1 gone. Should the public and more especially the physician judge the usefulness of this work because of such abuse? Are there not charlatans in every profession? Is quackery to be the standard for the judgment of the application and usefulness of anything?

Just what is meant by Physical Education is difficult to decide and yet it is necessary to thoroughly understand what is implied before a true estimate of its worth can be found. So many of the so-styled only systems have been promulgated and presented to the public, and, so many divisions have beeni made and advanced, that many are mislead into believing that only that particular part constitutes the entire subject, thus causing in the majority of cases certain aspects and phases of the work to be overlooked which necessarily prevents a true estimate of its value or a proper use of its tenets.

Physical Education or Physical Training is, in its broadest sense, the science which treats of the exercising and developing the human organisms, whether the exercises be given simply to increase the musculature of the body, whether it be to augment the biogenetic activity of the cells in repairing an injury, whether its purpose be to increase the somatic vigor of the organisms, or whether it be scientific passive movements to remove or alleviate some pathologic process, matters not; any and all of these are in its jurisdiction and all should be taught to the student who purposes devoting his life’s work to the supervising and directing the physical development of his fellowmen. It stretches out and invades every phase of a man’s life,

Digitized by C.ooQle
-106-

his home, his occupation, his social environment, his mental and psychic characteristics, his personal and family history and the hygienic conditions under which he exists, and it takes cognizance of any ill effects these may have and endeavors to effect them by rational and naturally scientific means. It is the physician’s hygienic preventatives which increase an individual’s Immunity.

From this conception of the scope of Physical Education, it is not strange that many divisions and subdivisions have been made, many of its forms being now included in the medical curriculums. Enthusiasts along certain lines, specializing on a particular part invent a new term and so we have esthetic, recreative, educational and medical gymnastics. These have been sub-divided and more names have been applied such as : Dancing, Folk Dancing, Esthetic Dancing, and Delsarte; Games, Athletics, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, and Aquatics; Calisthenics, Marching, and Apparatus —light and heavy; Massage, Mechanotherapy and Hydrotherapy, etc., all of which, we will consider as a part of Physical Education.

Then, too, certain individuals have advanced certain theories in reference to the proper method of developing the human organism which has lead to different systems, such as the German and Swedish, as well as the various systems as advertised by “Physical Culturists,” which they will supply for the trifling consideration of a few dollars. The first two are well established and aim at the same ultimate result, while the others are as a rule merely commercial frauds.

It is the writer’s opinion that there are but two divisions of Physical Education—whatever the system may be—and they are Medical and Educational Gymnastics. The latter includes all’ that aims for the development of the neuro-muscular system, including the esthetic, the recreative and all related divisions; the former includes all that tends toward the regeneration or restoration of the specific physiologic function of the cell1, whether that cell be nerve cell, muscle cell, bone cell or any other. It is often difficult to draw any line of differentiation and it is rather a matter of convenience than that there is any sharp line of demarcation. It is true that certain forms of exercises tend to develop specific functions but all are, according to our definition of Physical Education, a part of the whole.

The growing importance of Physical1 Training throughout this country and abroad leads, us to ask the question, whether it is a fad which will die out in a few years or whether it will grow until it becomes an integral part of everyone’s life, in the school, in the college and in the commercial world.

In a retrospective view of the history of literature, especially of the manners and customs of various communities, it is readily seen that exercise was a part of education in the earliest times. At five years of age, the Greek lad was taught to swim and at seven, both the use of arms and athletic and gymnastic exercises, which later were practiced in the national games. It is to be noted that the physical took precedence over the mental development, in fact there must first be life before there is a necessity for a nervous mechanism to control that life. As soon as the Roman’s physical efficiency deteriorated, as soon as the men became effeminate the supremacy of Rome dwindled. It seems that the power of a community bears a direct relation to the physical development of the individual and that exercise is directly proportional to the congestion of the state. This is an important fact and one not to be overlooked that the adoption of physical exercises in

Digitized by L^ooQLe
-107-

both ancient and modem nations bears a direct relation to the population of the community. Another significant fact is, that when a portion of this same community migrates to an unexplored and virgin country artificial modes of exercising are soon laid aside. It is further observed that in sparsely settled districts and among savage tribes we find the least amount of athletic pastimes, in fact mostly “None at all.,,

From these observations it is easy to deduce that Physical Education supplies some need, something which an individual requires, something that he feels a lack of but can not ordinarily explain in words. Little does the man imagine the value of his words when he says, “I must get more exercise, I have, been confined too closely by my business, I need to get out in the open air and am going to take a couple weeks hunting.” This inherited tendency for exercise should be heeded, for if it be disregarded his constitution and body will eventually adapt itself to its environment, perhaps to the detriment of his somatic vigor, of his power to do work, of his resistance to disease and of his future offspring. It has been stated that strictly city dwellers lose their vitality in three generations and though this may be extreme, still it is undoubtedly a tendency which we must realize and prevent. Later we shall have occasion to refer to this more in detail', but for the present suffice it to say that man has attained his present morphological characteristics by overcoming his environment and Physical Education is the rational and scientific means of supplying that work which has been instrumental in developing the race to its present standard.

The state of mind affects the condition of health and an individual can think himself into a disease. Pseudocyesis is a most notable example of this influence of the mind and I have in mind a case where this persisted even to the last months of gestation. The condition of health also affects the mentality and the cerebrum is not capable of performing the same quality of work when a corporeal morbid process is present. In early times, this was recognized and we have as a heritage the hackneyed though none the less true maxim, “A sound mind in a sound body,” though the ancients could not or did not fathom the cause. Two thousand years has not added much to this, for even now we can not specify definitely why this is so. There is an intimate and subtle relation between nerve force and somatic vigor, but why is a question still to be answered. (Probably due to the intimate relations of the association fibers of the cerebrum.) There is this relation between bodily vigor and mental vitality and such being the case it behooves us to carefully develop our physical side to its best advantage.

The introduction of Physical Training supplies a need, this development of the bodily side of our nature, the inherited functions of our ancestral environments, which it is necessary to exercise to perpetuate in our children. It is not a fad for it supplies a want and it will continue to grow and advance, especially in our cities in direct proportion to the population of the community. In rural districts it is not so necessary for there we still may see the variety of occupation that takes its place.

Especially does it find a place among our city children, who are in school many hours of the day and during the remainder of the time are restrained by too careful parents for fear of contamination and accidents. The children who most need physical work in the open air and sunshine for the process of development are debarred from its influence. This seems to be one of the inevitable results of progress and civilization but it might be

Digitized by Google
-108-

offset by numerous well sun-lighted gymnasia and playgrounds where children could play unrestrained and secure that physical growth and vigor which characterized their forefathers. Most of us have had outdoor work in our childhood, but progress has been so rapid that this is almost impossible for the child today. Primarily then, it is the children, whom we must provide for, for it is upon the children we must depend for the government, protection and perpetuation of the race.

It is not so very strange, then, that Physical Education has been inaugurated in many of our schools, until now no new school building is considered quite complete without its gymnasium. In the vast majority of cases, schools until recently have simply been brain trainers, in many cases into a higher development of mentality to the detriment of other functions. In every genesis the brain develops secondarily, while a little later in early life it goes side by side or even precedes cerebral development. The child learns to walk before it reads, it learns to run before it delves in the mysteries of Virgil and Homer or in the problems of geometry and calculus.

Too often, students and parents have the preconceived idea that their classes in Physical Training are merely to utilize spare hours and to fill in time, that it consists in lifting heavy weights and in performing difficult feats, and that it requires a great amount of strength. Ordinarily, the very pupils, who have had the least amount of outdoor activity are the ones who endeavor to shirk, while the ones who are not nearly so much in need of exercise are the ones who must be restrained from overexertion by the teacher in charge. Frequently the parents request that their children be excused from this work and even secure letters from the family physician that they are physically incapacitated for gymnastics. Coupled with this is a lack of enthusiasm on the part of the teacher as well as incompetence, and so the very individuals who need it most are excused. The parent, the physician and the school1 are responsible for the child and they have combined to allow it to follow its own inclination in a matter of vital importance to its future life, to the state and to the race.

In the college it is difficult to draw any conclusions owing to the variety of the character of the early lives of its student body and so their needs for exercise, but in elementary schools, especially in congested districts, the Physical' Department is of vastly more importance than any other single department. When a man enters college, he should be able to map out his own course of exercise and this would readily solve the problem of college gymnastics. Yet, it would seem from observation that the collegian is almost as incapable of taking suitable exercise as the school1 boy; and even though he realizes at this period that he requires it unless under compulsion it will be neglected.

The Normal Schools of Physical Education are working along these lines and teachers of physical training to-day are trained in medical branches necessary for an understanding of their profession. They are not old styled acrobats—their aim is not to develop professional athletes or specialty performers for amusement of the public but to make better men and women who shall be a greater use to the community. The writer set fhese principles in the revision of a normal school prospectus in the following extract several years ago:

“It is highly essential that the Physical Director of today be able to

Digitized by CjOOQle
-109-

perform the various exercises and drills, and that he comprehend the effect of each movement upon the part exercised. It is equally important that he thoroughly understand the mechanism of the human organism—its generation, growth, nutrition, structure and effect of environment—so that he may intelligently cope with the manifold conditions of society which are detrimental to the normal development of both mind and body.”

“The requirements of a Physical Director are, therefore of a two-fold nature: a theoretical education which necessitates a knowledge of the medical sciences upon which the practical training is based; and, a practical training which considers the application of the principles of theory to the practical work.”

Athletics and games require special consideration here for they are one of the substitutes to increase the vitality of the race, but unfortunately they have been branded with the effect of the age—commercialism—and so have lost much of their usefulness. Sooner or later a radical charge must come and it is with this end in view that this subject is introduced here.

Specialization, today, is noted in athletics as in other branches and theoretically, is to be disclaimed; for in developing special functions and special systems of muscles, there is a tendency to overdevelop these at the expense of the others both of which are apt to eventually cause degeneration and atrophy and consequently increased liability to infection. Symmetrical and general development are far superior; and, it is far better for the total number of students to run, jump, throw and swim fairly well and lose all competitive events than to have a few exceptionally proficient in each kind of exercise who break records and win championships.

The ideal method of competition and the most satisfactory physiologically, is to have each and every one compete against a certain standard degree of proficiency based on the record of each event and adjusted for his age. All the standards in one class passed, he may compete in the next higher class and some recognition should be made of the accomplishment. In the elementary schools these standards might be worked out for each grade and counted equally with the regular work as a requirement for advancement. There would be many beneficial results, if this system were universally adopted, but primarily it will increase the general standard and decrease the individual records, and it will cause those to take an active part in athletic work who now never do and these are the ones who need it most.

From these observations, Physical Education may be justly ranked as an important science of the future, if not of the present, meriting further consideration and investigation. It has an educational principle, an hygienic application and a remedial value. In its various forms, it will act as a substitute for that work which has developed man to his present standard, strengthening the musculature, developing co-ordination, and increasing the motor pathways and motor nerve celfe. It counteracts many of the evils of dress, of eating, of noxious habits and of environment, which enhances the somatic vigor of the race; and it stimulates metabolism—so that the cellular activity being increased, the immunity of the individuals raised.

On the other (hand, lack of exercising any part tends to degeneration! and atrophy. With all the modern inventions and specialization of labor certain functions are hyperdeveloped at the expense of others, which in

Digitized by v^ooQle
—110-

turn become more liable to degeneration and infection. In all1 probability this plays an important role in the contracting of certain diseases; and as surely as it does, by the gradual exercising of the hypoplasic or atrophic part with an increase in the metabolism of the cell, the morbid condition will be improved.

How do these principles interest the practitioner of medicine? Is it not his duty to minister to the people mentally, morally, socially and physically? Is he not the precursor of health hints? Is not Physical Training a means of raising an individual’s immunity? Is it not his duty, therefore, to familiarize himself with the systems, the tenets and the uses of this science? Is it not his duty to investigate the work now being done along this line,— giving his support to those worthy of it and directing his energies to make it more useful by educating the public? His words are the ones to educate the laity along the lines beneficial1 to health. His duty does not end with advising a mother as to the proper feeding and clothing of a child, but should include advise as to the necessary outdoor life which will have so great an effect upon the child’s future. His duty extends even farther, it embodies the education of that boy or girl, an investigation into the school system and especially the system of Physical Education of the school which the child attends, and suggestions to the proper authorities for its improvement so that a better, stronger, healthier boy or girl1 enters life’s work and is able to perpetuate the best type of manhood. His duty reaches a step farther; it embraces his suggestions to the man and woman, and he should be thoroughly cognizant of the character of the work in the gymnasium which he recommends; it is not enough to recommend gymnastic work, he should recommend a certain gymnasium, call or write the director in charge, and then see to it that his patient, for whom he is still responsible, is receiving what is required for his or her particular needs.

If there be no such place, he can recommend, the physicians should concentrate their energies in a united effort to secure such a plant, modem, constructed on hygienic principles and well equipped, with both facilities, with appliances for correcting anatomic deformities, with competent attendants and masseurs, etc., where their patients could be directly under their supervision.

The Physician and Physical Director are crusaders against the ravages of disease. They should join hands and work more in harmony and unison to increase the physical efficiency and the immunity of the community and so, make a better, healthier and happier race.

—The John Physical Training Club of Chicago has planned a very strenuous program for the season 1911.

Dr. Hartung continues his lectures on physiology.

A committee was appointed to offer suggestions towards solving the puzzle of nomenclature. (That committee has my sympathy. I’ll report the outcome if you care for a report on it.)

Part of one meeting each month is devoted to the discussion of current topics in physical training.

To our practical work, the demonstration of new ideas in our field, games and fancy steps, we have added special corrective exercises.

A very valuable addition to the club's resources is our new library.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-111-

Colleague Kopp donated to the library, besides several valuable books, a complete collection of Ithe. issues of Mind and Body. (I learned the several members had “Mind and Body” from the first to the last number, but “Bill” has us all beaten by a length when it comes to be patriotic and generous. But you can see how highly. Mind and Body is appreciated.)

A group picture of the members of the club was presented to the Chicago Turngemeinde as a token of our appreciation of the society’s hospitality towards us.

Colleague Wm. Kopp is our president re-elect; colleague Chas. Knapp, secretary.	C.	F.	Wegge.

FANCY DIVING.

ONE LITTLE-UNDERSTOOD BRANCH OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By C. L. Drake, Swimming Instructor, Muegge Institute, and F. C. E. Schneider, M.D., Muegg^ Institute, St. Louis, Mo.

(Concluded.)

Coming to the voluntary work each contestant has a repertoire of six or seven carefully practiced dives, which he plays into the competition in the manner of a general directing his forces; no diver will risk a difficult feat, with its chance of a miss, unless it is necessary to overcome the lead of an opponent. All these dives can be classified under the three headings as Statue, Imitatory and Acrobatic Dives. All of these have distinctive names, and their correct performance must include the characteristics inseparable from each, with a “clean entry” the object of all of them. Any list of these must include the following more important, as these have become standardized because of the extent to which their creditable performance always impresses the judges:—

The Hollander, an acrobatic dive, sometimes miscalled the “Back Dutchman,” also “The Gainer:"—T>om, a leaning front stand (See Fig. 3, which is correct in this dive) the diver springs straight up; at the height of the spring he swings the legs forward and overhead, at the same time jerking the arms overhead and down behind his back, making a one-half somersault backwards, entering the water head first. Looks best from a standing start.

The Salmon, an imitatory dive, in which the diver portrays the leaping of the hooked fish as it seeks its escape, is a late favorite. It is exactly the same as the Hollander except that a one-half side-roll is added to the one-half back somersault. This looks best from a running start, as then the swift upward rush of the fish from the depths is given its share of attention.

The Swan, imitatory:—This portrays the gliding bird as it alights upon the water. It is not effective excepi f™m the highest take-off; from there it is a very pretty dive. From a leaning front stand, spring up into the air as far out from the tower as possible, stretching the arms sideways and slightly bowed upwards and hollowing the back as much as possible. When just about to strike the water, the diver closes up to the position for entry in the plain front. (See Fig. 1 April issue.)

The Mercury, a statue, or posing dive:—The diver takes 2k position in

Digitized by LjOOQle
-112-

accordance with the attitude of some well-known sculpture of the winged Messenger of the Gods, usually with one hand shading the eyes, the other stretched forwards in the direction of the flight, and the legs in a striding, flying position. Just as his finger-tips touch the water, the diver closes-up for a “front entry.” Looks well only from a height.

The Side dive, a plain diveStanding at the edge of the take-off, with his side presented to the water, the diver flies into the air lying upon his side and enters the water, when perpendicular, with the same flank now presented to the tower. This looks well from a height, but does not impress the judges.

The Cork-screw, imitatory:—This shows, with the aid of the imagination, the action of a certain little implement sometimes necessary to the assuagement of thirst. It is also called the Twister. Spring out from the leaning front take-off; the diver rolls sideways in the air one complete turn and enters the water as from the plain front. This is one of the most difficult dives there is, and it does not look impressive even when well performed. But the judges understand, and give full credit for its proper exhibition.

The Front One-and-one-half, backwards, acrobatic:—Start is the same as in the Hollander, but the somersaulting turn is continued until the body has revolVed one-and-one-half times to a back-entry. It must be understood that a single somersault brings the diver into the water feet first, and is not a dive, in our American comprehension, at all. That is a jump. Our European, cousins, though, allow a “feet first entry,” and give credit for it.

The Back One-and-one-half, forward, acrobatic:—This is extremely difficult. Starting from a leaning back take-off (Sfce Fig. 4 April issue) and springing up as in the back jack-knife, the diver raises his arms to the somersaulting position (See Fig. 5 April issue) and snaps them down, turning one-and-one-half times to a back entry.

The Back One-and-one-half, backwards, acrobatic. From a leaning back take-off the diver springs straight-up swinging his arms from his sides overhead and, at the same time, raising his knees in the same direction and trying to force them above his head'; and he revolves one-and-one-half turns to a back entry.

The Two-and-one-half, forward:—Exactly the same as the one-and-one-half, except that exceptionally strong and agile men may add one complete somersault to that. This has never been attempted from a back stand.

The Back Two-and-one-half, backwards:—Similar to the one-and-one-half, with the extra somersault. A Back Two-and-one-half, forwards, has never been attempted in competition.

The Rolling One-and-one-half, forwards:—This is very difficult from a spring-board and even harder from the still-board. Starting the same as in the simple one-and-one-half, except that body is twisted sideways from the waist up, with one arm extended up backwards (See Fig. 7) the snap is downwards and to‘the opposite side (See Fig. 8) and the diver makes one complete roll sideways in addition to the somersaulting turns. This is also known as the One-and-a-half Twister.

The Two-and-one-half Twister has never been attempted in a competition ; but many divers practice it and it may be that it can. be shown in the
-113-

future. From the thirty-foot height it may prove that extreme feat beyond which Fancy Diving may never further venture.

But the exhibitors of these very complicated feats do not always win the meets. Some unobstrusive chap, who has been plodding along with clean, although less showy -dives, sometimes looms up in the finals with a point or two more than any of the most daring contestants.* Five points for clean entry does it.

These patient fellows climb up to the “thirty” and execute therefrom such dives as

Position on board for one-and two-and-one-half twisters.

Position in air for one-and two-and-one-half twisters.

Uifuvli

ft a



Jim* *5*Ji.





The Front One-half Twister, Back Entry; and

The Back One-half Twister, Front Entry; the titles of which explain them; or

The Railroader, which attempts to portary the manner in which a rapidly moving train leaves the rails as it comes to a river from which the bridge has been casually removed. It is done from a racing take-off, and without the springing start. Standing as far back from the diving edge of the platform as possible, the diver races to the edge and takes-off from one foot, in the manner of the broad jumper, and sails as far out from the tower as possible to a front entry. This is not so easy as it reads; and its perfect performance from “the thirty” wins nine points.

In scoring a very complicated dive, the judges proceed as follows:— For position “on board,” one point; for position “in air,** one point; for “entry,” five points; now, say in the case of a Two-and-one-half Twister

Digitized by L.ooQle
-114-

from the “thirty,” two points “for height,” and one point for every one-half roll or one-half somersault in the feat, which contains one whol'e twist and two complete somersaults, an extra six points; a total of fifteen points for the perfect dive. A man may try this in a competition and fail only in making the last half turn, which should give him a “clean entry,” striking “flat.” His score should be as above, with five points off for flat entry and one point off for failure to complete the turn; total, nine points; leaving him on even terms with a man who has performed perfectly the simple one-half twister from the same height.

Sometimes, in these contests, a distanced competitor, one who can not overcome the lead of his opponents in the remaining dives, will introduce a humorous turn by trying “comedy Dives.” Among these are, The Hebrew; the diver, while in the air, posing in one of the caricature attitudes of that ancient race, who are supposed to be unable to talk if deprived of the use of their hands; The Missouri Mule; the diver crams his thumbs into his own ears and wriggles his hands in imitation of the moving of the aurel appendages of that celebrated quadruped; The Salome, which explains itself.

This list does not include all the dives possible to the Fancy Diving Art; but those already shown in actual contests are described. There is always a “coming champion” in practice who “springs a new one” in the next contest.

In training for complicated results, divers do their first work on the spring-board, this so arranged that the preliminary run may be dispensed with. In the pool of the Muegge Institute, in St. Louis, where fancy diving has always had a strong hold, a spring-board is so placed that the man in training may mount a forty-two inches high stand near its springing end and from there, jump upon the board, doing away with the running start which adds to the difficulties of a new dive. By this means the man in training gets all the benefit of a very easy and sufficient spring from which to execute the intricate maneuvers in the air. Perfected in these, he adds the running start, and then does away with it as he climbs the tower for the standing start from the highest platform.

Considering all that has been accomplished, and all that is in process of accomplishing, it cannot be denied that Fancy Diving in its fullest sense has arrived; and that it will remain an object of physical training as long as Old Sol sends hot summers and while the spirit of youth is the spirit of emulation.

A “Hiking Trip” from Kenosha, Wis., on Lake Michigan to the Mississippi River and Return in Fifteen Days.

By L. R. Burnett, M.D.

When the suggestion of an overland “Hike” or Tramp was first made to the boy’s gymnasium class, a chorus of voices cried, “Count me in.” So many were anxious to go that the party was limited to the twelve boys who first succeeded in raising eight dollars. This proved sufficient to cover expenses for the trip. The enthusiastic “Hikers” at once set about securing donations from business firms.

Kenosha, Wis., is a rapidly growing lake shore city, noted for the

Digitized by C^ooQle
-115—

largest tannery, its automobile, brass lamp and iron bed factories and hosiery mills.

When the Bain Wagon Manufacturing Co. loaned a large wagon gear, the plans of the boys enlarged and they secured lumber and constructed a special “prairie schooner” having plenty of box space for all camp equipment beneath a removable floor (which served later as a camp table-top.) A flat canvas top with curtained sides, a step-ladder hinged for the rear entrance and a wide cushioned platform extending over the wheels, completed the wagon-making, done entirely by the boys who ranged in age from twelve to sixteen. The finishing touch was the painting in large letters on each side, “Kenosha Y. M. C. A. Hikers.” “To the Mississippi and back.” As the day of departure drew near, another group of boys who had watched the preparations with envious eyes, made similar arrangements for a trip to the “Delies of Wis.” the beautiful lake region of the middle west. This trip was a failure, as the boys came home after three days, some by train, complaining that quarrels over camp duties were constant. This result proves the necessity of proper supervision on such a trip, viz; the presence of an older person in whom the boys have confidence.

Now, for the real “Hike Party.” The gymnasium director, at an expense of $15.00, secured a young man to serve as driver and his wife as cook, for the party. A strong team of mules cost $2.00 per day or $30 for the trip.

The equipment included a 12x14 tent, a gasoline stove, a malleable iron camp stove, fifteen folding stools, a bicycle, lanterns and canned or box foods. Each boy furnished a blanket, fishing tackle, camera, etc., all clothing being packed in four suit cases. The director also had a medicine and “first aid” satchel.

A uniform was adopted consisting of a white soft hat, black sateen shirt, red bandana handkerchiefs and red neckties with “any kind of knee pants.”

At last the morning of starting came, Mon., Aug. 21, and with a large crowd to give them a cheer, the carefree boys were off toward the unknown west, laughing and singing as they walked. The rule was made, that no boy should ride in the “horseless carriage” unless injured, except on long levels or down grades and this was observed throughout the “hike.” Wisconsin is quite hilly and abounds with small lakes and the constantly changing scenery, so new to some of the boys who had never travelled, kept them rushing to the tops of hills ahead of the wagon. At noon, sixteen miles from Lake Michigan, a stop for dinner was made near a little lake into which the boys plunged for the first swim. One unfortunate boy stepped upon broken glass in the water and, when safe on shore, fainted while his injury was being dressed. This little incident brought into use the “first aid” and was the most serious injury of the trip, the only other troubles being toothache, indigestion (caused by green apples) and skin abrasions from diving in shallow water.

A good dinner and two hour’s rest refreshed both man and beast and the younger boys were off before the wagon started. As the hot afternoon waned the “Hikers” realized too late, that the first day’s jaunt had been too long and a camp must be secured. The Director unpacked the bicycle and rode three or four miles ahead to select a suitable site, near a farm house with its supplies and yet secluded in the woods.





Google


The farmers along the route were invariably hospitable (when they Teamed that the boys were not gypsies) directing them to the best camps and supplying milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits; also hay for the sturdy mules for which they were always paid. It was almost dark before the weary “hikers” could pitch the tent, gather leaves for beds and build a roaring fire before the tent while supper was being prepared. Each boy had his special work to do in making or breaking camp and the routine made short work of it after a few day’s practice, but the first camp was long in the making as the tent stakes had been lost on the road.

After supper the boys gathered about the camp-fire wrapped in blankets like Indians and listened to a short story read by the Director. The tired “Hikers” were soon drowsy however and one by one crept into the tent while the driver and his wife took possession of the wagon.

Only one who has spent a first night in the woods as a boy can appreciate the feelings of the “hikers” who were later awakened by a weird hooting sound just outside the tent. Thoughts of wolves and even lions flashed into the minds of the startled youngsters but the reassuring statement that it was only an owl calmed their fears.

All were up at daylight hungry for pan-cakes and molasses and by eight o’clock the wagon was packed to continue the journey. Before noon they reached Lake Geneva and were welcomed at the new Y. M. C. A. building where the boys improved their first opportunity to write home.

• Only a short stop was made as all were anxious to see the Yerkes Observatory with its telescope, one of the largest in the world, located on a hill overlooking the lake. Several hours were spent here and at the Y. M.

C.	A. training school camp nearby where they had a swimming and diving contest.

A lunch by the roadside and they were soon on the “hike” again, no one knowing or caring how far he should travel before night. Camp was made early in a little clearing surrounded by wooded hills and a fine supper of tomato soup, sweet corn, potatoes, apple sauce, home made bread, butter and millc, supplied by kind farmers appeased their glorious appetites. A roaring fire before the tent lighted up the woods and put the boys in the proper mood for tales of adventure.

Expenses for Tuesday, $1.70.

Next morning camp was struck in twenty minutes after breakfast, each boy washing his own tin plate and cup and doing his allotted share in packing. At 9 o’clock a sudden shower caught them on the road but the wagon-top did not leak and no stop was necessary. Pulling into the busy city of Janesville on the Rock river at 10:30 they attracted much attention along Main St. when they stopped for a short visit at the Y. M. C. A.

At noon a roadside lunch with fruits in season was enjoyed while the patient mules munched their oats and hay. During the afternoon an enormous swarm of brown butterflies was encountered which literally outnumbered the leaves of a l'arge maple tree about which they flew. Evening came on with no woods nearby but running water supplied by a brook made the cook happy.

Expense $1.80, principally for hay.

Several families of farmers were attracted to the camp by the large fire and they were much interested in the tumbling and wrestling exhibition given by the boys.

Digitized by (^.ooQte
-117-

The next day a long jaunt was made over good roads and with perfect weather. The boys went barefoot ahead, of the wagon. Camp was made near a creamerv at Spring Valley and at supper the cook received a unanimous vote as “the best ever.”

Expenses for Thursday $2.25.	'

Another perfect day greeted the “Hikers” and the “prairie schooner” was early on its way. At Broadhead the boys mailed their picture postal cards to the folks at home. The quiet towns of Monroe and Darlington with their typical arrangements of one main business square and pleasant residence side streets were visited. Little villages were passed where the town pump was still in evidence. The mules recognized it from afar.

Camp was made by the roadside and sitting around the blazing logs the short evening passed quickly with story telling.

Expenses of the day $1.35.

During the night a heavy wind and rain storm aroused every one and driving tent stakes in the rain at 3 A. M., is most uncomfortable. The downpour slackened long enough to allow for breakfast and wagon packing and the jolly “hikers” in bathing costume, enjoyed tramping in the warm rain that morning. As the weather cleared the travellers passed through Darlington and a fine camping place was selected near Shullsburg. A band of gypsies with several wagons was passed during the day and friendly greetings were exchanged. Expenses for the day were $3.20 including the daily expense for bread, butter and milk and the unusual one for shoeing and harness repairs.	1	*1

The party was now approaching the western goal, the great Mississippi River, as evidenced by the wooded hills with precipitous rock-bound ravines and narrow mountainous roads leading to Dubuque. The steep hills were at last climbed and for several miles the road followed a little stream on its way downward to the great river amid scenery rivalling that of the mountains. A fine camp site near the river was selected and from the hill back of the tent the thriving city of Dubuque could be seen across the river and three miles north. All were anxious to see the city and were soon off to E. Dubuque where toll was paid for walking over the long bridge into Iowa. The boys were much interested in the pearl' button industry and the gigantic piles of shells about the factories. At the Y. M. C. A. building the welcome included tickets to the swimming pool in the river and these were used after a short excursion about the city. All returned to camp early and the most enthusiastic fishermen baited their hooks while the others rambled about the woods. The call to supper brought only one fish and its proud possessor was' the smallest boy in the party.

The-next day, Sunday, was spent quietly in camp reading or resting and several of the older boys went to the Y. M. C. A. meeting. The next day found every one unwilling to quit the fine camp and it was voted to postpone the homeward journey through Illinois till next day. Baseball, rambles in the woods, fishing, boating and swimming occupied the day while the driver and cook visited the city for supplies. Expenses $3.50.

Tuesday morning camp was astir late tad after a leisurely meal the wagon was packed and started on its way down the river. Failing to reach Galena, a camp was arranged by the roadside and a ditch dug about the tent as dark clouds threatened rain. This did not materialize but hilarious farmers passing the tent at all hours made the campers seek more secluded

■&c3
-118-

sites thereafter. Expense of the day 70c. Camp was dismantled with alacrity on Wednesday morning and after a plunge in a nearby lake the march was resumed.

On a high bluff an overhanging boulder attracted the boys’ attention and after a hard climb and several minutes, tugging they had the pleasure of dislodging it and watched it go crashing into a deep ravine below.

Reaching Galena the ubiquitous picture post cards were obtained and the Y. M. C. A. pens and ink used. Camp was made several miles beyond the expected day’s journey as the roads were now fairly level, in striking contrast to the hilly region about Dubuque. .At midnight a rain put out the camp fire but the tent kept the “hikers” dry.

Expenses of Wednesday were $1.35.

The five miles to Freeport were walked before 9 A. M. After a fine time at the Y. M. C. A., which was one of the best of the eight associations visited, the “Hikers” continued their eastward walk. The mules were allowed to jog along as they pleased, yet they averaged thirty miles per day on the level Illinois roads. A good camp was found and expenses for the day, $2.10, were mainly for oats, hay and milk. Rockford, a busy city on the Rock River, was the next point of interest but the boys liked the country best and no urging was necessary to keep them moving. A good many miles were covered and camp pitched near a small stream. The novelty of a new camp every night never wore off and the usual stories about the camp fire at night made the boys sorry that the end must come the next week. Expense $1.00.

Up with the birds on a sunny Saturday the “hikers” were off ahead of the wagon and by running were able to get a swim in a creek before the wagon came along. At Belvidere the director, anxious to obtain a suitable camp over Sunday, was given a letter from the Y. M. C. A. to a country member who had a large farm. Here an excellent site on the Pishwaukee river, secluded from the road was found and the hospitable farmer furnished every need. In the evening his daughters invited the boys into the house and, at the piano, all made music, or at least a noise. The day’s expense $1.45.. A cold drizzling rain made Sunday unpleasant although the camp was the best of the trip. The boys lounged about the tent wrapped in blankets, reading or sleeping. Monday morning began very cold and only two of the bravest dared the plunge into the river before breakfast. The wagon was soon packed and the mules felt almost frisky after their stay in the farmer’s barn. Marengo was reached at 9 A. M. but only a short stop was made since all wished to travel. As the day grew warmer the spirits of all rose higher and rapid progress toward Lake Michigan was made. At noon the usual two hour stop for lunch by the roadside was made. The afternoon was enlivened by a visit to a large cider press. A good camp was made four miles from Waukegan. Expenses were $1.75.

With home thirty-five miles away, every boy wished to reach Kenosha before night and an early start was in order. From the highlands, Lake Michigan appeared like an ocean as the boys skirted the suburbs of Waukegan. Following the new Interurban Railway northward they entered Zion City, the religious community founded by John Alex. Dowie. The hungry “hikers” invaded the large general store and tested their , famous candy and ice cream. A visit to the tabernacle and to the extensive lace factory proved interesting and the boys were left far behind by the “prairie
-119-

schooner.” A Marathon run was necessary and, with the youngest setting the pace, it was overtaken handily.

Every boy had improved his physical condition during the outing, had learned to swim and had acquired the kent knee gait of a pedestrian.

At sunset the tired but happy “hikers,” singing and shouting, pulted into the city and toured Main St. before dispersing to their homes.

The trampers had spent fifteen days in the open air, travelling three hundred miles and visiting three states at an expense of about fifty cents per day.

Surely the gain to the boys, both physically and mentally, can hardly be estimated in dollars and cents.

(We hope that many associations, clubs and societies will be prompted by this admirable report to do likewise this coming summer.—Ed.)

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

SUMMER SESSION OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Attention is called to the summer session offered by the Normal College this year to physical directors, playground directors, play leaders, coaches and school teachers. The work consists of courses in theorjr and practice of physical training and related subjects, which are open to matriculates and non-matriculates qualified to pursue to advantage the work chosen by them. The rules concerning college work successfully completed by special students during the college year also apply to college work successfully completed by special students attending the summer session. (See catalogue of the Normal College). Special students receive certificates that cover the work satisfactorily completed by them.

The session is divided in two terms of two weeks each.

FIRST TERM : JULY 5 TO JULY 19, 1911.

Playgrounds : Management and Activities. Daily lectures. Plays and Games.

Daily practice.

School Hygiene. Daily lectures.

Applied Anatomy. Daily lectures.

Educational Gymnastics : Theory and Practice; Free Exercises without and with hand apparatus ;, Tactics and Dancing; Apparatus work. Daily lectures and practice.

Fencing. Daily practice.

SECOND TERM : JULY 19 TO AUGUST 2, 1911. '

Field and Track work. Theory and Practice. Daily lectures and practice.

Corrective Gymnastics. Esthetic and Folk Dancing.

Fencing and Applied Anatomy : Same as first term.

Students need not take the complete course offered in each term, for all subjects are elective and the tuition fee is based on the number or subjects pursued and the time devoted to each.

FACULTY: Wm. A. Stecher, B. S. G., Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.; Member of the Municipal Playground Commission of Philadelphia, Pa.; Lecturer on Playground Administration and Equipment; Instructor of Games and Plays.

John E. Morris, M. D., Professor of Anatomy, Normal College; School of Medicine of the Indiana State University; Lecturer on Applied Anatomy and School Hygiene.

Emil Rath, G. G., Dean of the Department of Theory and Practice of Physical Education of the Normal College; Director of Summer Session and Instructor of Educational Gymnastics.

Others to be announced later.

Room and board at reasonable rates may be had in close proximity to the college. For further information write for Summer Session Bulletin. Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, 415 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

Digitized by Google
Published Monthly,

A/\in_p and body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING C0.f

2k£U'ttraL'uJM«, *Wl*c©aaj»laa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The Boston convention of the American Physical Education Association was a highly successful meeting which will be certain to prove of value to all who attended. He hope to be able to print a number of the papers which should be of especial value to our readers. The demonstrations of different types of physical training work presented during the convention were of a high order. For the first time the delegates were able to see the work done in municipal gymnasiums. Boston showed exercises by men, while Brookline (in whose gymnasium the demonstration took place) showed exercises by boys, men, girls and women. To us, personally, these exercises were full of promise for the future development of our work. Here is a field for gymnastic work that is just opening and that offers a splendid opportunity for qualified teachers. The exercises of about one hundred women ranging from young girls to stately matrons, were an inspiration and a revelation to all who saw them.

At a meeting of the council the names of Montreal and of St. Louis were presented as places for the next meeting. While Montreal asked for the meeting during the Christmas holidays as offering a splendid chance to study Canadian winter sports, St. Louis called attention to the fact that the next meeting of the superintendents of schools will take place at the end of February in St. Louis, and that this would offer an exceptional opportunity of again presenting the different phases of physical training to the men and women who are at the head of school systems. It was decided to take aj mail vote among the council-members to select the location.

The Public School Section at its meeting elected Mr. A. E. Kindervater as its president, Dr. C. Ward Crampton having declined a re-election. This will move the headquarters of this society from New York, where it has been since 1904, to St. Louis. The elected vice-presidents are W. A. Steeher, E. H. Arnold, M. D., Ernst Hermann, and Josephine Beiderhase. A secretary-treasurer and two additional directors residing in the neighborhood of the new headquarters will be chosen later by the elected officers.

—Critical examination into some of our school practises often bring forth results greatly at variance with accepted rules. Most teachers, for instance, have accepted as absolutely correct the fact that a child is mentally at its best during the first hour of the school day.. This hour, therefore, has almost universally been used for such forms of school work as demand greatest mental effort. But look at the following report:

In the “Zeitschrift fuer Experimentelle Padagogik, Band X, Hefte I, 2, 3 and 4, 1910, Mr. Max Oker-Blom reports his investigations upon

Digitized by C^ooQle
-121-

tfhe increasing fatigue during a school day. His experiments were conducted in the Volksschulen (public schools) of Helsingfors, and they consisted of the addition of single figures. There were twelve separate columns each containing ten single figures. Each column was to be added and the sum placed at the bottom. At the end of three minutes each pupil, upon the command “Halt,” placed a line under the figure he just was adding. The experiment was carried on in several classes at the same time six times during each day’s session. The results were as follows:

1.	A time schedule which utilizes the hours from 7 to n and from 4 tb 6 o’clock produces better results than a continuous schedule that utilizes the time from 11 until 4 o’clock.

2.	'During the early morning hours (8 to 11 o’clock) the mental

ability is less than later in the day (from 11 to 2 o’clock.) Even the late afternoon hours (4 to 6 o’clock) are better for mental work than the early morning hours, provided a sufficiently long recreation period (5 hours) intervenes.	'

3.	There is a gradual rise in mental alertness during the morning, the second hour shows better results than the first, as also do the third and the fourth hours. The last (fifth) hour of an interrupted session shows a decreased ability in young children (10 to 11 years.) This decrease is not shown during the fifth hour of an interrupted school day.

Investigating the effects upon mental alertness of a long walk to school the results were as follows:

5.	A walk of 4-5 to 1 1-5 miles showed beneficial1 results. Children living; in the immediate neighborhood of the school, and who did not, therefore, get this daily form of exercise, were easily fatigued by any extra exertion. It appears that a daily walk of one mile to and from school is of benefit to all pupils. Older pupils may walk 1 y2 miles without effecting their mental alertness. Such pupils show a slight degree of fatigue during the first school hour, and with some this extends into the second hour. The symptoms of fatigue wear off, however, and then these pupils show an increased power of resisting mental as well as physical fatigue (brought about, undoubtedly, by their increased endurance and bodily vigor.)

6.	Marches of 1 4-5 to 2 1-5 miles to school are too severe for pupils in the elementary schools. The fatigue caused by such marches shows its effect during all hours of the day.

The experiments did not offer an opportunity for rating the fatigue caused by different studies. The effect of a stimulating presentation of school subjects could, however, be seen; also the depressing effect of poorly taught subjects. The effects of over stimulation in any particular subject was clearly revealed by a slight fatigue during the next hour.

The results show clearly the necessity for good pedagogical treatment of all subjects, the need of teaching in a manner demanded by the mental attitude (Geist und Gemuet) of the child, and also the recognition of the need of regulating not only the quantity of work, but also the hours necessary for recreation, in order to secure a steadily increasing mental alertness combined with a maximum mental efficiency.

A medical contributor to the London “Lancet” speaking of the excessive indulgence in athletics by girls of high school age in England, writes as follows:

Digitized by CjOOQle
-122-

“The moment class work is over the public and high school girl is driven compulsorily to the playing fields to practise games which do not in themselves sufficiently supply a training for all the muscles of the body, and this undue, indeed wicked, devotion to pointless athleticism produces ‘gregariousness4 rather than self-reliance.

“The violent games, such as hockey and football, cricket and even golf, especially when carried to such an excess, are responsible for the “insurgency’ of the modern girl against domestic responsibilities and the common duties of life; moreover, they tend to make the body a motor machine rather than the expression of a healthy and refined mind.

“If the present mental lukewarmness of girl's towards the principles of housekeeping, the care of infants, the true instincts of motherhood, and civic duties is to be changed, the wild cult of athleticism by girls and the congested and continuous time table prepared for them, without a moment’s spare time from bed rising to bed retiring, must be abandoned or extensively modified.

“It is a fact that excessive devotion to games is the cause of much of the mental restlessness, the frantic rush toward ‘What shall we do next?’ the discontent, and the inaptitude for work in many girls who, formerly afraid of nothing, now return from school to their homes, not as the finished article, but mentally numb and cold from a lack of resourcefulness and self-confidence.

“Such states of mind and body carve the way for the worst type of ‘nerves’ or neurasthenia, and they create in addition those characters described as the ‘cricket stoop,’ the ‘hockey walk,’ and the ‘golf stride/ or the ‘football roll’!”

Well, our English friends evidently are not afraid to speak plainly regarding the evils of “too much games.” It was perfectly natural that the pendulum would again swing in the opposite direction in the “land of games.” As a result, rational physical training (which also employs games) will again resume its forward march as the best means for an all-around physical education.

—Norman Cox, one of the best swimming coaches in Australia, says that many of the ideas held in this country about antipodean swimmers are not correct, particularly concerning the crawl stroke.

“There has been created in America,” Cox says, “a nomenclature for the different varieties of crawl, irrespective of what was being done abroad, and while I cannot but commend the idea of discriminating between types I fear it is going to entail great confusion until the chaff has been separated from the grain. You often hear spoken of, for instance, the Australian, American, Sullivan, Daniels, legless and other types of crawl as distinct varieties. Were you to attend tomorrow a meet in Sydney or Melbourne, you would see every one of these styles used, though we class them all under the one heading of crawl. You would see the boys who never heard of Sullivan or his stroke doing the ioo in one minute flat with it; you would see men who haven’t an idea of how Daniels swims use the identical method he does; you might see styles never attempted in the States, and all considered within the boundary of the crawl.”

Asked whether the original Australian stroke was not distinct from that used by Americans, Cox said:

Digitized by CjOOQle
—123—

‘‘That is a wrong impression. Cavill has modified his stroke to such an extent that I could almost be assured he swam the American crawl. They had all lengthened their arm reach when Healy won the middle-distance championship in 1909 with the crawl. And let me set you straight on another point, too, in which Americans are wrong. There is no such thing among good Australian swimmers as timing the right leg with the right arm and vice versa. Each swimmer follows his natural trend and suits his rhythm to his own peculiarities, inserting flutters and changes to suit himself. The arms are now held nearly straight and the legs, if they act in unison with the arms at all, favor the arms of the same side.

“When the leg drives it beats quickly, with a flip kind of motion and immediately returns to its normal position and it beats just as the hand of the same side puts the finishing touch to the arm drive. The normal position of the leg is slightly bent, foot extended to the utmost, and the height of the foot in the water such that the heel is about two inches above the surface, the tendon Achilles acting as cut water like the fin of a shark.

—There are some features of the annual report of the London Schools’ Swimming Association in which our readers will be interested. The number of affiliated schools for 1910 was 1291. During the year the Royal Humane Society made awards to 13 children, belonging to the association, who saved lives, and three of these children were girls, one of them, Viola Pope, making two rescues. The roll of honor of the association showed that 127 lives had been saved by the children of the association. During 1910 there were 10,497 first-class certificates issued, 6000 to boys able to swim IOO yards and 4407 to girls able to swim 50 yards. Moreover, 1328 life-saving certificates were awarded.

INTERNATIONAL HYGIENIC EXHIBITION, DRESDEN,

MAY TO OCTOBER, 1911.

As already announced in our February number.

Beginning in May, one of the greatest exhibits pertaining to hygiene will be opened in Dresden, Germany. The exhibit will include all modem innovations in hygiene, the plans for installing these improvements, the chemicals and apparatus needed in hygienic work, copies of the laws of hygiene in the various countries, practical demonstrations on hygiene subjects, lectures daily by prominent men on hygiene and good health, in fact the exhibition will be a complete symposium upon everything pertaining to life.

The general plan of the exhibit is divided into the following groups or sections, each of which has its own officers and committees, lectures and demonstrators.

1. Air, light, soil and water. 2. Colonization and home building, which includes the suburban home. 3. Nutrition and foods. 4. Cldthes and care of the body.. 5. Occupation and work. 6. Infectious diseases.

7.	Nursing and life saving corps. 8. Children and youths, which includes school hygiene. 9. Transportation. 10. Military and Marine. 11. Tropical medicine and hygiene. 12. Statistics.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—124—

In addition to the above the following special groups are arranged:

I. Tuberculosis. 2. Alcoholism. 3. Venereal diseases. 4. Cancer*

5.	Dentistry. 6. Race hygiene. 7. Historical review. 8. Sport division.

In each group the subject matter will be illustrated, discussed and demonstrated in detail by men who have made them a specialty. Thus in infectious diseases, the bacteriology, morphology and biology, the infection, pathology, symptoms, etc., are included.

The group for Sport, or Sport-Ausstellung as it is termed, has been given special1 prominence. All foreign gymnastic, athletic and play associations have representatives on the foreign “Honorary Board’’ of the “Sport-abteilung.” The North American Gymnastic Union is represented by Dr. Robt. Fischer of Indianapolis. This Sportausstellung embraces Gymnastics, Play, Athletics and Sport. Lectures will be delivered on all subjects pertaining to bodily development. The exhibit will include gymnastic apparatus, paraphernalia for the various athletic contests and games, pictures of athletic and gymnastic meets and exercises, statues of famous athl'etes, periodicals devoted to physical education and sport, plans for gymnasiums, swimming pools, playgrounds, athletic fields, baths, locker rooms, club houses, orthopedic apparatus, literature, first aid to the injured equipment and arrangement of camps, plans for ice and roller skating rinks, massage, diplomas, prizes, etc. All the important organizations who indulge in gymnastics or sport will1 meet there at some time during the exhibit, among them being, “The Academical Sport Vereinigung,” “The German Sport Vereinigung,” “The German Turnerschaft,” The Spiel Vereinigung, the Foot-ball, Lawn Tennis and many other organizations. Competitive meets open to all organizations in gymnastics, athletics, play, boxing, fencing, ' wrestling, shooting, hockey, lawn tennis, boating, bicycle riding, swimming, 'horse racing, golf, bowling, polo, etc., will be held. These events will' be for all ages and both sexes.

While America will not be officially represented by classes, it will be well worth while for individuals who expect to visit Europe this summer to-secure credentials from their organizations and either visit this exhibit or participate in the competitions. Entry blanks and all information may be obtained from Geheimer Commerzienrat K. A. Lingner, Ausstellungs-Amt, Zwickauer Strasse 35, Dresden, Germany.

WHERE THE KINDERGARTEN SUCCEEDS.

By Frances Portman, Director Kindergarten, State Normal School, Valley City, N. D.

In the March number of the Ladies’ Home Journal is printed an article entitled Where the Kindergarten Fails, which claims to point out the misdemeanors of the “average” Kindergarten by disregarding the physical, mental and spiritual needs of the child. No system claims perfection, but Miss Porter’s article attacks many things not found in good average Kindergartens today. I do not know where or when she has observed Kindergartens but surely she has been unfortunate in the types selected.

From the physical standpoint, the Kindergarten gives the child as good or better air, more equable heating and more comfortable physical surroundings than the average home. The two and a half hours a day are spent in

Digitized by CjOOQle
—125—

a definite method which both occupies and trains restless, active bodies and minds. “Let little children animals,” say many. All right; if you can. Children have minds and they will not remain mere animals no matter how hard you try to make them.

As for the eye strain, which is so dwelt upon, no Kindergarten, or any standing whatever, uses pricking, sewing, stringing of straws and paper, or peas work. What bead stringing there is, is done with y2 inch wooden beads strung upon shoe-strings surely not much strain on the average eye. The physical examination showed that only one child out of our 25 had any symptoms of near sightedness or astigmatism.

Now as to the inaccurate mental habits of which we are accused. We are told that the world about us will give us accurate mental habits. Is that true? This great “blooming buzzing world” is pretty liable to be confusing—the child gets a variety of impressions, but does he learn to connect these, and is anyone educated who cannot relate together varied experiences? The Kindergarten child is led to observe the habits of animals, birds, flowers and the simpler activities of men, which relate to his vital needs of food and shelter. He learns of their varying importance, and of how these relate to his welfare.

What the child sees he will imitate, nothing can keep him from it. The child, who has never heard o£ Kindergarten imitates everything he sees and hears, and why should Miss Porter make such a fuss because the Kindergarten lets him imitate wholesome activities. That is the child's way of finding out what the different actions of men and animals are. Through these plays he gains physical activity and freedom of expression before he can express his ideas in language or writing. His gift building gives him the most definite impressions of form and number. Story work also gives him a wide range of new ideas, new words and helps him to understand a variety of experiences, which would be impossible otherwise for him to have. The valuable habit of attention is also formed by these means.

The spiritual development of children is claimed to be stunted by our pernicious familiarity with the wonders of the earth. Is it stunting to the child to observe the winds and the sun, the earth and the water? Do the simple old myths and legends about these make him too familiar with the great forces of nature?

One great value of the Kindergarten is entirely omitted from Miss Porter's article and that is its great socializing value. There are certainly some dangers from associating together, but there are also great benefits. People have to live together in this world, and they have to learn how to do this. The average child in the home is not called upon to adjust himself to others of his own age, he may have his playthings when and where he will, but the Kindergarten helps him to realize that he is one of many, that there is always the good of the whole to be considered, and that the individual must learn at times to sink his individuality for that good.

As for obedience the Kindergarten child finds that the law is there for all to obey. A larger freedom is allowed him than that of the child in the grades, but though the laws are few and simple, nevertheless they exist and must be obeyed.

As for harmony, the average Kindergarten is quite as artistic and orderly as any surroundings the average child will ever have. It is much more

Digitized by
-126-

peaceful than his play on the streets or in the home, and he is not subjected to the caprice of the various grown up members of his family, but leads, for the space of two or three hours a day, an organized, harmonious, law-abiding life, busy with the things in which all children are interested, and gaining freedom of bodily expression, the foundation of right mental habits, and a right feeling for things and people, which is a good beginning in training for citizenship.

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

PLAY PROGRAM, OGDEN PARK, CHICAGO, ILL.

MEN’S OUTDOOR GYMNASIUM.

(For the Summer season of 1911).

All boys in the Playground are expected t© join in the activities

with the Instructor.

PERIOD NO. 1. 8.30 to 10.30 A. M. Individual instruction.

A.	Use of apparatus. Correct use of apparatus ; special stunts of skill-courage ; finished effort and form.

B.	All kinds of ball. Baseball, basketball ; playground ball, football ; soccer football.

C.	Free play throughout, inclusive of all activities./

PERIOD NO. 2. 10.30 A. M. to 12.30 P. M. Group contests.

A.	Ball. Baseball ; playground ball ; basket ball ; soccer football ; football.

B.	Athletics ; track and field work.

C.	Contests, tennis, quoits, and apparatus.

PERIOD NO. 3. 1.30 to 3.00 P. M. Passive or least active period of recreation.

A.	Modified relay races. Basket ball relay ; basket ball relay in circles ; basket ball relay overhead, etc.

B.	Circle games. Bull in ring ; dangerous neighbors; poisonous snake, etc.

PERIOD NO. 4. Group contests in highly organized plays and games*

A.	Ball. Basket ball ; playground ball ; soccer football ; football; baseball.

B.	Athletics ; track and field work.

C.	Contests. Tennis ; apparatus and quoits.

PERIOD NO. 5. 7.30 to 9.30 P. M. Individual instruction.

A.	Exercises on fixed apparatus. Horizontal bar ; parallel bars ; horse ; flying rings ; bucks.

B.	Athletics; track and field work.

C.	Free play.

Free play, or the unrestricted use of apparatus as self expres-sion is encouraged at all times and always.

E. G. Delaporte, Instructor.

t

Digitized by CjOOQle
-127-

—One million Mark have been asked for in a bill now before the Prussian parliament, for the sound development of adolescent youth. The preliminaries for the elaborate plans are referred to the Kultusministerium. The Prussian Kultusminister von Trott zu Solz for this purpose called a meeting of representatives of all organizations of youths, gymnastic and sporting associations, etc. Provincial, circuit and district committees will be formed to draft plans and work out the idea outlined by the ministerium.

At the opening of the Prussian parliament (Jan. ioth) the following was cited from the throne-speech regarding this movement:	To	develop

and to fix for life the physical and moral vigor of the adolescent youth after leaving school, the government has concluded to institute a definitely molded plan for their care. To carry out this plan and purpose special appropriations have been provided in the budget for 1911. These means have particularly been provided to facilitate and extend what has already been done on these lines voluntarily, and the strength of all these separate forces shall be brought together, united and fostered. The intensions of the government will be successful only if they are accompanied by the voluntary co-operation of widespread circles of the people.—(Koerperkultur.)

PLAY IN THE ENGLISH SCHOOLS.*

By Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

In that delightful story of Thomas Hughes, Tom Brown at Rugby, one gets a vivid picture of life in an English public school1, but you will understand of course that a Public School in England is not a Public School at all in our sense of the word, but a school that corresponds in general to a private academy in this country. It is for the sons of gentlemen, and “gentleman” is practically a title in England. A few years ago I was in the southern part of London and asked a well'-dressed boy if he could direct me to the Westminster School. He said he was going that way and would show me. I asked him if he attended that school. He said, “Oh no, that is for the sons of gentlemen.” I then asked: “Is not your father a gentleman,” and he replied, “No, my father is a carpenter.” In America a man may be both a gentleman and a carpenter, but he may not be so in England.

In the time of Tom Brown, a boy went to the Public School at the age of eight or nine and stayed until he wa? eighteen or nineteen, but today, the lower half of the Public School has been split off and the boy goes first to the Preparatory School. In the study of these schools, made by the Board of Education in 1904, there were found to be four hundred schools. A special questianaire was sent out, asking how much time was devoted to play in connection with these schools. It was found that the amount ranged from ten to twenty-one hours a week, with an average of about fifteen hours. In answer to the inquiry as to how much time the teachers were devoting to the supervision of play in these schools, the average was twelve hours a week.

It will be remembered that the boys now go to these schools at the age' of eight or nine and stay until they are thirteen or fourteen. The schools

* An address given Tuesday morning at the High School Annex, Denver, Colo., January 31st, 1911.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-128-

begin about the first of October and close about the first of August. From October until May all of these boys play foot-ball. As soon as the school closes in the afternoon, every boy puts on his foot-ball togs and goes out on the field; and the field must be large enough so that there can be as many foot ball games going on simultaneously as the number of boys in the school, divided by twenty-two.

When .one thinks of the number of injuries and fatalities in American foot-ball, and considers that these boys of eight or nine are playing against older boys and against the Masters in the school, he would think that by the end of the four years, most of the boys would be in the hospital or cemetery, but the record does not read that way. A Head-Master, who has had charge of one of these schools for eighteen years, says that during this entire time that there has been no serious accident and he thinks a boy is safer in the thick of a foot-ball1 scrimmage, than is one loafing about the campus. He says a number of boys fall off the fence and break their arms, or break their collar-bones, but that he has had no bone broken in foot-ball during this entire time. This certainly does not correspond with our experience, and it does not for the reason that they are playing a different sort of foot-ball. In the first place nearly all of the games are within the school and very few, if any, outside games are played. In the second place, they are playing mostly the Association or Socker game of foot-ball in place of Rugby. Of the four hundred schools, there the only forty that are playing Rugby, and all of these are playing Association as well; and, in the third place, Foot-ball, is a part of the regular work of the school. The Masters are playing in the game with the boys and the spirit of sportsmanship becomes ingrained in the play. If you will read what these Masters are saying about foot-ball1, you will find it is not that foot-ball is the best way to build up physique or to maintain health, but it is the best way to train an English gentleman. That, if you can train a boy so that he will go through all the shocks and contacts of a foot-ball game, and be a gentleman through it all, you have him trained so he will stay trained and that there is almost no other way to do it. From the first of May to the first of August the boys play cricket.

Going up from the Preparatory School to the Public School we find practically the same conditions as regards play with the exception that the enforcement of practise is in the hands of the boys of the ’sixth form, and IP they find a boy has been absenting himself from foot-ball, he will be called before one of the praeposters of the sixth form and he will say to him “Now, Johnny Brown, I hear that you were not out to play foot-ball last week— How did that happen ?” The reply will' perhaps be—“I was studying my Latin.” He will say—“You must not neglect your foot-ball for your Latin,” and if he continues to do it, he is likely to be caned for this as he is for any other infraction of the discipline of the school.

Comparing athletics in the English Public Schools with what goes by that name in the American High School, it seems to me there are several decided advantages in the English system. In the first place, in the American school, there will be only four or five per cent of the boys playing football, and these are the strongest members of the school, who might have gone through the entire High School period without taking much exercise and still have come out in splendid condition. The boys who are getting

Digitized by t^ooQle
-129-

the exercise are the boys who do not need it. The ninety-five per cent who are the real problem in physical development are looking on from the bleachers, while the five per cent who do not need the practice are getting practice for the others who do. In the English school, all the boys are playing and the weaker boys are getting proportionately more training. Again, in America, our athletics have been, until the last few years under the direction of coaches, who have been hired to win the game. These coaches have not been responsible for the social or educational product and they have not regarded this side of the work as a part of their job; consequently we have often played foot-ball and base ball, and other games, very much like rowdies. In England, they have a curious idea that the object of a game is to have a good time and that it does not matter very much whether you bfcat or are beaten, so long as you play a good game. Sometimes in an American game, it may be seen that the rooters on the bleachers are trying to disconcert the opposing team, or in some way to prevent them from doing their best. It is not unknown that there often is an attempt to bother the pitcher or annoy the first-baseman, so as to prevent them doing their best. In England, either of these things would be considered a fundamental1 violation of the spirit of sportsmanship. Sportsmanship is a direct descendant of the chivalry of the Middle Ages, which was essentially primitive ethics. It means in its general purpose that you shall fight to the last ditch to win the game, but everything shall be free and above-board. That you will treat your opponent as your guest and give him at least as many advantages in the contest as you have yourself. That you will not try to take advantage of any circumstance wdiich prevents his doing'his best in the game. It would be hard to find a better example of what sportsmanship stands for than the case in the lists of Ashby de la Zousche, where Ivanhoe rides against De Grant Misnill for the great prize of the tourney. In the charge the horse of the latter slips and places him at the mercy of Ivanhoe who can easily overthrow him and win the prize, but he raises his lance and rides by the other end, and offers him another chance, because he has been at a disadvantage.

In the English High Schools for girls almost the same conditions prevail as in the Public School. Cricket is played with a harder ball than base-ball and with a heavier bat, and yet, in fully one-half of all of these schools, they are requiring the girls to play cricket from ten to twenty hours a week. I suppose if all the girls in every American High School should be required to play base ball there would be an insurrection, but this is practically what they are doing in the English schools as fully half of them require the girls to.play cricket. Nearly all of the girls are required to play tennis, also most bf them play hockey hi the winter.

I believe we have much to learn from these English schools. Many of our high school girls feel that they are young ladies and too old to play, but I feel that it would be greatly to th^ir advantage if we could have such a system of play as they have in the English schools. There are two games which I think we ought to require all High School girls to play. The first of these is Volley Ball.

The great advantage of this game is that it keeps the shoulders back and head up all the time because the ball is up in the air. It is the be$t game we have to correct the bad postures acquired from leaning over the desks in the school room, and to give a girl a good carriage. It develops

Digitized by CaOOQle
-130-

and expands the chest and the exercise in the open air i9 the best possible cosmetic to give a bright eye and a pink complexion.

The other game is the game of Indoor Base-ball, or playground ball. These two games of Volley Ball and Indoor Base-ball can be played on almost any school ground and there should be a League in connection with every school.

CAPTAIN BALL RULES FOR 1911.

FIELD

1.	—The field or playing space shall be divided into two equal parts by a Center Line.

2.	—The bases are ft. square, placed and named as shown on the diagram.

TEAMS

3.	—Ten (10) players form a team. They are divided into:

Basemen.—Two (2) Forward Basemen, Two X2) Corner Base-men, One (1) Captain Baseman.

CAPTAI/1

El

0

RIWT S.OMIK	LtrT	COIWIOV

0 0

p

RtW

rORWVRP

0

B

LEFT FORWARP

0

p

Digitized by CjOOQle
-131-

Guards.—Two (2) Forward Guards, Two (2) Corner Guards,

One (1) Captain Guard.

Their positions are shown on the diagram.

OBJECT

4.—The object of the game is to get the Fall (a basket ball) successively into the hands of two or more basemen of the same side.

TIME

5*—*The game is played in halves of from ten (10) to fifteen (15) minutes each.

In case of a tie score, pxtra two minute periods must be played until the tie is broken.

At the end of the first half, the teams change sides on. the field.

OFFICIALS

6.—The officials are a Referee, who decides what points are scored, when fouls are committed, and awards free throws, fouling, and a Timekeeper, who is also Scorer.



\

. : 6

m

/

07

Q

">C

/	"-V.

23—

/

'V !



4

Digitized by L.ooQle
-132-

STARTING PLAY

7.	—At the beginning of the game, after each scoring play, and after each successful' free throw, the Referee tosses up the ball (at least 10 ft.) in the center between two guards. As the ball is about to descend, he blows his whistle; the ball must not be touched before the whistle is blown.

8.	—At the beginning of the game, the ball is tossed up between the opposing Captain Guards, and thereafter between opposing guards playing the same position on such team in the following order: Right Forward Guards, Left Forward Guards, Right Corner Guards, Left Corner Guards.

SCORING

9.	—A score is made when the ball passes from a baseman to another baseman of the same side. A number of rebounds from ground, ceiling, or players during the passage of the ball does not invalidate the score, nor does rolling. The ball may be passed in any manner whatsoever, so long as it does not rebound from wall, fence or spectator, in this case the ball is to be played by the guard.

10.	—In order to score, no baseman may handle the ball more than once during a play. When two opposing players get possession of the ball' at the same time, it is played by the guard.

11.	—Points are counted as follows:

If a baseman gets the ball from a baseman of the same side, the play counts ONE point.

If a Captain Baseman gets the ball from a baseman of the same side, the play counts TWO points.

If the. ball successively gets into the hands of two different basemen and the Captain Baseman of the same side, the play counts THREE points.

If the ball successively gets into the hands of three different basemen and the Captain Baseman of the same side, the play counts FOUR points.

If the ball successively gets into the hands of four different basemen of the same side and the Captaii) Baseman, the play counts FIVE points. This is the highest score possible in one play.

12.	—After the Captain Baseman gets the ball from a baseman of the same side, no further points may be made, and the ball must be tossed up in the center.

13.	—If a guard first throws the ball to his Captain Baseman, there is no score made thereby. In such a case, however, the Captain Baseman may begin a scoring play. The highest possible score by this play is FOUR points.

FOULS

14.	—A baseman must always have at least one foot on the base, failure to do so constitutes a foul. This permits the baseman to jump up in the air to catch the ball, provided that in landing, the foot on the base touches the ground first.

15.	—Guards must not step'on the bases or on the territory of their opponents. This permits them to reach over the line for the ball, provided that they do not touch the ground of their opponents territory. Failure to observe this rule constitutes a foul.

16:—Touching the ball while it is in the hands of an opponent, or touching the opponent at that time, whether deliberately or not, constitutes a foul. ‘	..... - •

Digitized by CjOOQle
-133-

17-—Touching the ball while it is going up, when tossed up In the centre constitutes a foul.

18.	—Advancing the ball by one player constitutes a foul. This rule prohibits one guard from dribbling the ball, rolling it and then picking it up at an advance point, throwing it in the air and later catching it at an advance point, or taking a step with the ball.

19.	—Pushing, shoving, striking or tripping an opponent constitutes a

foul.

20.	—Delaying the game by holding the ball or otherwise constitutes a

foul.

PENALTY FOR FOULS

21.	—The referee announces fouls by blowing his whistle, and then gives the ball to the opposing Captain Baseman for a free throw, which, if successful, counts ONE point, the ball being tossed up in the center; if unsuccess-wul, the play continues.

22.	—In a free throw, the Captain Baseman must not be interfered with. His guard may, however, assist in guarding *any other baseman. Other guards must be given a reasonable timeTo assume positions; the blowing of the referee’s whistle is then the signal for the throw Jo be made.

23.	—In case of a foul, by a guard during a scoring play, the free throw is not to be given until1 the scoring play is over.

ENDING OF GAME

24.	—The blowing of the time-keeper’s "whistle ends the game; if the ball is in the air at that time, the game ends, as soon as its passage through the air is stopped.

25.	—If the time-keeper’s whistle blows before a free throw has started, the free throw and any ensuing fouls must be played out.’

Philip G. Lewis, Chairman. Frank C. Lokes, Secretary. Marie E. Bradley.

Roy E. Adams.	<

Edward B. Elsea.

Robert E. Orton.

Katherine J. Andrews. Hester E. Hillsley. Edwin W. Adams. Andrew M. Strang. Robert MacMullan.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—Exercise as a Condition of Health Assurance. Proper exercise is essential to health. This is now so generally recognised that the matter need not be dwelt upon here. Few realize, however, that unless exercise be of a proper kind and amount it will do harm as much as good—in fact, more harm than good. But in the midst of all the diverse teachings on this subject the layman may well stand in perplexity, not knowing what form of exercise to take. We are convinced that the best exercise is free play out of doors, and such free play is seen best in the games of children—tag, puss-in-the-corner, prisoners’ base, and so on. Next to these come the more mature games practised by adults—tennis, golf, cricket, lacrosse, baseball, and so on. These should be played for the exercise which they afford, for the joy of free movement and pleasant comradeship, and never to see which

Digitized by
-134-

side can be beaten. The element of competition, the desire to beat the other side or the other person, is in games, as in life, an element of danger, of injury, and often enough of destruction. Long walks in the country, riding, driving, automobiling, yachting—all these are good. Swimming and boxing are fine exercises for those who are robust. * Too much wrestling, running, and cycling are, we believe, more apt to do harm than p;ood.

In exercise, as in everything else, the quantity is important. If ope get too much there is injury. If one get too little the results are not what they should be. But to him who exercises rightly this factor is most important in the gaining of health assurance.—Health, London.

Hunger is that natural craving for food produced by certain states of the system, especially of the stomach, digestive, and masticatory organs, which returns at interval's, with more or less regularity, according to the peculiar states and circumstances of individuals. The intervals are very short in infancy and childhood, and shorter in women than men. Appetite depends on healthy changes in the system. The body is in a continual state of flux and change, the tissues undergoing metamorphosis continually. Wasted tissues are eliminated in the excretions, and the waste gives rise to want of fresh supplies. This feeling of want is appetite. It is favored by work, by plain living, by cheerfulness; it is the luxury of the poor, and is often denied to the rich.

The sensation of hunger is, at first, rather agreeable, but it quickly becomes unpleasant if prolonged. The sense of keen appetite is delightful, but that of “sinking in the stomach,” which follows, soon passes from an uneasy sensation into positive pain. The pain soon becomes acute, and, if food be still withheld, we feel as if the stomach were being torn in pieces. This is followed by a state of general exhaustion, feverishness, headache, light-headedness, often flaming into madness.

Deprivation of food, either total or partial, is, as we are all aware, known as starvation. In starvation the system, for want of other supplies, is compelled to prey upon itself. The fat goes first—its oxygen and hydrogen furnishing the readiest fuel and the most easily consumed material; then the muscles yield and become soft and wasted, the nervous system falls before the pressure of necessity, and with it goes mental power; delirium follows, and the vital force loses the power of resisting the ordinary processes of decay.

Thirst is a sensation closely resembling hunger in being a general sensation, although it is generally considered only as local, arising from the dryness of the mouth and throat. This dryness of the mouth and throat is produced by a deficiency of liquid in the body, but it may be, and often is, produced when there is no deficiency in the general system, nothing but a local disturbance, this local disturbance producting a local sensation. Men have been known to endure absolute privation from food for some weeks, but three days of absolute privation from drink (unless in a moist atmosphere) is perhaps the limit of endurance.

The effects produced by thirst are, first, a dryness of the mouth, palate, and’throat; the secretions become less copious; the mouth is covered with a thick mucus; the tongue cleaves to the palate; the voice becomes hoarse; the eyes flash fire; the breathing grows difficult; a feverish excitement, often

Digitized by CjOOQle
-135-

passing into delirium, comes on. Sleep also grows fitful. It is to be observed that the sensation of thirst is never agreeable, no matter how slight it may be, and in this respect it differs from hunger, which in its earlier stages is decidedly agreeable.—Health, London.

—Based on data noted 1896 to 1898 at the Leipsiger Universitaetspoli-tlinik, Dr. L. Steiner, Leipsig, came to the following conclusions concerning the length of life of tubercular patients in a large city:

1.	The average length of life of tubercular workingmen in large cities is three years from the appearance of subjective symptoms until death.

2.	Heredity from parents is of no consequence to adult patients.

3.	Female employes succumb to tuberculosis sooner than male workmen.

4.	Treatment in institutions lengthens life on the average by 1J/2 to 2 years.

5.	Dusty occupations show the least length of life.

6.	Greatest resistence is shown in tubercular diseased at the age of from 14 to 17 and from 30 to 49.

7.	Complications of pleuritic exudate is not prognostically dangerous.

8.	Slight hemorrhages are prognostically favorable.

9.	The presence of eosinophiles in the sputum is favorable to a longer course of the disease.

Zeitschrift f. Tuberkulose, Bd. 16, Dept. 2.

—Researches and tests of leather floors have been instituted in Germany by Professor Dr. Griesbach which have lead to the following conclusions.

The wear of the leather floor is less than that of oak and of beech. The resiliency of the leather plates is appreciably less than that of wood. The expansion of the leather plates is considerably more than that of wood. In comparison with the wood in question the leather flooring shows a greater hardness. All decorations (coloring) of any kind should be dispensed with, because, in course of time the colored inlayings would partly rise out of the bedding and partly sink into it. The greatest drawback with the leather flooring lies in the fact that it absorbs a great deal of water. In consequence the leather floor, in repeated cases of contact with wet boots or damp cleaning, will become uneven in places. If the manufacture of leather flooring is to be continued the above mentioned wants must be done away with. If this is not possible then the introduction of the same into public rooms, especially school-rooms, is unwise.—International Magazine of School Hygiene.	____

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

__________________ V

—The recently announced innovation in the policy of Phillips Andover Academy toward school sports is worthy of more than passing notice. Andover will try next fall the experiment of laying stress on interclass football, and of treating the school team as an aggregation of the best players, not as

Digitized by v^ooQie
-136-

the only aggregation of players. The results of this experiment will be awaited with much curiosity by rational followers of American school and college sport. Andover proposes, in football, to call out the 250 or more men who like the game, divide them into classes, and then into smaller groups, according to age and strength, and match these teams against each other in a kind of school tournament, selecting the best eleven men for the school team from all of these squads, only a short time before the Exeter game. This team will then play the Yale and Harvard freshmen probably, and then go up to the annual championship. This plan should bring out every able-bodied boy in the school, and create a very general football interest, which, because it is diffused over all the boys instead of centred on the few school athletic leaders, should be far less nervous and exciting, and injurious than it now is. The move is in the right direction—toward general athletics—and is one of the most promising developments in American school life noted in a long while.

—There is every likelihood of a curtailment in the list of events to be held in Stockholm, Sweden, next year, and the International Olympic Committee now finds itself concerned with the condensation and the necessity for standard conditions governing the events decided upon. The shortness of the period of the festival involves the omission of certain of the sports.

The Swedish Committee proposes to intrust the work of the actual management to the sub-committees appointed by the governing associations of Sweden. As a rule Swedes only will be appointed officials, but the Swedish Committee may at its discretion avail itself of the assistance of foreigners, as was done occasionally—for instance, in fencing—by the British Committee.

In comparison with the previous Olympic games it is noticeable that some little reduction has been made. Running races at all of the most popular distances are retained, but there is only one walking contest, at the distance of 10,000 meters, as against those of 8,500 meters and ten miles held in 1908. The 400 meters hurdle and the steeplechase are eliminated, except that the latter will form part of the “modern Pentathlon.” On the other hand a new event is introduced in a cross-country race at 8,000 meters.

Changes have been made in the javelin and discus events, the free style in the one and the Greek style in the other having been given up. A new feature of these exercises is introducd in the offer of prizes for ambidexterity. The Pentathlon is modeled on ancient lines, with the exception that wrestling is omitted, and a 1,500-meters race added to the 200-meters race, a premium apparently being put on foot racing. The Decathlon to some extent resembles the programme of a standard athletic series, except that the javelin and discus are substituted for the hammer, and a pole jump for the half-mile race.

Graeco-Roman will be the style in the wrestling bouts, this being the style universally used on the continent. In gymnastics a team competition in exercises according to the Swedish system of gymnastics is a new feature on the programme.

Noticeable innovations in the swimming events will be a 400-meters breast stroke and a 100-meters race, as well as a diving contest for ladies. Mention is made in the rowing line of but two first-class events, viz., the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-137-

eights and the sculls. Instead of pairs and fours, two events are put forward for four-oared crews, one in best boats with coxswains, the other in inrigged boats, the special definition of which is to be issued by the Swedish R. A. at an early date.

Some criticism is expressed in connection with the length of the course, 2,300 meters, or some 123 yards less than the ordinary Henley regatta distance. The entries for this sport are made acquainted with the fact that the entries close May 18, two months before the racing begins.

—All American records for ski jumping were broken at the annual tournament of the Ironwood, Mich., Ski Club by Andrew Haugen, of Chippewa Falls, last years' national champion, who jumped 152 feet. The previous American record of 140 feet was made at Marquette a year ago by August Nordby, of Superior, Wis.

—While the arrangements have been carefully safeguarded, it has just developed that a picked team of Yale and Harvard athletes—track and field men—will visit England this Summer.

The contests are carded for July, shortly after the British track championships.

Both Oxford and Cambridge have track teams of exceptional excellence this year, and they made a favorable reply when “sounded” a short while ago as to what their attitude would be toward a Harvard-Yale challenge for an international ’Varsity event.

In 1899, at the Queens Club grounds, West Kensington, London, Oxford and Cambridge won by five events to four. At Berkeley Oval, New York, in 1901, Yale and Harvard turned the tables, winning by a score of six to three, and duplicating the performance three years later at the Queens Club grounds by a similar score.

Other intervarsity-international matches were decided in London, in 1984, Yale vs. Oxford, with the latter the winner by 5y2 to 3j4, while in the next year at Manhattan Field Yale defeated Cambridge by eight events to three.

—Dr. Kallenberg of Chicago writes us that he received word recently to the effect that there had been organized in Manilla, Philippine Islands, an Amateur Athletic Federation somewhat like that one in Cook County, Illinois. Governor General Forbes of the Islands, formerly head football coach at Harvard University, is the President of the newly organized Federation. In view of the fact that athletics were in a chaotic condition in the Islands, the new organization has been received with open arms by all those interested in clean sport.

—On the night of March 9th the annual wrestling tournament of the Amateur Athletic Federation of Cook County, was held in the gymnasium of the Pilsen Sokol, one of the Bohemian Gymnastic Societies of Chicago. There were 209 entries in all classes, this being a large increase over last year’s entries.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-138-

—The Cornell fencing team, composed of D. G. Roos, P. W. Allison, and D. Espindola, won the intercollegiate championship at foils at the Hotei Astor last month, and D. G. Roos won the individual championship after a fence-off against M. W. Larimer of the navy. It is the firsjt time in the ten years of the Intercollegiate Fencing Association that any team has won outside of the army and navy. The army has won six championships and three have gone to Annapolis. The victory of the Cornell team was by a single bout, the Ithacans* total being 35 bouts, while the army’s was 34. Roos’s victory for individual honors came after a nip-and-tuck battle with Larimer. Each had tied with fourteen victories out of a possible fifteen. Seven judges watched the final bout, and five gave it to Roos, while the other two judges called the bout a tie. Roos is a left-handed fencer, and his form and style is aggressive and puzzling.

Annapolis was third in the tournament with 22 victories, Columbia fourth with 18, Pennsylvania fifth with 14, and Harvard last with 12 victories. The tournament was fenced in a round robin, each team fencing forty-five bouts. The competition began on Friday night and continued yesterday afternoon in the Belvedere of the Hotel Astor.

—Yale won the intercollegiate gymnastic championship March 20, scoring 25 points. Rutgers was second with 8, University of Pennsylvania third with 7, and Princeton and Harvard came next with 5 each. Other colleges to score were: Columbia, 2 points, and New York University and Haverford with I Vo each.

Capt. Eddie Clark of the Yale team was the only gvmnast to take two firsts. He also captured one third. Callahan of the Yale team won the individual championship with 221^2 points, with Everard of the Yale team second with 2o6*4, and Creamer of New York University third with 20134.

—Oxford University defeated Cambridge in their annual boat race by 3 lengths in the record breaking time of 18 min. 20 sec. The previous record was 18 min. 47 sec., made by Oxford in 1893 and duplicated by Cambridge in 1900.

—Cambridge’s athletes proved themselves masters over the Oxford representatives in their annual inter-varsity games, winning six events against four. Two American Rhodes scholars won their events for Oxford.

S.	E. Putnam, of Kansas, beat the world’s record at hammer throwing by nearly 5 ft. W. O. Ziegler, of Iowa, won the weight put.

—The Cook County (111.) Amateur Athletic Federation organized in 1908 is proving a greater success than its most ardent friends had hoped. Beside its bureau to furnish competent officials it has also organized a Lecture Bureau for the purpose of furnishing speakers to present such topics as “Health vs. Success,” “Athletic Law vs. Civic Law,” “Value of Play,” “Educational Value of Athletics, etc. The Federation is proving to be a very important educational movement for the best things in athletics.

—‘Close onto the heels of Illinois comes Wisconsin who recently* has organized the “Wisconsin State Amateur Athletic Federation.” It has been

Digitized by ^ooQle
-139-

organized along the same lines and at present takes in three cities, MtiU waukee, Racine and Beloit, but many others are expected to enter in a short while. The federation idea is to cater to the young athlete instead of the stars.

—In the first time in the history of track and field sports Germany has produced a first-class sprinter, who is little more than a beginner and who will undoubtedly be heard from at the Olympic Games next year. The man is R. Row and represents the Berliner Sport Club. He recently covered 50 meters in 5 7-10 sec., which compared with American records would be a little worse than 5 3-5 seconds for 55 yds. The record for 50 yds. is 5 2-5 seconds. Judging by these figures Row must be able to cover ground.

—In the Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, of which William E. Day is Physical Director, three hundred business men now take their regular workouts. There are three classes, each class meeting three times a week. The class work consists of calisthenics, medicine ball tossing, bounce-ball and volley ball. The three classes have also entered into an inter-class contest in basket ball, volley ball and indoor baseball.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Daily Ways to Health by Emily M. Bishop. 310 pages 5j^ by

inches. Published by B. W. Huebsch, New York. Mailing price $1.60. Mrs. Bishop has written a very entertaining book which will be of use to the general reader. The effect of the mind upon health is brought out in many convincing ways. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—American Red Cross Text Book on First Aid and Relief Columns. By Major Charles Lynch, Medical Corps, U. S. Army. A comprehensive text book on first aid to the injured for the individual and for the organization. In this small book of 250 pages will be found everything on the subject of first aid which any student of that subject ought to know.' Price $1 net. Published by P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Philadelphia.

—American Red Cross Abridged Text Book on First Aid. (General edition.) By Major Charles Lynch, Medical Corps, U. S. A. This small book is an abridgment of the larger one by the same author and has been published to meet the demand for a smaller book at a very low price. White the industrial edition should be chosen by the worker in that field, for ordinary classes this book is to be preferred. This edition is issued also in Italian, Slovak, Polish and Lithuanian. Price 30 cents net. Published by P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Philadelphia.

These books each 4J4 by 6 inches are in line with a systematic effort being made by the American Red Cross and others toward the conservation of human life, quite as important a field as the much talked of conservation of natural resources. Representatives of the Red Cross are now on all the mine rescue cars and the Association is about to put in operation a first aid car of its own. Both books will be of great service in gymnasiums and

Digitized by Google
-140-

playgrounds. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Personal Hygiene and Physical Training for Women. By Anna M. Galbraith, M. D., Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine. 5^2 by 8 inches, of 375 pages, with original illustrations. Philadelphia and London: W. B. Saunders Company, 1911. Cloth, mailing price $2.20.

In the preface the author says that the aim of this work has been to present in a clear and concise manner the fundamental physiological1 laws on which all personal hygiene is based; together with the practical, detailed directions for the proper development, of the body and the training of the physical powers to their highest degree of efficiency by means of fresh air, tonic baths, proper food and clothing, gymnastic and out-door exercise, so that the tissues will be placed in the best possible condition to resist disease. The illustrations are very fine halftones. The book should be very helpful to women looking for a safe guide in personal hygiene. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Books 00 Physical Training and related Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10 °|0 for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $1.00; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. tf 2, 9, 24, 72 and 149 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D........ 1.50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D............................. 1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen........................................................  1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D. . ................... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey.................... 50

Physical' Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D............................................................ 75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D.............................'....25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ........................................................ 20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—Bv Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D.......................................... J .00

Digitized by i^ooQle
-141-

Tactics.

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton.............................................30

Drills and Marches, by Rook..........................................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren. .	.50

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry....................... 75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen...................................................... 1.00

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D................................................  .35

Tactics, School.—By Wm. A. Stecher............................... 60

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.....................................50

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann.....75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz..............................  1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00 Exercises with the Dumb-Bell, Indian Club and Steel Bar, 1000.—By

F. J. Harvey...................................................50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gym- . nasties. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen............................................... 1.00

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch........................................10

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton........35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—-By S. P. Middleton.................... 1.00

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton..................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz....................60

Exercises on Horizontal and Parallel Bars, Rings and Horse, 1076.—

By F. J. Harvey............................................  .50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. 'Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth........................ 1.00

Games.

Children's Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer............50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal.................................................... 1.50

Games, Athletic,—for Women. By Gertrude Dudley and Frances

Kellor .............................................-...... 1*40

Games; Captain-ball, Dodgeball, Soccer, Football...............  .10

Digitized by c.ooQle
-142-

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton.............................................^25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold......................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnasltic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen............75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey.............y0

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer....	.75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft..............................................   1.50

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson...... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell.............................   1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch.......................15

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder............................75

Dancing.

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey........50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren..................................  50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford............a	.:....1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal...........................................'......... 1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison..........................  1.10

Folk Dances, Swedish.—J3y Nil's W. Bergquist.................... 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer..........75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Song-Pl'ays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin...............................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder..........................  75

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott.............25

Boxing, Dick's Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127'pages.............................. 25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md................    .25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D. . .	.25

How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth..........................................    1.00

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner...............................   25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each............45

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part 1.	80	Pyramids	on	one Parallel Bar.....................70

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars.....................55

Part III. 50 Pyramids on Table and Chairs... .................55

Digitized by Google
-143-

Part IV. 70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.......................70

Part V. 100 Free Pyramids.................................... .85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part:	60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses.....................70

Second Part:	40	Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses.. „..............50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders.......................... 1.00

Pyramids for Strong Men and Gymnasts, by F. J. Harvey..............50

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated..... 2.50

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling .....................................................25

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E.	H. Arnold, M. D............................................35

Gymnastics, Progressive Lessons in.—By Anton Leibold.............. 75

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold...	.65

Physical Training, Manual of.—-By T. Toepel, M. D..................50

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin........... 1.00

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each..............20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades................................35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades.............................. 35

Part III. Fifth Grade .........................................50

Subjects related to Physical Education.

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D....................$ .02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D.... 1 .50 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. 1.00

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren...........50

Civips and Health, by William H. Allen........................  1.40

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.50

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D...................... 1.20

Games; Captainball, Dodgeball, Soccer.............................10

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D............................50

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock....................... 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...........  .55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.......... 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw.............................   1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D.......... 1.00

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ella B.

Hallock..................................................... .45

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett...................  1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.................. 60

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D..	•75

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M, L............  .25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D..................... 1.20

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift.......................  1.50

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustraJt^—...................... 1.00

S1ATEftp®

tmmscE

7>- 1



Digitized by

fe
-144-

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. H. Arnold

M. D........................................................  .35

Open-Air Schools, 'by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D.................... 1.35

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams............................ 1.95

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..	.75

Playgrounds, American.—By E.	B.	Mero........................... 2.00

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer............10

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart........................... 1.65

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Lorna Higbee

Leland ...................................................... 2.50

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D....................... 1.50

Physical1 Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe.................... 1.00

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D.......55

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D..... 1.75

Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch .............................................. 1.00

Reproduction, by W. S.	Hall, M.	D.............................. 1.00

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D......... •............. 1.25

Sex and Society. Studies in the Social Psychology of Sex. By William T. Thomas............................................... 1.50

Tuberculosis a Preventable and Curable Disease, by S. A. Knopf,

M. D.......................................................   2.20

Tuberculosis in the United States, The Campaign Against.—Compiled

by Phil. P. Jacobs........................................... 1.00

SUCCESSFUL DRILLS AND MARCHES

By Gertrude WiUiami-Lundgren,

Send to	<&!*<**.	$nnfr0V*n,	428 S. Garfield Ave., BURLINGTON, IA

—I have been using “Marching Calesthenics and Fancy Steps” for a long time and have found it very helpful, and now am sending 50c for a copy of your new book, “Successful Drills and Marches.”

,	ALICE	C.	HAWKINS,

]	Physical	Director	of	Y.	W.	C.	A.,

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Coming West for Work? Or Pleasure ?

JUNE 12 TO JULY 21.

FOR PLEASURE ?

Dancing, Play and Play Ground Activities, Physical Education not only fot teachers, but for health seekers, and lovers of activity, A Boys’ and Girls’ Club, Popular readings by Professor Clark of Chicago, Growth and Education by Dr. Tyler of Amherst, Musical entertainments. 1(K)0 students in 1910.

FOR WORK ?

Opportunities for acquaintanceship in the community. Help in securing positions. Training for positions to teach physical education and to coach athletic teams.

An ideal summer city.

University of Utah Summer School of Physical Education

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

Digitized by