MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	JULY, 1922	No.	310

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil. ,Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulmy Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, iSyg.

Qriginal articles and reprint^

THE TRAINING OP TEACHERS AND SUPERVISORS OP PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND SCHOOL HEALTH.

JOHN SUNDWALL, PH. D., M. D., DIRECTOR, DIVISION OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICH.

Foreword:	In	view	of	the	wide	spread	interest	in	and	activities	for

health and personal fitness that are being manifested everywhere, one may readily conclude that physical education in our schools and colleges has had a veritable “come back” and is now in the height of its popularity. Of course, it was the war and particularly the dismaying revelations of the draft examinations, that gave physical education its impetus.

Whether physical education will continue in its present high state of popularity and importance will depend in the largest measure on physical educators themselves. We believe that its success, and it must succeed, will be determined largely by the following conditions:

1.	The physical educator must have an academic and professional training that is equal in every respect to that of the general educator. He must be respected by the latter as being the intellectual equal of those engaged in teaching the other subjects in the schools or colleges curricula.

Digitized by uooQle
146

There is no reason whatsoever why the ideal physical educator should not be regarded as among the most influential and intellectual members of the faculty. Furthermore, the ideally trained physical educator should be regarded as available material for the principalship or the superintendency of schools. In other words the physical educator must be by virtue of his training, his ideals and the importance of his work, an integral part of the faculty. He must be a real schoolman.

2.	No system of physical education will achieve its genuine ideals and play the important role that it should unless it has a lucid understanding and a genuine sympathy on the part of schoolmen. Here again the closest co-operation must exist between the physical educator and the general educator.

3.	The objectives in physical education must be clearly understood by both the physical educator and the general educator. Moreover, the relative values of these objectives must be appreciated. There is a trend on the part of physical educators to emphasize more and more, as the foremost important objective in physical education, the social, mental and moral qualities that may be gained through properly directed games, sports and athletics. As we view it, these are desirable by-products and should be cultivated whenever the opportunity is afforded. We feel, however, that personal fitness, physical effciency, the development of a sound, active, vigorous and harmoniously developed body should be the first objective in physical education. Furthermore, we feel that any system of physical education which is not primarily concerned with the human body—its health and efficiency will not stand the test of time.

4.	The ideal physical educator must be a real teacher. Especially should he be trained in the fundamentals of health promotion and disease prevention. He should not only be responsible for the teaching of these sciences in our public schools but he should by virtue of his training, supervise all the activities in the schools concerned with the promotion of the health and physical efficiency of school children.

With these conditions for the welfare of physical education in mind the University of Michigan has recently arranged a new curriculum for the training of men and women. Before going into the details of this program of study, let us attempt to emphasize the importance of school hygiene.

Importance of School Health Activities.	The preponderant import-

ance of school hygiene and school “Physical Fitness” in all their various phases cannot be overestimated. Not only for their direct salutary effects in the school room in contributing to the intellectual progress and physical well being of school children are efficient school hygiene and ““physical fitness” activities of incalculable value, but their priceless contributions, later on, to the welfare of society and nation must be borne ■ever in mind. Indeed, the most effectual and far reaching results to be anticipated in our present nation wide health and physical efficiency movements are those activities now being conducted in the public schools. Childhood and early youth is the time to develop proper health habits. (Let us use the term “health” to signify all these interests concerned with hygiene and personal fitness.) When every school in our land possesses an efficient health service whereby school children are made familiar with
147

the methods and facilities we have at our command for dealing with health, disease and subnormalcy and when every school child is given a lucid understanding of the fundamentals of health promotion and disease prevention and a keen appreciation of his obligation to society to maintain a sound, active, vigorous and harmoniously developed body; then and not until then will the millennium of public health and welfare be reached.

Appreciating the preponderant importance of school hygiene and the necessity for its intelligent and efficient administration, no contribution to the school hygiene movement on the part of the university can be of greater value than the training of capable teachers and supervisors of school hygiene and physical welfare activities. With this objective in view, the School of Education of the University of Michigan, in cooperation with other schools and departments concerned, has recently designed a course of study for the training of men and women for this particular profession.

In arranging this curriculum, the dominant object in view has been to co-ordinate all those interests and activities which have to do with the physical well-being of school children. Feeling that this new move on the part of the University may be of interest to those concerned with physical welfare activities in schools and colleges; the following prospectus of the motives and contents of the curriculum is submitted.

General Statement:	Sufficient	health	surveys	have been made in the

public schools to warrant the conclusion that 75% of our school children have physical defects which are potentially or actually detrimental to health and efficiency. The results of the “draft examination,0 preparatory to our nation’s participation in the recent world war, revealed the deplorable fact that more than one-third of our young men in the very prime of young manhood were so defective physically that they could not withstand the ordinary strenuousness of a soldier’s out-of-door life. Many of these defects were correctible and most of them could have been prevented. Numerous physical examinations have been made by various life saving agencies, of people in all the professions and trades of life. The results show that as the mid-period of life is reached, when the individual should be of the greatest economic and social value, a sound, healthy and active body is, comparatively, a rare finding. Thus, at all ages our people show that we have failed largely in one of the most important fundamentals of education and of life, that of promoting sound, active, vigorous and harmoniously developed physiques.

Demands for Supervisors of School Hygiene, Physical Education and Athletics: The lamentable facts as brought out by these physical examinations, particularly the draft examination, are awakening in the public an earnest desire to correct this adverse condition which strikes at the very foundation of our republic. There is now a nation-wide interest in health and physical efficiency. It is in the public schools that our efforts directed toward the physical amelioration of our nation must be largely concentrated. Already twenty-six states have passed laws making the teaching and supervision of health and physical education compulsory in the public schools. This movement on the part of state legislatures promises to become nation-wide. Even federal legislation (The Fess-

Digitized by Google
148

Capper Bill) is now pending. The object of this bill is to assist the various states in fostering health and physical education in the public schools. In the future, assuredly, one of the greatest concerns of public education will be to see that the youth of our country are not only given every opportunity to build up and maintain the highest degree of health and bodily efficiency attainable, but are required to do so.

The demands for adequately trained men and women to teach and supervise school hygiene, physical education and athletics are even now greater than the supply. The demands will continue to grow. There is no phase oj the teaching profession which promises greater opportunities to men and women and at the same time subscribes more to a life of health and physical vigor on the part of the teacher.

Administration of Healthy Physical Education and Athletics in Schools: There is a definite tendency in many schools to relegate to two or more independent persons or agencies those interests and activities which have for their object the promotion of the pupil’s health and physical efficiency. For example; in the larger schools, teachers of hygiene, school nurses, school physicians and dentists, physical educators and recreation and athletic supervisors are all interested in and are contributing to the physical welfare of school children. Lack of co-ordination of these activities tends towards misunderstanding, friction, lack of balance and haphazardness. There is danger that under these conditions certain things will be duplicated while others are neglected and that no genuine constructive, equipoised, “follow up” program will be adhered to.

It is our firm conviction that in order to assure to our public schools a constructive and comprehensive “health and physical efficiency program” all the various interests and activities concerned with the promotion of bodily development, activity and potency, the fostering of health and the prevention of disease should be organized into one department for administrative purposes with a “full time,” adequately trained supervisor at its head. This supervisor should be responsible, of course, for the teaching of physiological hygiene and public health in the schools.

Objectives of a Department of Healthy Physical Education and Athletics in our Public Schools:	A	“School	Health,	Physical	Education and

Athletics” program should include the following interests and activities:

I. Health Service:

A.	Personal Phase:

1.	Promotion of Health (Personal Hygiene.)

a.	Physical examinations.

b.	Bureau of Records (Follow up system.)

c.	Provisions for maintaining positive health, such as the body’s relation to food, air, activity, rest, fatigue, poisons, injury, etc.

d.	Prevention and correction of defects—postural defects and those due to disease, defects of special senses, teeth, tonsils, etc.

e.	Mental hygiene—prevention and correction of emotional instability, potential neuropaths.

2.	Prevention of Communicable diseases. (Community Hygiene.)

a.	Early detection of communicable diseases in the school—symptoms, etc.

b.	Isolation and treatment of those exposed or inflicted. Here
149

cooperation with the city’s health department, with the homes, with social agencies, with visiting nurses and with physicians is essential.

c.	Blocking the routes taken by communicable diseases—contact, infection, water, milk, food, flies, personal prophylactic measures— vaccination, inoculation.

B.	Environmental Phase (Sanitation.)

a.	Location, construction, ventilation, heating and lighting of school building.

b.	Adequate floor space, seats and desks adaptable to pupils.

c.	Sewage disposal, water, milk, food supply.

d.	Playground facilities—space, equipment, etc.

e.	Sanitation of school building and playground.

f.	Sanitation of homes through co-operation with outside health agencies.

C. Educational phase:	(Teaching of Hygiene).	School	children

must be inculcated with lucid understanding of the principles of health promotion and disease prevention. They must be made to appreciate that positive health and physical efficiency are moral obligations they owe to society. Hence, the proper teaching of hygiene becomes a most important phase of a school’s health service.

a. Graded instruction with auxiliary lectures, placards, posters moving pictures, etc., for each year, in health promotion and disease prevention.

b.	Inculcation of keen and impelling appreciation on the part of the school children that they owe it to society and country to maintain at all times consummate health and physical efficiency.

c.	Lasting health habits must be instilled in pupils.

II.	Physical Education and Athletics:

a.	The Promotion of Health and Normal Growth by means of proper exercise—gymnastics, games, etc.

b.	Harmonious development of the body. (Greek Ideal) Personality, securing an erect and self-respecting carriage of the body and neuromuscular control required for prompt and accurate response and graceful, agile, co-ordinate and effective movements. Of greater importance in secondary schools and colleges.

c.	The correction and prevention of abnormalities due to bad posture, asymetrical development, etc.

d.	Activity. The development of a lasting desire to be active—to do many things with a fair degree of strength and endurance. Of greater importance in secondary schools and colleges.

e.	Recreation. The profitable utilization of the pupils’ time during the intervals between mental application—games, sports, gymnastics, etc.

f.	The proper guidance of the fundamental interests and instincts of play, rivalry, pugnacity and mastery—through competitive games, sports and athletics.

g.	Utilizing every opportunity to develop those important, social mental and moral qualities afforded in physical education and athletics: Obedience, subordination, co-operation, reliability, self-sacrifice, friendliness, loyalty, capacity for leadership, sportsmanship, self-confidence, self-
15o

control, mental and moral poise, good spirits, alertness, resourcefulness, decision, perseverance, courage, aggressiveness, initiative.

Curriculum for Training of Supervisors and Teachers of School Hygiene, Physical Education and Athletics: Teachers and Supervisors must be supplied who understand thoroughly these objectives and how to reach them. The curriculum has been designed with this in view. Students who have completed this course should be able to organize and supervise efficiently the various interests and activities concerned with the physical welfare of school children, such as

(1)	Instruction in hygiene and community health.

(2)	The school's health service.

(3)	Physical education.

(4)	Athletics.

The curriculum is so constructed that a comparatively broad, general education is combined with specialized training. The subjects making up the curriculum may be arranged into /our groups. Each group is concerned with preparing the student for a particular phase of his future interests and activities in school physical welfare work.

Group I. Subjects which may be regarded as cultural in character and at the same time of professional value: Rhetoric, Chemistry, Psychology, Sociology, Public Speaking, Subjects that acquaint the student with the scientific methods of teaching and with educational administration: Educational Measurements, Educational Psychology, Educational Ad* ministration, Vocational Guidance, High School Problems. A liberal allowance is made in the schedule for electives. These elective subjects may be made in the College of Literature, Science and Arts, or in the School of Education.

Group II. Subjects are selected with a view of acquainting the student with the structure and functions of the body and its organs and with the normal vital processes. The following sciences are included in this group: Zoology, Anatomy, Chemistry, General Physiology, Applied Physiology with particular reference to nutrition, metabolism, growth, neuro-muscular physiology, exercise, fatigue, rest, etc. Psychology in Group I may well be included in this group.

Group III. The subjects in this group will familiarize the student with the fundamentals of right living—health promotion and disease prevention. Further, the student will be trained in the recognition of various abnormal body processes which frequently appear during school age; such as various types of physical defects, retrogressive changes, communicable diseases, etc.; in measures for their prevention; and in proper attention to them, such as, reference to doctor or other specialist or outside health agency when wise, etc. It must be emphasized here that it is not the intention that this group of studies will prepare the student “to handle” personally all the physical abnormal processes which occur in school children. He should be able, however, to detect early diseases, processes and retrogressive changes, appreciate the significance of these abnormal conditions, and be able to arrange for the proper treatment by reference to physicians and specialists. Further, he will be instructed In the methods of disease control through co-operation with nurses, the city's health department and the homes. Mental Hygiene will be given due consideration; Bacteriology, Introductory Hygiene, Physical Recon-

Digitized by v^ooQle
*5*

struction and School Health Problems make up this group of studies. School Health Problems will include consideration of the following: (i) Physical examinations, physical records, follow up system, anthropometry; (2) Promotion of health—food, nutrition and growth, air, activity, fatigue, rest, bodily poisons, mental hygiene, sex hygiene, prevention and correction of defects; (3) First aid and emergency treatment; (4) Prevention and control of communicable diseases; (5) Environment and sanitation.

Group IV. This group of studies will prepare the student to organize and supervise the various interests and activities that come in physical education and athletics. The following courses will be given to both men and women in combined classes: Kinesiology, Physical Reconstruction, History and Principles of Physical Education, Theory and Administration of Physical Education. The course in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics is scheduled for the period from 3:00 P. M. to 6:00 P. M. daily throughout the four years. Upon the completion of this group of subjects, students should be able to teach and coach the various games. Those desiring additional instruction in coaching football, baseball, track and basketball should register for summer courses. The courses in group IV are open to any student of the School of Education by special arrangement.

Special subjects making up the “Block” of Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics for both men and women (or Group IV of curriculum) are listed below following the curriculum schedule of the Four Year Course.

Credits:—The total credit for this “Block,” Men’s Theory and Practice of Physical Education is twenty-four (24) hours. The credits are given for the theoretical work done and are distributed as follows:

Football 2 hours, Baseball 2 hours, Track 2 hours, Basketball 1 hour. Practice Coaching 2 hours. Training 1 hour, Golf and Tennis 1 hour. Swimming and Hockey 1 hour, Business Administration 1 hour, Gymnastics 4 hours, Minor Sports 4 hours, Military Training 1 hour, Boy Scout Work 1 hour, Graded Plays and Games 1 hour.

Schedule of Curriculum—Four Year Course.

First Year.

First Semester

Rhetoric 1..................

Chemistry...................

Electives...................

Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics

Public Speaking 1..........

Psychology?................

Anatomy....................

Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics....

Hours	Second Semester	Hours

.... 3	Rhetoric 2........................ 3

.. . 4	Introductory Hygiene............. 2

...	4	Zoology.........................   4

Electives......................... 4

...	3	Theory and Practice of Physical

Education and Athletics......... 3

14	16

Second Year.

...	3	Public Speaking 2................. 2

...	3	Physiology (4 or special)..........5

...	6	Sociology 19 ..................... 4

Electives......................... 2

...	3	Theory and Practice of Physical

Education and Athletics......... 3

14	16

Digitized by Google
I52

Tfiird

Physiology (applied).............. 3

Kinesiology ...................... 2

Educational Measurements 1........ 2

History and Principles of

Physical Education...........	.	2

Electives......................... 3

Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics....... 3

15

Fourth

Theory and Administration of

Physical Education............. 3

School Health Problems............ 4

Educational Administration 101. .. .3

Electives......................... 2

Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics........3

Year.

Physical Reconstruction.....

Bacteriology (special) .....

Educational Psychology 1 . ..

Electives...................

Theory of Practice of Physical Education and Athletics . ..

Year.

School Health Problems........

Secondary Education 1.........

Vocational Guidance...........

Electives.....................

Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Athletics........... 3

15	15

Recommended Electives:

The electives may be made from the College of Literature, Science and Arts, The School of Education, or from schools in the University upon advice and consent of the Dean.

Seasonal Schedule of Theory and Practice Men’s Physical Education.

Freshman	Sophomore	Junior	Senior

First Semester.

Football Practice 3-6 daily, 8 weeks

Track lecture 3-4 T. T.

Basketball Lecture Wed. at 3 Practice 7-8 daily

Gymnasium Practice M. F. 4-6 Lectures T. T. 4-5

1st quarter.

(Tennis 4 weeks Football (Golf 4 weeks	Coaching

Lectures Fri. 3-4 Practice M.W. 3-6 or Football 3-6

2nd quarter

(Hockey 4 weeks (Swimming 4 wks. Lectures Friday 3-4 Practice M. W. 3-6

Practice Coaching Basketball 7-9:30 daily Track 3-4 daily

Intramural T. T. 3-4 (Plays and Games)

Gymnasium Practice M. F. 5-6 Lecture Th. 5-6

Gymnasium Practice M. F. 4-5 Lecture T. T. 4-5

Football

Coaching

or

Intramural

Business

Administration

3-4

Gymnasium Practice M. F. 4-6 Lecture T. T. 4-5

Tootball Lecture T. T. 3

•Gymnasium Practice M. F. 4-6

Second Semester.

3rd quarter Baseball	Training

Lectures	Lecture

T. T. 3-4	W. 3-4

Practice

Intramural	Daily in sec-

M. W. F 3-4	tions 3-4

Boy Scouts

Business Ad

3-4

Digitized by Google

03 CO CO Tf CO	|	l®	Tf	co	cm	co
*53

Lectures T. T. 4-5

Camping)

Gymnasium

Practice

Gymnasium

Practice

Gymnasium

Practice

M. T. F 5-6		M. F. 4-5	M. F. 4-6
Lectures		Lectures	Lectures
Th. 5-6		T. T. 4-5	T. Th. 4-5
4th quarter  Track Baseball		Practice Base-	Practice
Practice 3-6 Practice 3-6		ball 3-6 daily	Coaching &
daily daily		or	Mil Training
		Practice Tennis	
		Golf	
Seasonal Schedule of Theory and Practice Women’i			t Physical Education.
	Freshman Year.		
Fall	Hours	Indoor	[Hours
Hockey			 2	Gymnastics ...		 4
Tennis			 3	Dancing			 3
Games			 2	Basketball			 2
Swimming			 3	Swimming . ..		 2
Technique and Practice		Technique and Practice	
of Minor Sports			2	of Minor Sports	 1	
	12		12
Indoor		Spring	
Gymnastics 		. .. . 4	Baseball			 2
Dancing		. .. . 3	Tennis			 3
Basketball 		.. . . 2	Archery			 2
Swimming			 2	Swimming . .. .		 3
Technique and Practice		Technique and Practice	
of Minor Sports		.. . . 1	of Minor Sports	 2	
	12		12

Total for year 24 hrs.

Sophomore Year. Fall	Indoor

Hockey			 2	Gymnastics			 3
Tennis			2	Dancing			 2
Swimming				2	Folk Dancing			 1
		Basketball			 2
		Swimming			 2
	6		10
Indoor		Spring	
Gymnastics 				 3	Baseball			 2
Dancing			 2	Dancing			 2
Folk Dancing			 .		 1	Track			 2
Basketball			 2		
Swimming			 2		
	10		6
Average of Practical Work . Theory  Technique of Major Sports .. Camp Craft			 8	Average of Practical Work . .. Theory  Technique of Major Sports .. . Camp Craft			 8
		 2  	2			 2  .. . 2
	4 4		4 4
	12		12
Total for year 24 hours.	Junior  Hours	Year.	Hours
Fall		Indoor	
Elective Sport		.. . 2	Gymnastics		.. . 2
		Digitized by CjOO^Ic	
154

Coaching...................... 3

5

Indoor

Gymnastics ................... 3

Dancing....................... 2

Folk Dancing.................. 2

Assisting

(Gymnastic Classes»........ 2

9

Average of Practical Work......	7

Theory

Technique of Gymnastic

Teaching.................... 3

Technique of Dancing...........2

5 5 12

Total for Year 24 hours.

Senior

Fall

Elective Sport................. 2

Coaching....................... 2

4

Indoor

Gymnastics .................... 2

Dancing........................ 2

Apparatus (Clubs, Swedish

Apparatus).................. 2

Assisting......................

(Gymnastic Classes)......... 2

8

Average of Practical Work.....	6

Theory

Corrective Gymnastics.......... 2

Remedial Gymnastics............ 2

Schoolroom Teaching and

Playground Work............. 2

Dancing.......................... 2

Folk Dancing (Theory and Practice) ................... 2

Assisting.......................

(Gymnastic Classes)........... 2

8

Spring

Track or Dancing ............... 2

Coaching........................ 2

Average of Practical Work.......	6

Theory

Technique of Gymnastic Teaching ( 2 hrs. practice normal class 1	hr. discussion,. . 3

Pageantry....................... 3

6	6 12

Year.

Indoor

Gymnastics..................... 2

Dancing........................ 2

Dancing—Practice Teaching...... 1

Assisting

(Gymnastic Classes)......... 2

Elective....................... 2

9

Spring

Dancing or Track .............. 2

Coaching....................... 2

Dancing—Practice Teaching .... 1

5

Average of Practical Work......	7

Theory

Corrective Gymnastics.......... 2

Teaching & Adaptation ......... 2

Schoolroom Teaching and Playground Work ............ 1

5 5

12 12

Total for year, 24 hours.

A detailed description of each subject making up the curriculum, which will appear in the regular bulletin to be issued later, is purposely omitted in this paper.

Of course it is anticipated that changes in the curriculum will be made as time goes on. To summarize, it is felt that the foregoing course of study for the training of teachers and supervisors of hygiene, physical education and athletics will do much to enhance the efficient administration of school health in all its various activities by preparing capable

Digitized by v^ooQle
*55

men and women who not only can teach the fundamentals of health promotion and disease prevention, but who can supervise all those interests and activities directed towards the building up and maintenance of sound, active, vigorous and harmoniously developed bodies.

DENMARK AND THE OLLERUP HIGH SCHOOL FOR ADULT

STUDENTS.

BY HILDA MCDOWELL.

The subject of my address is Denmark and Ollerup—Denmark in general, Ollerup in particular. The latter is such an individual expression of the former that, without it, it would never have existed, and without a glance at the Country and History that are its creator, we would fail to grip the motive power that lies at the heart of the vitality which we find in Ollerup and kindred Colleges.

Once upon a time the Danes held sovereignty over Poland, Russia, England, Sweden, and even proud Paris opened her gates to the invaders. In the great political game of the nations Denmark has accepted her reverses with equanimity, now she is the smallest European country, but her integrity has never been violated, and her vitality has never been, greater than it is to-day. The area of the country is 14,553 square miles, and its population 3,000,000, or about half the size of Ireland or Scotland, twice as big as Wales, a little smaller than Switzerland, and the West Riding of Yorkshire alone has as many inhabitants, and London more than twice as many.

Last year witnessed the restoration of the territory of Schleswig, lost to the country since 1864, when Denmark went through her Calvary of war, and the Danes suffered defeat. The defeat and loss of territory— looking back on it now—was a blessing in disguise. Not so long ago the Danish peasantry was an ignorant, poor, submerged, down-trodden class. Now, their capacity for intelligent work is a by-word throughout the world, and in great part the change is due to one man’s genius and devotion. I speak of Grundtvig, the “Prophet of the North,” poet, historian, priest, and, above all, teacher. He died in 1872, after a life of inspired work, devoted to the noblest of causes—that of letting in light to the shuttered soul. In 1844 the first Adult School was opened, but it was not till after the defeat of 1864 that the movement assumed weight and strength, led by Grundtvig and his disciples.

And now, thanks to the vision, ^combined with creative power of these men, Denmark is in her second generation of Adult Education, and possesses no conservative, ignorant, rural population. There are now some 70 Folk Schools attended annually by some 6,000 pupils, and it is these Residential High Schools for Adults over 18 years of age that we are going to consider. Now what are these schools like? and who attends them? and why do they come? Always we see humble beginnings, a little farm, perhaps, a teacher with his wife, family and children living * *

*	Delivered before the Ling Association i<)22y and elsewhere.

*	Reprint from the “Journal of Scientific Physical Training'\ Birming-ma> England.

Digitized by CjOOQle
156

there in the very heart of the country, the minimum of everything from nominal fees to nominal equipment, and yet these beginnings grow, thrive, till additions to the little homestead must be made, and we see a whole colony of little buildings grow up to be replaced in turn by the beautiful colleges like Store Restrupp and Antvorskov.

Purpose.—One’s mind flies to the finance, nominal fees, beautiful buildings. Does a generous Government sign the cheque? Not at all. In the case of Ollerup, the money was raised by Ollerup students. How is it that these schools inspire such devotion in their pupils, so that they cross wide seas to be at Reunions, and save their money for their school as others might for their children? Perhaps Grundtvig’s own words furnish the clue. He says: “To awake to nature the Divine spark, which one dares to pre-suppose exists in all young people—that is the Danish High Schools’ only object;” or again, as Ernest Trier, one of Grundtvig’s pupils, says: “To young manhood come the questionings, Where do I come from? What is the meaning of my existence? What significance, if any, has it, that I am Danish, belong to a nation, speak its language? .	.	.	To	throw a light, to point a goal, this is our first object in these

schools!” (Not, as some commercial firms so irresistibly advert se it, “to increase” our wage-earning capacity!).

The pupils are principally drawn from the fine farmer stock. Denmark is, in the main, an agricultural country, and agricultural pursuits— directly and indirectly—occupy the major part of its population. These Adult Schools are always residential, and the men give up the time to come and live in them. The accommodation and fare are simple, the fees about £4 per month; this is now supplemented by the State, when necessary. The men come for five months, from November to March, the women for three, from May to July.

Language, history, gymnastics and singing are always the foundation of the curriculum, and vocational, that is to say, strictly utilitarian commercial subjects are the exception. The schools aim at remaining as informal and individualistic as is compatible with order, and the homely atmosphere is to our less democratic and more formal type of administration very striking. The Principal has his desk, often as not, in the common room, and his wife and children, and the students, all gather there in a homely way. In this intimacy young men from the isolated parts meet, and inter-dependence is realized first nationally, and later internationally. The object of the moment is not to impart facts, but to awaken interest in the march of humanity, first as it affects the individual, secondly as the individual affects the community; to awaken that curiosity which, when roused and nurtured, makes its owner an inquirer into causes to the end of his days. The basis of the whole is Christianity, the glorious principles of which are here presented in a broad way; broadly enough to form the foundation for all kinds of vital structures.

Intelligence.—When the wave of Bolshevism was sweeping along Poland and the Baltic, I asked a labouring man: “Are you not afraid for little Denmark!” “No,” he said, “we know too much,” The Cooperative Society (essentially of Danish peasant origin) has for its object “Comfort for all, opulence for none,” and the democracy aimed at is a “Democratic aristocracy of Intelligence.” Three times I stayed at the

Digitized by ^ooQle
i57

Ollerup people’s High School, and was much impressed by the sort of questions these young Danes asked; queries on the Irish Land Act, Physical Training Reform, Terence McSwiney’s purpose, Cornish crops, etc. Their feeling for humanity beyond their own parish was awake; they were already reaching out.

Niels Bukh.—Gymnastics take a prominent place at Ollerup, because the Director there, a general teacher, by name Niels Bukh, early developed and cultivated his interest in it. Up to 1884 Nachtegall’s old Gymnastics were in vogue, then in Vallekilde High School, Swedish work made its appearance and was taken up throughout the country, and keenly in the Rifle Clubs. These clubs are common to most villages. They have good premises, Gymnastic Hall, Lounge, Coffee Room, and form the local social centre. Gymnastics are popular, and to be the elected teacher is a coveted honour. Some few years ago a weakening of interest in this subject was felt, and this present revival is due to a fresh interpretation of Ling’s principles by Niels Bukh. His intimate knowledge of the young people of his country, combined with his wonderful creative ability, has reawakened the old enthusiasm and added tenfold to it by his method, now known over there as “Bukh’s Gymnastik.”

Singing forms an integral part of the School life; it is not artistic singing in the accepted sense, but it is sincere, and extraordinarily uplifting in its expression of feeling. To see and hear 60 students swinging round the gymnasium to a strong, full-throated song, gives the feeling of literal unison in body, mind and heart.

Bukh's Work and Lings.—Photographs illustrate Bukh’s work much better than it can be described; and as to his theory, there is not much of it, but it is forceful, gets there, and in brief is to this effect:—“In the past the general interpretation of Ling’s gymnastics has been faulty in so much as the results he achieved have been emphasized without a corresponding measure of attention being given by us to the method by which he attained them.

“The positions so familiar in Swedish gymnastics are what can be done easily after training; they show the stage of strength, suppleness and control that a class has reached, but the effort to take them and hold them, even though repeated many times with good corrections, and' much good-will, was not Ling’s method of training the student. Ling’s rich teaching methods have been overlooked and neglected, and no doubt Ling himself, could he see some of our tense and stiff gymnastics, would find it hard to recognize his own offspring.”

Bukh is true to Ling’s principles and recognizes Ling’s wide idea of Physical Education better than many a Swedish gymnast; it is in the interpretation of them that he strikes his original note, and is at such variance with the orthodox Swede. ^He considers that when we have before us a class, in our mind we should have an ideal of what that class might reasonably aspire to in gymnastics. We should then use common sense and consider the main points in which that set as a whole differs from the ideal, and arrange our programme of work accordingly. Normal Physique is the aim, therefore every ounce of intelligence and energy must be put into reaching this goal as quickly as possible. Before him, Bukh sees a set of healthy adult outdoor workers, but they differ from the normal ideal in several outstanding ways, for instance:—

Digitized by t^ooQle
158

The pectoral muscles are short, the back stiff and round, the abdominal muscles weak, ham strings short, the flexors of the arm are overdeveloped, the extensors weak, the neck is shortened by the forward angle of carriage. All these shortcomings contribute to bring about clumsy gait with lack of ease and poise, with local tenseness.

Now what in brief is Bukh’s idea of training? Just this, that first the slate must be cleaned, then a fair start can be made; that it is unreasonable to expect or hope to superimpose grace of movement and beauty of posture on clumsiness and rigidity. The individual parts must be mobilized, strengthened, the muscles educated, individual tricks of gait or posture thrown off. Arm, leg and trunk exercises are all given with the main object of obtaining strength, suppleness, or co-ordination. This part of the work he calls “Primitif Gymnastike.” Every student knows what he is aiming at and works with intelligence, self-effort and enthusiasm.

My first view of a Primitif Gymnastik class.—It was a winter evening; a step took me from cold country darkness into brilliant electric light, into a gallery above a big spotless gymnasium, with white walls and yellow floor. The flags of half a dozen countries, including our own, hung before us. Suddenly the lower doors opened, and as into an arena ran, half a hundred men stripped to the waist, just wearing shorts and shoes, and without the slightest pause began the work that was to last 45 minutes without cessation of movement for one second. The Gym, already warm seemed to grow hotter every moment, presently, every back was gleaming with perspiration as the movements grew in vigour. Back lyings and trunk fallings, twistings, shoulder stretchings, none too tenderly administered, followed on each other in a continuous stream. “But,” called a little Norwegian dame beside me, “it is cruel, it is imposseeble, they surely die!” Pictures of Dante’s Inferno swam before me, the drops of perspiration grew on the floor, and the bodies before us visibly lost their bones and became more and more rubber like. “This is imposseeble, they surely, surely die,” she cried again. As she spoke the work grew faster, the floor was covered with long 30 yard strips of soft felt, and running somersaults succeeded each other at such a pace, that one’s eye lost one’s own man in the maze of whirling figures, and next moment not one of the 100 feet was on the ground as the 50, with a gay shout disappeared with cartwheels and hand-walks to the shower baths outside.

Thoughts of strain and fatigue at once fill your mind. Medical tests taken during and after give no heart-strain results, and, strange as it may seem, a lesson in Primitive work produces less stiffness and infinitely less fatigue than ordinary gymnastics. No doubt this is due to the absence of static work, and to the rhythmic swing with which much work is done. Niels Bukh is confident that his method suits his material, and already his influence is felt all over Denmark (note Fredrecia Festival).

He will no doubt suffer as much from his admirers as from his critics. One day looking over the gallery full of visitors of all kinds and from all European countries (visitors who come for one or two classes, and go away knowing everything, or rather more than eveiything!) I said to him: “Are you not afraid that they will mis-interpret and mis-use?” and he said “Yes, I know that they will do it, nevertheless that is not in my

Digitized by (^.ooQLe
*59

hands, I must give all that I have to give, and give it to all. What is good is good, and will live; what is not good will die—I, I cannot tell, but I give it all.” He smiled a little sadly and his buoyancy was for the moment dimmed as he looked over at army directors, school teachers, trained and untrained, inspectors and reporters. He knows that his name may ofttimes be execrated, as maybe in some distant town or country, frail girls pound each other’s backs and lanky boys are worked to weariness and over-flexibility by his witless admirers and foolish imitators.

Demonstration Gymnastics.—Having acquired control of the muscular system by the “Primitif” method (and it may be mentioned that assy-metrical and co-ordinative movements are a marked feature of it), and acquired or regained normal flexibility, ordinary gymnastics follows, and in Display or Demonstration work, is seen the sum total of, or actual result produced by, the training. The powers of endurance, the agility, the fine	carriage, alertness, grace, these can	be judged	in a Table	showing such	beauty, and ease of movement, as	almost to	take one’s	breath

away, and to make one feel that there, in fact, are realized those aims with which we are all so familiar on paper.

Women Students.—The women who come are drawn from the same rural population, hardy, sane, with kind faces, open with intelligence: with them, too, Gymnastics is not left behind with school life, but remains as a friend through mature years.

They work in a loose cotton combination garment. A cold or hot shower bath after the lesson is customary.

The	Interest oj the Masses.—Nothing in	Denmark	strikes one	more

than the	general interest shown by the people	themselves	in Physical	train-

ing. Crowds will assemble, day after day, to see teams from all over the country, not compete for prizes, but just assemble to show their work; dairymen, workers on the heather land, attended by fathers, mothers and aunts, all eagerly watching, and moreover discussing points in Balances, Heaves, Agility Exercises, as our specialists here might do. The nursery for this power of criticism is the village school, where there is generally a hall with some apparatus, or failing this, wonders are worked out of doors by the village carpenter.

For Physical Education to come into its own in England, we need the interest of the masses. Gymnasts are reproached for being too silent a profession; too retiring to mould public opinion. We lack the enthusiasm that brings such crowds as to the Stockholm Stadium, or to the wonderful gatherings of the Sokol Society, in Prague. The Sokol Society* has an enormous membership, it is held together by the fervent national spirit, the desire for the revival of Czecho-Slovak unity and development— in other words, by Co-operation and Service. Once a year the Sokols hold a festival (interrupted for a while by the war, revived again in 1920). They come from all over the country, every village contributing representatives to the great Mass Gymnastic Displays that take place each day of the week, numbering approximately 12,000 men, 12,000 women, 7,000

* We suppose that the writer was still too much influenced by the war spirit to call attention to the largest gymnastic federation in the worldy the German Turners, whose membership is considerably over a million.—Editor.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
i6o

boys and girls. There is no question of competition here; the Sokols meet to enjoy together common purpose, to realize the joy of strength and unity.

Commercialism and Militarism.—When history C€wnes to be written, the period we are now living in will surely be looked back on as that in which Commercialism per se, and Militarism per se, were for the first time realized by an appreciable mass of the world's people to be failures; the period when a world State was first considered, when the familiar, and yet so unfamiliar principles of Christianity were first looked at and thought of, not just as theologians’ fancies, but as the possible raft on which to salvage Civilization and start again. It is impossible to travel and see what is being done in other countries and consider it all dispassionately, to reflect on it impersonally, so a digression with this Co-operation movement of the Sokols as starting point may be forgiven. Gymnastic teachers represent but a small minority in the teaching world, but our role is a distinctive one. What dynamic have we behind our lessons, ourselves, our associations, at this moment of general instability? The stimulus of Militarism, of Commercialism, have failed both individuals and nations. The ache of the world’s unrest does not diminish; the hunger of the heart that plenty never cures remains, and unless our Physical Education teaching is linked to some great living principle, we too shall fail. Our teaching will crystallize into some set form with some such god at its head as football, or spanbend!

In our education we have perhaps looked back too much, forward too little. The origin of man is nothing compared with his future. We should never glimpse the Red Admiral or Painted Lady through studying the chrysalis. No doubt we are descended from monkeys, but we are not monkeys now, and swings and monkey nuts will not satisfy us any more. If we ourselves have no aim but “Health of Mind and Body,” if our classes, our holiday courses, reflect this only, how little a way we can go!

Sport-Instinct.—England, in her fine manly sport-instinct, has been a pioneer in games; far and wide courage and truth are linked together as characteristics of her sportsmen; Fins, Japs, Danes, copy our bats, balls, boots, and think it a compliment to be considered “Sporting” like the English. Are we, who in a particular sense are guardians of that flame, are we fanning it aright? The men teachers, for whom we have waited so long and whom we are so glad to see coming into the profession now, have a very special field of pioneer activity before them here. No one is more responsive to pure idealism than a young child, and our appeal to them must be on the highest, gladdest plane.

Service.—English folk do not talk about their convictions, blush almost to own any, but at the present moment, it is surely the business of every one to do some clear thinking—to see Physical Training in its relation to the educational developments and restrictions of the day, to bring it into line with the Nation’s and the Race’s upward path, that path whose only lode-star can be Co-operation and Service. These are the only things worth teaching, and the Christian basis is the most inspiring and the broadest to teach them on. Every aim of this Association ^very extra P. T. period we try to obtain, every extra field we try to

Digitized by CjOOQle
i6i

procure, should have behind it this driving force, and this is the only touch-stone to which to put debatable points.

Propaganda.—What propaganda can the members of this Association feel that they themselves have done towards physical education ends? There is such work as that of public speaking (are we prepared to speak well, humorously, eloquently, convincingly); popular press articles, publication of photographs, new diagrams, placing ahtletic equipment and suitable clothes on the market, personally influencing governors, managers, general educationalists, holding demonstrations? considering the possibilities of a Cinema campaign? It is very good for the children of the few to perform Spanbend and such like in the specialist's best style, to learn lacrosse and tennis on faultless fields, but is the teacher's sense of humanity awake to the million round the corner, who have no teacher and no space? I am sure that our Training Colleges and organizers of classes should send out their students vibrating with the missionary spirit. It is good to know elaborate apparatus work, dancing of many kinds and so forth, but unless behind all there is the vital power of Humanitarianism, the teacher, grows no more, and thinks no farther than the day's tables, lectures and coaching in her own nice school.

THE PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION AS A PUBLIC HEALTH FORCE.

It is a singular fact that in many communities a list of local agencies actively engaged in health work would not contain the name of the Parent-Teacher Association; similarly, report after report of a community health survey is found to contain no mention of this organization. Yet the Parent-Teacher organization is a very important and active health agency.

Two of the most potent forces in a nation's life—the forces devoted to child rearing—are here associated for co-ordinate work, not only in the home and the school, but for community betterment in all those ways which count in developing moral force.

The National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations, incorporated in 1897, marked the formal inclusion of fathers in the work of the Association. The movement was first initiated by the mothers when, in 1884, the first Congress of Mothers was called in Chicago. Three years later the National Congress of Mothers was organized in Washington, D. C. Already the National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations has passed its quarter-century mile post and has an enrollment of more than a quarter of a million members. The Child Welfare Magazine, now in its 16th year, is the official organ of the Association.

The objects of the more inclusive organization as stated in its constitution are:

“To raise the standard of home life; to give young people opportunities to learn to care for children, so that when they assume the duties of parenthood they may have some conception of the methods which w 11

♦ Reprint: “Health News", Albany N. Y.

Digitized by CjOOQle
i6i

best develop the physical, intellectual and spiritual nature of the child; to bring into closer relations the home and the school, so that parents may co-operate intelligently in the education of the child; to surround the childhood of the whole world with that wise, loving care in the impressionable years of life that will develop good citizens; to use systematic and earnest efforts to this end through the formation of parent-teacher associations in every public school; and elsewhere, through the establishment of kindergartens and through distribution of literature, which will be of practical use to parents in the problems of home life; to secure more adequate laws for the care of blameless and dependent children, and to carry the mother-love and mother-thought into all that concerns childhood.”

The New York State Branch of the National Congress was incorporated in 1897. It has about 260 affiliated clubs and a membership of over 12,000; an effort is being made to double the membership during the present year.

The Chairman of Health of the State Organization, Mrs. Mary I. Dunham of Hornell, has recommended to the affiliated clubs that they include in their programs for the coming year an active campaign with the following objectives:

1. A health crusade in every school. Continuation of the work if already existing, and the promotion and financing, if necessary, of a crusade or health program in every school and community where such work is not being carried on.

2.	Child welfare clinics. Let each club see to it that all parents, wherever there is a child welfare station, clinic, or center in the district, take their babies twice a year to be weighed, measured, and examined by a competent physician, for any growing defects.

3.	Nutrition. Co-operating with the Supervisor of Nutrition of the State Department of Education, it is recommended that earnest study be made of the problems of nutrition; one extra meeting devoted to the study of food for the baby, one to the food of the child of pre-school age and one devoted to the proper food of school children up through adolescence; all of these meetings to be led by persons trained in the subject of food and nutrition.

4.	An educational lecture on the subject of racial health.

Because of a country-wide demand for material to be used as a guide to study by the Parent-Teacher groups, a sixteen page pamphlet entitled — '“Child Health Program for Parent-Teacher Associations and Women’s Clubs” was prepared by Lucy Wood Collier for the Bureau of Education of the Child Health Organization of America, and printed and distributed by the Federal Bureau of Education. The pamphlet contains bibliographies on the several aspects of child health work which make an intensive study of the whole subject easily possible in any community. It is worthy of more than passing note that one of the nine topics for study is “Our Teachers' Health." That the teachers themselves are in need of health instruction, and often of better food and of medical care is frankly submitted for the consideration of the Parent-Teacher organization.

It is evident that the groups in the different places will and should each develop a personality of its own. As an illustration of the type of

Digitized by uooQle
l&3

work which any community may undertake, that of the Auburn, N. Y, Associations is cited.

The Federation of Parent-Teacher Associations of Auburn, N. Y. The Federation of Parent-Teacher Associations of Auburn is a conference body, and is composed of officers and delegates from the individual Associations, of which there are eleven, with provision for an associate membership of delegates from allied local organizations. The individual associations are organized according to school districts. Funds for their work are raised through food sales, rummage sales and entertainments. Last year over $1,000 was contributed by the Federation to the furtherance of local child health activities.

Post-war reorganization of its activities resulted in the Federation undertaking certain special services for the health of the Auburn children: (i) the provision of milk lunches at school; (2) the conduct of health work for children during the summer vacation period; (3) a housing survey to define local health problems and to create interest in better homes for the people; (4) additional public health nurse service for the homes; (5) social gatherings, such as dances, picnics, and fetes, for the young people, under responsible chaperonage; and (6) practical, individualized child care, such as providing clean, mended clothing, shoes or rubbers, glasses, dental or throat-and-nose operative care to children in need of such treatment, and hundreds of moccasins made on request from teachers for use at school while the wet shoes are drying.

School milk lunches have been provided during the last three years at a penny a glass for Grade A milk. During the summer of 1918 a Motor-Milk-Canteen (the first of the kind so far as is known) distributed milk morning and afternoon in three different localities to children who might not go to the regular station with safety, because of a dangerous, intervening railroad crossing. The canteen slogan was “Bring a clean, shining glass and a penny. ’ Over 10,000 glasses were thus sold to the children during the two vacation months. Occasionally foreign-born parents refused to provide their children with milk; but, if the child was obviously undernourished, the Association saw that he did not go without the milk while the parent’s point of view was undergoing attempted readjustment. Such readjustment is constantly in progress at the Parent-Teacher meetings where foreign-born parents meet the other parents and the teachers. In several of the districts the majority of the membership of the Association is of the more recent immigration.

During the summer of 1918 a child welfare station was operated at the Madison Avenue school in a district chiefly Italian, the Board of Education co-operating. All service was volunteer. The station was open from 9:00 to 11:00 A. M. and from 1:00 to 5:00 P. M. daily, Sunday included, during a period of nine weeks. Four physicians and three nurses gave their assistance at the baby clinic, open from 2:00 to 5:00 P. M. on one day of each week. Braces, trusses, and special food were supplied to clinic children requiring such assistance; also 9 baby carriages were procured for the relief of the “little mothers” bringing children in their arms to the station.

In the summer of 1919 the station was again opened at Madison Avenue school; but a baby clinic having been established at the Neighborhood House, it was decided to omit that feature of the work at the

Digitized by
164

Parent-Teacher station. During the vacation period 227 children registered at the station; 4,276 half-pints of milk were served, for 3,609 of which the children paid the regular charge of one cent. Corrective work for physical defects was undertaken for children unable to provide the treatment; throat, or dental operative work was thus provided for fifty children. A grant of $250 from the Board of Education made possible this and other care of the children during the months when the schools were not in session.

During July and August of 1921 a child welfare station was again conducted in the Italian district; but, in order to be more accessible to those homes which were most in need of the station, a small frame structure centrally located was secured and given the much-needed preliminary cleaning. The local Chapter of the Red Cross bore half the expenses of the station. The services of school nutrition teacher and the assistant school nurse—both of whose salaries are paid by the Red Cross—were utilized. A corps of volunteers aided in the conduct of the work.

The activities of the station included:

8 classes in home nursing with demonstrations.

12 health classes with instruction in food values, and preparation of foods in the station kitchen.

14 diagnostic clinics (three-card system— one for the file, one for the patient, and one for the family physician if there is one.) Forty persons were examined, and the work undoubtedly was the means of saving one life.

31 home nursing visits for sickness.

2699 bottles of milk were served at the station to children at the usual nominal charge.

72 children were weighed regularly each week, records charted, and instruction given in foods.

104 other children were weighed and received instruction, but they were not regular in attendance.

A housing survey was made of a definite section of the neighborhood, by the nurse in charge of the station, she being released for this work each day for a period of two hours, volunteers caring for the station service during that period.

195 homes were surveyed; health, sanitation, and economic conditions were recorded on the survey record card. Some of the insanitary conditions found were: 26 dark bedrooms; 48 houses so greatly overcrowded that they were a health menace; 28 outside toilets— direct violation of health ordinance; one block housing eight families having only two toilets for the block.

The station work disclosed that children from 8 to 10 years, neatly dressed and of good appearance, were in need of instruction in some of the most elemental practices of civilized home hygiene. Incomplete and limited as was the survey, the disclosure of insanitary conditions which demand the attention of the public authorities, the social consciousness and civic responsibility developed by the members of the organization (particularly the foreign-born mothers) and the recognition by the public in general that the parents were responsible for this home survey made it an undertaking of vast significance.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
i6j

In view of the present recognition that over one-third of all children when first entering school have multiple physical defects which might have been prevented, there is a growing demand that health agencies shall carry the campaign of health education to the parents of the individual child, with especial insistence upon the importance of reaching them at the very beginning of their parenthood, and that the instruction shall be continuous. The prevention of communicable diseases and their sequelae, the proper nutrition of the child, and the establishment of all those habits of personal hygiene so important to the general health depend upon the effective delivery of definite information to all parents. In the furthering of this work the Parent-Teacher Associations hold a strategic position, not only because they most readily may influence other parents, but because they best may create a general demand from all parents that the local board of health shall provide a program which will include instruction in the prevention of disease and defects during the first seven years of the life of the child. Few communities make provision for this kind of instruction. If the parents demand it, it will undoubtedly be provided by the local authorities, for the weight of influence in most communities comes from those who are parents.

WHAT ABOUT OZONE?

Details of the Recently-Completed Chicago Tests to Determine the Status of Ozone for Ventilation.

BY E. VERNON HILL AND JOHN J. AEBERLY, M. E., OF THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.

In all twenty experiments were conducted, comprising 104 tests. Naturally many new problems developed during the work which made us anxious to definitely continue and expand the researches undertaken. The study of the action of ozone in oxidizing odorous substances should be made with the view of determining the amount of ozone required for different substances. The action of ozone as a bacteriacide on pathogenic bacteria should give interesting and valuable information. We have recently obtained a Sanborn metabolism apparatus for determining the amount of carbon dioxide given off by the human body. It is our intention to carry out some experimental work with a subject at rest, determining the amount of CO2 exhaled in an atmosphere of ordinary air as compared with an atmosphere charged with ozone. These and the other experiments referred to will doubtless form the subject of a future paper.

We believe that the method developed for determining ozone concentrations is of practical value. The results obtained in the daily use of the apparatus are very satisfactory and consistent. We do not hesitate to urge that anyone making observations of the action of ozone use this method, as a definite knowledge of the concentrations will throw considerable light on the results obtained by its use. This is the only way to make observations of real value.

We made no tests as to the production of nitrogen compounds given off by the machine, as this work has just been completed by Jones and

Digitized by LjOOQle
166

Yant, U. S. Bureau of Mines, and recently reported at the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers. The investigation of Jones and Yant was made with ozone apparatus of the glass dielectric type, spoken of by them as the tubular type, and with a machine using mica composition as a dielectric. This they mention as the square type. The highest ratio of oxide of nitrogen to ozone in the tubular type was I to 131 and in the square type 1 to hi. From our experiments it is evident that in occupied buildings the ozone concentration practically never exceeds 0.1 of one part per million. This would mean, according to the experiments of Jones and Yant, that the maximum concentration of oxide of nitrogen would not be 0.001 of a part per million, which is so low that it could not possibly have any effect, deleterious or otherwise. The conclusion from the report of Jones and Yant is as follows:

“At any rate, for the present the quantities of oxide of nitrogen produced by the machine generators tested are so small, 0.007 parts per million when the ozone concentration is one part per million, that the physiological effects from the oxide of nitrogen produced by these generators seems to be negligible.”

We wish to direct attention to experiments 11 and 12, which were conducted for the purpose of determining the dissipation of ozone in both clean and dust-laden galvanized-iron ducts. The drop in ozone concentration was very small in both experiments, much less than was anticipated. These experiments, together with experiment 20, indicates that ozone is a more stable substance than is generally supposed. It can be distributed through a duct system of considerable extent without material loss, assuming that there is no water present in the system in the form of a liquid.

In experiments 1 to 4 while testing our apparatus and method we found that in passing air containing ozone through a test tube containing water, or even through a wet test tube, a considerable portion of the ozone was absorbed. While as compared with other gases ozone has a low solubility, still, when we consider the extremely low concentrations of ozone in the air that we are dealing with, it is apparent that a very small amount of water in the liquid state will absorb the ozone. This opens up the question as to the location of the ozone apparatus in relation to air washers and some experimental work now going on indicates that a very satisfactory combination is an ozone machine and washer so located that the air is ozonized before entering the washer. After the water becomes saturated with ozone the excess passes into the system. The water is sterilized by the action of the ozone and in some installations this is a very desirable condition.

In experiments 17 and 18 the fact is brought out clearly that ozone production decreases materially with an increase in the moisture content of the air. This is a fact of practical value and should be borne in mind by the manufacturers of equipment and provisions made for varying the capacity of the machine in accordance with weather conditions.

The effect of ozone on bacteria and molds was investigated. (See experiments 13, 15, 16 and 19). The reader should bear in mind that these experiments were carried out with a view of determining what con-

Digitized by v^ooQle
16?

centration would destroy the organisms in a comparatively short period of time. It would be interesting to note what effect very low concentrations would have, not in destroying these organisms but in inhibiting their growth and development. The wide application of ozone in cold storage plants, particularly in rooms where sausages are aged, is due largely to the fact that it prevents the growth of mold. In these installations the concentrations range from 0.5 to possibly one part per million.

In several of the experiments conducted in the series under discussion the fact was brought out that molds would not develop even in low concentrations of ozone. In 27 plates exposed in the Resin* Orr School no molds developed, although the ozone in this building was barely to be detected in the class rooms. It is evident, therefore, that low concentrations will inhibit the growth of molds, and it is probable that they will also inhibit, to an extent, at least, the development of air bacteria. It should be noted in this connection that the ordinary air bacteria with which our experiments were conducted are highly resistant to most germicides, much more so than the pathogenic organism. A plate exposed in the open air in the bright sunlight will collect and from it we may incubate any number of air bacteria, while the same sunlight will destroy many of the pathogenic organisms in a short time. It is evident, therefore, that further experiments should be conducted to determine what concentrations of ozone are effective in destroying the common pathogenic organisms.

PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF OZONE.

We have made no experiments directly to determine the physiological action of ozone. Its continuous use for one year in the Resin* Orr school without any visible or demonstrable ill effects on the pupils and with the continued favor of 95% of the teachers, argues in its favor. The more extensive experience with ozone in the St. Louis schools also is favorable.

Ozone has been in use in the London tubes for many years and the statement is made that the workmen employed therein have improved in health since the ozone equipment was installed and that they were remarkably free from influenza during the pandemic of 1918. There is a considerable amount of evidence of this kind, hearsay and more or less untrustworthy, to the effect that ozone in low concentrations exerts a favorable effect on persons subjected to it over extended periods of time. There is, however, so far as we know, no evidence of any kind to show that low concentrations of ozone are harmful.

It is true that some authorities after observing the strong oxidizing effects and irritating action of ozone in high concentrations have argued that low concentrations must be proportionately injurious. It should be pointed out that there is no logic whatever in this position. Many substances can be mentioned that are extremely toxic in large doses, strychnine, arsenic, mercury and many other drugs and chemicals that have distinct tonic, even curative effects when the dosage is small. Some chemicals, for example, iodine and phosphorus, are absolutely essential in small doses for the maintenance of life, whereas large doses are extremely poisonous and may cause death.

Another point that should be investigated is the idiosyncracies of individuals to ozone. During our experiments Mr. Aeberly seemed to be

Digitized by LiOOQle
168

much more susceptible than the other experimenters and the odor of ozone could be detected on the exposed skin surfaces several hours after he had left the cabinet and the place where ozone was generated. The odor was still present on his hands even after he had washed them with soap and water. This peculiar phenomena was not observed on any of the other persons subjected to the ozone.

EFFECT OF ODORS ON BREATHING.

Ozone is a valuable deodorant and it should be borne in mind that objectionable odors have a distinct physiological significance. Persons in an atmosphere containing objectionable odors do not breathe deeply and consequently do not aerate the lungs and blood as thoroughly as where the air is pleasant. Ozone probably has some favorable physiological action by reason of its deodorizing properties.

CONCLUSION.

The action of ozone must be considered as identical or at least very similar to the action of nascent oxygen. Comparing concentrations by volume of ozone with other commonly used gases, disinfectants or germicides, we find ozone much more active than any of them. Sulphur dioxid is ordinarily used in disinfecting rooms after contagious diseases and in the destruction of vermin, etc. It is produced by burning ordinary sulphur, the dioxide being formed by the combustion. Hiss states that a concentration of sulphur dioxide of 8% is necessary for proper disinfection in a period of twenty-four hours. Formaldehyde, according to Brunn, should be used in concentrations of 25 grams per cubic meter, which is equivalent to 18,600 parts per million. In the holds of vessels and other places infected with rats and vermin hydrocyanic acid is frequently employed in concentrations as high as 850 parts per million. In our experiments ozone in equivalent concentrations exerts a much stronger bacteriacidal effect than any of the germicides mentioned. Comparing ozone with sulphur dioxide we find that it requires 160 times the amount of this substance to obtain the same bacteriacidal effect that we get with ozone; 37 times the amount where formaldyhyde is used and 1.7 times the amount where hydrocyanic acid is used.

The fact that ozone is a deodorant and a powerful germicide, and the further fact that it can be generated conveniently at a very low cost makes it a substance that should receive the careful consideration and study of the engineering profession in connection with ventilation and air conditioning work.

A method of application that gives more promise of excellent results is to install the equipment with sufficient capacity to build up comparatively high concentrations when the building is not occupied. In schools, for example, the ozone equipment should be operated at a capacity to give perhaps 0.01 part of ozone per million when the building is occupied, a sufficient quantity only to act as a deodorant and to slightly freshen the air. After the pupils have left the building the full capacity of the machine should be used, closing all openings, recirculating the entire amount •of air and building up a sufficient concentration to exert the maximum •deodorizing effect throughout the building, the duct work and the mechanical equipment. The surgeon would not think of using instruments

Digitized by c.ooQle
169

that were not thoroughly sterilized. Possibly we will learn that frequent sterilizing of the ventilating equipment in a school building is the answer to the numerous complaints now received regarding its operation.

Another application that holds some promise is the use of ozone in connection with air washers. With the ozone equipment in front of the washer the water that is recirculated absorbs a certain amount of the gas which acts to sterilize the water and eventually the air passing through it. To what extent this can be accomplished from a practical standpoint remains to be seen.

The continued use of ozone in connection with mechanical ventilating equipments depends largely upon the adoption of scientific methods of manufacture, installation and operation and upon the continued observations regarding its physiological effects.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

N OTES AND COMMENT^

BOOK REVIEWS.

“folk dances of czecho—Slovakia** compiled by Marjorie Crane Geary. 51 pages, illustrated, 8>£ by 11 inches. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Price $2.40.

Miss Geary is national recreation secretary for the Y. W. C. A. in Czecho Slovakia. With the assistance of others engaged in the recreation work of this new nation she has collected and described twenty-four folk dances. Each dance is carefully described and accompanied by the proper music. Large and many good halftones show the positions of the dancers. The collection will certainly be welcomed by many teachers who are using folk dances as part of their physical training work, also by those preparing pageants and exhibitions.

An Athletic Federation For The United States.

The National Amateur Athletic Federation of America was launched at an all-day meeting held in the American Red Cross building, Washington, D. C. on May 8, 1922, at which delegates from practically every sports body in the United States were present. This federation was suggested by Secretary of War Weeks at the American meeting of the Olympic Association last November.

The President of the United States was chosen honorary president of the new body, while the Secretaries of War and Navy and Col. Robert

E.	Thompson were named as honorary vice presidents, active officers chosen being: Henry Breckenridge, fortner Assistant Secretary of War, president; J. F. Byers, president of the United States Golf Association; J. S. Myrick, president of the United States Lawn Tennis Association; Gen. P. E. Pierce, President of the National Intercollegiate Association; William E. Prout, president of the A. A. U., and Mrs. Herbert Hoover,

Digitized by VoiOOQle
170

representing the Girl Scouts of America, vice presidents; Herbert L. Pratt* of New York, treasurer, and Elwood S. Brown, of New York, Secretary.

The officers named above, together with the following, were named as the executive committee; Dr. John S. Brown, Y. M. C. A.; Dwight F, Davis, United States Lawn Tennis Association; Dr. George F. Fisher, Boy Scouts of America; William F. Humphries, president of the Olympic Club* San Francisco; Dudley C. Reid, American Physical Education Association; Col. Wait C. Johnson, army, and Commander'C. R. Train, navy.

Others present at the meeting were:	Paul B. Williams, U. S. L. T^

A.; Dr. Walter S. Harban, U. S. G. A.; Dr. Joseph T. Raycroft, N. C, A.; Col. Wait C. Johnson, U. S. A.; George G. Cohen, Jewish Welfare Board; W. C. Freidgen, American Gymnastic Union; Dr. J. W. McCurdy* American Physical Education Society; Col. Palmer E. Pierce, N. C. A.* Elwood S. Brown, International Y. M. C. A.; Dr. Willard S. Small* Bureau of Education; Fred H. Phillips, N. R. A.; Maj. F. W. Honeycutt, U. S. A.; Charles S. Ornstein, national organizer of Y. M. C. A.; Gustavus T. Kirby, A. A. U.; Dr. Joseph B. McCabe, A. A. U. F.; W. Rubien* A. A. U.; Rome Wright, Campfire Girls; Ruth C. White, Girl Scouts; Commander C. R. Train, U. S. N.; Commander R. M. Emmett, U. S. N.; Robert M. Thompson, Olympic Association.

We append several sections of the constitution that was adopted at the meeting.

Article I. Name.

The name of this organization shall be the National Amateur Athletic Federation of America.

Article II. Mission.

Its mission shall be to create and maintain in the United States a permanent organization, representative of Amateur Athletics and of organizations devoted thereto; to establish and maintain the highest ideals of Amateur Sport in the United States; to promote the development of physical education; to standardize the rules of all amateur athletic games and competitions; and to encourage the participation of this country in the International Olympic Games.

In order to carry out its mission as outlined above, the Federation will seek to:

A.	Unite all organizations of a permanent character which are national in scope, and which are actively interested in the promotion of amateur athletics and other forms of physical recreation.

B.	Aid the constituent organizations of the Federations in their efforts to improve and place wholesome physical activities within the reach of all.

C.	Study the best methods of furthering the development of the physical; social and moral well-being of all classes of individuals through participation in wholesome physical activities.

D.	Educate its constituency in particular, the public in general, regarding the function and value of physical activities when properly conducted.

E.	Adopt, formulate and publish principles, standards and rules governing the games and events to be promoted.

Digitized by L^ooQle
171

F.	Administer such forms of amateur athletics as may be agreed’’ upon from time to time through its constituent organizations, or as a Federation, and to promote and stimulate state, sectional and national-championships.

G.	Foster interest in the International Olympic Games and encourage the participation of representatives of the United Steats in these events.

Article III. Membership.

A. The Federation shall consist of organizations of a permanent character which are national in scope, and actively interested in the promotion of amateur athletics and other forms of physical recreation.

The Detroit Convention

The twenty-ninth national convention of the American Physical Education Association held at Detroit, May 3—6, was attended by over 700 teachers coming from all parts of the country. On Tuesday and Wednesday the delegates visited the Detroit schools and there found much that was interesting and stimulating. Wednesday night was given over to addresses of welcome and to an informal reception and dance during which Miss Elizabeth Burchenal, in her inimitable manner, gave the men and women that were on the floor some strenuous physical exercise as an antidote for the mental strain that the following days brought. Thursday morning was devoted to a discussion of the “Objectives of Physical Education.” Drs. Kilpatrick and Hetherington of Columbia University presented admirable papers that should be read by those who-were not fortunate enough to be present. Thursday afternoon brought together the public schools group in a large overflow meeting. The-papers presented and discussed at this meeting will be printed.

A late afternoon conference by those interested in physical education legislation, and a banquet and hilarious get-together meeting closed the long and strenuous day. On Friday morning the topic of the general, meeting was “Teacher Training,” while the afternoon was devoted to four sectional meetings. Friday evening was given over to demonstrations by pupils of the elementary schools of Detroit during which the' boys and girls showed interesting dances and stunts. In order to fill in some unoccupied time a field hockey game was played on Belle Island between five and six o’clock by graduates of the Sargent school and Wellesley.

Saturday morning was taken up by the meeting of two very large and enthusiastic groups discussing athletics for girls and women, and for boys and men.

The Detroit committee, headed by Miss Ethel Perrin, had the pleasure of seeing the events they had planned carried out without friction, and to the satisfaction of all visitors.

Digitized by v^ooQle
172

Wellesley College Scholarships and Fellowships.

A strictly limited number of graduate scholarships are open to students in the Department of Hygiene and Physical Education. These are open to students only in their second year and are awarded for unusual promise in research or teaching power.

Research Fellowship of one Thousand Dollars for the Study of Orthopedics in Relation to Hygiene and Physical Education. .

General requirements to be met by the successful applicant: good health; the Bachelor's degree from a college or university of good standing; sound preparation in chemistry, physics, and biology; special preparation in anatomy, kinesiology, and physiology; familiarity with the elements of orthopedic theory and practice; and an insight into some one or more of the problems of orthopedics as related to hygiene and physical education.

The work on the problem chosen in consultation with the department must be done in residence at Wellesley Colllege except for study and observation of clinical practice. It will, in general, begin in September following the acceptance of the applicant and will continue through one calendar year. It will involve kinesiology, applied physiology, apd the study of clinical material. For the latter, opportunity will be provided to study the work of orthopedic surgeons in Boston and other eastern cities. The results of the investigation are to be embodied in a thesis to be submitted to the department and published.

Those wishing to apply for this fellowship should send their evidence of preparation and qualifications to the Director, Graduate Department of Hygiene and Physical Education, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. The decision reached by the department will be based upon the applicant's record, upon personal correspondence, and when possible, upon personal interviews.

American intercollegiate athletes have been invited by British athletic associations to participate in a great Anglo-Saxon tournament to be held in London in 1924 as part of the British Empire Exposition, at which a mammoth stadium seating 125,000 people will be dedicated.

Talented Incompetents.

Under this caption Orison Swett Marden philosophises in the New York “Evening Sun" as follows:

“I am constantly running across men in middle life and later who tell me that they have worked hard for many years, have tried desperately to get on, but they can not seem to make any headway. They say that they haven’t any money laid aside, nothing in the bank, no good investments and that they do not even own their own homes.

Digitized by LjOOQle
173

“The inability to save money, to hold on to it after one has earned it, is one of the great human weaknesses. A self-made millionaire tells me that only three men out of every hundred who have made money are able to hold it. The great majority of them die without an independence, having to rely upon others for support in their old age.

“What a pathetic thing that so many men should work like slaves, all their lives, denying themselves luxuries and comforts, and even the necessities of life, the things that every human being has a right to have, and even then not be able to hold on to the money which they have earned because of their inability to finance themselves.

“In analyzing these men one is puzzled to know why they are not making good; they seem to be practical, hard workers, optimistic, to have well trained minds, to be well educated. But there is a financial screw loose somewhere, some slipping of cogs in their nature and they do not win out.

“Talented incompetents are staring us in the face everywhere. Only today I was talking with a college professor who told me that although he had inherited a large fortune several years ago he was now practically down and out, and both he and his wife had to work for a living. And the pity of it is that these people imagine they have a peculiar faculty for financing themselves, a real genius, even, for knowing how to invest money to advantage.”

Mr. Marden’s reflections, says the Bulletin of the National Association for the Study of Exceptional children, open up an interesting contemplation upon some of the causes of human failures. No doubt, much of this failure of the right use of money, of providing for the future, is due to insufficient home teaching and training while the children are still under the parental roof. But it is quite evident that the causes may lie much deeper.

It would seem that the ability to provide, to hold on to money, to invest the profits of one’s labors in a safe and sane manner, is not altogether a matter of intelligence and general ability as such. It is a special talent, we might say. A talent the absence of which is particularly noticeable in these modern times which are more commercial in type than any previous age. The talent for holding on to and manipulating money is found in persons whose general intelligence is not always of a high oftfer. We are dealing with “types of men,” recognizable even in childhood.

We may come across highly endowed persons, especially those representing the artistic type, who have no “money sense,” so to speak, at all. On the other hand, there are children of rather tender age, who surprise us and, perchance, offend our sensibility, by giving early evidence of money greed and cunning. It is well to study these types so that we may learn the best ways of turning these different endowments to the best advantage of society and of the individuals themselves.

Mr. E. DanaCaulkins, Manager of the National Physical Education Service, stationed at Washington writes us as follows:

The Fess-Capper Bill (revised) H. R. 22-S. 416, is receiving active consideration by members of Congress. This does not mean that a vote
174

on the Bill is certain to be taken immediately. This does mean that now is the time when every supporter of Universal Physical Education through local, State and Federal co-operation should speak out.

During the closing days of the last session, the desks of the Congressmen were piled high with protests against the bill from people who mistakenly feared that its passage would interfere with the right of the individual to select his own form of medical (or non-medical) treatment. The amended bill includes in Section 12 provisions which silence this opposition. Another amendment has eliminated danger of conflict with ^existing activities of the Children’s Bureau.

Now let the friends of this bill make their desires known to their Congressmen. Let every private citizen, every local official, every organization inform the Congressmen of their support. Let them find out from their Congressmen what is being done in Washington to accomplish the early enactment of this law.

The proposed public welfare department means only a shift in the administration of this law. Rapid progress toward Universal Physical Education requires Federal assistance and stimulus combined with local and State administrative autonomy.

Diphtheria Should Be Eradicated.

Diphtheria is the only acute infectious disease for which we possess a laboratory method of diagnosis, a means for determing susceptibility, a reliable preventive and a specific remedy.

It would seem, therefore, that diphtheria should be of as infrequent occurrence as is smallpox in well-vaccinated communities. Statistics show, however, that the case and death rates for diphtheria have shown a tendency to increase during the last four years. The year 1920 shows a total of nearly 24000 cases and more than 1900 deaths and a death rate of over 18 per 100,000 in New York State.

The responsibility for this condition of affairs rests in part with those parents who attempt to treat cases of sore throat with home remedies, in part with so-called drugless healers, but most of all with the physician who neglects to make use of the facilities available for diagnosis and treatment.

While the number of deaths from diphtheria in New York: State has been reduced from one out of every two cases in pre-antitoxin days to one out of every twelve cases at the present time this latter figure could be much further reduced if physicians would make it a rule to take cultures in all cases of sore throat, to administer antitoxin and isolate all suspicious cases without waiting for the culture report, and to immunize all contacts with antitoxin;—actual eradication of the disease will only come by the universal use of toxin-antitoxin in all children who are shown by the Schick test to be nomimmune to the disease, a procedure which can be carried out at the present time only by those who are thoroughly trained for the work.—Health News, Albany N. Y.

Digitized by uooQle
175

Washington, D. C., May 6, 1922.—Representatives of twenty-five organizations devoted to athletics, physical education, health and education called upon President Harding this noon to request his personal leadership in the effort to secure Universal Physical Education in the schools of the United States.

No specific bill was urged, but the need for a strong federal stimulus was emphasized on the ground that through local and state governments only i-io of the school children of the nation are now being trained physically.

Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby spoke for the grqup as follows:

“Mr. President, I presume there are several reasons why I have been chosen to act as spokesman for this group interested in Universal Physical Education. My interest in this subject is of long standing. As one of the organizers of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, as one of the organizers of the first Public Schools Athletic League, and as past President of the American Olympic Committee, I have tried by every means to further the interest of wholesome sport and physical training in America.

“All who are here today represent National Organizations which in various ways have been supporting the movement for Universal Physical Education of the school children of this Nation.

“Investigations have shown that not more than i-io of the school children now receive special training for health, normal physical development and an appreciation of the meaning of good sportsmanship.

“Our experiences in the recent War showed the results of this neglect in a physically impaired manhood. In peace times the devitalizing effect of physical illieracy and ignorance is just as real tho less clearly discerned.

“It is our conviction that the National Government cannot carry adequately the responsibilities of national defense and the promotion of general welfare unless the states and local communities train the children for health and physical vigor.

“We, therefore, heartily approve the pledge for national stimulation for Universal Physical Education which was included in the Republican Party Platform and the support which you have given this pledge in your subsequent utterances. We call upon you, Mr. President, to lend the power of your personal leadership for carrying out the program of federal stimulation for speeding up the extension of adequate physical education for all school children.”

The President replied graciously as follows: “Mr. Kirby, it is not necessary for me to reply at length. What you say strikes a sympathetic chord in my heart.”

Those who were in the party that called on the president, and the organizations they represented were as follows:	Mrs.	Isabel	Worrell

Ball, Women’s Relief Corps, Dr. John Brown, International Y. M. C. A., Physical Dept., Mr. E. Dana Caulkins, Child Conservation League of America, Mrs. Arthur Ellis, General Federation of Women’s C'ubs, Dr. George J. Fisher, Boy Scouts of America, Mrs. Ernest R. Grant, National Tuberculosis Association, Mr. E. J. Henning and Mr. John W. Ford, Loyal Order of Moose, Mr. Alan Johnstone, Jr., American Social Hygiene Association, Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby, Playground and Recreation

Digitized by

Google
176

Ass'n. of America, Mr. R. F. Lovett, Community Service, Mrs. Raymond B. Morgan, American Association of University Women, Miss Clara D-Noyes, American Nurses' Association, Mrs. Simon Nye, Council of Jewish Women, Colonel Palmer Pierce, National Collegiate Athletic Association* Mr. John Poole, International Ass'n. of Rotary Clubs, Dr. Joseph E. Ray-croft, College Physical Directors' Society, Dr. Dudley B. Reed, American Physical Education Association, Mr. W. C. Roberts, Mr. Edw. F. Me-Grady and Mr. Edgar Wallace, American Federation of Labor, Mr-Fredrick W. Rubien, Amateur Athletic Union, Mr. W. C. Friedgen* American Gymnastic Union, Dr. Rebecca N. Stoneroad, National Memorial Physical Betterment Bureau, Mrs. Arthur C. Watkins, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teacher Associations, Miss Ruth White* Girl Scouts of America, Mrs. A. B. Wiles, Daughters of the American Revolution, and Mrs. E. A. Yost, Women's Christian Temperance Union-

BOOS REVIEWS.

“sex knowledge" by Norah March. 104 pages, 5 yi. by 8 inches-Published by E. P. Dutton and Company, New York, Price {1.25.

In this book Miss March, who is author of “Towards Racial Health, presents another phase of the subject that is forcing itself upon the attention of all educators. Real information about Sex and its deep and universal truths has, under our present social arrangements and restrictions been considered so difficult to impart suitably to the young that we habitually evade the difficulty and allow our children to grow up in a dangerous ignorance, which in many cases leads to trouble or disaster.

In these pages Miss March, shows not only how abso’utely essentia! instruction in Sex Matters is, but also that it can be given intelligently, efficiently, and without offense.

In fact, this new book of hers, though small, is of great value, for in it a delicate matter of profound importance to the race is handled delicately, but also sanely and practically. The book is warmly recommended to teachers and parents.

“fun for everyone". 112 pages, 4% by inches, paper cover-Published by Community Service, 315 4th Ave., New York. Price 50c, The booklet is a compilation of suggestive programs for community use. These programs are classified under different headings so that the community leader looking for suggestions of what to do with a particular group of people will find a program outlined for such a group. Even the experienced leader or teacher will find many suggestions in the booklet that will be valuable to him.

Shrubbery.

In visiting the school grounds at one of our western cities a short time ago, I found that the school board were putting shrubbery into all of the new school grounds, and in some cases a very considerable amount, covering nearly a half of the entire ground.

This is a serious mistake. On the grounds visited, the area was not large enough for the play of the children, even without shrubbery, and with the shrubbery it would be impossible to play any vigorous games.

Shrubbery is inherently unsuitable, and always suggests that the

Digitized by ^.ooQle
i77

school building and ground are to gratify the pride of the school board and parents, rather than for the use of the children, for no one can think that bushes are an advantage in a ground that children are to use.

But there are other reasons which make shrubbery objectionable where there are both boys and girls. Anyone who is acquainted with our city parks, knows that the shrubbery always tends to become a place of ill-repute in the neighborhood, and is used for immoral purposes to such an extent that it has been taken out of some city parks.

Under present conditions where there is a movement in nearly every state to. provide physical training for all children, the ground is as much a part of the school equipment as the classroom, and it would be about equally appropriate to-take out the school desks and put potted plants in their place.

Eugenics.

The families of our professional classes are small. The average •number of children among the men of science in this country is i.6, among our college graduates as a whole, less than 2, and among our women college graduates, only .86.

Any method which causes the incapable and weakly to multiply and the strong and able to die out works toward the degeneration of the race. No man should have more children than he can care for. The -ch:ldren of those below the poverty line and of those who are weakly or handicapped by heredity should be few, but those who are strong and able should pride themselves on good-sized families.

We have secured the evolution of our domestic animals by cutting off from heredity all but the strongest males. We are apparently securing the degeneration of modern society by leaving the propagation of the species to its least capable members.

Wallace in “Social Evolution and Moral Progress” tells us that man has made no progress either mentally or morally within the historic arc, and that while we as a race have progressed it is because each generation has stood on the shoulders of the generation that has gone before. He says we shall make no progress while the most unfit continue to multiply. With the fit, parenthood should be regarded as a religious duty.—H. S. Curtis.

OVER THE PLATE.

Bill Jones had the speed of a cannon ball;

He could loosen a brick from a three foot wall. When he shot one across, it would hustle by Too swift for even the surest eye.

No one could hit him when he was right,

As no eye could follow the ball's quick flight.

Bill should have starred in a big league role. But he stuck to the “minors”—he lacked control.

Digitized by Google
i7«

Jack Smith had a curve like a loop-the-loop,

It would start for your head with a sudden swoop. And break to your knees with a zig zag wave;

And the Leagues’ best batters would roar and rave; At the jump it took a sudden swerve.

Shade of the boomerang, “what a curve,”

But Jack’s still doomed to a “bush league fate—” He couldn’t get it across the plate.

Tom Brown had both the speed and curve,

A combination which jarred the nerves.

He could steam ’em by till they looked like peas, They’d take a jump from your neck to your knees. From the best to the worst in the league, by jingl He had them all on the phantom swing,

But he missed the mark of the truly great,

Poor Tom—he couldn’t locate the plate.

How is it with you, if I may ask?

Have you got control of your daily task?

Have you got control of your appetite?

Of your temper and tongue in the bitter fight? Have you “got control” of your brawn and brain? Or are you laboring all in vain?

It matters not what your daily roll.

Have you got control? Have you got CONTROL?

It counts not what you may “have” my friend, When the story is told at the game’s far end.

The greatest and the noblest brain

The world has known may be yours in vain,}

The man with “control” is the man who mounts. And how to use “what you’ve got” that counts. Have you got the head? Are you aiming straight? How much of your effort “goes over the plate?”

FIELD DAT DRILL.

For Fifth Grade pupils of Moline, 111. public*schools.

BY KATHERINE MCELROY.

Music:	Washington	Post.	Victor Record No. 352.83.

Formation of class:

Open order, boys and girls in alternate rows: Girls on the left of boys Measures in music:—Introduction of 16 counts.

6 times	32	counts,	then	an	intermission	of	16	counts.

1 times	32	counts,	then	an	intermission	of	16	counts

4 times	32	counts,	then	an	intermission	of	16	counts

4 times	32	counts,	then	an	intermission	of	16	counts

1 times	32	counts

INTRODUCTION (16 counts.)

Digitized by C^ooQle
179

GROUP I.

Exercise I.

Counts

(a)	Stride left forward and swing arms forward............... 1-2

(b)	Bend trunk forward	and swing arms down and backward ..	3-4

(c)	Return.................................................. 5-8

(d)	Repeat to right side ................................... 9-16

(e)	Repeat all.............................................17-32

Exercise II.

(a)	Stride left rideward	and swing arm sideward.............. 1-2

(b)	Turn trunk left ........................................ 3-4

(c)	Return ................................................. 5-8

(d)	Repeat to right side................................... 9-16

(e)	Repeat all ...........................................17-32.

Exercise III.

(a)	Stride left backward and swing arms upward............... 1-2

(b)	Bend upper trunk backward and place hands in rear of head 3-4

(c)	Return ................................................ 5”^'

(d)	Repeat three times..................................... 9-32

GROUP 11.

Exercise I.

(a)	Touch left toe forward and swing	arms	forward............ 1-2

(b)	Swing arms upward and raise left	knee upward............ 3~4

(c)	Return.................................................. 5-8

(d)	Repeat right .......................................... 9-16

(e)	Repeat all.............................................I7"32

Exercise II.

(a)	Stride left sideward and swing	arms	sideward ............ i“2

(b)	Bend trunk left sideward ............................. 3“4

(c)	Return from bending..................................... 5"^

(d)	Bend trunk right sideward .............................. 7"^

(e)	Return from bending ................................... 9-10	.

(f)	Position ...............................................n-12

(g)	Mark time turning % turn left..........................I3“J^

(h)	Repeat “a” *- “g” three times	.......................17-64

INTERMISSION (l6 COUntS.)

Exercise III.

(a) Step left backward and swing left arm obliquely backward

downward, right arm obliquely foreupward .......................... I”2

(b)	Step right backward and change arm position............... 3~4

(c)	Return..................................................

(d)	Close ranks by side step (two closing steps) ............ 9-12

(e)	Mark time ...............................................13-16

(f)	Repeat all beginning right (open ranks).................17“"32

INTERMISSION (l6 COUntS.)

GROUP III.

Exercise I.

(a) Place left foot forward and place hands on hips............ i~2

(b) Kneel on right knee and arms to circle over head........... 3~4

(c)	Return .................................................

Digitized by
i8o

(d)	Repeat right ........................................... 9-16

(e)	Repeat all .............................................17-32

Exercise II.

(a)	Place hands on	hips,	stride left	sideward................ 1-2

(b)	Bend left knee	and	straighten	arms sideward............. 3-4

(c)	Return .................................................. 5-8

(d)	Repeat right............................................ 9-16

(e)	Repeat all..............................................17-32

Exercise III.

In Divided Order:

Boys execute Group No. 3 as written (Exercise 1 and Exercise 2.) Girls execute Group No. 3 visa versa (Exercise 2 then Exercise 1.)

INTERMISSION (l6 COUntS.)

GROUP IV.

Repeat Exercise III of Group II.

DUMB-BELL DRILL FOR EXHIBITIONS.

BY L. ZWARG, PHILADELPHIA.

Music: National Emblem March—Bagley, (10" Victor Record.) Introduction ....................................20	Counts

PART I.

Counts

(a)	Raise arms sideward, Bells vertical - 1, Pause - 2 Move arms foreward, clapping bells - 3 Pause - 4

Return - 5 and 6, position 7 and 8 ................................ 8

Repeat three times.................................................24

(b)	As (a) but bend knees deep on Count 3, straighten on Count 5.32

Total......................................................64

PART II.

(a)	Stride left sideward, raise arms side-upward,

Clap Dumb-bells together - 1, Pause - 2

Bend arms to strike from shoulder - 3, Pause - 4.

Return 5 and	6,	position 7 and 8 ............................ 8

Repeat right,	left,	right .....................................24

(b)	As (a), Lower trunk forward on - 3, return on - 5 ........32

Total .....................................................64

PART III.

(a) Stride left sideward, raise arms sideward - 1

Pause - 2. Bend right arm over head, left arm in rear of waist,

and bend trunk left sideward - 3

Pause - 4. Return 5 and 6, position 7 and 8......................... 8

Repeat, right, left,	right .........................................24

(b) As (a), but lunge	instead of stride.............................32

Total..........................................................64

Interlude ........................................................   4

Digitized by Google
181

PART IV.

(a) Bend knees to squatting position, dumb-bells touching floor - i, pause - 2. Straighten left leg sideward - 3 pause - 4. Return 5 and 6

position 7 and 8 .................................................... 8

Repeat right, left, right ......................................24

(b) As (a), but straddle both legs obliquely backward to support lying position on count 3,

Return on count 5. Repeat three times ..........................32

Total.....................................................  64

PART V.

(a)	Stride left sideward, raise arms sideward - 1, pause -2 Turn trunk left, move arms forward, clapping dumb-bell - 3 Pause - 4. Return - J and 6.

Position - 7 and 8 ............................................ 8:

Repeat right, left, right ....................................  24

(b)	As (a), but lunge sideward on count - 1.

Kneel right on Count - 3.........................................—

32

Total......................................................64.

A COMBINATION DRILL.

ARRANGED BY JOSEPH KRIPNER, TURN VEREIN LINCOLN, CHICAGO, ILL.

Music: Reconciliation Polka, by Rich. Drigo.

Ladies, dance-steps. Men (Actives) wand exercises.

Formation—Column of ranks with Ladies in the outside files alternated by files of Men. L-A-L-A-L-A-L. in open order.

LADIES PART.

Introduction.

Meas^

During the first 4 counts remain in position—arms in first position ............................................................... 1-4-

Place left foot forward in 2nd position arms move to 2nd position 5-6 Place left foot in back of right, bend knee slightly (trunk bends

to left) arms left lateral........................................... 7-8

Step left forward and hop on left foot with right leg raised

backward arms to 3rd position left arm up........................... 9-10

Step right backward close left foot to right arms move to 1st to

2nd position (follow left hand).....................................11-12

Remain in that position........................................13-16

1st Figure.

Polka hop left forward arms in 2nd left lateral................ 1-2:

Balance hop right (Arabasque) right forward arms in 3rd right

arm up left sideward................................................. 3~4

Polka hop turn in 2 polka steps arms in 4th left on 1st hop and

on 2nd hop arms reversed (right)..................................... 5-8

Repeat same to right, left, right ............................. 9“32

i6*

Digitized by
182

.2nd Figure.

This figure with turn left.

Polka hop left forward—arms left lateral ........................ 1-2

Jete right, left, right in place arms in 2nd.................... 3”4

Pirouette left arms in 5th......................................

Face left and stamp left and right, arms in 2nd.................. 7-8

Repeat 3 more times always facing left ......................... 9-32

16

3rd Figure.

Step right sideward swing left foot forward. - 1 - step with left in rear of right. - 2 - step right sideward to right. - 3 - step left in front of right and swing right forward and hop - 4 - arms through

- 1st - 2nd ......................................................... 1-4

Balance hop right arms in 3rd right up left sideward............ 5-6

Step left back and swing right leg forward - arms reversed ....	7-8

Repeat 3 more times going to left - right - left............... 9-32

16

4th Figure.

Same as 2nd Figure only starting right and facing right............. 16

3th Figure.

Balance hop left forward - arms in 3rd left up right sideward . .	1-2

Step right back swing left foot forward - arms reversed..........	3-4

Balance hop turn on left foot in 4 hop-arms in 3rd left up ....	5-8

Same right, left, right .......................................... 9-32

16

6th Figure.

This Figure with turn left.

Balance hop left obliquely forward arms in 3rd ................ 1-2

Pirouete right - arms in 2nd palms up.......................... 3-4

Step on right foot and swing left leg forward - arms in 3rd right

arm up left arm sideward ........................................... 5-6

Step on left foot with yi turn left and close right - arms in 2nd 7-8 Repeat 3 more times always facing left .................. 9-32

16

Jth Figure.

Polka hop left and right forward arms left, right lateral........... 1-4

Pirouette left - arms in 5th .]..................................... 5-6

Step left sideward - right foot in rear of left - arms left lateral.	7-8

Repeat 3 more times right, left, right, going backward on right •execution and fore ward on left......................................... 9-32

Sth Figure.

Same as 6th Figure but start right and facing right

16

1-32

Interlude 8 counts

16

Digitized by t^ooQle
123

During the 8 counts formation will be changed and then exercises repeated in divided order.

men's part.

L-A-L-A-L-A-L with 6 steps between the rank members.

Introduction.

Wand is carried on the right side, after the ranks are in open order the wand is lowered to horizontal in front as follows:

Music starts	................................................. 1-4

Raise arms sideward (wand is in right hand and rest on shoulder) ..	5-6

Carry arms forward.............................................    7-8

Lower arms (as in starting position) ............................ 9-10

Grasp upper end of wand with left hand and lower to horizontal

in front .............................................................11-12

Hold in this	position ..........................................13—16

1st Exercise.

Lunge left obliquely forward wand left obliquely forward right,

arm in back of head, eyes looking at left hand ........................ 1-2

Place left foot backward, bend right knee - wand obliquely

backward downward on right side left hand in front of chest..........	3-4

Kneel left wand horizontal over head, eyes looking at wand . . .	5-6

Close left to right and swing wand down to horizontal in front. .	7-8

Repeat 3 more times right, left, right.......................... 9-32

2nd Exercise.	16

This exercise with % turn left.

Lunge left sideward - wand right sideward horizontal ................ 1-2

K' turn left on left heel - swing right leg forward and wand

horizontal over head ................................................... 3-4

Place right foot backward, bend left knee - wand on left side. . . ^5-6 Extend left leg forward and wand horizontal in front and close

left foot to right and lower wand ........................................ 7-8

Repeat 3 more times always starting left and facing left........... 9-32

16

3rd Exercise.

Bend knees deep and cross arms left, arm on top wahd horizontal in front........................................................... 1-2

Layout left backward (right knee is bent) bend arms for thrust

wand horizontal in front of chest .................................... 3-4

• Straighten right leg and lower to support, lying frontways, place

knuckles on floor .................................................... 5“^

Jump to a stand and wand horizontal in front...................... 7“^

Repeat 3 more times right, left, right........................... 9-32

16

4th Exercise.

Same as 2nd only starting right and facing, right ..................... 1-32

16

Interlude 4 measures—8 counts.

Digitized by
184

Swing wand foreupward horizontal over head rise on toes.........	1-2-

Lower wand and change to under grip................................ 3-4

Raise wand to horizontal in front ................................. 5-6

Lower to starting position (wand is now held with under grip)..	7-8

5th Exercise.

Lunge left forward - wind wand left forward to obliquely fore-

upward right hand in front of left shoulder............................ 1-2

Change knee bending - describe circle with right hand, release wand from left hand - hold in middle on right side of body (Javelin throw) left arm circle inward and is raised obliquely foreward upward trunk is turned slightly to right and bent backward................ 3-4

Transfer weight to left foot - reverse arm position (throw) ....	5-6

(Raise right leg backward, look at right hand.)

Step right back - close left to right, lower wand to horizontal

in front under grip, starting position ................................ 7-3

Repeat 3 more times right, left, right.......................... 9-32

16

6th Exercise.

This exercise with facing left.

Raise left leg sideward - wind wand left sideward................. 1-2

Lunge left sideward, describe circle with right hand, place left hand in front of right shoulder (right arm up and bend trunk left

sideward ............................................................. 3-4

turn left, change knee bending bend trunk backward and

swing wand obliquely forward upward wand horizontal................... 5-6

Close left to right - lower wand to starting position............. 7-8

Repeat 3 more times always starting left and facing left......... 9-32

16

7th Exercise.

Place left foot sideward swing wand foreward upward (horizon-

tal over head)......................................................... 1-2

Lunge left sideward, wind wand left sideward ...................... 3-4

Unwind wand straighten knee - bend trunk forward wand

horizontal in front (touch floor with fingers) ......................

Close left to right straighten trunk, lower wand to starting

position .............................................................. 7-8

Repeat 3 more times	right, left, right........................ 9“3X

16

8th Exercise.

Same as 6th exercise but facing right and starting right............... 1-32

16

Interlude - 4 measures.

During these 4 measures position will be changed. On account of the uncertainty of the exact number of participants no definite description can be furnished at this time. However the exercises as explained will be executed in divided order.

Digitized by CaOOQle
i»5



■dhysiology and hygien

r

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.



beneficial aspects of military apprenticeship.—Whatever one's attitude may be toward the question of universal or compulsory military service, the physical benefit that accrued to many persons unexpectedly placed in uniform during the recent war cannot be gainsaid. Aside from the innumerable, often unanticipated advantages that arose from calling attention to remediable bodily defects as the result of a careful medical examination of a large group of our population, the engagement in the service was helpful in other ways. The outdoor life with suitably regulated exercise, and above all the adequate system of feeding, led to gains in body weight and vigor that were surprising to all concerned. In thousands of instances as much as twenty pounds' increment in s’ze was recorded under properly controlled supervision. The unfortunate ravages of as yet little understood epidemics of influenza and pneumonia tended to obscure the good that resulted to so many American young men from their changed mode of life. Their seeming vigor was repeatedly the subject of favorable comment. A peculiarly noteworthy illustration of what the regimen represented by military service may insure from the standpoint of personal hygiene has been reported by Rothacker* of Jena. A careful examination of a group of sedentary workers drafted into the reserve, and therefore no longer to be designated as youthful men, was made at the beginning of their camp training and at the end of ten weeks in 1916 when they were ready for field service. The improved appearance and physique, the replacement of the pallor of indoor work by the rosy complexion of the outdoor life, might be anticipated. The anemic type had been replaced by a more normal person. The tendency of the hematopoietic organs to respond to the altered conditions of living expressed iteslf in a gain in erythrocytes and in hemoglobin in the blood. The leukocytes count also showed improvement. In days of peace we may well take to heart the lesson of such enforced experiences. They constitute an indisputable demonstration of what properly directed rigorous outdoor life can do to restore the anemic type of sedentary indoor toiler to a more normal condition of health, even when the stimulus of youth has passed.—Current Comment in “The Journal A. M. A.” Feb. 12, 1921.

* Rothacker, A.: Wirkung des Militaerdienstes auf Stubenarbeiter, unter besonderer Beruecksichtigung des Blutbefundes, Ztschr. f. klin. Med. 89:387, 1920.

physical defects and disease.—Lee and Brown are not prepared to support the theory that many ailments of the nervous system or of the gastro-intestinal system are related to bad mechanical use of the body. However, they state that there is a frequent association of such sysmptoms with the mechanical use of the body. Their investigations have shown

Digitized by CjOOQle
186

that albuminuria of young men which is not a true nephritis is associated almost exclusively with very bad mechanical use of the body. They believe that a sufficient case can be made out of correction as against compensation on the basis of actual ailments of the back and feet, generally conceded to be due to faulty use of the body even without the addition of possible symptoms connected with other organs. Physical training can only accomplish what it is expected to accomplish when it is based on satisfactory fundamental principles and when bodily mechanics is regarded in a similar fashion as are the disturbances of any other system of the body.—Original Article in “American Journal of Medical Sciences” Philadelphia, No. j.	v

Under the name of Cercle d’etudes medico-sportives, a society has been formed which will take up the study of all questions of a purely scientific nature pertaining to physical education, physical culture and general sports, both from the physiologic and the pathologic point of view. It will endeavor at the outset to unite the efforts of all colleagues wha are interested in these questions, as up to the present time these have not been grouped together in any society. The society proposes, furthermore* to standardize instruction in these subjects and all official documents relating thereto. Such topics as the physiologic aspects of physical training* and the amount and type of physical culture required by various age groups illustrate the type of questions that will be studied.—From Paris Letter to “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.” Feb. 5, 1921.

care of the eyes.—To read or study when tired or drowsy is to strain the eyes to a dangerous degree. Avoid evening study whenever possible. If you are using your eyes by artificial light, be sure the light does not shine directly into the eyes, and try to have it come from behind and to the left side so as to avoid the harmful glare. Never sit with the gas or electric light directly in front of you. If electric light is used, the bulbs should be wholly or partly frosted. The best form of artificial illumination for the eyes is the so-called indirect system, where the light is reflected from the ceiling and walls of the room in a soft glow and where all glare is entirely hidden by an opaque shield.—W. M. Carhart, Pub. Health, Michigan.

RELIABILITY OF OZONE IN SWIMMING POOL DISINFECTION.—By Wallace A. Manheimer, Ph. D., New York. It is now well established that the combination of refiltration and disinfection of swimming pool water constitutes the standard procedure in the sanitary control of plunge baths It is also well known that the combined procedures of refiltration and disinfection effect reductions in the cost of maintenance which, in the long run, make the installation of expensive apparatus an actual economy. Furthermore, it is well to state that refiltration can be relied on in a properly designed system to maintain the pool water free from suspended matter, and that ozone treatment will supplement this by bleaching dissolved coloring matter and by destroying bacteria.

In diseases, bacteria are discharged from the body in pus, mucus, feces or blood. The bacteria are usually protected by these substances from the destroying activity of such natural agencies as light and dry-

Digitized by
187

ing; and probably the success obtained by the use of strong oxiding: chemicals, such as gaseous chlorin, the hypochlorites and ozone, may be' attributed to the power these substances have of destroying the organic material enveloping the bacteria.

Ozone is recommended for swimming pool purification because:

1.	It is reliable as a disinfectant.

2.	It is capable of purifying heavily polluted pool water.

3.	It produces no objectionable substances in the water.

4.	It improves the appearance and transparency of the water, permitting a longer continued use of the pool, a consequent reduction in the cost of maintenance, and a reduction in the hazard of drowning.

5.	It is inexpensive in application.—Original Article in “The Journal A. M. A.”

the physiology of muscular exercise.—By F. A. Bainbridge,. M. A., M. D., S. Dc., Professor of Physiology, University of London.-Cloth. Price, $3.75 net. Pp. 214, with 22 diagrams. New York: Longmans, Green and Co.

This is the fourth in the series of monographs on physiology issued under the editorship of Professor Starling. The book combines direct and simple diction with scientific accuracy and lucid reasoning, thus^ making it useful not only to the specialist and the general medical practitioner, but also to the educated layman. The first seven chapters review the physiologic changes induced by exercise in the muscle and the nervous tissue, the blood, and the vascular and the respiratory mechanisms. The last five chapters deal with the applied physiology of training, second wind, exercise at high altitudes, fatigue (individual and industrial), the effort syndrome, overstress of the heart, and beneficial effects of exercise. Each chapter closes with an admirable summary of the important conclusions reached in the development of the subject under consideration.-The author states in the preface that “the fullest co-operation between the laboratory worker and the physician is of supreme importance for bringing about a clearer understanding and more effective practical application of the principles underlying the behavior of the body during muscular exercise, since on a knowledge of these principles depends success or failure in the treatment of the unfit and in the building up of the sound man. I have attempted to present my subject in such a way as to promote a closer connection between the investigator in the laboratory and those directly concerned with the health and well-being of the community.”' The body of the monograph demonstrates the success of the author in carrying out this practical aim. The book closes with reference to the more important publications in the field. The author concludes the discussions of cardiac overstrain with this statement:	“There is no evidence

that, in a perfectly healthy man, even the most intense exertion produces any harmful effect on the heart.” This would be reassuring were it not for the fact that present diagnostic methods fail to reveal the slight myocardial weaknesses, and the further fact that the “constant drop of water” experiment, freed from factors other than the excessive physical work, has not yet been made.—Book Notice: The Journal Am. Med. Assoc ~

Digitized by L.00Q Le
.   - .......  -.—.......—— "  i 1

T H L E T I C Q

EMANUEL HAUG, New York City|^ .............——.............— 11

Worlds Records in Swimming made by John Weissmuller of the

Illinois Athletic Club:

50 yards,	6o-foot	pool..............................................0:23	1-5

50 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................0:23	1-5

60 yards,	6o-foot	pool..............................................0:29	3-5

100 yards,	6o-foot	pool..............................................0:52	3-5

100 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................0:53

120 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................1:08	2-5

150 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................1:27	2-5

200 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................2:02	2-5

220 yards,	6o-foot	pool..............................................2:17	4-5

220 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................2:17	4-5

250 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................2:41

300 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................3:35	1-5

500 yards,	75-foot	pool..............................................5:56	4-5

100 meters,	75-foot	pool..............................................1:00	2-5

200 meters,	75-foot	pool..............................................2119	1-5

300 meters,	75-foot	pool..............................................3:35	1-5

100 yards, backstroke, 75-foot pool....................................1:06	3-5

Are girl athletes good sports? Will they in competition on the field treat their opponents with sportsmanlike courtesy?

These questions were brought out recently in a meeting of amateur •sport officials, who assembled at the Hotel McAlpin, New York, to discuss with representatives of the Amateur Athletic Union the question of standardization and regulation of field and track athletics for girls, in preparation for their competition in the 1928 Olympic games. That American girls would compete in such events was confidently predicted.

A resolution offered by F. W. Rubien of the A. A. U. was carried unanimously petitioning the board of the organization to urge the adoption of track and field events for women and to ask the co-operation of all athletic groups with a view of popularizing amateur sports for girls. No action will be taken until the November convention of the A. A. U. Mr. Prout announced that he would appoint a representative committee to look into the matter and present the petition to the A. A. U. board.

Note by Editor—At its District Convention, May 6th the Committee in Athletics for Women (of the Am. Physical Education Association) at which over 300 women were present, adopted a resolution advising that at present women do not take part in Olympic games. The debate preceding the adoption of the resolution showed that until some representative body takes charge of women's athletics it would be unwise for American women to compete this fall at Paris.

The following rules and suggestions have been adopted by the National Women's Track Athletics Committee of the A. A. U. for 1922:

Digitized by CjOOQle
189

1.	Events and rules.

a. Standard Events—The following events only shall be considered standard.

Runs—3<Dj 50, 75, 100 and 220 yds. Hurdles—60 yds., four lyi ft. 65 yds., six 2yi ft.; 100 yds., eight lyi ft. Relay Races (4 runners) 220 yds. and 440 yds. Jumps-Standing High and Broad; running high,, broad, and hop step. Pole vault. Throws-—Baseball, basketball, hurl-ball (6-lb.) javelin (Olympic Official), discus (Youth’s Official). Shot put—6, 8 and 12 lbs.

c. The baseball, basketball, hurlball and discus shall all be thrown from an eight-foot 2yi in. circle and measured in the same way as the shot put.

2.	Safeguards.

Medical examinations and close supervision of all track athletes and the necessity for using extreme care in the construction of jumping pits and hurdles is earnestly recommended. The following two groups of events are suggestive of the types best suited to beginners and to the trained athlete.

Beginners’ Group—30 and 75 yd. run; 60 yds. hurdles (four hurdles, 2yi ft. high); standing and running broad jumps; running hop, step and jump; baseball throw, basketball throw.

Advanced Group—50 and 100 yds. run; 100 yds. hurdles (eight hurdles, ft. high); running high jump; 8 lb. shot put, discus, javelin or hurlball throw (in addition to the above group.)

At the Penn. Relay Carnival April 28 and 29 one world’s record and three carnival records were broken, while two carnival records were equaled.

New World’s Record: 2 miles, University of Pennsylvania, time 7 min. 49 2-5 sec. Woman’s record was 7 min. 52 2-5 sec.

Robert Legendre of Georgetown, won the Pentathlon with the low score of 8 points as follows:

Won' 200 Metre Dash, 22 1-5 sec.

Third:	1500 Metre Run, 4 min. 48 4-5 sec.

Won: Running Broad Jump, 22 ft. 8yi in.

Second:	Discus	Throw,	112	ft.	3^ in.

Won:	Javelin Throw, 171 ft. 1 in.

ATHLETIC DIRECTOR SYSTEM IS FAVORED.

Howard H. Jones, Yale, ’08, S., coach of the Iowa University football' team, and brother to T. A. D. Jones, Yale’s football coach, has written The Yale News to amplify and clarify his remarks made on Eastern college coaching before a gathering of Western conference coaches in Chicago.

Jones says he believes the athletic director systems in use in the West are better than the control of alumni committees as practiced in many Eastern universities. He also adds: “I believe in all-year-round football coaching, as it relieves the mental pressure upon the candidates during the Fall season.

Jones says that in his recent speech he had no thought of criticising

Digitized by CjOoq le
190

Eastern policies or of insinuating that Eastern football is not cleanly played. “My purpose was simply to say/* he writes, “that if anything. Western systems have been on a more sound basis than Eastern regimes/* As to intersectional contests, Jones writes: “The only objection comes from cases where too much time has been taken on account of trips. I think a few intersectional contests between Eastern and Middle Western teams would bring the institutions of these sections of the country a little closer together.”

A new world’s record for the 4-mile relay was made by the University of Illinois April 29 at Des Moines, Iowa. The new time is 17 min. 45 sec. Previous record was 17 min. 51 1-5 sec. made by the Boston

A.	A. team at Easton, Pa. nine years ago.

The American record for the Javelin Throw was also broken at this meet. Milton Angier, Illinois, heaved the javelin 202 ft. 9^ in. Former record was 197 ft. 5}4 in. held by James Lincoln, N. Y. A. C., in 1920.

KRIZ WINS NATIONAL GYMNASTIC TITLE.

Frank J. Kriz of the Bohemian Gymnastic Association was crowned national all-around gymnastic champion and the New York Athletic Club gymnasts won the team title in the national A. A. U. gymnastic championship, held at the Mercury Foot club April 21, 1922. Kriz won the title with a total of 2986.50 points, while Curt Rottmann of the New York Turn Verein, who captured the honors last year, was unable to place better than third.

The team championship was decided by the flying rings. With William Heer of the National Turn Verein and Kriz tied for third place with a total of 467 points in this event, the New York Athletic Club was leading the Bohemian Gymnastic Association for the honors by the score of 20 to 19. At the time that the tie was discovered Kriz had already made ready to go home. He was notified of the situation and taking off his coat and collar he and Herr took a trial in the swing-oflf, Herr winning with 254 points to 249 for Kriz.

Rottmann entered the meet in poor condition, and this, together with the sterling performances put up by his rivals, was mainly responsible for the loss of his titles in the two individual events.

In the side-horse event, Paul Richter of the Swiss Turn Verein won his first national title after eight years of endeavor. Richter amassed a total of 586 points, while his nearest competitor, Charles Cramer of the New York Athletic Club, was second with 557 points.

The summaries:

Free Calisthenics—Won by Bjarne Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn Society, with 279 points; Curt Rottman, New York Turn Verein, 275 points, second; Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association. 270 points, third; Max Wandrer, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 243 points, fourth.

Long Horse—Won by Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, with 579 points; *Fred Berg, Norwegian Turn Society, 577M points, second; V. Winsjanssen, Norwegian Turn Society, 577^ points, third;

Digitized by boogie
I9I

A. Zink, New York Turn Verein, 573 points, fourth. *Won place in jump-off.

Side Horse—Won by Paul Richter, Swiss Turn Verein, 586 points; Charles Cramer, New York Athletic Club, 557 points, second; Joseph Wolfrum, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 549^ points, third; Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, 527^ points, fourth.

Horizontal Bar—Won by Curt Rottman, New York Turn Verein, 580^ points; Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, 562^ points, second; Bjarne Jorgenssen, Norwegian Turn Society, 559>£points, third; Max Wandrer, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 505^ points, fourth.

25-Foot Rope Climb—Won by Louis Weissmann, 92d St. Y. M. H. A.,, time 0:07 3-5; Edward C. Igesias, Bronx Union Y. M. C. A., 0:08 2-5 second; Paul Muller, Swiss Turn Verein, 0:09 2-5, third; William A. Hoffman, unattached, 0:10, fourth.

Tumbling—Won by Joseph F. Dunn, New York, A. C., 555^ points; W. Faulkner, 23d St. Y. M. C. A , 520^ points, second; Kimball Atha, Newark Y. M. C. A., 499X points, third; Fred Berg, Norwegian Turn Society qualified.

Indian Club Swinging—Won by Ray W. Dutcher, New York A. C., 282 points; Thomas C. Summerill, Rutgers College A. A. 273 points, -second; J. Lester McCloud, New York A. C., 262 points, third; C. W. F. Hahnes, Orange Y. M. C. A., 249 points, fourth.

Parallel Bars—Won by Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, 579K points; Curt Rottmann, New York Turn Verein, 577^ points, second; Alfred Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, 561 yi. points, third; B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn Society, 557 points, fourth.

MARATHON WON BY 1912 VICTOR.

Clarence H. De Mar, of Melrose, Mass., a winner ten years ago, won the American marathon road race again April 19th. He established a new record for the event, covering the twenty-five miles in 2 hours 18 minutes 10 seconds.

Willie Ritola, of New York, finished second, about four minutes behind De Mar. The Canadian champion, Albert Small of Petersboro, Ontario, an Indian, was third; Victory Macaulay, of Windsor, N. S., fourth.

It was the second time in the long history of the run that a winner had repeated.

At the start at noon seventy-eight entrants composed of several groups shot off on the sprint to South Framingham, in which Thomas Henigan, of Boston, was the leader, Frank T. Zuna, of New York, last year's winner, was almost at his heels. They were nearly a minute ahead of Zuna's time a year ago. Henigan, 50 yards in front, finished the four miles in 21 min. 17 3-5 sec.

RUNS FROM NEW YORK TO BOSTON IN 47^ HOURS.

Sam Johnson, the “human locomotive," left New York at 10:44 A. M. Monday, April 10th, and shortly after 10 A. M. Wednesday, April 12th, completed his run of 256 miles from New York to Boston Johnson dropped 26 pounds on his run.

Digitized by t^ooQle
192

The University of Pennsylvania Relay Team which recently competed against Cambridge and Oxford came in a poor second to Cambridge. They were beaten by 90 yds. Cambridge’s time was 18 min. 7 2-5 sec., breaking the English record of 18 min. 8 1-5 sec. Distance was 4 miles.

The world’s record for this distance is held jointly by Boston A. C. (Maheney, Marcean, Power & Hedlung) in June 1913 and Cornell University (Taylor, Windnagel, Hoffmire and Porter) 1916. Time 17 min. 51 1-5 sec.

COLLEGE FACULTIES TO RULE ATHLETICS.

Springfield, Mass., April 10.—A definite move for reform in the control of college athletics was made here today in a meeting of the presidents of the eleven New England and New York colleges when a motion was adopted to form an association of college presidents to take under consideration the best interests of athletics. It was voted to recommend to the faculties and trustees of the institutions participating that all coaches, beginning with the Fall of 1923, be appointed in the same way as members of the faculty.

President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College was chairman and President Remsen B. Ogilby of Trinity was secretary. After a general vote of approval of such meetings had been passed it was decided to form an association of presidents. Presidents Meiklejohn, Ogilby and Kenneth C. M. Sills of Bowdoin were appointed an executive committee to arrange future meetings. Besides those named there were present Arthur J. Roberts, Colby; Frederick C. Ferry, Hamilton; Paul D. Moody, Middle-bury; John A. Cousens, Tufts; Guy W. Bailey, Vermont; William A. Shanklin, ■ Wesleyan; Harry A. Garfield, Williams, and Chancellor Charles A. Richmond of Union. The motion embodying the recommendation was as follows:

“That, recognizing that intercollegiate athletics are at present a part of the work of the Department of Physical Education, we recommend to our respective faculties and trustees that, beginning with the Fall of 1923, all coaches be appointed in the same way as are members of the faculty and other officers of the institution.

“That, we further recommend that as soon as it is practicable, and if possible by the Fall of 1923, the present system of seasonal coaches be replaced by coaches who are members of the faculty as defined by the following terms:

“They shall be paid by the college and only by the college; they shall be in residence throughout the year; they shall have other duties in the physical training department, or in some other department in addition to their coaching; they shall be paid at the same rate as other members of the faculty; they shall have the same permanence of appointment as other members of the faculty; they shall be selected in the same way as other members of the faculty.”

This plan, if adopted, will mean placing the control of athletics and coaching entirely in the hands of the colleges themselves and will deprive alumni councils of the power they now exercise in college athletics.

Digitized by Google