MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	MARCH, 1927 No.	357

PUBLISHED BT BUND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

«►------------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint^

«►-------------------------------------- *

POINTS ON CHILD BEHAVIOR*

Being A Proper Parent Is the Most Important Job Any of

Us Has

By Lawson G. Lowrey, M. D„ Director, Child Hygiene Guidance Clinic

1.	Do I Came My Child To Be Nervous?

2. Do I Cause My Child To Disobey?

3. Do I Cause My Child To Have Temper Tantrums?

4.	Do I Cause My Child To Be Dishonest?

5.	Do I Frighten My Child So He Becomes Timid And Fearful?

Most parents would promptly answer "no" to all the above questions and would resent the implications contained in them. Yet child-guidance clinics and physicians and psychologists who

•Reprint from North Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by LjOOQle
43$

make a special study of behavior problems in children are constantly encountering situations in which parents are clearly responsible for just such reactions in children. Of course, no intelligent and thoughtful parent deliberately sets out to do such things, but even the most intelligent often do not consider all the angles of the problem involved in the relationships of parent and child. The result is that the parent is all too frequently the direct cause of distressing behavior in the child.

In the following columns, remedies as well as preventive methods are discussed; but one should remember that it is easier to prevent the development of unhealthy behavior than it is to correct it.

1.	“Nervousness”

Do I Cause My Child To Be Nervous?

By: Being nervous myself? Telling him about it so I may have his sympathy? Constantly reminding him how nervous he is? Telling other people in his presence how nervous and queer and odd he is? Worrying over his health and habits? Worrying him with my worries over him? Coddling him physically and mentally? Denying him independence of thought and action? Expecting too much from him and driving him all the time?

If You Think Your Child Is Nervous, First Be Sure of Yourself

From early infancy some children are “nervous.” They are fussy, irritable babies; delicate, sensitive, easily upset children; they become easily flustered, excitable adults. Such children demand the utmost in placidity and patience from their parents.

Most “nervous” children are, however, the product of the management given them. Their parents do some or all of the things listed above. Nervous parents expect, and so cause, nervous children. They constantly remind the child of this. In their own nervousness they set an example, and it usually is imitated. They communicate their worries to the child, who increases them many fold. They cannot permit the child to lead a life of his own, and either push him to the extreme limit, or do all the thinking for him.

Cultivate calmness. Do not fuss at the child. Give him peace; an opportunity to do things and learn for himself. Use your common sense; recall your own childhood; be patient and kind. Settle your worries in some other way than by passing them on to the child. Know your child; his interests and capacities; his weaknesses and strong points. Above all, be yourself as calm and peaceful as you can. If you have any of the habits or attitudes listed above, change them.

2.	Disobedience

Do I Cause My Child To Disobey?

By: Uttering useless or unreasonable commands? Contradicting my own commands? Threatening him (and never carrying out the threat)? Stopping everything he starts to do? Refusing his requests, even though they are reasonable? Paying

Digitized by CjOOQle
439

no attention to what he does until it interferes with my comfort? Promising and failing to keep my promise? Making him want to disobey for the sake of the excitement it creates? Evading my own duties and responsibilities? Constantly expecting disobedience? Quarreling with him over trivial matters? Failing to make him understand?

Disobedience is Usually The Parents’ Fault.

Disobedience means a failure to yield to authority, yet children are ordinarily quite willing to accept authority; indeed, some are even too eager. Many times the parents feel that the child must yield to them, but fail to see that their demands are absurd and unreasonable and would not be tolerated by themselves. Many people destroy obedience by issuing a whole series of confusing, often contradictory, commands, which they are quite unable to follow up, or even to remember. Then, when an important matter comes up, one such that obedience by the child is absolutely necessary, the child has no way of distinguishing this from the thousand unimportant matters with which he is harassed. Trouble results. Often he is then severely and unfairly punished. So he justly concludes that he might as well continue to do as he pleases, since his own rights are never considered.

Some children always get “no” for an answer to their requests. They are stopped from doing anything they start, even though it be of great importance to them. They are hedged in by constant restrictions from everything that their need for play and activity prompts. Surely they are not at fault when disobedience occurs.

The example of the parent should be clean and square. Care should be taken that the child understands just what is wanted. The parent’s attitude and speech should imply that obedience is expected. Care should be taken not to interrupt an activity important to the child for a matter trivial even to the adult. So far as possible, time should be given to finish an activity and warning given ahead of the time.

Infancy is the golden period of setting up proper habits of obedience. Do not expect that you can permit a small child to do as he pleases on the theory that “he will outgrow it later”-Of such material are “incorrigible” children made.

It is unnecessary and most undesirable to obtain obedience by fear. Threats of excessive punishment lead to contempt or to a fear capable of causing serious mental difficulties. Love, faith, calmness, and care in enforcing your worth-while demands and making no others will turn the trick. Above all, be perfectly fair and just. If you are, you will frequently scold yourself.

A girl of ten is called “incorrigible.” She is of average intelligence and physical development. Adopted in infancy, she had the indulgent treatment so frequently given only children by nervous mothers, with the result that she became arrogant,

Digitized by kjOOQle
440

restless, and finally the family realized that she would not obey. When she started to school, her behavior become worse, as is usually the case with overindulged children who have no habit

{patterns to guide them in adjustment to strangers. Her prob-em became distressing to the foster mother, who found herself unable to cope with the growing child. Ever since the child was eight, the mother has tried to have her-“sent away”. She has nagged and fussed at the child; tried all sorts of punishments, some of great severity, all without effect. To explain the behavior, we find only the faulty handling of the parents. They have what they have made, and now are unable or unwilling to face the problem fairly and squarely.

3.	Temper Tantrums.

Do I Cause My Child To Have Temper Tantrums?

By: Setting an example of temper tantrums? Scolding and nagging and thrashing him when I am angry? Impressing on him what a fearful temper he has? Constantly changing my attitude so he never knows what to expect? Keeping him overexcited? Not giving him enough rest? Giving him his way when he has a tantrum? Bribing him to stop?

The Constant Use of Temper Tantrums By a Child Is Always the Fault of The Parent.

A certain proportion of temper tantrums are due to physical illness, but the vast majority are due to methods of handling. Whom shall the child pattern after, if not the parents? Did you ever stop to think what wintry bleakness surrounds the child if the parents are selfish, inconsiderate of each other and the children, fly into violent rages, repress all play and affection? They will be like you—much more so than you think. Indeed, grandmother can often tell you just how much they are as you were at their age! So they will imitate your temper reactions. Or, if they are all set and ready to do something and you simply say "no” giving them no outlet, they have some energy ready to go somewhere. So it often goes into temper.

Tantrums are usually developed as a means of gaining an end. As an infant, crying attracts attention of various kinds. Later this is not enough, and the child develops a temper, which forces submission from the adults. It is used more and more and becomes an established habit of reaction. It may readily be avoided. Set no pattern. Do not yield just because the baby cries or has a tantrum. Be firm and fair and calm. Do not irritate the child just because you are irritable. Ignore the tantrum when it occurs, and keep on ignoring it until the child quits using it as a weapon. For that is what it is—a weapon. Meanwhile, be sure the child has enough rest, sleep, play and food. The overtired, overstimulated child is irritable and over-active, which produces more fatigue. Above all, do not bribe the child or try physical punishment. Ignore the tantrum; but be sure you do not continue to set the example. It will take pourage^to straighten out yourself; but it is vastly worth while.

Digitized by Google
441

When Joseph was a baby, his mother rocked him to sleep every night, often spending most of the night rocking him. Thus a fussy baby became conditioned to get everything he wanted by crying and rousing the house. Joseph’s father is an irritable, morose man, who is annoyed by many trifles. Then he bangs the table, breaks dishes, beats Joseph unmerifully for minor offenses, and otherwise makes a great display. So Joseph copies him and tries to wreak his will and vengeance in the same way. And thus he becomes a clinic problem in treatment—a most difficult one in view of the example set.

4.	Dishonesty

Do I Cause My Child To Be Dishonest?

By: Lying to him? Lying to others in his presence? Over stimulating his imagination? Evading his questions? Telling him ANYTHING to get him to do what I want him to do? Boasting before him of some dishonest practice by which I gained an advantage? Refusing him most of the things he wants? Dealing out harsh treatment for minor offenses? Repressing all natural outlets for activity? Shielding him from all consequences of his dishonesty? Stealing or actions which he interprets as stealing? Making a hero of someone noted for dishonesty?

It Is Remarkably Easy to be Dishonest, Even With One’s Self

The habit of lying is always built up in response to the environment. Parents who are harsh in discipline, who do not stop to distinguish between the trivial and the great, between unavoidable mistakes and direct disobedience, who constantly expect lying (usually because of their own), are apt to have children who lie. As between telling the truth, with consequent severe discipline, and telling a lie, which may carry through, which would be the common choice? Many lies are expressed in the cradle, as Mark Twain said. The unhurt baby cries for attention—and gets it; all sorts of reactions later develop.

Some lying has its roots in the imagination. The imaginative life of the child is highly developed. In his play he constantly builds up his inner fancies to a point where his desires and pleasures become real to him. So, too, can he deny the unpleasant, just by words of his own arranging. In these ways we get the erection of fabrications, unusually pleasant, always expressing in some way underlying wishes. Usually his fabrications are such as to give the child some feeling of superiority to his fellows.

There are here two types of untruths. First, there is defensive lying aimed to protect the individual from consequences. This often tends to shift blame to others. The other type is the fabrication—a built-up picture, a projection of wishes and desires into realization in words, which if repeated often enough, bring firm belief. Both these types occur at some time in practically all children. Wisely handled, with a minimum of emotion and fear-provoking methods, they soon disappear.

Digitized by Google
442

Never provoke defensive lies. It is quite unnecessary. The imaginative lies indicate things wanted by the children. These, or some other real outlet, should be provided. Normally, fabricating ceases with the development of realistic life. It is not necessarily undesirable.

Stealing has many meanings. The small child has little realization of “mine and thine.” It must be built up in him slowly and patiently. In this period he takes what he desires— hardly stealing. Later bolder children may resort to the same method of fulfilling desires. Here the training patterns established by the parent are especially important. Children steal because they are expected to; because of urgent physical needs; to gratify desires; because of buried conflicts and tensions that are relieved by the act; to revenge themselves on parents or others; because they are trained to do it, either by example, or because this is the only way they can get things at home; or to obtain means of acquiring the respect of his companions.

Another boy comes from a hardpressed family. His father is an inefficient worker. An older brother is a thief. The boy is fully aware of the family difficulties. In school he is viewed askance and is expected to steal and lie. He does. He has ample patterns and very poor training in ethical standards. As he is slow in learning, he is denied the compensation of superior performance in school. Being strong physically, he is quite a bully. To escape his school discomfort and to demonstrate his independence, he plays truant. Lying gets him out of uncomfortable situations. Further, extravagant stories of his prowess and adventures gain much attention and admiration from the other children. His ability at stealing also excites their admiration, particularly since he spends his gains on them, thus making a great splurge. And so the vicious circle of evasion, lying, stealing goes on, giving him the satisfaction denied through more legitimate channels.

Another boy disapproves of a number of things his father does. He feels himself neglected and unwelcome in the home, as he undoubtedly is. He sometimes steals things he wants but cannot get from the father, despite an ample income. More frequently, however, he steals things he does not want because “father will have to pay for them”—a clear example of the revenge motive.

A girl of seventeen is troubled at times by “bad thoughts.” She becomes rapidly more tense, somewhat unclear in her mind; feels compelled to “do something.” Usually she takes some object. The doing and the risk produce some emotional excitement. Afterward she is clear and calm. Here an emotional complex, having nothing to do with stealing, determines the activity. Stealing is a substitute act for discharge of emotion.

5.	Fear

Do I Frighten My Child So He Becomes Timid and

By: Threats of the “bogey-man?” Threats of leaving him? Threats of horrible punishments? Telling him frightening stories?

Digitized by <^.ooQle
443

Inflicting my fears and terrors on him? Constant worry over his minor accidents, ailments, and habits?

Fear	Is Our Most Important Emotion. A Little Goes A Long Way

It is a sure sign of* weakness to resort to threats to gain obedience from a child. When threats are not carried out, because to do so would be utterly impossible, or because so many are made that they cannot be remembered, they soon lose force. At first they work, because the child fears something may actually happen. Later, they are either disregarded or become imbedded and cause pathological timidity and sensitiveness. Mothers play on the love of their children and threaten them with its loss. What wonder that love itself soon begins to mean nothing to the child? Then the parent complains of the child, when really the parent is at fault.

The fearful child has a serious handicap. Fear of the dark, fear of animals, fear of people, fear of mysterious and unknown forces—all these are trained into the child by the parents, who have the same fears, or expect these fears in the children, or implant them in the child by threats.

People threaten the child with the doctor. They threaten him with medicine. Then, when a doctor or .medicine is needed, the child is in a panic. Never threaten a child with something which he may presently have to experience for his own good.

One mother threatened to throw her child from a third-story window. Many other threats are just as absurd.

Sometimes terrible punishments are carrid out. One family wanted to break a boy of six of a habit. They punished and threatened with no effect. Finally, a ghostly figure woke him at night and carried him out of the house and left him alone in the dark. He does not know that his sister was the masquerader. He does know that there are ghosts. He is frightened by all sorts of things. Most of his mental effort is absorbed in terror. So he does poor school work and fails to get along well with other children.

A boy of four never falls asleep but that he dreams he has been carried away be the “bogey-man” and thrown in a deep pit. He awakens shrieking and holding on to his crib. His mother continues to threaten him with the “bogey-man.”

A boy of ten misses school frequently. He is constantly concerned about his health. A minor ailment or a little scratch makes him sure that he is going to die. His mother takes his temperature every day. She keeps him in bed for the slightest ailment. She doses him constantly. She continually worries over him. She never lets him go out unless he is overclad. He is her only child, and he gets the full burden of her worries. He receives so much attention that he craves it wherever he is. He is a semi-invalid, though actually a strong and healthy boy.

Let your child have some independence. He can think. Give him reasons. Guide him carefully. Do not terrorize him. Never make promises or threaten a punishment that you cannot

Digitized by

Google
444

carry out. Always make good on your word. Punish him for his acts, not for your own. Train him properly in the first five years, and the rest of the way will be much easier. You must grow with your child. Parents take credit for the desirable reactions in a child—why	not blame for the undesirable?

Being a Proper Parent is the Most Important Job any of us Has. We Live in Our Children, So It Behooves Us to Do a Good Job.

LAWS OF HEALTH EMPHASIZED BY THE “CASE-METHOD"*

SEVENTH GRADE

(a)	Object. Excretions.

1	The effect of excreting on body resistance.

2	Danger of contracting disease in crowded places.

3	Method of protecting others in cars, etc.

(b)	Presentation.

The week before Christmas there was a boy who was helping his father in his store after school. He would eat his evening meal rapidly and hasten to the store until 10 o'clock. Toward Christmas he began to have some headache, for his system had failed to eliminate the waste material regularly. As he rode in the crowded cars there were many people who were coughing and sneezing, and there was a good bit of grippe around. On Christmas eve he came home later than usual and complained of pains in his legs and back, sore throat and of feeling chilly. The next day he was too sick to get up, and the doctor said he had grippe.

(c)	Deduction.

1	What caused this boy’s first headaches spoken of?

2	How are waste materials eliminated?

3	What effect did this have on his health?

4	Where did he come in contact with grippe?

5	How could people stop giving diseases to other people?

6	Did his overwork affect the case?

(a)	Object. Functions of Skin

1	Necessity of keeping skin active..

2	Skin as remover of waste product.

3	Bathing necessary to keep pores open.

4	Skin regulator of body heat.

(b)	Presentation.

In a play that was given a small boy was taking the part of an angel. In order to take the part he had to be gilded all over. After the play he was so tired that he was allowed to go to bed without getting washed. The next morning he was very sick, and the doctor said he might have died.

•Continued from February.

Digitized by t^ooQle
445

(c)	Deduction.

1	What was the cause of his being sick?

2	What	closes the little openings	of	the	sweat	glands

(pores) if we are not careful?

3	Why must these pores be kept open?

4	What is the best way of keeping them open? (Warm baths).

5	How	is body	temperature	affected?	(Radiation	and

evaporation eliminates 7-8 of body heat.)

6	How does our clothing assist skin?

7	Best	guide for	clothing.

SEVENTH GRADE

(a)	Object—Diet.

1	Food	elements.

2	Balanced diet.

3	Errors of diet and effect on health.

(b)	Presentation.

Down at one of the convict farms in the South they fed a number of prisoners on a strict carbohydrate diet. This consisted of such things as molasses, corn-meal, hot cakes, grits, potatoes and similar substances. They did not get meat of any kind, fish, milk, butter or fresh fruits. This was continued for several months, when nearly all those undergoing the experiment developed peculiar sores on the skin, and pains. As soon as this was discovered they were fed some meat, butter, milk, etc., and in a short time they improved again. This disease was known as pellagra.

(c)	Deduction.

1	Why did these men get pellagra?

2	What is a balanced diet?

3	What did these men lack?

4	What is a fair guide in health of what your system requires?

EIGHTH GRADE

(a)	Object. Public sanitation.

1	Pure water.

2	Contamination of water and foods washed in water.

3	Filth and dirt.

4	Boil water 10 minutes—212 degrees in typhoid epidemic.

(b)	Presentation.

Several years ago up in a New England town, there developed in the spring some 2000 cases of typhoid fever. They could not account for so many cases, but concluded that the typhoid germs must be in the drinking water. Upon careful examination they traced it to a mountaineer who had had typhoid fever during the winter. The various waste materials from the sick room had been thrown out on the side of the mountain in the snow. When the snow melted in the spring the germs were carried down to the river, and this river water to the water supply of the town a few miles below.

Digitized by

Google
446

(c)	Deduction.

1	What causes typhoid fever?

2	Is it ever carried by anything else?

3	Where does it come from?

4	How was it carried in the case above?

5	Is this the usual method?

6	How does the germ usually escape from typhoid patient?

7	How would you stop its spread?

8	What would you recommend?

9	What is the use of filtration in city?

EIGHTH GRADE

(a)	Object Eye strain.

1	May affect general health.

2	May cause deformity

3	Can be corrected by glasses

(b)	Presentation.

A boy in a nearby school in the seventh grade was always restless in school, and did not seem to be able to concentrate his mind on his lessons. When he wrote he leaned away over his desk, and when he stood up his head and shoulders were forward, giving him the appearance of being round-shouldered. He suffered apparently with indigestion and went to a physician. Upon questioning it was found that he usually felt sick to his stomach when riding on a train, and that he always had a headache after reading at night. The physician corrected the trouble and in a month he was well.

(c)	Deduction.

1	What was the matter with this boy?

2	What made him apparently round-shouldered? How?

3	What made him restless?

4	Will this cause indigestion? How?

5	Why did he get sick when riding on the train?

6	Why did he get a headache on reading?

7	What was the treatment the doctor prescribed?

EIGHTH GRADE

(a)	Object. Nervous system.

1	Importance of proper food, fresh air, sunlight, exercise,

sleep

2	Effect of continued worry.

3 Value of self control.

4 Need of recreation and rest.

(b)	Presentation.

A girl in a nearby school stayed home from school every week or so. She said that her mother was sick, and that she was needed at home. To see whether the girl was justified in staying at home so much, her teacher visited her home, and found that her mother was under the doctor’s care. The mother appeared frail and tired. She said her appetite was very poor and that nothing tasted good to her. She seemed to think that

Google
447

she had indigestion, and everything she ate gave her pain. She therefore was afraid to eat, and was losing weight very rapidly, in fact she weighed only 105 pounds, though a couple of years ago she weighed 145 pounds. She could not sleep at night. She confided that her husband had started to drink about two years ago, and was out nearly all the time, that now they had difficulty in paying for the things they needed. She never went out, and tried to make a little money by doing fancy work.

She went to a specialist and found that her digestion was all right, and that she did not have tuberculosis or any other disease. He had her husband call, and talked to him so that he stopped drinking. He advised them to go out to the Park together for walks. The mother’s appetite improved, she was happy again, she soon regained her weight, and in a short time she was perfectly well again.

(c)	Deduction.

1	What was the trouble with this woman?

2	Will worry cause nervousness?

3	Why could she not sleep?

4	Why did the specialist talk to her husband?

5	Why did he tell them to take walks?

6	Why did the mother get better?

HEALTH EDUCATION AND ATHLETICS IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS*

Twelve years ago the sporting editors of many prominent papers criticized an article “How does physical training aid the school in training its pupils for efficient citizenship,” which I had presented at the annual convention of the Public Schools Physical Training society, at St. Louis, Mo., and in which I had declared most emphatically that basket ball, foot ball and middle distance races (quarter mile, half mile, and mile) were too stren-ous and even injurious to the health of our high school boys.

A sporting editor of a local newspaper in commenting on my paper in 1914 wrote, “Basket Ball Under Fire—More Strenuous Than Foot Ball—High School Bars Sport. This statement of Dr. A. A. Knoch that he disapproved basket ball was greeted with exclamations of surprise. The Walnut Hills High school has not been represented in competitive basket ball for years, and it is not likely to have a team unless the principal and athletic council of the school act against the wishes of their instructor.”

Physical Director Alfred Brodbeck of the University of Cincinnati and an authority on basket ball was asked his views, which in a measure coincide with those of Dr. Knoch, but he does not say the game should be tabooed. “Basket ball is far

(Read before the Cincinnati Schoolmasters Club by Dr. A. A. Enoch, May 8.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
448

more strenuous than foot ball,” said Professor Brodbeck. “I have always advised against track men and jumpers playing basket ball because it saps their energy.”

The views of our present time “Basket Ball Evil” are cited by the inventor Dr. Nainsmith in	and	Body	(a	journal	of

physical education) in No. 340, June, 1925, as follows: “Thirty years ago I invented basket ball, and today I stand before you fighting the very game I brought into being. Basket ball was invented for young men of twenty years and older and, as such, it was, and still is a very fine game, but when it is played by boys ranging from twelve to eighteen years of age it then becomes dangerous. The game develops boys from the hip down only. The same is true practically of all other games. The legs are developed and the vital part of the body, the part from the hips up, the part in which we live, is neglected."

Dr. Nainsmith gave interesting facts concerning the thousands of young men he has examined in the past few years. “I am convinced,” he said, “that the modern system of physical education in vogue in so many schools and colleges throughout the country is not the system that leads to build up the race. This college (referring to the Indianapolis Normal college, A. G. U.) is one of the institutions in the country that I know is teaching and preparing its students to go out and teach one right and rational system of body building.”

An Indictment.

In the November issue of the Atlantic Monthly an article entitled “An Indictment of Intercollegiate Athletics,” by Professor Wm. T. Foster, states in sound logic the true conditions as follows: “Intercollegiate athletics provide a costly, injurious and excessive regime of physical training for a few students, especially those who need it least, instead of inexpensive, healthful and moderate exercises for all students, especially those who need it most. The aims of athletics reveal the fact that the important distinctions are between athletics conducted for educational purposes and athletics conducted for business purposes.

When athletics are conducted for educational purposes the aims are:

1. To develop all the students and faculty physically and to maintain health. 2. To promote moderate recreation in the spirit of joy, as a preparation for study rather than a substitute for study. 3. To form and inculcate ideals of right living.

When athletics are conducted for business, the aims are: 1. To win games, to defeat another person or group being the chief end. 2. To raise money, as it is impossible otherwise to carry on athletics as business. 3. To obtain individual or group fame and publicity.	-

These three which are the controlling aims of intercollegiate athletics are also the aims of horse racing, prize fighting and professional baseball. The most obvious fact is that our system of intercollegiate athletics after unbounded opportunity to show

Digitized by

Google
449

what it can do for the health, recreation and character of all our students, has proved a failure. The ideal of the coach is excessive training of the few. He best attains the business end for which he is hired by the neglect of those students in greatest need of physical training. Our present system encourages most students to take their athletics by proxy.

My endeavor to paint to this distinguished audience a vivid picture of our modern system of athletics is not complete unless I am permitted to quote the most remarkable article “Athletic Strenuosity” in the Journal of the American Medical Association, July 25, 1925. The following short synopsis will help to diagnose our chronic disease of “Athletic Competitis”. “The craze of the day is competitive athletics. Twenty years ago such sports were confined to colleges and universities, but now the disease of Athletic Competitis has spread to the high school and therefore to undeveloped youth. The larger the boy, without regard to his age, the more the captain and athletic trainer corral him for physical stunts and competitive strains.

"A boy who has grown rapidly to oversize may not have his heart developed to fit his bulk. Ordinary exercise, even if not competitive athletics, causes his heart to work all that it is well able to do, and hence competitive speed or endurance is absolutely inexcusable in his case. Doubtless many fine, sturdy lads are damaged by high school athletics. In college, the oversized boy, tall and overweight is excellent football material. If not overtrained and heart hurt at the time of the athletic tests he acquires an hypertrophied heart and hence increased systolic blood pressure, which makes him uncomfortable and mentally and physically foul, (as he terms it), as soon as his athletic life ceases. He is from this time on an impaired insurance risk, as a rule he does not live to his expectancy. In practically all colleges and in some schools, physical medical examinations are made of each boy before he is accepted and trained for any special branch of athletics, and the diseased or damaged hearts are eliminated. But what medical examination of a boy or youth can exactly determine his reserve heart strength? Acute heart strain is no infrequent occurrence in training for athletics, to say nothing of such occurrences at the end of a race. Repeated heart strain must impair future heart tone. Our age has been characterized as Athletic Crazy. Let us see whether we can not get back to Athletic Normalcy.”

“Man Kills Himself”

The eminent health educator, Dr. Arnold Lorand proved in the fifth edition of his famous book, “Old Age Deferred,” that Seneca's prognosis: “Man does not die, he kills himself,” is absolutely true today. I wish to quote the following sentences from page 247: “Neurasthenic condition, insomnia, etc., may be improved if the sport adopted does not lead to great fatigue, otherwise they may be made worse. Taking into consideration however the conditions of the circulatory mechanism, sport is a

Digitized by

Google
450

two-edged sword. If taken in moderation all sport can improve our physical condition; but, it may prove disastrous if reason be not exercised and it is indulged in to excess. By the strong muscular exertions referred to, an irritation of the splanchnic nerve takes place, resulting in high blood pressure; more blood will pass with greater vigor through the arteries and capillaries which consequently become dilated. If this occurs too frequently they will, as is only natural, lose their elasticity, in which case degeneration of the arteries and development of arterio-sclerosis may follow.”

When, a succession of severe muscular exertions takes place an accumulation of blood occurs in the right side of the heart and as the right ventricle can not empty itself, shortness of breath and even death may result. The left ventricle then becomes dilated and such dilations of the heart not infrequently persist for a long time, even in persons who have been in good health before undertaking severe exercise. If, therefore, the normally healthy man suffers from an irrational indulgence in sport, how much more fatal must be the results to those with heart or kidney complaint, and with degenerative conditions of blood vessels? The following diagnosis of physical education by M. L. Townsend, M. D. (director of Bureau of Health Education, North Carolina state board of health) in health bulletin, State of North Carolina, is sound and worth while quoting: “The problem in physical education is to conserve and promote health through systematic motor activity. Leadership among pupils should be encouraged. Games and athletics should he provided for all in order that all may receive the benefit. The purpose is to develop athletics and not athletes. The purpose of athletics is not to develop winning teams, but to develop a sound mind in a sound body. One thing we must always keep in mind is— that play is not of itself, physical education. If to win at any cost idea dominates the coach, he may be the most potent factor in the community in destroying the moral ideas and the ethical standards of future leaders. A physical director must take into consideration the peculiar and individual need of each child. Physical education must also be curative. Many children have physical deformities and physical deficiencies which can easily be overcome by intelligent physical education. Hunch back, round shoulders, twisted spines, droop shoulders, flat feet, weak arches, weak hearts and a host of things are traceable directly to faulty physical direction or habits and can very largely be overcome by intelligent, scientific physical education.”

No doubt Jahn’s system of physical education has all such requirements. More than a hundred years have gone by since Turnfather Jahn presented to the world his inestimable system of physical education. The numerous kinds and combinations of exercises are classified in five main groups:

1 Exercises of endurance. 2 Skill. 3 Strength. 4 Nerve co-ordination and attention. 5 Speed. Last, but not least, numerous'games which may belong to anyone of the above men-

Digitized by

Google
451

tioned five groups, according to the characteristic or predominating feature of endurance, skill, strength, etc., which they may represent. For each of these five groups in turn numerous combinations of fundamental exercises can be arranged progressively, so that they can be adapted to the youngest as well as to the oldest; to the weakest as well as the strongest pupil. This capability of adaptation, according to age, sex and physical development, makes the system of physical education just as interesting as useful, just as instructive as stimulating, and gives to a professionally trained teacher the best opportunity to change awkardness and bodily weakness into skill, endurance and perfect health.

There can be no failure in a school which avails itself fully of a system of such tried and proven excellence.

Gymnastic Awakening

During the last eight decades many European states have introduced this system with wonderful results. The late Frank

G.	Carpenter wrote an article from Prague, Bohemia, on December 16, 1923, to the Cincinnati Enquirer Sunday Magazine from which I wish to quote the following: “Suppose the United States should have a great gymnastic awakening. Suppose the care of the body should be the slogan of not only the men but the women as well. Suppose there should spring up over night in every city and village and even out in the country, clubs from 50 to 500, every member of which should go into regular physical training three nights a week and keep this up week after week, year in and year out. Let the clubs include the grown-ups, and let them begin with children of six years and upward. Let the classes be of various ages, even to men and women of 30 and 40. Let the training be taken conscientiously and regularly under the best of physical directors, with all the appliances of a first class gymnasand, at the same time, be associated with the inculcation of clean living, and high thinking, along patriotic lines, so that the soul, to a certain extent, grows with the body. What an effect it would have upon the rank and file of our American nation! Well, this is just what is going on and has been going on for a generation or so in Bohemia and Moravia. It has built up a people which, now that they have regained their independence are bound to be one of the strongest factors in the world of the future.”

Although this wonderful message was sent to us three years ago by such an eminent American journalist as F. G. Carpenter, who had seen and studied all the prominent cities of the world, yet we are still demanding speed and more speed of our boys so that they may win games and strenuous athletic events, to put their school on the athletic map. This proves that our admiration of athletic competition is still growing and that we have no desire to get back to athletic normalcy. May it soon dawn upon our educational horizon that sound athletics and health education alone can give our youth a sound body in which to develop a sound mind.

Digitized by AjOOQle
452

CHARACTER BEST DEVELOPED BY STIMULATING WORTHY SOCIAL PURPOSES

By Milton Bennion, Chairman Committee on Character Education of

the N. E. A.

Character is very complex; it is a quality of the whole of personality, and as a consequence character education can be segregated from other aspects of education, even though these other aspects may go on without developing good character; there is no one method of obtaining character development, and since there are many processes involved in character formation there must also be many methods employed in furthering these processes. Upon these points there is full agreement in the committee on character education which was created in March, 1920, by the president of the National Council of Education. The committee became soon afterward a standing committee of the council and also a committee of the National Education Association.

It is far from the thought of this committee to offer a final solution of its problem. The subject has become increasingly difficult and in some respects more complex and puzzling with progress of the study. On some points committee members nave had diverse views. The aim has been, however, to include in the report only those views that are not objectionable, to say the least, to any member of the committee.

The public demand for discussion of the problem of character education has led the committee to prepare for publication such information as it could gather with its limited facilities rather than to wait for the results of investigations now in progress. Reports of committees and research bureaus 10 years hence should be much more definite and sure as to procedures recommended.

Objectives Must Be Clearly Defined

There is great need of detailed scientific study of the processes of character education and the procedures best adapted to further these processes. This study can not, however, proceed effectively until the investigators have made clear to themselves the meaning of good character; that is, the end to be attained must be clearly in mind before ways and means can be discovered. The committee, therefore, spent some time on the objectives of character education and in July, 1924, submitted a report on this phase of the subject. The point of view developed in the 1924 report is assumed in the report of 1925, which is the sole content of Bureau of Education Bulletin No. 7, 1926.

An outstanding characteristic of the report is the conclusion that character is not developed most effectively by predominant attention to precepts and externally controlled habits (if such can be called habits) but by stimulating in the developing personality the most worthy social purposes. The youth who be-

Digitized by L^OOQLe
453

comes absorbed in realization of such purposes rises above his narrow, ego-centric self through absorption in the cause or causes with which he has become identified. This process of character development is illustrated in all the great characters of history. It is preeminently manifest in the character of Jfesus and in His great missionary apostles. It is true of Moses and all the greater prophets of the Old Testament. In American history ft is the most notable quality of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and numerous others. In the development of science Pasteur, Agassiz, Burbank, and Edison are typical examples. In the professions may be cited as types Dr. Walter Reed and Dr. Wilfred T. Grenfell in medicine, and Hugo Grotius' and John Marshall in law. In the teaching profession are numerous illustrations, among them Pestalozzi and Froebel, Horace Mann, and Henry Barnard. A notable cm temporary example is Dr. Charles W. Eliot. One of Doctor Eliot’s latest utterances through a current magazine is in striking confirmation of the point of view of this report.

Educational Counseling of Paramount Importance

What are the implications of this point of view as it relates to character education procedures? Evidently that more attention should be paid to the study of human nature and the ethical, social, civic, and economic problems of our time, to the end that parents, teachers, and preachers may be wiser guides or counselors of young people. That is to say, educational counseling, including vocational and moral guidance, is of paramount importance in education.

Exercise of this function calls for supplementing group work with study of each individual, together with such personal consultations as may be necessary in each case. This will require a higher percentage of teachers to pupils, and that teachers be more thoroughly trained, more mature in judgment and purpose, and by nature and culture more humanly sympathetic. It calls also for more intelligent and generally more responsive parents— parents that are responsive to the ambitions and needs of childhood and youth. The associations of teacher and pupil can not be as intimate and sympathetic as is possible between parent and child. It is these intimate, sympathetic contacts that, generally speaking, have most to do with development of those ideals, attitudes, and ambitions that make for character development.

A Major Function of Religious Organizations

Character development is, too, a major function of religious organizations. Whatever their concern may be about the life hereafter, these organizations can not escape responsibility for developing the best there is in people in this life.

The State itself is, of course, sponsor for the public schools; but, in addition, it has responsibility for protecting youth against the snares of evildoers, of persons who would sacrifice both their own characters and that of their victims for the sake of material

Digitized by Tooele
454

gain. This goes to the heart of the controversy about individual liberty in America. Does it mean liberty of the adult citizen to satisfy his own whim or appetite regardless of the general welfare, or must some account be taken of the right of the child to be protected from corrupting influences?

Are not the right of the child to favorable conditions for the development of his personality and the right of the adult to live a moral life without unnecessary hindrances most fundamental to all?

State Concerned with Future Generations.

An ethically right solution of these problems is a fundamental condition of the solution of character education as a State and a National problem. While maintenance of schools is a major responsibility of the State, this alone may be very inadequate. The State has a larger responsibility; not to compel people to be good; it can not do that; but to maintain the most favorable conditions for moral growth. The State, as such, is not concerned, as is the church, with the life after death; it is vitally concerned with the character and destiny of future generations and should act with that in view.

To the major social institutions may be added many minor civic, social, and vocational organizations as bearers of some measure of responsibility for the proper training of youth. Bar and medical associations, for instance, while concerned primarily with the advancement of their respective professions, should also have regard for moral and social welfare; such regard is, or ought to be, part of the professional ethics of every such association. Business, civic, and social clubs generally are giving more and more attention to their moral and social responsibilities. This is manifest in the numerous business and vocational codes of ethics recently formulated.

Influences Come from Many Sources

Objection has been raised that widely cooperative effort involves such a diffusion of responsibility as to make all ineffective. These objectors contend that one institution, either the school or the home, should be made solely responsible. In the home, responsibility is too often left with one parent; some have suggested that it be assigned to one teacher in the school.

This application of a simple business principle is based upon a false analogy. Such a long drawn out and complex process as the development of a personality can never be a one-man job except in so far as the personality concerned is self-directed. Outward influences for good or ill will of necessity come from many sources. The good can not be promoted nor evil most successfully combated by any one agency acting alone. It should be noted that in the moral development of youth influence of social environment far outweighs all other influences. Training in honesty in both home and sdiool, for instance, may be so opposed by business practice as to transform in youth

Digitized by Google
455

this quality of character into an attitude of cynicism or moral pessimism.

Train All Teachers in Modern Ethics

This emphasis upon the power of example should not lead to the inference that ideals may not be taught. The report is definitely favorable to the teaching of ideals and moral standards not in the abstract merely, but in all the concrete relations of social life. It is a lamentable fact that for generations more care has been exercised in schools to insure knowledge and clear thinking in mathematics and linguistics than in moral and social problems. Moral ideals and social standards do not come by biological inheritance. They are part of the social inheritance, and, as in other aspects of this inheritance to which great importance is attached, care should be taken to see that they are properly and effectively transmitted to each succeeding generation. This can not be done by mere haphazard methods. There is need that all teachers be trained in both the theory and the applications of modem ethics. It is an essential part of the professional equipment of a teacher.

In the senior high school there is a proper place for elementary social ethics as a specific course. Provision for such a course is the only way to insure adequate attention to these most fundamental principles. The teacher of this course, however, should have special training in psychology, philosophy, and the social studies before undertaking the work. A course in ethics may easily be killed by an incompetent teacher. That it can succeed under favorable conditions has been demonstrated. Such a course may be made to strengthen the community life of the school and all other efforts toward character education; this because it tends to clarify thinking on moral issues, and helps to furnish moral leadership in the school community.

Schools Should Be Pupil-Centered

There is a growing tendency among educators to recognize the fact that all schools, and more especially those of elementary and secondary grade, should be pupil centered rather than subject centered. This calls for medification of programs for the professional training of teachers. Emphasis has already been given to study of the learning processes and the adjustment of teaching methods to these processes. This is all very good thus far, but much more should be done by way of study of human nature. The psychology of human behavior, both individual and social, is certainly of no less importance. These studies are foundational in any science of education. Education that aims at character development, as every sound educational plan must, needs in addition, a philosophy of education; this again must grow out of a philosophy of life. Securing results with speed and precision is of no value unless the results themselves are worth while. This point is too often missed in human activities, both in and out of school. A philosophy of education

Digitized by CjOOQle
456

should give teachers vision to see what in education is most worth while.

The people demand that their physicians be very thoroughly trained in professional schools, supplemented with hospital practice. How long will they continue to be without universal provision for thoroughly trained, mature-minded teachers of the highest type of character and personality?

THE INFLUENCE OF AGE, HEIGHT, WEIGHT AND WEltlHT-PER-INCH UPON MOTOR ABILITY OF HIGH

SCHOOL BOYS.*

L. F. Zwarg, Philadelphia.

Statement of Problem

This study is an attempt to determine in what way the “motor efficiency” of high school boys is influenced by age, height, and weight; so that we may arrive at a basis of classification for the purpose of grading or rating. The term “motor efficiency” is used to mean a boy’s standing in his physical training work in the school as measured and judged by his teachers. Physical or motor efficiency is, of course, a general term; and perhaps as vague as the term “intelligence”. We mean here an all around ability to perform physical work and to respond efficiently to the many situations that a human body is called upon to do in the gymnasium and on the athletic field.

The objectives of physical education may briefly be listed as strength, skill, speed, endurance, quickness and precision. These factors are the physical ones. Usually they are accompanied or influenced by mental factors, such as courage and alertness, determination, ambition, perseverance, daring, resourcefulness, aggressiveness and self-reliance. Other objectives of physical education are certain social qualities, as leadership, subordination to authority, courtesy, friendliness, loyalty, honesty, fair play. Considered from these viewpoints, motor efficiency is a very complex term. A good curriculum of physical education should include the various activities that will bring out and develop these objectives. However, in the last analysis physical education has to do mainly with things physical, which have been described as strength, skill, speed, endurance, precision and quickness. These are factors that can be measured or judged with a fair degree of exactness; and on the basis of performances in these factors we can measure or rate pupils.

This rating would be very simple indeed had we to deal with boys of one age, one height and one weight. But here the

•Extracts from thesis presented to faculty of Teachers College, Temple University,'in partial satisfaction of the requirements for the Master’s Degree, May_1926.

Digitized by Google
457

difficulty begins. Students in schools vary in all these things. It is definitely known that weight and stature increase quite rapidly during the high school period. What is the best basis, the best index for classification in physical training work? Is it an age-grade, an age-height, a weight-height or an age-weight distribution?

In each high school grade the pupils show age differences frequently amounting to four years, and in extreme cases even six years. Of course, the school grade corresponds roughly to the average age of pupils, and as the school cannot resort to individual teaching, the grouping of pupils into grades will probably remain the best device that can be had.

Promotion by subject has not solved this problem so far as physical training is concerned but has aggravated it; for the boys promoted by subjects are again assembled into groups which show greater differences, in age and physical ability than ever before. Promotion by subject has been devised to take care, in part, of individual mental differences. How do individual physical differences come in under this scheme? Shall physical education be offered merely to provide opportunity for each student to develop his physique according to his inclinations or shall each student be subject to certain definite standards, as he is in any other subject? Should a boy have grade standards for his academic work and other, let us say age standards for his physical training work; or should both be alike, that is, grade standards?

In this experiment the school grade is taken as a fair enough correlative to the age of the boys, and the attempt is made to find out what influence the factors of age, weight and height have upon physical ability.

1208 boys of the Northeast High School, Philadelphia, Pa., were tested in certain activities which are described in the following pages. The motor efficiency of these boys is based upon their performances in these tests.	.

General Interest and Timeliness of the Problem.

There has always been much speculation as to what relationship stature and height bear to physical ability or efficiency. In medical diagnosis weight plays an important part, as many diseases are accompanied by a loss of weight; and in the process of restoring health a gain in weight is considered a most reliable index.

Outstanding physical prowess depends, according to popular opinion, upon giant stature or physique. In physical education, however, such opinion must give way to a more scientific knowledge of facts. Physical education is concerned with the development of one’s native capacities to their highest point of motor efficiency.

One cannot, by taking thought, add one pound to his weight, nor one inch to his stature. Persons differ in physique as they do in mental ability. But that general physical efficiency de-

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
458

pends altogether on height and weight is not proven. It is more or less an assumption. It is obvious that a tall and heavy person can lift or pull a greater weight than a small and light person. But that alone does not constitute physical efficiency; it does for that particular effort, that is all.

In physical training work either age, school grade, weight or height may be used for the purpose of classification. No agreement has so far been reached as to which of these constitutes the best index for classification. Some persons want the school grade, some the age, some the weight, and some are searching for a complicated index involving all these factors. Yet extremely few studies are known on which these opinions are based. This may be because it is rather difficult to reach definite conclusions. High School pupils are subject to rapid growth in height and increase in weight.

Explanation of Method Used in Handling Data.

The tests in this study were made upon approximately 2000 students during the term beginning in September 1924 and ending in January 1925. In the beginning of the term the students were made familiar with the nature of the tests; the exercises were demonstrated and posted, and for a time practiced in class under the supervision of instructors and class leaders. Occasionally a full period was set aside for free practice. The exercises used were those required for each grade under the Philadelphia course of study for boys. After six weeks of practice the boys were tested in the following events: 1, Horizontal bar; 2, parallel bars; 3, horse; 4, rings; 5, mat work; 6, rope climbing; 7, chinning. The grading was done by six trained teachers and the rating was recorded as either excellent, good, fair, poor or deficient, according to the judgment of the teachers. Each boy was marked in three events by one teacher and in four more events by another teacher. After six weeks a second test followed in the same events and at the end of the term a third test in the same events. At the last test the boys were encouraged to show an additional exercise of their own choice, but of greater difficulty. This gave a total of at least twenty-one different marks for each boy. In addition there was entered at least one mark for each boy’s performance in the free exercises. All these marks were then averaged, and the result constituted the final or term mark. Next each boy received a valuation for successful participation in an after-school sport. A boy whose work was such that he won his place on any of the recognized teams received a mark one grade higher, i. e., an E if his term average was G; or a G if his term average was F. An E boy could, of course, not be rated any higher.

During the following week, at the beginning of the second term, each boy was weighed and measured; his weight-height •index was calculated and his age recorded. All records were then classified. Every record which was not based on three test? consisting of seven events each was thrown out. In every
4*59

case where a failure mark was recorded because of a boy’s absence from his physical training period, that record was ruled out. Only such records were used which were based upon performances made under the same conditions and practically at the same time. The graduating class having left, we had now exactly 1208 such complete records of boys who had each been carefully rated at least twenty-one times during one term by at least three competent teachers. It may be assumed that each boy had given his maximum ability, for during each performance he was watched not only by critical instructors, but also by his classmates; besides he knew that his marks in physical education contributed to his general school average.

It was felt by the faculty of the physical education department that while our tests and the methods of conducting the tests were neither perfect nor final, the results could not be much different, no matter what tests were used. We were convinced that those boys marked E were really excellent boys and would register an E in any series of tests; and that those boys marked D would be found deficient in any kind of test. We had five different ability groups and we felt reasonably sure that each boy had been as accurately classified into his proper group as it was possible to do on the basis of tests and judgments. It had been our observation for several years that, in general, the “excellent” boy is good or at least better than Fair all around, that the “average” fellow rarely rises to heights, and that the “poor” fellow can hardly make the average in any standard events used for testing. However, since our tests did not include track and field events, we can not claim that the result is an index of complete and all around physical efficiency, and shall hold our conclusions confined to the limits set by our tests. We have therefore used the term “Motor Efficiency” rather than “Physical Efficiency”. However, of one element we were very sure, namely that we had measured in our tests achievement as much as natural ability. No boy, no matter how gifted, can perform an apparatus exercise even fairly well unless he has had considerable practice. This is not always the case in measuring performances of the track and field type, where usually only one single effort is required, and where a boy endowed with physical attributes can pass a standard test without much practice.

So far as the attitude of the students themselves was concerned, it confirmed our judgment. The students were perfectly willing to let the tests as constituted be the criteria of their ability. A referendum vote brought this out strongly.*

With the data on hand we proceeded as follows. In each class (grade) cards containing the boy’s ability, age, height, weight and weight-height index were separated into five ability groups: E, G, F, P, and D. The distribution resulted as shown

*Zwarg, L. F. “Formal and informal Work in Physical Education” Mind and Body, February 1925.

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
460

in Table I. Next, all the heights of each group were added by means of an adding machine. The total was divided by the number of cases. This gave the average height for each group. The same procedure was carried out with age, with weight, and with weight per inch. The averages for the whole school as well as for each class were likewise calculated. Table II shows a complete compilation of all the averages by groups, by classes, and by school totals. Chart III represents an attempt to show on one chart graphically and comparatively the distribution of the four factors; only the school totals being used.

T.bla I.

The 0\ stributton In Ter Cent.

SO	?	P	D

Seniors	10.62	26.54	52.21	8.85	1.77
Juniors	12.61	23.	44.86	17.29	2.33
Sopho.	9.43	26.68	49.	13.2	3.
Freshrn.	6.78	26.9	48.36	13.3	4.6
Total	9.1	26.16	47.75	13.58	3.39

Rote: The curve Is based on the Totals, 1. e. the averages of the whole school.

Interpretatibn of Results Reached

1.	The Distribution of the Grade or Marks given.

The distribution of marks shown in table I is not perfect it being heavier on one side of the median line, i. e. more boys have been marked over fair than under fair. The Mean would fall somewhere between F and G, instead of within the F group.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Aq pazjijBja

TABLE II. AVERAGES.

Age—Height—Weight—Weight per Inch

By Classes and by Ability Groups.

Class or Grade		Number of Cases	E	MARKS  G	F	P	D	Average of Class	Lowest  Case	Highest  Case
		Number of Cases	12	30	59	10	2			
SENIOR		Average Age	17.46	17.37	17.28	17.25	16.75	17.32	16.	19.58
	113	Average Height	67.54	67.66	66.71	67.28	67.75	67.12	58.	74.
(12)		Average Weight	135.50	131.13	137.37	139.30	138.00	135.70	80.	185.
		Average Wt. per Inch	2.03	1.93	2.04	2.05	2.04	2.01	1.19	2.68
		Number of Cases	27	49	96	37	5			
Junior		Average Age	16.97	16.80	16.95	16.52	16.60	16.83	15.	20.1
	214	Average Height	66.09	66.64	66.68	66.82	68.40	66.75	55.6	74.
(ID		Average Weight	128.97	136.65	130.36	131.34	155.60	131.01	81.5	209.
		Average Wt. per Inch	1.96	1.95	1.95	1.97	2.25	1.96	1.14	3.08
		Number of Cases	40	114	201	56	13			
Sopho		Average Age	16.22	16.02	15.98	15.87	16.28	15.98	13.	18.75
	424	Average Height	66.03	65.84	65.65	65.22	65.48	65.68	55.5	73.9
(10)		Average Weight	130.04	126.82	124.14	125.01	130.69	125.73	75.	200.
		Average Wt. per Inch	1.97	1.92	1.82	1.9	1.99	1.91	1.23	2.9
		Number of Cases	31	123	221	61*	21			
FRESH.		Average Age	15.15	15.15	14.95	14.89	14.46	14.99	12.67	19.
	457	Average Height	63.21	63.72	63.58	63.34	63.72	63.57	48.9	71.3
( 9)		Average Weight	112.67	116.23	112.52	114.54	119.38	114.11	66.	170.5
		Average Wt. per Inch	1.76	1.82	1.76	1.81	1.87	1.79	1.18	2.7
		Number of Cases	110	316	577	164	41	School Av.		
TOTAL		Average Age	16.24	15.93	15.88	15.67	15.41	15.88	12.67	20.1
	1208	Average Height	65.42	65.31	65.17	65.0	65.05	65.2	48.9	74.
		Average Weight	125.48	126.87	122.08	123.41	128.29	123.21	55.5	209.
		Average Wt. per Inch	1.91	1.89	1.87	1.89	1.96	1.88	1.18	3.08
462

where it would be were the distribution perfect. However, it should be considered that any mark less than F meant failure for the term. Apart from this the general curve must be considered good, and the curves of the different classes correlate remarkably well with the total curve.

In general, the distribution substantiates the theory of normal frequency; that is among the thousand and more boys measured approximately half of them were found of fair, or average ability. The others tapered off toward either extreme.

It may be of interest to note that, as shown in the distribution table (No. 1), there are proportionately fewer failures in the upper classes than there are in the lower classes; and reversely, that there are more E and G marks in the upper classes than there are in the lower classes. In other words motor ability tends to increase toward the Senior age; there appears to be a gradual weeding out or dropping out of the physically inefficient. In that sense there is a correlation between physical and mental abilities; for it is well known that the mentally inefficient are gradually weeded out as they approach the Senior age.

2.	The Effect of Age upon Physical Ability.

Table II shows the averages, and table III presents graphically the results of the age study. It is strongly brought out that age increases uniformly with motor ability from the Deficient to the Excellent group. In the live ability groups there is a small but gradual increase in age from the lowest (D) to the highest (E) group. This increase appears in each class as well as in the total average. The gradation in' the averages from group to group are small, but when the Excellent (E) group is compared with the Failure (P and D) group there appears a decided contrast.

Age, therefore, appears to have a decided effect upon physical ability so far as high school boys are concerned.

We are forced to conclude that age is a rather constant and reliable factor, and that age rather than grade should be the index used for classifying boys.

This conclusion with reference to age seems in direct contrast to the findings in the measurement of mental abilities.

3.	The Effect of Height upon Physical Ability

In Table III we have the graphic presentation of height in the ability groups. (Table II shows the complete averages.) Height shows a very small, almost negligible, nevertheless gradual increase from the D to the E group, when taking the school as a whole; but in the separate classes there is no uniform increase. The difference in height between the E and the D group, taking all 1208 cases, is .4 of an inch; that is less than one-half inch.

It might be said then, that height is an advantage, although a very small one, when large groups are concerned. But the

Digitized by

Google
463

difference is not great enough to be noticed in smaller groups. Even the Sophomore and Freshmen classes with over 400 cases each do not show much difference in height between the ability groups.

In general, our conclusion reached is that height does not make enough difference to warrant its use as an index.

4.	The Effect of Weight upon' Physical Ability.

Table III shows graphically the weight in the'ability groups. (Table II contains the average.)

Table III.

A Graphic Presentation of .eight per Inch, Age, Height and Weight.

Kote: The graphs represent the averages of the whole school, not tho6e of each school year or class.

The weight curve looks irregular, but it is not difficult to interpret its general characteristics.

First of all it may be noticed that the lowest weight falls in the F or middle group, i. e. the group of average ability. The weight of this group is approximately the average weight of the whole class.

Second, the groups of higher ability show a greater weight, the G group being nearly five pounds and the E group being nearly four pounds heavier than the average.

Digitized by

Google
464

Third, the groups of low ability show also a greater weight than the normal group. The P group is nearly one and one half pounds heavier than the normal. But the D group is about six pounds heavier on the average than the normal group and heavier than any other group. This group represents largely the fat boys who are handicapped, so far as general physical ability goes, by their excessive weight. They are mostly lacking in effort as well as ability.

The tendency is strongly brought out that physical inefficiency increases with excessive weight. Obviously weight increases with physical efficiency when it consists of muscle, and it also increases with physical inefficiency when it consists of fat.

We may conclude that weight in itself is not a constant or reliable index of ability, and is therefore not so well suited for the purpose of classification.

5.	The Effect of Weight-per-Inch upon Physical Ability.

Table III shows a graphic presentation of weight per inch. (Table II contains the averages.)	per inch presents

the same problem as weight. The cti"ve‘ shows more regularity. The normal group is again the lowest. From this group the increase is steady toward the highest ability group, but also toward the lowest ability group. The Deficient group again shows the greater weight per inch.

The same conclusions may be drawn as for weight.

6.	Conditioning Factors.

1.	The conclusions with regard to height and weight must be regarded as merely showing tendencies. The averages are based on groups having various ages, such as are found within a high school grade. However, the age study showed that age has a decided effect upon physical ability. More reliable conclusions could therefore be reached if the height and weight averages were taken from groups having boys of the same age.

Nevertheless, even as the study stands, it reveals marked tendencies, and the conclusions are valid so far as the law of averages goes. It may be said that while each group is composed of boys of various ages, the great majority of boys are of average age for that grade.

A comparison of the averages obtained in this study with the Baldwin Practical Score Card* shows the following:

Weight —approximately 4 pounds more than Baldwin Height —approximately .6 inches less than Baldwin. weicht

—approximately .3 more than Baldwin.

2. Another factor might influence the conclusions with regard to weight. Aside from fat, is weight or the increase in

•Baldwin, B. F. “The Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity.” Practical Score Card, p. 411.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
465

weight perhaps the result of training rather than an index of possible ability? Age is a constant factor that cannot be increased or decreased at will; height cannot be increased through training; but weight can. It might be argued that weight is an index of achievement rather than an index that may be used for classification.

Application to Concrete School Situation*

From the results of this study, and on the strength of the data, we must conclude that chronological age is the most desirable factor for the classification of boys. It is better than the grade. Age is the most constant and reliable index. While the factors of Height and Weight exert some influence upon the general physical ability of pupils, they are not constant and reliable enough to be used as an index.

The problem is how to apply the age factor to the present school situation. It is impossible to group the boys by ages for general physical training work because the physical training periods fit into the general -''"ter. The grouping for all subjects other than physical is «. a —-sent by grades; according to mental ailities rather than physical ability. The physical training teacher must, therefore, take his group as he gets them. If boys are sent to the gymnasium promiscuously, as is the practice in many schools, good results can hardly be expected. When boys of all classes and all ages are thrown together to take the same kind of work the physic d training teacher has a job on his hands, not only so far as variation of ability goes, but also with regard to bookkeeping. He is very apt to do more bookkeeping than teaching. If the physical training teacher can classify his boys according to grade, the condition is tolerable. Even then he should take care of the age factor. While the classification by grade will suffice for teaching, it will not quite answer for testing.

At the Northeast High School, Philadelphia, standard grade tests have been used for several years regardless of age. What we contemplate doing in the future is this: we shall keep our standard grade tests, but assign these tests to the boys according to their ages. This will increase the number of exercises and tests that will have to be taught to each group, but it certainly should be more just so far as the boys are concerned.

Summary of the most important conclusions established by investigation.

1 Physical or motor ability of high school boys is influenced very much by age. In a group or class of high school boys the older boys show, on the average, greater ability. Therefore a classification according to age is better adapted to the boy’s physical abilities than a classification according to grade.

2	Motor ability of high school boys is very little affected by height. Of 12()'J brys the group rated as excellent was on the average less than one half inch taller than the group rated as

Digitized by

Google
466

Deficient. In the smaller groups the increase of ability with height is not noticeable. Height is not a constant factor, as is age. It can, therefore, not be considered a worth while index for classification.

3	Motor ability is influenced by weight. Boys of more than average ability are heavier; but boys of less than average ability also are heavier. Weight in itself is not an index of ability; it is too uncertain a factor to be used for classification.

4 Weight per inch affects motor ability the same as does weight. It works bcth ways. It increases with physical efficiency when it consists of muscle, and it increases with physical inefficiency when it consists of fat.

4	Weight-Height index appears to be of doubtful value for the classification of boys.

5	Boys of high school age undergo a special and distinct period of growth. Therefore the findings of this study may not hold true for any other group.

THE FORMATION OF LIFE PATTERNS*

By Leslie B. Hohman, M. D. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, M. D.

By the term “life patterns” I mean to suggest that experience tends to repeat the same story over and over again; it is like a symphony or sonata; the same theme keeps recurring, each time to be developed a little differently in combinations with other primary themes and secondary themes.

The simplest patterns are those with which the child is born. These are the patterns or responses which are released as soon as the child is placed for the first time in an environment which calls them forth. No training is necessary to elicit them. The infant cries at birth and its crying varies in expression, depending upon whether it-has been long without food, or whether it is restricted in its movements; whether it is suddenly left unsupported in its position, or whether it has heard loud noises. These are the only circumstances, as far as we know, which will elicit cyring in the early days of infancy. The crying may be stopped by feeding the child or petting it.

These simple emotional patterns are the thematic units with which you will have to begin your composition: unhappiness with hunger; fear when support is suddenly released or when there are loud noises; and rage when the child is restricted in its movements. What is built up out of these elementary emotions of discomfort, rage, fear, unhappiness will depend on how you manipulate the environment. The principles governing this manipulation are simple, but they require consistency and knowledge of the end to be accomplished.

♦From an address delivered at the Conference “Concerning Parents," Baltimore, Md., November 30, 1926.

Digitized by

Google
467

The first principle on which the manipulation of the environment depends is the infant’s capacity to learn with amazing facility. The frequency with which pain and fear responses are called out will depend in the first place upon how often you present the cause for them; and in the second place how often you allow these responses to be followed by stimuli which give the child satisfaction—such as food or petting.

The second principle that must be known is that casual, unrelated things in the environment soon come to have the same stimulus value as the primary or original emotion-arousing experience. For instance, a loud noise arouses fear. Dogs come to elicit fear because they make noises; the fur of dogs arouses fear because it is presented to the child with noise. One can make the child afraid of any animal or even of his own blocks if they are presented with loud noise. It is the business of the parent to understand that these new conditionings are not just whimsical, inevitable things, but that the laws governing them can be readily worked out and that when chance establishes a wrong or undesirable conditioning it must be deliberately controlled and broken up. A pattern of fear, for instance, can be torn down and destroyed by associating the cause of it with something which gives pleasure to the child.

During these early years of the child’s life, the environmental forces working on the child in the form of its parents’ or nurse’s attitudes are apt to be directed purely by emotion, and not to be thought out or intellectually controlled. Feeling that the child is too tiny to understand or to be understood, the parent and the nurse constantly bring to the child the same emotional attitudes over and over again as environment. This tends to fix the child’s responses in definite patterns. The child's responses or patterns can be controlled if the parent translates his own emotional attitudes into a thought-out plan.

Up to the time the infant begins to talk, its only mode of expression has been large body movements and elementary undifferentiated responses. Gradually this tendency to use all of the body to act out each response or desire is replaced by smaller movements involving only parts of the body, and by more refined and at the same time more complex emotional combinations. The child begins to imitate, to distinguish between itself and the outside world, to be able better to direct the finer movements of its body. Old reactions fall into disuse or must be replaced by new ones, to meet these new impulses and reactions. New secondary themes are calling for expression, and old primary themes must temporarily yield. If the way is closed by a fixity of bad habits built on primary themes, development is delayed or thwarted or permanently side-tracked.

The appearance of language, while it greatly facilitates the natural growth and development of the child, offers at the same time a serious difficulty. As the child learns the names of things, discovers how to get things more rapidly through asking for

Digitized by v^,ooQle
468

them, and get praise from his parents for talking, the chief interest of both parent and child is apt to be directed toward the development of the child’s language and intelligence patterns, and the rest of the activity of the child may remain undirected and uncared for. Just so long as the child does not become a problem of discipline, little attention is directed toward what it learns to do with its hands or body; or what emotional patterns it learns to use.

The nursery school and kindergarten movements are a recognition of the fact that children have been learning to do things all too late: that the process of systematic learning to use the hands can be started much earlier than was formerly thought, and can be developed to a much higher point than we have been willing to admit. Parents are apt to block their children in this learning to do things with their hands because they think of manipulation activities as largely inherited. It should be remembered that the father teaches the son only the things he knows how to do and is interested in. If the child accidentally discovers during his play that certain things win the approval cf parents, he continues along this line.

It is, however, the emotional and inspirational patterns which come under the most flagrant neglect, and these are the patterns which make or spoil the life of the child and the future adult. We are apt to think of disposition or character as a fixed quantity and regard the child as naturally irritable or naturally sullen or wilful or cheerful or day-dreaming or temperamental or affectionate. So great is this tendency to think of these modes of emotional responses as fixed that each one of them is attributed to one of the child’s parents or grandparents. This method of releasing one’s self from responsibility is comfortable if one thinks of these emotional patterns as born in the child, but the parent will have to face frankly the fact that even if the patterns are inherited they can still be modified and changed almost at will. This is not a question of conviction but an experimentally proved fact.

Here is a typical case. A boy of three and a half years had a mother who had been petted and spoiled by her own mother, but whose husband refused to continue this petting and spoiling. During the first years of her marriage the young wife gave her child the fondling she was denied. She kept him with her constantly, and he became so dependent that nothing gave him any satisfaction that was not done at the end of her apron strings. When any attempt was made to get him to do things by himself, there were tears and unhappiness. This became so marked that the mother consented to listen to the father’s protests, and to leave the child alone for one hour each day. For the first twelve days this resulted in an hour of weeping and raging. On the thirteenth day came calm and a turning to toys without further ado. When the primitive patterns of tears and rage proved no longer a serviceable method, the child substituted
469

what was at hand. Today he is alone or with other children most of the day, but the original patter of tearfulness has to be handled in summary fashion to prevent it from becoming fixed again.

This tendency to react with tearfulness and depression after the deprivation of satisfaction is a dangerous one, and the often-er it is repeated, the more readily it is set off. There is a tremendous danger that moods of unhappiness in the child will be sentimentalized by parents, especially if they, themselves, have this mode of response. The average person accepts depression as inevitable, and accepts no responsibility for it. It is true that once the pattern of the easy arousal of unhappiness is established, certain circumstances will arouse depression quite automatically and the duration of the mood is apt to be fixed. A wise parent can, through consistent good humor and cheerfulness, almost always induce his child to substitute smiling and good-humored reactions for unhappiness, so that the depressive pattern never becomes conditioned in the child at all.

Again, parents are often too eager to help their child avoid situations which, in their own childhood, caused them unhappiness and pain. They try to spare their child all unhappy experiences and to guard him against even the pain that is requisite to learn how to handle pain. The child so shielded has no chance to learn the mechanism of combating immediate desire, and develops no patterns to guard himself against disappointment. You can help him to learn that there is a tomorrow and that only by control today can the tomorrow be made satisfactory. Do not be afraid to teach your child self-imposed discipline. Life can only be lived satisfactorily through self-imposed restriction.

HELIOTHERAPY

By Henry S. Curtis, Director Hygiene and Physical Education.

The health value of sunlight was more or less appreciated in earlier times, but it is only recently that sun baths have become a definite method in the treatment of disease.

However, its value is being recognized more and more, and its place is becoming definitely established. It is found to apply to many health problems to which it was originally supposed to have no relation.

As to just how this hygienic power is exercised, we have no vary definite knowledge, but we do know, of course, that the violet and ultra-violet rays have a very definite germicidal value. They make the skin resistant to the entrance of germs and by causing the expansion of the capillaries at the surface affect directly the circulation through the muscles.

The first considerable institution for treatment through sun baths was for the children with tuberculosis of the bone in the

Digitized by LaOOQle
470

higher altitudes of the Alps. These children have been shown in many magazines and moving pictures sliding and snow shoeing on thte mountain side clad only in a clout. Everyone wonders "how it is possible for them to stay out doors under these conditions without freezing; but it appears that the tan, which exposure to the sun gives, is a real protection against both heat and cold. In the Ridge Sanitorium in St. Louis County for undernourished children also the children are out doors practically all winter wearing only a clout. They say that they do not suffer from the cold. The action of the sun’s rays causes a deposition of calcium in the bones. The difference is clearly shown in the X-ray after a comparatively short period of treatment.

Rickets is much more common among children born in the winter months when there is little sunshine than it is among children born in summer months. Also in a city where there is an excess of dust or smoke causing a decrease of direct sunlight there is always an increase of rickets among little children. Sunlight and cod liver oil are the common remedies for rickets but the anti-richitic value of any food is increased by exposing it to sunlight. Cod liver oil seems to be a sort of concentrated essence of sunlight.

At Cornell last summer they were carrying on an experiment with young chickens. These were kept in the basement of one of the buildings. All of them developed rickets of the worst sort. The breast bones were deformed, the legs were too weak to bear the weight and the feathers were rough and unkempt. The combs of the cockerels were nearly white and bloodless. They all lacked animation and activity. These sick looking chickens were then exposed seven minutes a day to ultra-violet light. The result was that their legs became strong to support their weight, their combs became red, their feathers glossy, and they took on the appearance of health.

Experiments carried on at Yale a year ago showed that rats which spent a part of every day in the sunlight grew faster, had glossier hair and were more active than rats which did not have this opportunity. Experiments with undernourished children in a number of cities have shown tnat the child who spends a part oi every day m the sunlight takes on flesh more rapidly and improves .n every way more than the child who does not have this opportunity. The violet and ultra-violet rays penetrate the deeper tissues of the body and stimulate the nutrition of the harmones of the endocrine glands. With the result of an improvement in appetite and digestion.

In heliotherapy the work must be begun very gradually and the feet are first exposed then the legs and later the abdomen and chest. In the beginning this is only for a few minutes a day. This t.me is gradually lengthened as the person becomes more tolerant of the rays. The first exposures are always during the morning or late afternoon when the heat and radiation are

Digitized by kjOOQle
471

least powerful. Alter the tanning of the skm is well begun, the exposure may be lor a longer period and at hours when the sun is higher.

It s now known that the ordinary window glass does not admit the violet or ultra-volet rays. The old time solarium has very little value for this reason. The quartz glass does admit the ultra-violet rays. It is now possible to secure tnis glass at about the price of plate glass and make a window which admits the rays that are necessary for cure. Perhaps the time may come withm a decade or so when we may have windows of this sort in our homes.

In view of the stimulating action of the wind and open air upon the skin and lungs and the action of the sun upon the skin, the deeper tissues and the bones, it should be our policy to hold the physical education period in the open air and in as light clotning as public sentiment permits, whenever possible.

PASS BASKET BALL

John E. Boyd, Philadelphia

This game is designed to accommodate a large number of pupils in an activity having some of the features of Basket Ball, e. g., the short pass, the long pass, the quick try for the basket, and the cut to a definite position in a system of play. As many as forty pupils arranged in four teams may be engaged at one time without confusion. Speed and accuracy enter into a successful game. The players on each team are lined up in a column formation in open order; see diagram.

As shown in the diagram No. 1, the ball starts with player No. 1 and crosses over and back into the hands of each team member until No. 10 is reached. As soon as the ball reaches player No. 10, the player at the front end of his file (No. 2) cuts for the basket and receives a long pass from player No. 10, see diagram 1. Player No. 2 after catching the ball tries for a goal.

Note: As player No. 2 cuts for the basket, the entire file in which he is playing shifts forward one position, the vacancy now being at the end of his file.

Whether successful or not in his try for the goal, No. 2 recovers the ball and passes it to Player No. 1 thus completing the circuit. Player No. 2 now hastens to fill the vacant position at the end of his file; See Diagram No. II.

Digitized by

Google
BASKET

2	9	11	2	9
X	X		0	Q
10	7		10	7
X	X		o	O
ft	s		8	S
X	X		o	O
(,	3		6	3
X	X		o	0
4	7		4	/
X	X		O	o

o

Note: The play is repeated but this time player No 4, who now is in front “cuts” for the basket and shoots the ball. No. 2, who is now at the end of the file, throws the long pass to number 4. Play continues until all of the even-numbered players have had a chance to shoot for the basket, and number 2 is once more in his original position. This completes the first half of the game.

Files change places for the second half of the game. During. this half the odd-numbered players cut for the basket and shoot the ball.

Scoring: The team that first finishes the half receives two points for speed in passing.

All successful goals are scored at one point each.
473

RULES: 1) Each player must receive the short pass in his turn. A muffed pass must be received by the player so offending without assistance from team mates.

2)	The player receiving the long pass must try for the basket from the spot where he receives the ball. (No dribbling towards the basket). The long pass may not be relayed.

3)	The space occupied by the two teams should be of the same size, length and width.

An interesting variation is to have the player cutting for the basket encircle his entire team before receiving the long pass and shooting the ball. This player should begin running around the team immediately after he has made his short pass. Other interesting variations may be used.

--------------------------- 9

GYMNASTIC DRILL FOR BOYS OF THE NORTHEAST HIGH SCHOOL, PHILADELPHIA

Music: Nobles of the Mystic Shrine. Victor Record 19056-A Note: A movement on the first of every two counts. Eight counts introduction.

1.	(a)Raise on toes and swing arms sideupward-1. Bend

knees deep and lower arms sideward-2. Retum-3-4. Repeat three times.

(b)Stride left sideward and swing arms sideupward-1.* Bend upper trunk backward and lower arms sideward (palms up)-2. Return-3-4, repeat right, left and right.

2.	(a)Place left foot forward and bend arms to strike from

head-1. Lunge left forward and strike arms obliquely side downward-2. Return-3-4-. Repeat right, left and right.

(b)Place left foot sideward and bend arms to strike from head-1. Lunge left sideward and strike arms obliquely side downward-2. Return-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

3.	(a)Raise left knee forward and raise arms sideward-1. Move

arms forward-2. Return-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

(b)Raise left knee forward and raise arms sideward. Swing left leg backward (foot on floor), bend right knee, bend trunk forward and move arms forward hands on floor-2. Retum-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

4.	First interlude.

Jump to a stride stand and swing arms sideupward-1. Bend trunk forward and swing arms forward (touching floor)-2 Retum-3. Repeat 2-3 twice-4-7. Jump to po-sition-8. Repeat once.

5.	(a)Straddle left sideward and raise arms sideupward-1.

Bend left knee and lower arms sideward-2. Retum-3 -4. Repeat right, left and right.

Digitized by

Google
474

(b)Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideupward-1. Change knee bending and lower arms sideward-2. Re-tum-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

6.	Second Interlude.

Bend knees deep and place hands on floor-1. Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways-2. Return squat stand-3. Repeat 2-3 twice-4 to 7. Straighten to position-8. Repeat once.

7.	(a)Jump to a side stride stand and swing arms sideupward

-1. Turn trunk left, bend trunk forward and swing arms forward (hands touch floor)-2. Return-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

(b)Lunge left sideward and swing arms sideupward-1. Turn trunk left, bend trunk forward and swing arms forward (hands touching floor)-2. Return-3-4. Repeat right, left and right.

MAT EXERCISES AND STUNTS FOR GIRLS

By Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 6	SECTION ONE

1	High kicking right several times, while going forward, across the mat. Step left, kick right, step right, step left, kick right and continue.

2	Same opposite.

3	Roll forward to squatstand. Extend legs backward to support lying frontways. Return.

4	Kneel, hands on hips. Bend trunk backward and return several times. Kneejump to stand.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 6	SECTION TWO

1	Sit. Lower backward to lying position, with legs raising and return, to stand.

2	Sit. Lower backward to lying position, with leg raising and roll backward to stand. Hands on hips. Bend trunk backward and return.

3	Kick right foot forward, hop left with 1-2 turn left to semi-horizontal balance, arms sideward. Squatstand left, right leg extended backward, hands on floor. Change feet several times. Stand.

4	Squat and roll backward to stand. Bend trunk backward. Return. Bend trunk forward, reach right hand far forward, touching floor. Return. Opposite.

Continued from last month.

Digitized by v^ooQle
475

LESSON THREE

GRADE 6	SECTION	THREE

1	Bend the crab, with assistance. Return.

2	Jump to far straddle stand, bend trunk forward, place back of head on mat. Roll forward to stand. Headstand.

3	Cartwheel.

4	Attempt handstands. (Do not place hands too far in front of feet. Throw one leg backward first and follow with the other. (Assistance.)

5	Jackknife. Bend trunk forward until chest touches legs, both arms around legs. Return. Repeat.

LESSON THREE GRADE 7	SECTION	ONE

1	Jump to far stride stand, right foot forward, left backward. Bend trunk forward, grasp right ankle with both hands, both knees straight. Return. Opposite.

2	Raise left foot 6 inches off the floor, diagonally inward. Jump with right over the raised left foot, several times. Opposite.

3	Roll over forward to stand. Bend trunk backward as far as possible (with assistance). Return. High kicks right and left.

4	Sister act. Wheel barrow. A. Squatstand, hands on mat, raise right leg backward. B. Grasp right and left instep. Both walk off the mat.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 7	SECTION	TWO

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Headstand.

2	Straddle stand, raise arms upward. Bend knees, weight forward, bend trunk backward (assistance) until hands touch mat. (Bend the crab) Return.

3	Roll forward to stand with feet crossed; 1-2 turn, sit and

roll backward.

4	Cartwheel.

5	Practice handstand, with assistance.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 7	SECTION	THREE

1	Cartwheel

2	Bend the crab, with assistance. Raise right leg, return.

Raise left leg, return.

3	Roll forward to stand. Arms sideward, raise right leg backward, bend left knee, lower to horizontal balance. With a jump, change feet, (Assistance). Position.

4	Handstand. Return. Bend the crab. Walk forward in this position. Rise (Assistance).

5	Roll forward to supine lying position. Raise legs, grasp ankles from outside; bend knees, pull feet underneath body and rise (Preliminary to snap-up.)

Digitized by v^.ooQle
476

LESSON THREE

GRADE 8	SECTION	ONE

1	Roll forward to stand, feet slightly apart. Bend knees, wind right arm around right leg, from benind, and touch mat either on the inside or outside of right foot.

2	Supine lying. Raise legs forward and lower toward head. Return. Repeat with legs apart and feet touching mat beyond head. Stand.

3	Sit, legs apart. Hands on legs below the knee. Roll sideward left several times. Opposite.

4	Kneel. Bend trunk backward and return, several times. Knee jump to stand.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 8	SECTION	TWO

1	Headstand, with assistance and without. Return. Horizontal balance.

2	Cartwheel. Prone lying. Chin resting on hands, elbows on mat. Raise right leg backward, resting on left foot, left leg is flexed. Opposite.

3	Bend the crab. 1-2 turn left, by placing right foot over left and moving right arm with the turn. Opposite.

4	Roll over forward to stand. Handstand. Return. Roll over backward. Interlock fingers, raise right knee and step with right over closed hands. Follow with left leg. Position.

LESSON THREE

GRADE 8	SECTION	THREE

1	Cartwheel, several times.

2	Round off. The "Round Off” begins like the cartwheel, but when both legs are up like in the handstand, execute a snappy quarter turn, push off with hands and snap both legs downward to stand, facing in the direction from which the exercise started. Bend the crab. Raise alternate leg forward. Rise.

3	Kick right leg forward, hop on left with 1-2 turn left to squatstand left, with right leg extended backward. Full leg circle right to support lying frontways, jump and extend legs forward to straddle seat. Roll backward to stand.

4	Handstand. Return. Bend the crab. Return (with assistance, if necessary). Raise right leg diagonally forward, with right hand grasp right heel from innerside. Raise leg as high as possible and turn once around with four hops. Opposite.

Digitized by CjOOQle
477

i ■■	—-------- ■	...... ■■ I,, i ——	..

News, notes and comments

■ ■ ----------------------- '<>

To the Instructors in Baseball in Girls Schools. The

National Committee on Women’s Athletics of the American Physical Education Association has felt the need of a sub-committee on BASEBALL, to take its place alongside of the other subcommittees on various sports, in an effort to popularize Baseball as a game for girls, and to work out some official girls’ rules. This sub-committee has begun its work and has prepared a set of Baseball rules concerning which it would like your helpful advice, and we hope your approval. If possible, will you please use the rules this spring, fill out the questionnaire, and return it to the chairman by July 1st. On the basis of the returned questionnaires with your helpful suggestions, the committee will go ahead with its work with the hope that in the near future we may have Baseball rules for girls in guide book form. The rules and questionnaire may be had by addressing Helen W. Hazelton, Chairman, Sub-Committee on Baseball, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

The thirty-fourth annual convention of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Des Moines, April 13 to 16, 1927. This will be a joint meeting with Mid-West Society of Physical Education and Central Division of Iowa State Teachers’ Association.

A few of the representative people appearing on the program are:—Dr. Helen Wodehouse, Bristol, England; W. H. Burton, University of Chicago; C. W. Savage, Oberlin, Ohio; Col. Henry Breckinridge, Former assistant Secretary of War; John L. Griffith, Big Ten Commissioner; James G. Rogers, National Physical Education Service; F. C. Allen, University of Kansas; Jesse Williams, Columbia University; Dr. Ernest Burnham, Kalamazoo, Michigan; J. B. Knight, University of Iowa; C. S. Danbert, Iowa State College; D. W. Morehouse, Drake University; May-ant H. Doubler, University of Wisconsin.

The theme of the convention will be “Teaching Methods.” Vitally interesting and significant phases of physical education will be presented.

On Thursday evening there will be a pageant illustrating the opportunity offered by physical education in the development of the child.

The annual meeting of the A. P. E. A. is one of the truly important conventions dealings with public education.

What makes children quarrelsome? Two things, answers Dr. Frank Howard Richardson, eminent psychologist and child expert of Columbia University; and for one of these the

Digitized by

Google
478

child is not at all responsible, although he is frequently punished.

The child who is irritable and quarrelsome apparently without reason, he writes in the February issue of “Children, The Magazine for Parents,” is the sick child, undernourished and over-tired.

“If ever the tit for tat principle, upon which so much of our actual punishment is based, is justified, it certainly is not justified in the case of the child whose small stock of nerve force has been exhausted by lack of rest, lack of food, overtaxation, overstimulation, or all four of those put together,” he says.

“No child quarrels for the mere fun of the thing,” he points out, explaining that quarrelsomeness in the normal child is only evidence of the human tendency to fight for something to which others dispute his right.

"Many of our most successful citizens have gained their eminence by just such a clear knowledge of what they wanted, and just such a determination to go and get it; a type of behavior which we ‘wise’ adults are apt to stigmatize as quarrelsomeness when we see it in children.”

Punishing the child, or compelling him to give way to his playmates in a quarrel, proves harmful more often than not, he believes.

The best solution, the “Children’s” article concludes, lies in the theory that a busy child is happy one. Adequate and interesting equipment for play removes the cause of most child quarrels, and so gives the quarrelsome side of the nature little chance to develop.

The convention of the Eastern Section of the American Physical Education Association is to be held at Washington, D.

C.	from March 30th to April 2nd.

Mr. Walter E. Short of Trenton, N. J. is chairman of the program committee, and he promises an unusually attractive and instructive number of papers, exhibitions, visitations, etc. so that visitors should find the convention distinctly worth while.

The World Federation of Education Associations will meet at Toronto, Canada, August 7-12, 1927. Men and women widely known for their views and accomplishments will address the Convention. Reports will be made on the several committees set up in the Herman-Jordan Plan, together with a definite program of what may be done by education to allay national jealousies and racial and religious hatreds. It is expected that a definite, sane and effective program will be evolved. While discussion groups may deal with almost all phases of education, it is the purpose of the Federation to confine itself first of all to a few essentials such as may be set up in the plan above mentioned.

Digitized by kjOOQle
479

One need not be a delegate to enjoy the group discussion and the general programs. We believe that persons who attend the Convention will receive inspiration and information which will be beneficial in uniting the five million teachers of the world who are teaching the three hundred million children into bonds of fellowship and sympathy which will make of education a cause and a vital force in directing the trend of civilization to a higher plane.

Boxing as Gymnasium Work

At a recent meeting of the Physical Educators Club of Chicago C. P. Spade, Physical Director at the Lindblom High School, told how boxing can be made a suitable substitute for the regular gymnasium work for such pupils as are not attracted by regular class schedule and who seem to be more interested in a scheme of exercise with which they are more fami'iar. Boxing, at least the training part of boxing is composed of a great many of the elements of gymnastic exercises, and because of its intensiveness and aggressiveness, produces the same results in a more pleasing manner to some pupils. At any rate an hour or so of fight training will send the boy back to his class refreshed, though somewhat minus superfluous energy and may well be regarded as a very good substitute for the usual routine gymnastic exercise.

The principal thing is to make the pupil see the value of boxing as an exercise and not let him get the impression that he is learning to become a fighter. The work is given largely in class form, the entire group going thru the various leads, parries and counter parries simultaneously, while instruction is given in the proper standing position, shifts, guards, leads, and parries in a way that make it appear as a drill or calisthenic exercise, at the same time teaching the fundamentals of the art of self-defense.

After a pupil has mastered the proper form, some individual instruction is given and the pupil permitted to engage in the auxiliary exercises, such as rope skipping, shadow boxing, and bag punching; the instructor, however, constantly guarding against giving the pupil the impression that he is learning to be a prize fighter. Our boys take to this form of exercise readily and we have experienced very little trouble regarding accidents, knock outs, or such unsavory attributes to the art of fighting. “We never lose sight of the fact that our purpose is healthful exercise and not the training of fighters, and have found this form of exercise very helpful to the student to whom regular gymnasium work is uninteresting,” said Mr. Spade.

Mr. C. F. Hemmesphar, member of the Athletic Officials Association, spoke on the art of officiating and presented some valuable suggestions for reducing complaints and dissatisfaction

Digitized by

Google
over referees' decisions on the part of the players and coaches who happen to draw the losing end of a game.

The first essential of a referee is to know the rules and the game thoroughly and to be in good physical condition so as to be on top of every close play. An official who is indisposed, tired, or physically unable to follow the ball to all parts of the playing field, can not render efficient service as a referee or umpire, no matter how well he may know the game or the rules.

The next essential thing is to ascertain from the captains or coaches whether they desire a fast open game or a closely called game, as some teams and leagues have a marked preference for one or the other. To be calling fouls closely when both playing teams want fast and hard playing will get the official into no end of trouble with the players and spectators alike.

In a fast game like Basket Ball, or games where there is of necessity, frequent personal contact, the official must exercise careful and cool judgment and can not always depend upon the written rule. To clamp own the written rule without considering the attitude and intent of the player involved in committing a foul, or the importance of its effect on the result of the game, would in many cases spoil the game by too frequent stoppage. Therefore, in no case can the official free himself from the responsibility of exercising his own judment. The technique • of officiating is to apply the foul penalty where it counts and not merely to show that you are on the job. Some officials are possessed with the idea that the spectators attend a game to see him officiate, said Mr. Hemmesphar. The referee or umpire should remain as much as possible in the background and not seek the “spotlight” of the game.

The hardest part of officiating is to catch the first foul involved in a scuffle. Many fouls are committed as a comeback to one that was previously committed by a player but which was not detected by the referee. If you can get the first foul you can prevent many subsequent ones occurring.

Spectators, because of the many eyes involved, see fouls that it is impossible for a referee to see because of the necessity of his following a definite play which results in the spectators sometimes assuming an unfair and unfriendly attitude. In such cases there is little an official can do except to maintain a cool, dignified, and firm stand in his decisions, and thus hope to appeal to the spectators’ sense of sportsmanship.

Practically all of the men officiating in the Athletic Official Association, are engaged in allied or other pursuits, and officiate as a side line during their spare time. Much better results could be obtained, especially in school games, if officials could be permanently employed for this work in the same manner as coaches or instructors are employed, so that they could give their entire time and energy to this important work. “I believe the time is not far distant when many institutions will adopt this policy,” said Mr. Hemmesphar, in conclusion.—Theo. A. Gross, Chairman Publicity Committee.
481

Nip Jealousy in Childhood, Urges Child Specialist, Warning of Grave Effects.— What starts the growth of jealousy in children? What can. parents do to prevent the development of this ugly trait that will distort the entire future life of the child? What is jealousy?

“Once jealousy has become embedded in a child, it can never he completely eliminated,” says Dr. Frank Howard Richardson, noted child specialist and psychologist, writing for the December issue of “Children, The Magazine for Parents”.

"Jealousy is a misdirected, perverted form of self-love. And self-love is an indispensable constituent of every human being. Self-love or self-esteem, normally developed, is the basic ingredient of self-respect, ambition, desire to do well in the world, and to be well thought of. Distorted, it becomes that ugly, unhappy trait, jealousy.

“Jealousy may be fostered in a child by the obvious favoritism of the parents for a brother or sister. Sometimes this favoritism is the result of an actual preference for the other child. Sometimes it is assumed for the purpose of spurring the delinquent child, to bring him up to the standard of the child who is praised.

“Such discriminations are found to have far-reaching and devastating effects.

“Consider the common parental practice of holding before a laggard child the successes of a model brother or sister. The common result is the growth of a bitter and deep-seated hatred and jealousy, toward the brother or sister who is the model. A less evident result is the fostering of a profound sense of the child’s own inferiority.

“Pitting a brilliantly endowed child against a normal one of the same age, or a naturally bright younger child against a retarded older child, is a bit of refined cruelty.

“A more subtle cause for the development of jealousy is society’s preference for the brighter or more attractive brother or sister. Teachers, fellow pupils and playmates are bound to prefer him.

“When this occurs, watchful parents may do a great deal to neutralize it by emphasizing the few admirable traits possessed by the less favored one, as well as by avoiding comparisons of the less favored child with the more happily endowed one.

“Home praise can do wonders in correcting the world’s judgments. The child who is freely and frankly praised for the things that parents can honestly commend is saved from the perils that beset the child who is never given appreciative encouragement.

“The unpraised child, suffering from unhappy comparisons, flees from reality, because it is too hard to bear. This is a most dangerous habit for any child to establish.

“The values that parents set upon their children will be accepted by the children themselves, whether they be just or

Digitized by kjOOQle
482

unjust. Later in life it will be difficult if not impossible for them to alter these estimates of themselves.

“One of the most fertile causes of the almost universal ‘inferiority reaction’ that we hear so much about nowadays, is some such false valuation placed upon a boy’s or girl’s capabilities and accepted by him. Many of us know to our bitter cost how next to impossible it is for us to alter such estimates.

“Parents have their likes and dislikes. Some traits ‘rub us the wrong way’. Others are especially sweet and dear to us. But to allow these deeds and traits of our own children to sway us into showing preferences and antipathies toward them, is a monstrous thing.”

The “Children” article points out that another fertile cause of the growth of jealousy in children is the advent of a baby brother or sister who suddenly becomes the center of the household interest and affection formerly held by the child.

“Parents often fail to realize just what a serious shock the advent of a new baby is to the emotional life of the ‘baby’ who is superseded. This period that furnishes so fertile a soil for the sowing of the seed of jealousy, cannot be handled too carefully by loving parents.

“If the situation is properly handled, however, the coming of a little brother or sister may stimulate the development of some of the finest virtues in the character of the older child and there need be no hint of jealousy on his part.”

BOOK REVIEWS

“Play Activities for Elementary Schools—Grades One To Eight,” Compiled by Dorothy LaSalle. 179 pages, 9 1-2 X 6 1-4”. Bound in cloth. Illustrated. Price $2.00. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1926.

The book contains many fine suggestions on problems which the teacher of physical education is bound to meet. The questions of sportsmanship, organized free play, and demonstrations are all treated in a practical manner.

About half the book is devoted to descriptions of games for grades one to eight. These are arranged by grades and classified according to types and in order of difficulty. At the begin-ing of each description there is a brief outline, stating the number best suited for the game, the most suitable place, and the equipment necessary.

The remainder of the book deals with Competitive Athletics and describes very thoroughly the methods and rules used in conducting events in Detrcit. The events include a decathlon and pentathlon with descriptions of events, point system, and classification.

Undoubtedly those engaged in physical education work will be interested in this contribution to the subject.—Janet B. Walter.

Digitized by Google
483

Youth and The Beautiful, by the Frick Educational Commission, 439 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburg, Pa.

This booklet, 5 by 7 1-2 inches, 80 pages, paper cover, is the first of a series of booklets named School Betterment Studies made possible by the donation of a sum of money by Mr. Henry

C.	Frick for the inprovement of the Pittsburg Public Schools.

The study undertaken was to measure the results obtained by having five of the foremost artists of the country present then-art to high school students during regular assembly periods.

The topics presented were Beauty in the Plastic Arts by Lorado Taft, Beauty in Sacred Literature by S. H. Clark, Beauty and the Culture of the Spirit by Dr. Edward H. Griggs, Beauty, Poetry and the Spirit of Youth by Miss Bertha K. Baker and Beauty in Line and Color by Dr. Henry T. Bailey.

The criticisms, suggestions and comments made by the pupils are carefully grasped and analyzed giving an illuminating insight into the reactions of the audiences. This book will be supplied free of cost to those interested by writing to the commission.

“A Brief History of Physical Education,” by Emmet A. Rice.

Published by A. S. Barnes and Company. Cloth bound, 276 pp. Price $2.00.

Mr. Rice has produced a book which fills a long felt need. It was written by an able teacher of the subject to meet the demands of normal school students for a suitable text-book on the history of physical education.

The reviewer recommends this notable work very highly to all teachers of physical education. It is at once brief yet comprehensive in scope. It is presented in an interesting manner and is clothed in an easy style. It is scientific and authentic.

The author has very happily chosen to select the subject matter and its arrangement with regard to “the principle that the history of physical education can be presented, most truthfully, as a great movement with many undercurrents, co-existent with civilization itself and as a part of general education ; and, further, that those facts which explain the existence of a modern problem or add to the appreciation of a modem movement are of greater historical value than the details of the life of a leader.”

An excellent list of reports, books, and periodicals for supplementary reading has been appended to each chapter.

This book should find a place in the library of every teacher of physical education.—Grover W. Mueller.

Digitized by kjOOQle
ATHLETIC f CLOTHING I

Style in the Gym—

A Gym class all togged out in PERFETEX uniforms is something worth while—PERFETEX clothing combines style and beauty with unusual wearing qualities. These features, not found in ordinary athletic clothing are well worth considering.

Before you decide on uniforms for this year's requirements be sure to inspect our complete line. They are truly a better class erf merchandise. There is a decided satisfaction in knowing all your classes are outfitted with PERFETEX—the best in athletic clothing.
Summer School in Camp

at Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin

June 27 to July 30, 1927

COURSES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RELATED SUBJECTS DIPLOMA FOR SUMMER SESSION WORK.

Summer Session under Direction of Mr. W. A. Stecher.

Ask for the Illustrated Program.

Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union

421 East Michigan St,	::	Indianapolis,	Ind.

QUALITY POSITIONS

Leading Colleges, State Normals, and Secondary Schools ask ua to recommend specialists In Physical Education. More than half of the State Universities have selected our candidates. May we assist youT Details gladly given.

SPECIALISTS' EDUCATIONAL BUREAU

ROBERT A. GRANT. Pr-id«ai s :	:	ODEON	BLDG.,	ST. LOUIS, MO.

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS. MO.

Branch Offices—New York,	Chicago, San Francisco,

62 Vanderbilt Ave. 326 W. Madison St. Rialto Bldg.
Burlap

lia Hah* Fell Burlap lin Hair felt 2.105 Soft Duck

Gymnasium

MATS

BUILT FOR SERVICE

NARRAGANSETT STANDARD

Mats are made in ONE QUALITY ONLY—of highest grade materials, expert workmanship. The burlap backing—a special feature—keeps the hair felt from bunching.

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus

Steel Shelving

Steel Lockers Steel Cabinets

Narragansett Machine Co.

NEW YORK	Providence, R. I. U. S. A.	CHICACO

138 East 44th St.	1504 Monadnock	Blk.

MID-WEST HOCKEY and Sports Camp

At Wetomachek, Powers Lake, Wii.

The Ideal vacation for all women interested In Land and Water Sports. Beautiful lake, good food, low cost. Latest English Hockey methods, expert coaching. Danish gymnastics. Work, play or rest as you wish. Register for one week or more. July 20th to Sept. 1st. Address

CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

5028 GREENWOOD AVE.	BOX	M.	B.	CHICACO,	ILL.

April Number will contain Material for a PATRIOTIC PAGEANT.

Be sure to watch for your copy and renew now if your subscription has expired because it will be hard to supply the April number if you are late in getting your order in. April Number will also contain the year's index for binding with Vol. 33.

Dont’t Miss April Mind and Body.