Vol. 12.

JANUARY, 1906.

No. 143

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F< PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760—3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYMNASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

V.

THE gymnasia at Northampton, Cambridge, and Boston, although for the historian they possess the greatest interest, were not the only ones established during the period (1825-30) under consideration. Each had its imitators, and there were other attempts of a similar nature which seem to have been more or less independent, or inspired by direct contact with European models. The following information, meagre though it is in some cases, deserves a place as a contribution to this study of beginnings, and it is offered in the hope of arousing a curiosity which shall result in additions to our present knowledge of the subject.

The BOSTON MONITORIAL SCHOOL for girls was opened October 14, 1823, in Washington Court, and for seventeen years was under the charge of William Bentley Fowle (1795-1865). January 15, 1826, there were seventy-five pupils ranging in age from four to eighteen, but

Digitized by C.ooQle
according to a biographical sketch of Fowle in Barnard’s American Journal of Education for 1861 (Vol. X, pp. 597-610) the numbers “sometimes rose to 130, and seldom fell below 80.” In the concluding paragraph of a “Report to the Trustees” dated December 23, 1825, and published in the American Journal of Education for January and February 1826 (Vol. I, pp. 32-42 and 72-80), the instructor uses these words: “We look forward also to the time when circumstances will warrant the introduction of physical as well as intellectual education into our school. The practicability of uniting them was satisfactorily proved by a slight experiment made last season, with very inadequate preparations.” The nature of this experiment we learn from a letter dated October 1826, which Fowle sent to Dr. John G. Coffin, at that time editor of The Boston Medical Intelligencer, and which was published in that journal for October 24, 1826 (Vol. IV, pp. 196 and 197), and reprinted in the American Journal of Education for November 1826 (Vol. 1, pp. 698 and 699). “In compliance with your request,” he says, “I will endeavor to furnish you with a brief account of my humble attempts to introduce Gymnastic Exercises into the Monitorial School; and perhaps not the lfcast gratifying circumstance in ray relation will be the fact that my attempt takes date from the delivery of one of your Lectures on Physical Education, early in the spring of 1825*. I had long before noticed the feeble health of many of my pupils, and encouraged them to take more exercise, but they wanted means and example, and little or nothing was effected. The very day after the delivery of your first lecture I procured two or three bars, and as many pullies, and after I had explained the manner of using them to the best advantage my pupils needed no further encouragement to action. The recess was no longer a stupid, inactive season; all were busy and animated. My chief difficulty was in the selection of proper exercises for females. You know the prevailing notions of female delicacy and propriety are at variance with every attempt to render females less feeble and helpless,— and the bugbears of rudeness, romping, etc., are sure to stare every such attempt in the face. I read all the books I could find, but met with very little applicable to the instruction of females. It seemed as if the sex had been thought unworthy of any effort to improve their physical powers. But the beneficial effects of what I had already introduced led me to persevere, and I have finally' succeeded in contriving apparatus and exercises enough to keep all employed in play hours. Besides the ordinary exercises of raising the arms and feet, and extending them in various directions, we have various methods of hanging and swinging by the arms, tilting, raising weights, jumping forward, marching, running, enduring, etc., etc. I have no longer any anxiety about procuring suitable exercises, or in sufficient variety, for my pupils; and I believe the few parents whose more prim education led them to shudder at my

* The Medical Intelligencer of February 22, 1825 (Vol. II, p. 168) announces that “Dr. J. G. Coffin, of this city, is about to give three lectures on the following subjects: 1st. Physical Education in connection with intellectual and moral culture, as taught and practised in the recent gymnastic seminaries of Germany. Denmark, Switzerland, France, etc. 2d and 3d. On the means of promoting health and preventing disease.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-315-

innovation have surrendered their prejudices.” The editor of the Intelligencer, who had himself often witnessed “the teacher’s ingenuity in devising, putting up, and using the apparatus in his miniature gymnasium,” calls this letter “the first account we have seen of gymnastics having been successfully practised in any school for girls in any part of the United States.” The attempt was “continued several years, but was gradually discontinued because of some misapprehension of parents.” As already noted, Fowle was made tresusurer of the Boston Gymnasium, and became its chief executive officer.

Mr. GIDEON F. THAYER*, who in 1828 founded the Chauncy Hall School in Chauncy Place, Boston, and remained at its head until the close of 1855, had previously conducted a private school for boys in Harvard Place, and under date of June 15, 1826, furnished an account of this institution to the editor of the American Journal of Education. It is published in the numbers for August and September, 1826 (Vol. I, pp. 509 and 510, 561-564). “I commenced teaching in my present school,” he writes, “in a chamber in the vicinity in 1820, with two pupils, from which my number gradually increased till 1823, when I removed with about 60 pupils to the room I now occupy, sometimes called Harvard Hall; where we have at present sixty pupils in the ‘all day’ school, and fifty—principally from the High and Latin schools—at the intermediate;—who, with one or two exceptions, are between the ages of seven and fourteen.” In the course of the morning, while certain classes are still busied with their lessons, “the remaining boys form a line in the aisle, and taking such apparatus as may be designated, move out of school in company, for gymnastic exercises. When the weather is suitable they go, accompanied by the principal, to the Common, where they engage for about fifteen minutes in running, hopping, jumping—with poles and without—leap-frog, drawing—or pulling by clashes at the opposite ends of a rope, etc.—and returning to the school one of the teachers takes out such of the remaining boys as have been found correct in their lessons, for similar physical exercises in the open air. When the weather is not suitable for this, the boys go into the yard about the school, a class at a time, and take exercise by themselves as well as the space will allow. We have a plank placed edgewise and raised about eighteen inches from the ground, on which we require them to walk, to strengthen their legs and ankles and gain the power of preserving equilibrium in narrow paths, etc. These sports are much enjoyed by boys, and are granted to none who have been found deficient in lessons or deportment during the morning. They are to be extended by the erection of such additional apparatus as the limits about the establishment will permit. Besides our daily exercises the principal, sometimes accompanied by an assistant, occasionally invites boys to meet him early in the morning, on the common or in the mall, where they engage in their usual sports or in walking. We have been several times to South Boston during the present season. We sometimes exercise them too, in school hours, in marching, with reference to the carriage of the body, turning out the toes, and such other mat-

* He was born in 1793. A memoir, with portrait, appears in Barnard’s American Journal of Education for March, 1858 (Vol. IV, pp. 213*221).

Digitized by CjOOQle
—316—

ters in connection as boys are most apt to fail in.” Mr. Thayer also became connected later with the Boston Gymnasium, it is said.

No school of the period attracted more attention or enjoyed greater prosperity than did the NEW YORK HIGH SCHOOL, a private institution for boys, which the son of its founder calls, at the time of its organization, “the first and the only pay school in this country established on the professed principle of cheap and efficient instruction based on . . the adoption and employment of the monitorial system, by which one teacher can communicate his knowledge to a large number of pupils.” It was located on Crosby Street, above Grand, and opened March 1, 1825, with about two hundred and fifty boys; but the numbers rapidly increased to more than six hundred, and there were still about four hundred at the time of its discontinuance, near the close of 1831. Among the number were “children of the most respectable families in the city,” and “the reputation of the school became such as to render it one of the lions of the city, to those who include education as an object of inquiry. . . We had visitors from almost all parts of our own country, and many distinguished ones from Europe.” The founder was John Griscom*, who during a year of foreign travel had examined many famous European schools, and refers in the published account of his observations** to the gymnastic exercises which he saw in Paris, at the school of Amoros*** (August 27, 1818), and in Switzerland at the schools of Fellenberg, in Hofwyl (October 2 and 3, 1818), and Pestalozzi, in Yverdon (October 8 and 9, 1818). In writing of the visit to Amoros he remarks: “A systematic course of instruction, with proper exercises, on the right use of their* limbs, I have long thought would be very advantageous to boys;” and his opening address at the New York High Schoolt contains the following: “I shall refrain from dwelling longer on the literary pursuits of this seminary; but I cannot dismiss my subject without adverting to one branch of instruction which it is equally the wish, I believe, of the trustees and principals to establish as a constituent part of our general plan, from the conviction of its advantages to the bodily vigor and of course to the intellectual strength and activity of our pupils. I allude to gymnastics... So far as exercises of this nature can be introduced with advantage we shall take particular pleasure in promoting them, and we anticipate no difficulty in finding among our boys those who will be willing and qualified to become monitors in instructing others in the arts of leaping, climbing, pitching, and in other varieties of muscular skill and exertion.” The second annual report of the trusteesff informs the public that

* 1774-1852. Consult the “Memoir of John Griscom, LL.D.,” by his son, John H Griscom, M. D. (New York, Robert Carter & Bros., 1859); and an article based on this volume and published in Barnard’s American Journal of Education for June, 1860 (Vol. VIII, pp. 325-347).

** “A year in Europe, comprising a journal of observations in England, Scotland, Ireland, France, Switzerland, the North of Italy, and Holland, in 1818 and 1819.” Two volumes. New York, 1823.

*** The word is spelled Amonton in Griscom’s book !

t See the American Journal of Education for January 1826 (Vol. I, pp. 50-52).

tt See the America n Journal of Education for January, 1827 (Vol. II, pp. 58-60/

Google
-317-

4<Gyranastic exercises have been introduced, under the superintendence of an experienced and careful teacher, and they have been attended with evident advantage to the spirits and health of the pupils.”

The NOYES SCHOOL, at Andover, New Hampshire, went into operation in September, 1823. The American'Journal of Education tor June, 1826 (Vol. I, pp. 378 and 379), contains a description by the principal, B. M. Tyler, from which we learn that “during the first year the number of scholars averaged twenty-five, during the second thirty, and for the remaining six months forty. . . Gymnastics have been Introduced as far as the situation of the school would admit.”

The WALNUT GROVE SCHOOL*, at Troy, New York, opened in 1826, had an average attendance of from twenty to thirty boys, ranging in age between six and twelve years at the time of admission. It occupied “the mansion house of the late Mr. Vanderheyden,” in the midst of a natural walnut grove on an eminence on the east side of the city, at the head of Grand Division Street. “The immediate enclosure for play-grounds, in the midst of which stands the school, contains three or four acres . . well shaded with thrifty young trees. A small gymnasium has been prepared under cover , for exercise and recreation in wet and cold weather; and a more extensive one for summer use, embracing a great variety of exercises under the shade of the grove, is in a state of forwardness and will soon be completed.”

The MOUNT PLEASANT CLASSICAL INSTITUTION**, at Amherst, Massachusetts, opened June 1, 1827, under principals Chauncey Colton and Francis Fellowes, had nine instructors and sixt3’-eight pupils by the end of the first year, and in January of 1829 there were about one hundred boys and fourteen teachers. According to the prospectus it followed the general plan of the Round Hill School, and was situated “on a beautiful eminence about a mile north of the college, and sheltered in the rear by a grove of forest trees several acres in extent, in which it is intended to establish the apparatus for gymnastic, exercises and other accommodations for the amusement and health of the students.” Writing before the close of the first school year the principals report that “The lessons of our Gymnastic grounds . . , under the direction of a Master, are during nearly the whole year as regular as those of the class rooms. From this course we have already realized the most beneficial results in every case of debilitated constitution.” In summer the boys rise at half past four o’clock. “At five the bell assembles the sections with their Praefects and Master of Gymnastics on the muster grounds. The hour is occupied in the various exercises and games of the Gymnasium.” Part of the morning intermission of fifteen minutes “is occupied in the muscular exercises of the arms, etc.;” the hour between twelve and one, “except during the excessive heat of summer, is passed in the gymnastic games of the grove;” and again from 6:30 until 7:30 “they are upon the gymnastic grounds, or, as is

* Extracts from an “Exposition” of the school are given in the American Journal of Education for June, 1828 (Vol. Ill, pp. 363-367).

#* See the American Journal of Education, Vol. II, p. 125 (1827, February); Vol. Ill, pp. 235-239. and 297-300 (1828, April and May); and Vol. IV, p.91 (1829, January and February).

Digitized by CjOOQle
usually the case during two or three days of the week, occupied a part of the time in bathing.”

The BERKSHIRE HIGH SCHOOL*, at Pittsfield, Massachusetts, was established in 1827, with Rev. Chester Dewey as principal. In March of 1830 it had ninety-six pupils. It was intended to resemble “European Gymnasia,” and was housed in “elegant and extensive brick buildings on the large and beautiful grounds formerly occupied as a Cantonment of the government of the United States.” An advertisement dated January 1, 1828, announces that “the school is in successful operation,” and promises that “Gymnastics, riding, botanical and mineralogical excursions, and various other means will be employed to impart and secure vigor and energy to the body and mind.”

The Boston Medical Intelligencer of September 25, 1827 (Vol. V, p. 311), states that “A HIGH SCHOOL has just been opened at UTICA, with which a Gymnasium is connected.”

The LIVINGSTON COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL**, on Temple Hill, about a half-mile from Genesee, New York, was advertised to open December 1, 1827, under Seth Sweetser, C. C. Felton, and H. R. Cleveland, graduates of Harvard University, who had “visited the most distinguished schools in the country,” and in their prospectus “speak in particular terms of commendation of the High School under the care of Messrs. Griscora and Barnes, in the city of New York . . . and of the well-known institution at Northampton, Massachusetts, established by Messrs. Cogswell and Bancroft. The system of the latter school, as far as relates to the division of time and the portions allotted to study, will be adopted;” but the monitorial plan of instruction, used in the New York High School, was to be followed. “For the purpose of health and physical vigor, the gymnastic exercises will be introduced.”

Sereno E. Dwight and Henry E. Dwight, sons of President Timothy Dwight of Yale, conducted for three years a private school for bovs, the NEW HAVEN GYMNASIUM, located a mile from the college, 'in the spring of 1830 they had nine assistants and eighty-seven pupils. The prospectus***, dated at New Haven, Connecticut, November 28, 1827, announces May 1, 1828, as the time set for opening the institution. Both of the founders “have had the privilege of surveying many of the principal seminaries of Europe; and one of us, during a long residence in Germany, has examined with the utmost attention and care the system of education pursued in several of her Universities, and in her Academies and Commercial Gymnasiums. . . . The proposed institution, in its general plan, is intended to resemble the Round Hill School, at Northampton ... A part of each day is to be regularly devoted to Gymnastic exercises. These, with other active employments, are the best means of preserving health and invigorating the constitution.”

A prospectus issued by the Trustees of the BUFFALO HIGH

* See* the American Journal ot Education, Vol. II, pp. 316 and 317 (1827, May), and an advertisement on the cover of the same Journal for April, 1828).

** See the American Journal of Education, Vol. I, p. 441 (1826, July), and Vol. II, pp. 700 and 701 (1827, November).

*** See the American Journal of Education, Vol. Ill, pp. 115 and 116 (1828, February).

Digitized by CjOOQle
SCHOOL Association* under date of February 1, 1828, makes it plain that this institution was modeled after the New York High School. Temporary rooms had been procured and furnished, in which the undertaking was already commenced. For boys there were three departments,—introductory, junior, and senior—and there was also a branch of the High School for the education of girls. The principal was Mr. Jonathan Dodge. In the outline of courses of instruction gymnastics is mentioned in each of the three departments.

A prospectus of the BROOKLINE (Massachusetts) GYMNASIUM**, signed by L. V. Hubbard and dated April 1, 1828, has much to say in commendation of physical training. “As it is intended that the physical resources shall be developed at the same time with those of the mind, the enclosures have been made to embrace several acres of land, which are to be occupied chiefly as a play-ground and by apparatus for gymnastic exercises. . . A building has been erected in which gymnastic apparatus has been fitted up, and in which the boys will follow a regular course of exexcises every day, under the immediate direction of the instructor. A piece of ground has been set apart expressly for a play-ground where those games which combine healthful exercise and amusement will always be encouraged.”

At the MOUNT HOPE LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTION, to be opened November 1, 1828, “on a commanding spot two miles west of Baltimore,” Maryland, “under the superintendence of Professor F. Hall, now of Washington College, and Mr. Daniel P. Bacon of the city of New York/' the Round Hill School was apparently the pattern followed, and “gymnastic exercises will be taken daily,” according to a circular quoted in the American Journal of Education for October, 1828 (Vol. III, pp. 620 and 621).

In the prospectus of the CLASSICAL AND SCIENTIFIC SEMINARY at BALLSTON, New York, quoted in the American Journal of Education for November, 1828 (Vol. Ill, p. 683), Principal Jonathan R.'Paddock has this to say:	“The	gymnastic	exercises are sometimes

interrupted by the excessive heat of summer, inclemencies of weather, etc. To remedy this defect it is intended to introduce into the seminary, as soon as it shall become completely organized, fencing—the broadsword exercises, etc.; which may be resorted to for a change of exercises, and when inclemencies of weather should prevent the usual exercises on the gymnastic grounds.”	(To be concluded.)

unique gift of {Nr. <&avnegie*« is approaching completion at Princeton. It is the lake which is to bear his name and which is intended more particularly for the promotion of aquatic sports at Princeton University. This lake extends from Princeton to Kingston, a distance of three miles, and in its widest portion will be about 800 feet across. At Kingston a large concrete dam is to be constructed to hold the combined waters of the Millstone and Stony brook. The dam will be 27 feet high and 600 feet in length. The waters will thus be backed up to the lower borders of the university campus and will be kept alive by the inflow of the Millstone and Stony brook. Altogether it is estimated that 1200 acres of meadow farm and farm land will be flooded to a slight depth. Two high arch bridges will cross the lake, while several islands will be constructed to add attractiveness to the scenery. Mr. Carnegie pledged himself for $385,000 for the building of the lake, but the actual cost is not obtainable. It is an even more generous gift than Harvard’s imposing Stadium.

* See the American Journal oi Education, Vol. Ill, pp. 233-235 (1828, April.)

## See the American Journal of Education, Vol. Ill, pp. 231-233 (1828, April.)
-320-

REPORT OF CAPTAIN H. J. KOEHLER, U. S. A., ON THE INDIANAPOLIS TOURNAMENT.

West Point, N. Y., August 10, 1905.

TO THE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Sir:—At the request of the General Committee of Observation I have the honor to submit the following special report on the 29th Festival of your Union:

I	cannot, however, enter upon the performance of the request without first giving expression to my feelings of sincerest appreciation for the honor conferred upon me by your organization in selecting me as a member of your General Committee of Observation.

In the discharge of the duty which this office entails I am actuated only bv the desire to contribute something, no matter how little, toward the realization of those ideals for which your organization has consistently and perseveringly striven.

The management of a tournament of such magnitude as that just held in Indianapolis requires rare executive ability: and it should be a matter of considerable gratification to your Executive Committee that the men who were entrusted with the technical part of the program possessed this ability in a very high degree. If errors were committed they" could not, in my opinion, be attributed to a lack of foresight or preparation on the part of these gentlemen, but rather to laxness on the part of the leaders and others, to whom had been entrusted the execution of the details of such a working plan as had never to my knowledge been prepared for a similar occasion. To me the “Arbeits-Pl&n,” with its mass of detailed information, was one of the features of the festival, the plan of battle, so to speak, which assigned to every' participant the duty he had to perform, together with the exact time and place where such performance was expected of him. This plan was an innovation which will do much toward simplifying future festivals.

The peculiar fitness of Indianapolis to handle the festival has already been brought out in the general report, therefore it is unnecessary to discuss that question here.

The unique manner in which the festival was inaugurated has also been reported upon, and the only remark that may be made in connection with this feature is to question the advisability of compelling those actively" participating in the competition to take part in a function of this description before they have had an opportunity to become settled in Camp. As is brought out in the report of the judges of the encampment, considerable confusion reigned in camp on the night of the torchlight parade. Much, if not all of it, was due to the fact that many of those who arrived in the city" late diu not have an opportunity to properly prepare their tents.

the parade.

The report of the General Committee on the parade of June 22nd, is concurred in. The fact that not enough attention is paid to the general set-up and carriage of the young turners is not new. So long

Digitized by

Google
321-

a.s I can remember it has been constantly referred to by those who have been invited to express their views, but as yet nothing has been accomplished. It is a peculiar inconsistency, to say the least, that a body of men physically as expert as the Turners should be constantly criticised for neglect in endeavoring to cultivate proper poise and carriage. I, for my part, do not believe in the theory of over-development through apparatus work which is often considered to be responsible for this. If such were the case, then apparatus work, when practiced to such an extent, is harmful and should be moderated. Observe an expert who slouches about with shoulders and head drooping when he is about to execute an exercise on the apparatus, especially when he is engaged in a competition, and see his posture then. There is nothig to find fault with; he is erect and his position is a model, but it lasts only as long as the eyes of the judges are upon him. Now, if it is possible to assume that position at such times it is also possible to assume it at all times, at least from the physiological standpoint. It is simply a question of training and as such belongs to the province of the instructor. He is directly responsible and should make every effort to develop a proper poise and carriage, which in time should become characteristic to turners. By doing so instructors will make more propaganda for the cause than they will by periodical exhibitions of the most complex nature, as every pupil will be a constant example of the benefits of the work.

There is another point which the parade brought out and which in my opinion has much to do with the posture of the young men, especially in the parade, and that is the lack of interval between the files. (This was apparent later, too, in the formation of the mass exercises and some of the exhibition events). Not only was there close “elbow touch,” but in almost every instance the elbows were locked in such a manner that it was an absolute impossibility to swing the arms, the result being that the whole formation presented a decidedly stiff and ungnaceful appearance. Loose formations, those allowing the individual freedom of action, have been adopted by military authorities the world over and, while alignment has not suffered, the individual can assume a natural and graceful attitude while marching, which adds much to the general appearance of men in ranks; and surely nothing is so impressive as that which is done without restraint and yet in absolute unison. It is necessary only to call attention in this respect to the German Class whose marching, though exaggerated from the standpoint of an American, was so infinitely superior to that of the other participants. Would it not be wise to adopt a mild imitation such, for instance, as is laid down in our army regulations ?

UNIFORM.

In iny opinion the uniform now prescribed for the “actives” has little utility or beauty to commend it. The knee pants, long stockings, with their inevitable annoying supporters, long sleeved, thight fitting jerseys, with only an excuse for a collar, are neither suited for gymnastics nor yet for athletics. In the former they positively detract from the beauty of a movement while the stocking supporter and the tight, long sleeved jersey restrict freedom of movement. For athletics the

Digitized by
-a 22-

uniform is, if anything, worse. Whil^ permission is given to remove the stockings, the pants are still an objection because of their being entirely too tight, and because of the material of which they are made. Any texture in whose composition wool enters will cling to the skin, especially when damp from perspiration. The long sleeved jersey for field work is an abomination. For gymnastic purposes long gray trousers and tight fitting black or white quarter sleeve skirts will not only add greatly to the attractiveness of the work, but will allow the wearer greatest freedom of movement. For athletic purposes nothing is better than the standard uniform now worn by every other athletic organization.

It may not be amiss to call attention to the lack of uniformity in the dress of the instructors who took part in the parade.

THE FIELD.

Considerable ingenuity was displayed in the laying out of the field at the Fair Grounds, which reflected great credit upon those who had charge of this part of the work. The provision made to protect the men from the sun by means of the large circular tents extending around the three sides of the large field, with the open side to the grand stand, was as practicable as it was unique. The arrangement of the apparatus and the assignment of a portion of this great tent to each of the second and first grade participants worked out very well indeed. As much cannot be said, however, for the arrangements made in the interest of the third or highest grade. To this grade was assigned that part of the field lying directly in front of the grand stand. The object was commendable as it brought the best product, judged from the standpoint of proficiency in apparatus work, directly in front of and in close proximity to the spectators. Owing to the poor police regulations this object was defeated, as the space was constantly filled with those who had no business there, which naturally detracted very much from the performance. Then, too, the members of the squad did not remain in ranks as was the case in the other grades, which resulted in adding to the disorder and in loss of time, as competitors could not always be located when their turn came.

While no complaints can be made regarding the facilities for the apparatus work, many may be made regarding those for the athletic events, as these arrangements were decidedly crude. Since athletics were given such a prominent place in this festival, it seems peculiar that the facilities were not given the attention such prominence demanded. At very little more expense and labor the running tracks and starts for the different jumps might have been so arranged as to make it possible for those who competed to do themselves justice. In my opinion the planking of a portion of the start for the running broad jump should be abolished; it is entirely out of place in an outdoor event. In its stead cinder tracks and take-offs should be laid down. Thus provision is made for all, for those with, as well as those without, spiked shoes. It is a pleasure to note thee xcellence of the performance in athletics in spite of all these drawbacks.

The introduction of the electric timers for the 100 yard dash was
—323—

successful to a greater degree than ever before, and made it possible to run off the hundreds of dashes in nearly the time set aside for this event.

The arrangements for fencing and wrestling were very good.

THE COMPETITION.

The scheme of dividing the participants into three grades according to their proficiency and yet giving each individual the opportunity to contribute something toward the attainment of an award for his society has everything to commend it and should do much toward making the training popular, especially with those who seek the work for its benefits rather than for the sake of excelling in it. It is based upon broad and rational lines and will, no doubt, make simple educational work in your gymnasiums more attractive than it has been in the past. Every step which leads to broadening the scope of educational gymnastics should receive the support of every one who has the welfare of physical training at heart. In the past too much attention has been paid to the development of experts, and the time and attention devoted to their development has been entirely out of proportion to the value this training has had for the common good. Every expert is developed at the expense of many of his fellows who are a thousand times more in need of attention than he is; consequently the work has drifted farther and farther from its primary object, viz: the development of the many at the expense of the few rather than the development of the few at the expense of many. It is just in this respect that your organization has always differed from others and it is sincerely to be hoped that you will continue to strive to make rational training the common property of all, and especially of those whom the great Lincoln loved as the plain people.

The work was of a decidedly high order, that of the third grade probably excelling anything produced before. The obligatory exercises in this grade, and also in the other grades, were of reasonable difficulty and well selected. The voluntary exercises while difficult were so much alike, especially on the horizontal bar and side horse, that it became almost monotonous. On the bar the sole object of every competitor seemed to be the execution of a series of giant circles, while on the flank circles in connection with circle rear vaults were executed almost exclusively. On former occasions it was the object of a team to offer as great a variety as possible, but on this occasion it was a common occurrence to see team mates execute almost the same identical movements. This is a bad feature as it narrows the work to the accomplishment of a few so-called stunts which happen to be the fad at the time.

Appreciating the necessity for cutting the competition down as much as possible does not, however, restrain one from questioning the fairness of a system which designates him the best all-round gymnast who wins that title in a competition which is only 50 per cent, obligatory. The true test is the ability to execute a combination with which one is not familiar, executing a combination at sight as it were, rather than judging one’s capabilities by voluntary and unrestricted selections. In my opinion the voluntary apparatus work in such competitions should never exceed 33Ya per cent.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—324—

THE EXHIBITION EVENTS.

T6 me no part of the festival was of greater interest than this, as it afforded an opportunity to illustrate the elasticity of German Gymnastics, and how they might be made to fit almost all ages of both sexes. Even more prominence should be given these model exercises, and every thing should be done to encourage exhibitions of this kind. It is a matter of considerable difficulty to select a few of the events for special commendation out of such a wealth of material, and if it is done it is not because those selected were so mnch superior to the others (for all were of a decidedly high character), .but because they contained something unique.

The dumbbell drill of the Davenport Turngemeinde was entitled to all the praise which was bestowed upon it. It was a revelation to laymen and professionals. The snap, speed and accuracy of the movements spoke volumes for the training and condition of the men, while the combinations which were developed, with their kaleidoscopic changes, were indicative of the care exercised to make this drill valuable from a physiological standpoint without detracting from its artistic value. The only fault that might be charged against this drill is the mental strain which the memorizing of such complex movements made necessary. But as everything, after all, is only relative, and as Davenport turners have long beeu famous for drills of this description, their mental capabilities along this line have been gradually developed; so that what would probably have been a severe task on others was no more than an ordinary effort to them.

It was a splendid idea to follow this drill with its smartness and whim by the aesthetic Gilbert dancing exhibited by the ladies' class of the North Cincinnati Society. I believe this to have been the most pretentious exhibition of its kind ever attempted at a Turnfest, and it is a pleasure to state that it was a decided success and deserving of all the praise it received. It is a question, however, if this exhibition did not exceed the limit of ordinary gymnastic purpo es. The work was a splendid exemplification of systematic pro gressiveness but in my opinion it was carried too far, many of the steps being decidedly of the ballet order wtveh belong to the province of the dancing school rather than to that of the gymnasium.

The club-swinging and hoop exercises by the ladies* cla§s of the Central Pittsburg Society were, in my opinion, the best model exercises exhibited by any ladies’ class. They were just pretentious enough and combined as high a degree of grace and beauty of motion as should be aspired to in gymnastic training, with just enough physical effort to make them valuable as a gymnastic exercise. This exhibition was deservedly well received. The other model exe»cises which deserve to be especially mentioned were the wand and club exercises of the Socialer Turnverein of Chicago; the club swinging of the ladies of the Indianapolis societies, and the boxing and foot wrestling of the Union Hill Turnverein.

The Spanish Dance of the ladies of the Independent Society of Indianapolis was very well received by the spectators; from the standpoint of the pro fessional, however, it is a question whether drills which require special costumes to carry out the nature ol the drill should be encouraged on occasions like this. I do not believe so, and while the work was praisworthy it was, in my opinion, out of place.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-325-

The work of the Seniors, especially when working in large bodies, was not attractive and missed the object because so many of the e derly gentlemen were physically unfit to perform the exercises properly. In one instance the entire drill was turned into a farce because of ihe ludicrous efforts of some of the participants. Drills of Seniors should have a place on the program of this kind, but a little care in the selection of material will obviate having the whole effect neutralized by the inability of a few to do themselves, their fellows, or the cause justice.

The exhibitions in various work given by the children’s classes were very attractive, indeed, and reflected great credit upon those responsible for it.

MASS EXERSISES.

Since the introduction of mass exercises at these festivals the interest of the spectators and participants has centered in them. They are the standard by which the success of a Turnfest has been measured. Other features, no matter how atiractive, may be forgotten, but the impression left by these grand exhibitions is permanent. On that account it is a very serious error to permit anything whatever to interfere with the success of this drill. It should be given the most conspicuous place on the program and everything should, if necessary, give way to it. Such was not the case at Indianapolis where this drill was posponed on account of some unimportant athlet e events. Owing to this postponement the drill was not begun until dark, and after thousands had left the grand stand, which naturely detracted very materially from its importance and its effectiveness.

The marching in the review just prior to this exhibition was very inspiring, and showed a marked improvement in carriage and alignment over that of the parade.

For the first time the mass exercises were divided instead of being the same for all participants, one half oi the societies attending were assigned to dumbbell drill and the other half to wand drill. Being unacquainted with the reasons for this change and being unable to find anyone who could give me a good one, I am of the opinion that a mistake was made. This conclusion is based entirely upon results, and I believe many others will agree with me that much of the effectiveness of this drill was sacrificed for rhe sake of an experiment. A national gathering such as this hardly is the place to introduce anything wh ch has not been thoroughly tried out at some smaller and less important gathering. Either of these drills taken alone would have made a much better impression. The effort to weld two such decidedly different kinds of exercises together without any previous rehearsal was, as was borne out by the exhibition, unfortunate. Not that it was not a grand sight. An3' series of movements executed in unison by hundreds of trained men is impressive; but because it lacked the refinements one has the right to expect on occasions of this kind, and which would not have been missing had the work been the same lor all.

Individually and collectively the men were trained to do themselves justice, and it is to be regretted that through no fault of theirs they were denied the opportunity to show the results of months of conscientious labor.

There was considerable confusion when the command to take distance was given, but this also was due to the fact th at no rehearsal had taken place, and the leader endeavored to reach nearly 1400 men by means of his voice alone. To endeavor to control this number of men in this manner is futile. Assistants stationed about the field should have repeated the preparatory com-

Digitized by (^rOOQle
-326-

man ds given by the leader, wh le the execution should have been carried out at a visible signal.

The music was decidedly inefficient both as to the cadence and volume, and the selection was very unfortunate. Besides this the position of the band was such that over one half of the participants could not hear it. This gave rise to much confusion and made it necessary to repeat the entire drill. Whether music is the best means of indicating time for such large bodies, covering such an extensive area, is a question worthy of careful consideration. In my opinion an electric appliance which would indicate the cadence on gongs distributed about the field, and manipulated by the leader, would serve the purpose very much better.

It is a matter of sincere regret that this part of the program was not an unqualified success.

SCORING.

The method of scoring was so complicated that in spite of the heroic efforts of the Auditing Committee it was impossible to finish its labors until after the close of the festival. Because of this the distribution of prizes, always the most interesting and exciting feature of competitions, had to be almost entirely omitted, only the sp ;cial przes being ready at the time designated. It is hardly possible to describe the feelings of depression of those who were expectant of award, but who had to depart ignorant of the result of their efforts. The method should be simplified, not only so far as it pertains to the work of the judges on the field, but also to that of the Auditing Committee.

The following suggestions are made for what they are worth :

In lieu of the lists now issued to the judges and upon which the names, or numbers, of from ten to fifteen contestants, representing probably that many organizations, are entered, cards, one for each contestant for every event, might be used. To aid the Auditing Committee these cards should be of different colors for the different grades. When these cards are turned in they should immediately be assorted and those of the same organization should be filed together. Thus an authentic record of every individual is kept. This method will save much time and avoid many errors due to copying and tabulating. After the Auditing Committee has tabulated the results there is no reason why these record .cards should not be made the property of the team whose labors they represent, thus giving them an opportunity to study their work with a view of future improvement.

FENCING AND WRESTLING.

Fencing has always played such a minor and unimportant part at these festivals, and the work has been of such a mediocre character, it is surprising that it is given a place on the program at all, or, if it is deemed essential to continue it, that it is not encouraged. The work at Indianapolis was no better than that at any other festival. Many of the contestants were ignorant of the first rudiments of the game, and yet the method for scoring made it possible for these to defeat those who possessed considerable ability. There was a lack of form, no defense to speak of (as every competitor was intent on scoring a hit, no matter how) and those who were properly clad for the spart were decidedly in the minority. The judging, too, was not what it should have been. If fencing is continued, only such competitors who have been duly qualified at some minor meets should be permitted to try for a prize at the national festival. This will eliminate those who now bring the sport into disrepute.

The wrestling was fair and would have been better if a false notion of

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—327—

modesty, which compelled the contestants to wear shirts, was abolished. Better facilities for this sport in the shape of mats with suitable coverings would also add to it. Many contestants had great pieces of skin worn from their arms and faces from coming in contact with the grit covered mats.

I	did not get an opportunity to witness the swimming races.

GERMAN TURNERS.

Twenty-five years ago the “Frankfurt Class” of the “Turn Verein Milwaukee’* paid a visit to Germany and participated in the Fifth German Tumfest of the Deutsche Turnerschaft. Since then efforts have been made to induce Germans to send a class to this country on the occasion of a National Turnfest. Finally these efforts were successful and a team representing ihe Deutsche Turnerschaft, selected from different parts of the fatherland, was delegated to Indianapolis. The presence of these gentlemen contributed very much toward the success of the fest. What effect the visit will have on physical training as now carried on in the Turn Verein gymnasia is, however, a matter of conjecture.

The visit of the Milwaukee class to Germany revolutionized competitive gymnastics in Germany. Up to the time of that visit the Germans placed greatest stress upon model exercises (Musterturnen); after that, however, efforts were made to develop experts, and the result has been that the work of the individual has reached a remarkable degree of proficiency there. In this country, on the other hand, the competition of the masses has steadily grown since 1880, and less stress has been laid upon the development of the individul. It is a remarkable coincidence that the condition existing in the two countries, at the time of the first visit of their respective teams, should have been almost identical. Will the results be the same? 1 hope not. That the visit of the Germans will give gymnastics in this country a new impetus is not to be questioned, but every effort should be made to direct this influence along proper channels. In my opinion your organization has little to learn from the Germans relative to the condition of competitive gymnastics of the Germans. Accept from the Germans only what will contribute toward the success of your present scheme, but nothing that may detract from it No individual effort, no matter how brilliant, has yet succeeded in eclipsing the work of the masses.

The German team were past-masters in apparatus work, but in athletics they were only fair. Their work, full of snap and vim, and their military bearing are worthy of emulation. This bearing has been generally attributed to the influence of the military training all Germans are subject to, but that impression, so far as it relates to this bearing on the athletic field, is erroneous. Germans have gone to extremes to divorce their system of gymnastics from everything that savors of the military. In 1880 no attention whatever was paid to the manner in which a competitor approached or left an apparatus, and it was not until the visit of the Milwaukee class, which set them an example in this respect, that Germans began :o be particular about this. They have, developed it until it has become almost an exaggeration, while the American has allowed it to become a very unimportant detail.

The brilliancy of tne Germans on the apparatus was, in my opinion, only eclipsed by their wand exercises. These were characteristically German in all their details. Every movement had been carefully studied and painstakingly analyzed; its worth from the physiological standpoint, its logical sequence and its exact relation to every movement had been carefully weighed and fitted

Digitized by CjOOQle
-;)28-

without sacrificing grace and beauty of action. The execution, too, was all that could be desired and deserved all the immense applause showered upon it. It was a great exemplification of the possibilities of German gymnastics when illustrated to the very best advantage. To the professional it was a rare and lasting treat enthusiastically received. If for no other reason, the Germans have cause to congratulate themselves upon the success of this drill.

It is sincerely to be hoped that these visits, now that a beginning has been made, may become a regular feature at future festivals.

CONCLUSION.

Considered from every point the Indianapolis Festival ranks with the very best ever held under the auspices of your organization. The few discordant notes, and there are always such, were overwhelmed in the volume of harmony that prevailed everywhere; good fellowship abounded to the exclusion of that boisterousness which has almost become a recognized aftermath to athletic events held under the auspices of other organizations. To those desirous of profiting in a professional way there was such an abundance ot material and opportunity that it became a serious question of what to eliminate, as it was impossible to absorb it all.

In closing I desire to extend my heartiest congratulations to the membe s of the Executive Committee and the Festival Council, to whose efforts the success was due.	H. J. Koehler, Captain, U. S. Army.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Editor Mind and Body.

Your editorial on the "Standardization, etc.” has of course my approval.

I would, however, amend the phraseology of your paragraph "A much more important aim seems to us the adoption of a uniform curriculum.” I should say: "The important aim, etc.” To establish a standard of entrance requirements is no aim of itself at all. It is a means to an end, the end being the establishment of a standard curriculum. Several attempts have been made, as may be seen from the transactions of the section on Normal Schools of the A. A. P. E. for the New York and Detroit meetings, to establish standards for parts of the curriculum, viz: anatomy and psychology. However, these attempts have proven futile beyond the reading and discussion of papers. This has been so, in my opinion, because hitching the cart before the horse is hardly ever productive of satisfactory results. Before a standard curriculum can be established the entrance conditions must be brought on a level. The next step will be to establish the studies of the first venr on which all Normal Schools may agree. This I hope will be accomplished at the next meeting of the Section on Normal Schools which will be held in conjunction with the National Convention of the A. A. P. E. I welcome the help of "Mind and Body" in this matter.	Yours	truly,

E. H. Arnold

CHILD FOOTBALLISTS DOPED.*

The discovery that strychnine is being used to stimulate the members of the Spokane High School football team during games has aroused the parents and school authorities.

They protest against the practice because it may make the children fiends, if it has no more immediate effect.

Coach Smith admits that strychnine has become part of the teams equipment, and says it is administered hypodermically by' Dr. Tooker, the regular physician of the team.

Smith justifies the use of the drug by saying that it puts life and ginger into the men when exhausted.

* Although it is pure nonsense of talking of acquiring a strychnine habit wc nevertheless must condemn such methods as related above fn the most severe terms.—Ed.

Digitized by kjooole
Mind ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

TXr3jacoT\ al r>.

Published Monthly.

BY

8nbi»cripllon Price, $1.00 per Year.

4ST Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

CONVENTION AND SPECIAL CURSUS

FOR THE PHYSICAL DIRECTORS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNER-BUND).

Mr. Henry Suder, president, and Mr. Wm. A. Stecher, secretary of the technical executive committee of the Turner-Bund, announce a contention to be held at Newark, N. J., on the days of July 6th and 7th, 1906, and a cursus in special work, extending from July 12th to 26th at the same place. Between those two affairs the National Turner Convention will meet at Newark from July 8th to lith.

The tuition fee for the special cursus will be $10.00 for members of the Turner-Bund. Outsiders are invited, and the fee for them will be $25.00. No special course will be conducted if less than ten participants report for admission. The executive board intends to secure reduced railroad fares for all participants.

For further information apply to Mr. Wm. A. Stecher, 1707 Broadway, Indianapolis, Ind.

THE NECESSITY FOR THE ANNUAL SYSTEMATIC EXAMINATION OF SCHOOL CHILDREN S EYES, EARS, NOSES AND THROATS BY SCHOOL TEACHERS.*

By FRANK ALLPORT, M. D., Chicago, III.

ONCERNING the objection to the tests on the ground of its being

an unjust task upon the time and energy of teachers, I have only to say that if the tests are made according to my instructions, this objection is quite as valueless as the others, to which reference has just been made. Some years ago, when the tests were first introduced, the school principals personally performed the work’which, when it is remembered that in many of the city schools there are perhaps 2000 scholars, became quite a burdensome and protracted labor. I now advise that each teacher examine the pupils in her or his own room, and as there are rarely more than fifty children in a room, the extra work imposed is certainly quite inconsiderable and can be easily performed by either keeping a few children after school each day for a week, or, what is much better, having a regular half day set aside each fall by

*Read before the Indiana Board of Health School held at Indianapolis, December 16 and 17, 1903, and reprinted from The Medical and Surgical Monitor, Indianapolis, Ind., February, 1904.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

(Continued.)

Digitized by

Google
-330-

the school superintendent to be devoted to the tests. In this way it can be seen that the tests can be easily finished in a week or a day, according to the method adopted, for from three to five minutes to a pupil is all the time that is required, and by thus systematizing and subdividing the work among the room teachers all the pupils in a city can be examined in the time specified. Some have suggested that the work be done by school cadets, and this is not a bad plan, but inasmuch as the room teachers live in closer contact with the children and come to learn their physical defects by daily observation, it would seem as if they were better qualified to answer the questions propounded in the tests than anyone who might be otherwise designated for the work. I further believe that, instead of the tests imposing extra work upon already • overworked teachers, in the end their work will be materially lightened; for many defective children who from apparent stupidity induced by unrecognized eye or ear defects, obstructing the way to educational acquirements, are the despair and dread of their teachers, who spend hours of time in nerve-exhausting labor in the hopeless endeavor to maintain their grades, may be suddenly transformed by glasses or other eye or ear treatment, from thickest density into intellectual brightness, thus relieving the teacher from at least one burden that sends her home at night in a condition of physical and nervous exhaustion. I am confident that if the eye, ear, nose and throat defects in any room in any school could be eliminated, the work of the teacher would be enormously lightened, and, if this is true, they should be willing from purely selfish reasons alone, to say nothig of the benefits to be acquired by the pupils, to cheerfully and gladly see that these tests are annually executed.

Some critics fail to commend the results of these tests, because many parents disregard the school warning. This criticism seems rather puerile, and is equivalent to refusing a $100,000 legacy because $1,000-000 was not left to the beneficiary. Undoubtedly many parents, through ignorance, impecuniosity, pride, neglect, etc., fail to seek medical advice for their children after cards of warning from the school authorities have been received, but on the other hand a large majority of the parents so warned unquestionably do as they are advised and profit thereby. It has been also observed that most of the parents who primarily ignore the warning, from seeing the beneficial results upon their neighbors’ children, or from the awakening of latent parental responsibility, or from some other cause, eventually seek medical advise and become stout advocates of the plan. In any event, even if only a small minority of defective children are benefited by the tests, they are certainly worth while, and the tests should not be abandoned because all parents are not ready to receive them.

Some observers regard the tests lightly because they are frequently abandoned after having been used for one or two seasons. This is a most unjust criticism and does not in any way argue against the usefulness of the plan, but does emphatically argue in favor of the inexcusable neglect and laxity of the school authorities. There can be no doubt of the enormous utility of the tests when properly and persistently applied, and yet it is but human nature to shirk all possible work.

Digitized by

Google
—331—

and as most teachers are already overworked, unless the school authorities annually urge, or demand the execution of these tests, they may fall into general disuse and eventually abandonment. I wish, then, to earnestly plead with those in authority not to leave this matter to the option of individual teachers, but to require that the tests become a regular part of the school curriclum and that they be annually performed at the commencement of each fall term. Many teachers object to the test on account of the elaborate records and statistics suggested or required in some cities where the plan has been adopted. When I first proposed the tests I advocated rather elaborate statistical records, to be kept by the school teachers. Experience has, however, considerably dampened my ardor in this direction, and I now recommend the very simplest records or none at all. A multiplicity of records can scarcely aid us in deductions which are already trite, and from the examination of thousands of teachers’ reports I can hardly recommend them as very valuable from a medical standpoint. To my mind they represent more useless work than actual value, and, while some records should possibly be retained, I would advocate that they be of the most elementary character, perhaps simply giving the names of the pupils, and whether a card of warning was given, and whether it was for an eye, ear, nose or throat defect. This brief report could be handed to the school principal and then to the school superintendent, and would simply show that the tests had been made, which is really about all that is necessary. I wish to emphatically urge that the less elaborate the tests can be made in every way the more surely will they be performed, and that there is no surer method of defeating the end in view than by elaborating and embellishing what should be a simple and uncomplicated affair.

Some observers have raised the objection that until the tests can be legally enforced by act of legislation it is useless to advocate their adoption by school and health authorities, as they will not be performed unless under compulsion. This argument seems almost an insult to intelligence and benevolence, and I am well convinced that when boards of health, boards of education, school superintendents, school principals and school teachers once become convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the tests and the ease with which they can be acomplished, legal authority will not be needed to enforce their adoption. Be that as it may, however, and admitting the legal enforcement by the state legislature, as has been accomplished in Connecticut, is the best method of securing the end in view (a statement which I am not at all prepared to accept), certainly there can be no better process by which to popularize the movement than by first appealing to the intelligence of health and educational boards, school authorities and the people at large.

Some critics have objected to the tests on account of their expense. In the first place, even if the expense was multiplied many times its actual amount, this objection should shame the objector when the enormous possibility for good, resident in the tests, is considered. Besides this the expense is so small that it should not for one moment be considered, as, even for a large city containing 5,000 school rooms, the expense need not exceed $100 a year after the first year. Each school

Digitized by C^ooQle
-332-

room should possess a testing chart, which will be subsequently described. When purchased in large quantities these charts, with teachers’ instructions attached, can be purchased for $40 a thousand. A city with 5,000 school rooms can, therefore, be supplied with a chart for every room for $200. After being used, the charts can be carefully laid away and preserved for future use, so that new charts will only be necessary once in several years. The only other expense will be for the warning cards to be sent to parents, and the simple report blanks, to be retained at school, which for even a large city could not exceed $100 a year.

I have been at work on this movement ever since 1895, endeavoring to perfect and simplify the plan, and to secure its adoption in the various cities and states. * Over 10,000 mailed communications of various kinds, including letters, circulars, etc., have passed out of my office during that time. Much encouragement and, I am sorrv to say, considerable opposition, chiefly of a professional nature, has been encountered; but the work has gone steadily on, and to-day the tests are quite generally used throughout the United States and in some cities in Europe and Asia. At the last meeting of the American Medical Association, held in New Orleans, May, 1893, I secured the passage of the following resolutions, both by the Ophthalmological Section and the House of Delegates:

“Whereas, The value of perfect sight and hearing is not fully appreciated by educators, and neglect of the delicate organs of vision and hearing often leads to disease of these structures, therefore, be it

Resolved, That it is the sense of the American Medical Association that measures be taken by boards of health, boards of education and school authorities, and, where possible, legislation be secured, looking to the examination of the eyes and ears of all school children, that disease in its incipiency may be discovered and corrected.”

I sent a copy of this resolution to the president and secretary of every state medical society in the United States, and asked them to secure its adoption at their next meeting, believing that the favorable action of the American Medical Association and the various state medical societies would be a strong argument to the different state boards of health and education. Nearly every state medical society which has convened since the last meeting of the American Medical Association has passed the resolution, and I am gratifled to here enumerate them: South Dakota, Michigan, Montana, Delaware, Minnesota, Colorado and New York; the Southwestern Medical Association and the Mississippi Valley Medical Association have also passed them, and I believe that practically all the other states will do likewise, as their annual meetings occur.

I have also communicated with every president and secretary of every state board of health and state board of education in the United States; sent them the resolution; stated the necessity of the tests; handed them a question blank to be made out, and asked them to pass the resolution and set the plan in operation in their several states.

(To be concluded.)

1ST ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends

Digitized by CjOOQle
-333-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR* Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

(Continued, t

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Battle Ball.*’ See explanation below. As a preliminary a short run, during which time raise and hold the arms in the forw., outw. or overh. positions, as well as place hands behind head, on shoulders, fold arms forw. or backw., each a given number of counts, or to change at the will of the instructor.

Gymnastic tactics for a few minutes until the heart action is again restored to the normal.

Form ranks of fours from a flank line by turning 1. (r.) face (fours by the 1. (r.) flank—march!) at one end of the gymnasium and march down the center to location for the drill. See Fig. I.

I HHHHHHHHHHHH VTTTT	Fig.	I.

The two inner rows form on the outside of the outer rows by passing in front, those on the 1. side % turn 1. while stepping, those on the r. side % turn r. and the latter beginning with r. foot—1, 4! See Fig. II; then the former outer rows (now inner) repeat the same but march outw. to two steps distance in three steps—5, 6, 7! Continue turn 1. and r. respectively to front order on last step and halt—8! See Fig. III. Class in order for drill.

TTrVTT

vrw

TTVVTt

r. •...«*

T*T"tr,T

7'iiL.

Tr. *rv	•■7	
Tr • .TV	\T  VT  s. *.	V  • rT
y...r  / X	• m wm  •	T  •	'	..y\
	y	*

I ‘"x i.......................................

CALISTHENICS.

1.	a) Cross toe touch forw. 1. and raise arms sidew. r.—1! Pos.—2!

Same opp.—3! Pos.—4! b) Cross toe touch backw. 1. and place hands behind the head (or on neck)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4!

Hands on hips—place!

2.	a)	Raise	1.	and	r.	leg	forw. alt. and	stretch	arms	forw.—1, 4!

b)	4 4	1	.	4 4	r.	44	sidew. 44	4	4	4	4	4	4	outw.—1, 4!

c)	4 4	1.	4 4	r.	44	backw. 44	• 4 4	4	4	4	4	upw.—1, 4!

Arms—down!

Arms outw.—raise!

3.	a) Bend trunk forw. and move arms forw. (in line with trunk)—1! Pos.-2!

Digitized by LjOOQle
b)	Betid trunk backw. and place hands behind head (elbows point outw.)—1! Pos.—2!

c)	a and b alternately—1, 4! Arms—down!

Note.—The arms may be lowered for a brief rest between a, b and c. Stride pos. forw. 1. and place hands on shoulders—step!

4.	a) Raise heels (toe stand) and stretch arms upw.—1! Pos.—2!

Kneel on r. knee and stretch arms outw.—3! Pos.—4!

Pos. of the feet—change—1, 2! Or pos.—stand! for a brief rest of arms. Starting pos. as a, but r. foot forw.—step!

b)	Repeat a, with r. foot forw.—1, 4! Pos.—stand!

Gymnastic tactics.—

The 1st and 2nd rows, simultaneously the 3rd and 4th rows, face each other; march forw. and partners grasp I. hands, height of shoulders; Vfe wheel around the center of couples and return to starting pos. in eight counts—1, 8! Repeat, but pass to r. side, grasp r. hands, y% wheel r. around the center of couples and return to starting pos.—9, 16! Repeat—1, 16!

Lower to squat rest—1! Leap forw. (extend knees and hips) to front leaning rest—2! As a starting pos.—

5.	Squat forw. 1. and V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear leaning rest—1!

L.	About face to front leaning rest—2! Repeat to starting pos.— 3, 4! Same opposite—5, 8! Repeat 1. and r.—9, 16! Squat rest—1! Pos.-2!

Arms to thrust—bend!

6.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms outw. (arms in line with shoulders)—1, 4! Arras-rdown!

7.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alt. and raise arms forw. overh.—1, 4!

b)	“ sidw. 1. “ r. u “	“	“ outw. “	—1, 4!

Hands on hips—place!

8.	a) Stationary run with raising 1. and r. lower leg backw. alt.

8 times.

b) Stationary run with raising 1. and r. extended leg forw. alt. 8 times.

c)	Stationary run with raising 1. and r. knee forw. alt. 8 times. Arms—down!

Hands grasped backw. (fingers interlaced), the knuckles resting against the lower part of the back (lumbar region), the elbows pointing outw.—place!

9.	Extend arms downw., allowing the shoulders to be drawn backw. and palms meeting—1! Starting pos.—2! Repeat 6 or 8 times in slow rhythm, or a brief rest between counts. Arms—down!

Note—This exercise is intended to correct as well as prevent the condition of round shoulders.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh in four counts; exhale and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in one count. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same, march

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-335-

forw., turn I. or r. face to a flank line in successive order, form divisions and march to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division:	Long horse and high horizontal ladder.

Second	“	High horizontal ladder and long horse.

Third	“	Double bucks and climbing poles.

Fourth	“	Climbing poles and double bucks.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Long Horse.

A short, run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump with Vl turn 1. to front rest on r. side of horse; % turn 1. with circling I. leg backw. over neck to cross straddle rest; Vs circle r. with r. leg (over croup) and dismount backw. to front side stand, immediately jump to knee stand in saddle; dismount forw.

2.	As ex. 1, continuous to cross straddle rest; screw mount backw. 1. (% turn 1.); circle 1. leg forw. and dismount forw. with V2 turn r. to front side stand, and immediately squat vault forw.

3.	As ex. 2, but % turn I. (facing toward neck); place hands in front of thighs, swing both legs backw. and rear vault 1. or front vault r. (over neck) to cross stand on 1. side of horse.

4.	As ex. 2, but % turn 1. to cross straddle rest on 1. thigh; screw dismount forw. 1. with % turn 1. to cross stand on 1. side of horse (the hands to be placed on the outside of the 1. thigh as a support for dismounting).

5.	Straddle vault forw. (the hands to be placed on the croup, then on the neck).

6.	Jnmp to momentary free front rest on the neck and straddle vault forw.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal ladder.

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

In front side hang, hands in ordinary grasp on near beam.—

1. Travel sidew. 1. with lower legs raised backw. to far end. Down.

2. Travel sidew. 1. with side swinging to far end. Down.

3.	Travel sidew. toward the 1. with continuous turning 1.

Note.—With the first V2 turn (forw.) transfer the r. hand from ordinary to reverse, and with the second V2 turn (backw.) transfer the 1. hand from the now reversed to the ordinary in the advance.

In rear side hang, hands in reverse grasp on farther beam.—

4.	Travel sidew. with legs spread wide sidew. and arms bent to far end. Down.

5.	Travel sidew. 1. with side swinging, arms extended, to far end. Down.

6.	Travel sidew. toward the 1. with continuous turning r.

Note.—With the first V2 turn (backw.) transfer the r. hand from reverse to ordinarv, and with the second Vi turn (forw.) transfer the 1. from the now ordinary to reverse in the advance.

7.	Raise extended legs upw., ankles to beam, then pull up and front

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-336-

circle backw. to front leaning rest on ladder; place hands in ordinary grasp on rear beam and lower backw. to straight arm hang with raising extended legs forw. to r. ankle; then lower legs, and down.

In front side hang, hands in reversed grasp on inside of near beam.—

8.	Repeat, pull up as often as possible.

Note.—Two or three may execute this exercise simultaneously.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible. Two may execute the same exercise on opposite sides, simnltaneously if necessary, then change sides after all have had their turn.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

Repeat the same exercises as the first division.

Change place with the first division on the long horse.

Second Division.—Long Horse.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest, Vi turn 1. and cross straddle mount sidew. r. on croup (r. leg in front), hands on croup in the start, but after the mount to be placed alongside of the thighs in support on horse; V2 circle forw. with 1. leg and dismount forw. to rear side stand.

2.	Cross straddle mount as exercise 1; swing both legs sidew. r. to side leaning rest (feet on neck, 1. hand in suppoit on croup, r. arm at side); dismount forw. with or without Vi turn r.

3.	Cross straddle sidew. r., but continue to side leaning rest as second part of exercise 2; dismount forw. with V2 turn r. to front side stand.

4.	Cross straddle sidew. r.. then Vi turn to straddle mount in saddle; (in cross straddling, the movement is the same as ex. 3, then add Vi turn r. aud lower to straddle seat facing toward neck); place hands on neck and swing both legs backw. to a front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw. to rear cross stand.

5.	As ex. 4, but straddle mount on the neck; lean backw. with both hands and legs lifted as in feinting, then lean forw., place hands on extreme end of neck, simultaneously swing both legs backw. to horizontal pos. and straddle or squat vault dismount forw. to rear cross stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all exercises 1. and r.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the double bucks and the fourth on the climbing poles, then change places.

Double Bucks (height about four feet).

The bucks are placed lengthwise and parallel to each other about two feet apart. If a spring board be used place the same against the feet of the buck legs in center line.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—:i37-

------> □ <_)

7C___

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to pos. of straight arm rest (1. and r. hand on respective buck), swing forw. and alight on the mat to a half bent-knee pos.

2. As ex. 1, with V* turn 1. (to half bent-knee pos.) to side stand.

3. As ex. 1, with V2 turn 1. (to halfbent-knee pos.) to front cross stand.

4.	As ex. 1, but circle r. leg forw. over r. buck (stride vault forw. r.) to rear cross stand.

5.	As ex. 1, but circle r. leg forw. over r. buck (stride vault forw r.) with M turn 1. to side stand.

ft. As ex. 1, but circle both legs forw. over r. buck (flank vault r.) to rear cross stand.

7.	As ex. 4, to straight arm rest; swing backw. between bucks, then circle 1. leg forw. over 1. buck and alight to rear cross stand.

8.	As ex. 7, but with both legs over the r. buck (flank swing); swing backw., then with both legs forw. over the 1. buck to rear cross stand.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Repeat all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Climbing Poles (two).

1. Jump to straight arm hang; raise knees forw.; lower legs; down.

2. Jump to straight arm hang; raise knees forw. and V2 turn backw. (legs between arms): turn forw\ and lower legs; down. Repeat once.

3.	As ex. 2, but % turn backw. with insteps placed a few inches above hands against the poles and flex back to bird’s nest; return and down. Repeat once.

4.	As ex. 3, and extend 1. leg backw.; return and down. Repeat with extending r. leg backw.

5.	As ex. 2, but continue the turn (14) backw. and extend both legs dovvnw. to back hang; return and down. Repeat once.

6.	Jump to straight arm hang and lower legs placed around 1. pole (1. in front, r. in rear of pole), then climb to upper end, both hands to move simultaneously; descend in same manner.

7.	As ex. 0, around r. pole.

8.	As ex. 6, but change pos. of legs from 1. to r. pole alt. after each pull up to upper end; lower legs to straight arm hang and descend by the hands 1. and r. alt. .

9.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Battle Ball/*

For the benefit of new subcribers to “Mind and Body” the explanation will be repeated.

Divide the class into two equal squads. If the class is very large the one half may pla_y ten minutes, then retire and the second half take its turn, or two courts and two balls may be used. The courts on either side of the center line to be from fifteen to twenty feet deep. The width matters less, however, it is usually the same as the depth.

On the rear margin place as many (2 lb) Indian clubs as there are players at a distance of about three feet apart. The players stand about one foot or so in front of the clubs, protecting the same.

Digitized by
A basket ball or a medicine ball may be used, the use of the latter is enjoyed more by the seniors than all of the other classes on account of its weight. In delivering the ball the player may run up to the center line and serve the same; the object being to pass the ball between the Indian clubs or knock down one or more clubs on the opponent's side.

Stepping over the center line is declared a foul, the points made at the time are not credited.

If the ball is served at a point higher than the shoulders of the opponents and the latter do not touch the ball, then the side serving the same loses one point.

If the ball is passed between the clubs it counts one point. If one or more Indian clubs are knocked down five points are credited lor each club.

If any player in the event of a scramble for possession of the ball kicks over one or more Indian clubs the side that served the ball is credited with as many points as there were clubs knocked down thereby, just as if the latter had actually hit the clubs with the ball. (This prevents careless playing when guarding the clubs.)

Whoever catches the ball is entitled to serve the same. In this manner every player has an opportunity to serve the ball several times at some time during the game.

Time.—Two ten minute halves. The sides change to opposite courts at the close of the first half of the game to avoid any possible at vantages in case of poor light or other causes on the one side.

The game may be played without clubs as well. If so played, then the number of points for each ball passed between the opponent’s line may be raised to 2 or 5 points for every successful pass of the ball.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.

FOOTBALL AND ITS DANGERS.

(From The Journal of the American Medical Association.),

FOOTBALL is not as bad as the Fourth of July. In the first place it costs only ten to fifteen per cent, as many lives and fewer eyes; furthermore, the fun lasts three months instead of two or three days, so we get more per boy. Yet in spite of this evident innocuity, the popular protest against the game, as played at present, seems to be stronger and more general than ever before. Not that the game is waning in popularity, for as usual the attendance of the big championship games is limited to the number of people the grounds will hold, plus as many more as can get in. We hear a great deal about lessening the danger of football by making the game more open, and substituting end runs, trick plays and punting, for the steady hamnlering down the field a yard or two at a time, with a unanimous pile-up at each down. Interesting as the open game is to the spectator, the idea that the only real football is the line-bucking, bone-breaking game seems to have a firm hold. This was well illustrated by a recent championship game between two of the great universities of the Middle West. One coach had developed the open game to an unusual extent, not with any idea of “elevating the stage,” but simply because his team was best adapted to that style of game. The team met another which limited its efforts to steady line plunging, and the open game won. The ball was on the opponent’s side of the field the majority of the time, the line-plunging team made fewer yards than were made by the open game of the winner, and the team playing the open game did not have to take out a man
—33»—

for injuries during the entire game; and yet, almost unanimously the press and the public insisted that the defeated team played the better game, simply because it had gained more ground by line bucks than had its conqueror. The public verdict seems to be that five yards made by line bucking is worth more than ten yards made through open play. While the public attitude is such it seems improbable that any reformation in football is near at hand.

From the standpoint of the educator, one of the greatest dangers of football is the degree to which it absorbs the student’s interest. For the first two months of every school year the entire mass of students is concerned chiefly with the football prospects of the college team. As for the athlete himself—even if he is a bona fide student and not simply hired for his football ability—he is crammed full of signals, new plays and “dope” of all variety until there is little time or cephalic capacity left for anything else. In those colleges where a fair class-room standing is required by an unappreciative faculty, the football manager finds it necessary to provide tutors for his team in order to keep them on the eligible list. The whole student body is in such a state of excitement over football, to which the daily papers add in every possible way, that the many other interests that go to make up a normal college life are neglected hopelessly in the very beginning of the year’s course.

Little good can be claimed for football on the grounds of physical training, either. The men on the teams are the very ones whom Nature has endowed superabundantly with physical capacity, but on him the physical director bends most of his energies, while the average student is left to get his physical development by yelling from the bleachers. The Rugby game, as Americanized, can never be a popular game in which all the members of a school can participate. To withstand the violence of hard tackling, and the crush of line plays, one must be in the best of training, and after a hard game the novice, if he lasts through, finds himself sore and weary for many days.

What is needed is a game that can be played by the majority of the students, without going through a prolonged course of training and preparation, and which is suitable for the coolness of the autumn and early winter days. Lacrosse has often been suggested as a substitute for football, and as a game that is both interesting to the spectator and full of good wholesome exercise it can not be surpassed. It might well form a part of our college sports and in a few colleges it does so, but there seems to be one obstacle to its general adoption—it requires a high degree of dexterity on the part of the player not soon acquired by a man not trained in athletics. Like baseball, it requires for satisfactory playing that it be taken up in early life and followed continuously, but still a certain degree of success and much pleasure may be obtained by the average student taking up the game for the first time after entering college.

There seems a much better prospect for the Association football game, and we welcome the effort that is now being made in several colleges to introduce it into the lists of sports. The use of the hands being eliminated, there are none of the dangers of tackling, and there are no mass plays. The ball is in sight always and in constant motion.
—;uo—

features that appeal to the onlooker. Being a game that the most awkward novice can play after a fashion, and that still permits of high development of skill and of team play, it should offer opportunities to all classes of students. Such a game should be played within the circle of the individual college, between classes, departments, fraternities, dormitories and the other innumerable divisions of the student body. Without the strife incident to intercollegiate athletics there would be no more heard of professional coaches at large salaries, of professional players and other unacademic accusations. The game would then do far more for the physical welfare of the students as a whole, and there would be much less bitter feeling between sister institutions.

THE HISTORY AND PRESENT STANDING OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.*

gf'lje Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union is the oldest normal school of gj mnastics in America. Its object is the education and training of physical directors. In the early period of the school the education of the directors for the societies of the Union was exclusively aimed at, but in

w We arc glad to publish this article, inasmuch as it gives proof of a change in the policy of the N. A. G. U. normal school in favor of publicity. The article is a good effort on part of the students, but normal school students who have entered school only four months ago must fall short in such a subject as this from lack of personal experience with the affairs of the organization. Wc invite them to continue their correspondence an«i to tell us from time to time what is being done at their school. It will he of interest to our readent. Of course, we trust that the student body will not be the only source of information in the promised monthly contributions by the school. — Ed.

Digitized by

Google
-341—

the last two decades the scope of the school has been so extended as to meet the demands of all institutions of learning.

With the growing and developing of the Gymnastic Union and the schools maintained by the various societies ■ of the same for the purpose of maintaining the health and improving the physical skill of the young as well as the adults, the necessity of trained physical directors was felt keenly as early as 1858. But the Rebellion, which threatened to disrupt the Union that had been created by the heroes of the Revolution, put an end to all activity within the Gymnastic Union because all physically able members responded to the call of Lincoln to fight in the cause of humanity. After peace had been restored the Gymnastic Union began to flourish more than ever, and in consequence the normal school question was taken up again with energy. This resulted in the opening of the first one in New York under the direction of H. Metzner and Wm. Haeseler; the former is an active member of the New York Turn-Verein this day. After two years the institution was transferred to Chicago and given into the hands of Aug. Lang, Geo. Brosius, the present director of the Turn-Verein Milwaukee, and John Gloy. The Great Fire in Chicago ended its existence in that city, but in the next year it was reopened in the city of New York with Wm. Haeseler and H. Metzner again as directors. In 1875 Milwaukee was made the seat of the Normal School and for thirteen years the work was ably conducted by Geo. Brosius and assistants and now registers among its alumni a large number of the prominent supervisors and teachers of systematic physical training in the United States. For the next few years the school made its home in Indianapolis, with Wm. F. Fleck as director. During this time the North American Gjmnastic Union was erecting in Milwaukee, at an expense of $30,000, an adequate building adjoining the new home of the National German American Teachers’ Seminary and German English Academy. The three schools were joined in a way as enabled each to preserve its individuality and at the same time to utilize the teaching facilities of the other two sister institutions. Upon its removal to Milwaukee the school was again conducted by Geo. Brosius until 1899. The scope of the work was then materially increased. The Normal School is now under the direction of Geo. Wittich, a thorough going practical and theoretical expert.

The system taught here is the German, adapted to American conditions and environment. The present course opened with an attendance of 28 members, 15 men and 13 women, 8 of whom are preparing themselves especially for public school work. Each candidate is given a careful physical examination in which his physical measurements are taken, his strength tested, and his heart and lungs examined; besides this a high school education, or its equivalent, as well as a physically sound body and some practical experience in gymnastics are required.

The course consists of both theory and practice and embraces a wide range of coordinated subjects designed to develop the individual power of the teacher, mentally, morally and physically, to make him familiar with the human machine upon which he is to work, and to equip him with the means and methods in order to acomplish the best results, that is, to grade and apply the vast gymnastic material and games in accordance with the mental and physical faculties of the pupil.

The curriculum is so shaped that instruction in theory goes hand in hand with practical work. The application of exercises is based upon pedagogical and physiological principles, and special attention is given to methodical progression.

Instruction is provided not only in gymnastics, athletics, games, dancing, swimming, fencing, wrestling and boxing, the last two branches for men, but also in those principles of physiology and pedagogy and the hygiene of the human body, upon which sound physical training must always depend. Other subjects pursued are history of gymnastics and civilization, which treat of the origin and evolution of educational gymnastics. The study of physics, chemistry and languages is elective. The work in anatomy and physiology includes lectures, recitations, demonstrations and dissection. The chemical and anatomical laboratory is well equipped with material and apparatus for experiments in the above named sciences, all of which are taught in a thorough manner. Most careful attention is given to the structure and mechanics of bones, joints and the muscles. A course of lectures accompanied by practical work at the table in the dissecting room of the Wisconsin College of Physicians and Surgeons complete the study of anatomy and physiology.

Digitized by Google
The following is an outline of one week’s work, one hour daily being devoted to each subject: 1. Anatomy, physiology and physiological effects of exercise.

2.	Progressively arranged apparatus work and athletics. 3. Observation, in which the students observe and ashist in the instruction of the pupils in the other two schools; these two schools comprise the eight grades of the graded school and the four high school years. As soon as capable the students are required to arrange their own programs for these classes and conduct the same under the supervision of the director. 4. Practice in conducting methodically arranged floor work during, which time each student commands his fellow students. The lesson of the previous day on theory and practice of the various forms of school gymnastics, conducted by the director, furnishes the material for this kind of work. 5. Lectures on the methods of teaching gymnastics, also history of civilization and gymnastics, psychology and pedagogy as well as fencing and singing are given once or twice each week. 6. Gilbert Dancing has been added to the program of this year. 7. Hygiene as well as the work in the Medical College are taken up in the second semester in place of the finished subjects. 8. On three afternoons a week, after the regular day work, the students enjoy a dance among themselves for 15 minutes in order to drive dull care away.

9.	Saturday afternoons are spent in outings to the city parks and suburbs of Milwaukee, where games are played.

Visiting the different gymnasia of the city affords the students an excellent opportunity for observing the methods of other teachers.

For the Editorial Committee of the Class

Clara S. Voigt,

Julia E. Muhl,

Julia K. Bigelow.

WISCONSIN PHYSICAL EDUCATION SOCIETY.

gpb* general meeting of the Wisconsin Physical Education Society, which is embodied into the Wisconsin State Teachers Association, was held in the Gymnasium of the State Normal School at Milwaukee December 27, 1905.

In the absence of Miss Shrieves Mr. E. D. Angell of Madison was elected Secretary pro temp. In his opening address the president, Mr. G. Wittich, spoke on the physiological effects of the various forms of exercises based on the views of Dr. Schmidt of Bonn University, Germany, on this subject. The speaker emphasized in particular the detrimental effects of the so-called strength exercises in the general development of the young and gave reasons for his arguments, such as the using up of the repair matter necessary for growth, the disturbed circulation and respiration. The exercises of endurance, their detrimental and beneficial influences was the next topic of his talk, and lastly he spoke of the worthlesness of tactics as exercises of attention, if carried on in an extreme manner in the physical training of the young. In his conclusion the speaker gave an outline of the correct manner of applying the various forms of exercise in the primary, grammar and high school grades.

Dr. Elsom, of Madison, the next speaker had chosen “The building of character through physical exercise’’ for his subject. He pointed" out in able manner the various ways in which physical exercise can be employed in promoting resoluteness, determination and grit., as well as the forms of exercises that can serve this purpose and the influence of the same on life after school days are over.

Mr. E. D. Angell, of Madison, exemplified with those who were present a series of schoolroom games in which chalk and blackboard are the only apparatus.

He demonstrated very nicely how these games can be graded so as to suit the faculties of the different grades of pupils.

Mr. F. Lorenz, of Fond du Lac, spoke of the future of our profession. The culminating points of his talk were the advice to the instructors to work with might and main for popularizing systematic education and putting as much as possible a damper upon the present form of athletics and national games.

Mr. McArthur, Mr. Elsom, Mr. Lorenz, Mr. Wittich and Mr. Angell took part in the discussion.

After the discussion the attention of those present was drawn towards the

Digitized by Google
—34;$—

more inner affairs of the Association, and the following resolutions were adopted : Resolved, that the four annual meetings of the Association be abolished as impracticable, due to the distance of the districts from one another, and that the State of Wisconsin be divided into thrtfe districts according to the sections of the State Teachers’ Association.

Resolved, that the president shall appoint at least two members of each of these districts to attend the meetings of the sections of the State Teachers’ Association and see to it that papers bearing on physical education are read -and that the subject of physical education is kept before the educators continually.

Resolved, that the secretary send out a circular in which this new project is announced. Also that the general meeting of the Physical Association takes place during the Christmas holidays in Milwaukee together with the general meeting of the State Teachers’ Association.

Mr. Wittich was reelected as president, Mr. McArthur was elected as vice-president, and Miss Allerton as secretary and treasurer.

E. D. Angell, Secretary pro temp.

NEW APPARATUS.

Changing conditions of gymnasium buildings or the use for apparatus call for especially designed apparatus to suit the new requirements.

The horizontal and vaulting bar illustrated on this page was designed for

the Chicago South Park Commission Public Gymnasia by the Narragansett Machine Company.

It consists of two triangularly braced end posts and a centre post, ail secured sideways by guys, with bars that slide on these posts, and are connected by wire ropes to a winch on the wall bv which the bars are raised and lowered. When used for turning the bar caps may be clamped to the posts.

To hoist the bars out of the way the guys are detached from the floor, the posts folded under the bars and secured by hooks, and all hoisted «lose to the ceiling by the winch, as is shown in phantom lines.

The bar is easily adjusted by the winch to any desired height; even when in actual use, it is fiimly held for turning and may be quickly and easily set up for use or removed out of the way. The winch may be locked to prevent the use of the bar in the absence of the director, or to have the bar set at any desired height.

Ten of these bars were provided for the Men’s Gymnasia, and ten booms similarly adjusted for the Women’s Gymnasia.

—Blakiston’s Sons Co.’s Physician's Visiting List for 1906. As complete and handy as possible, indispensible to the physician. Three editions: Regular, Perpetual and Monthly.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-344-

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.*

—Gymnastic Apparatus. Catalogue F. 7. Narragansett Machine Co., Providence, R. I. An artistic catalogue, giving a true picture of the magnificent development of this concerp. We do not remember of ever having seen a catalogue as tasty and neat as this one. It should be a thing to keep and keep in the library.

—Indoor Base Ball The latest issue of Spalding’s Athletic Library is devoted to the game of “Indoor Baseball.” This book contains the Indoor Base Ball Rules complete, as revised and adopted by the National Indoor Base Ball Association of the United States; the constitution of the Association; how to organize a league—with a form of constiution and by-laws for same; articles on the origin of the game; the game’s progress, by Geo. W. Hancock—“Father of Indoor Base Ball”; report of the executive committee, by R. L. Welch, President-Secretary; Suggestions to Umpires, by C. H. Stern, chief umpire of the Chicago Indoor Base Ball League; the Art of Batting; How to Become a Base Runner; Indoor Base Ball in Canada; Indoor Base BalJ for Womeu. by Milo S. Walker,

M.	D.; How to Teach Girls, by Joseph Cermak; the game in Buffalo, by W. C. Mason; and an article on the implements used.

—A Bibliography of Physical Training. By J. H. McCurdy, M. D. Published by the Physical Directors’ Society of the Young Men’s Christian Associations of North America. Springfield, Mass., 1905. 9x6 inches, 369 pages.

According to the Introduction, “the object of this work has been to present a subject index of the physical training literature which would be helpful to the physical director and other students of physical training.” Pages 7-16 are devoted to a “Classification for Physical Training, with a complete Index,” arranged on the plan of the Dewey system of “Decimal Classification,” and suitable for use in connection with that system. The more than two hundred and fifty subclasses are intended to suggest pigeon-holes to which anything bearing on the subject of physical training—book, pamphlet, newspaper cutting, notes, circulars, pictures, charts, catalogues—may be referred. An index of five pages renders it possible to find at once the desired subdivision.

The Bibliography proper (pages 23-369) is arranged in accordance with this classification. Pages 23-74 are devoted to General Works on the whole subject of Physical Training, including its philosophy (pp. 23-49), compends (49-54), periodicals (54-57), societies and conferences (57-61), normal education (61-66), and systems (66-74). A section on “The Subject of Physical Training—Man “(pages 74-161) includes sub-classes for Anthropometry, Measurements, and Charts (pp. 74-96,-272 titles); Animal Mechanics (96-100); Physiology of Exercise (100-149), with 14 pages (164 titles) on Fatigue alone; and Hygiene (151-161). Then come “The Exercises—Gymnastic” (pp. 161-222), classified under the heads Medical (178-190), Calisthenics (190-201). Defensive (201-208), Heavy Apparatus 1209-213), Indoor Games (213-220,-94 titles), and Developing Apparatus (220-222); “The Exercises—Athletic” (222-278); “The Exercises—Aquatic” (279-302); “The Organization” (302-307); “The Place” (307-317). including Gymnasium (307-310), Athletic Field, Public Playgrounds (311-315,-71 titles), and Aquatic Plant; and “History of Physical Training” (317-369), general, and in schools and colleges, Young Men's Christian Associations, among the German Turners and in other societies and clubs, and in the Army and Navy.

The bibliography is not a selected one, and titles are given, in most cases, without comment. It would be easy to criticize the classification in particular instances, and to point out many omissions, particularly in the references to foreign literature; but the work presents such a mass of material hitherto inaccessible to most students, and arranges it in a form so convenient, on the whole, that anything but cordial commendation of Dr. McCurdy’s achievement would be ungracious. He and his fellow-members of the Physical Directors’ Society of Young Men’s Christian Associations have rendered an important service to all engaged in a similar calling, and the book deserves a place in the library of every individual and institution interested in any phase of physical training.

Digitized by

Google
NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics') . H. ARNOLD, M. D.. DIRECTOR,

Offers

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

B.	H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

rnnymmmiyiTmmy

mats lumn emunc umox

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

558-568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Complete Volumes

—------OF— -----—

“3TW d. &oV

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c.	o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

if TTTSX OUT! if

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

SS=GYMNASIUM.^e

BY

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and or the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education. PRICE, 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle
@  n4|/vce1£^	GYMNASIUM  OUTFITTERS
G-37-xxxxLaistiG Apparatus XjOo3s:©xs  Bowling: -A-llesrs Fla,3rg:xo\a.ra.cL Apparatus .A-ntlaxopoxnetxic -A-ppetia/tixs	
|cv	NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.  PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. 8. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some of the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS' BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, III.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

Apparatus of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

Digitized by t^ooQle