MINI) AND BODY

Tol. 16.	JANUARY,	1810.	No.	186

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

'Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF ATHLETICS AT THE MIL-ITARY ACADEMY, WEST POINT, N. Y.

By Captain Herman J. Koehler, U. S. Army, 1909.

(Concluded.)

In the beginning the management of athletics, the Control and supervision of those participating in them, and the providing of means for the support of the sports, was entrusted to various officers stationed at the Academy. It soon became apparent however that this arrangement . was not satisfactory, and in order that the very best possible results might * be obtained, an organization known as the Army Athletic Association was established about seventeen years ago.

This organization, under the direction of the Superintendent, assumed complete control of and all responsibility for the competitions authorized by the authorities, and to it is due the credit for what has been accomplished in this form of athletics at the Academy up to the time of the appointment of the present Athletic Council.

The object of this organization was to carry out the tenets enumerated before and to influence through them a desire for clean and manly sport in as large a number of cadets as possible, and with their assistance to create a like desire amongst the enlisted men throughout the Army.

In its methods the Association followed these tenets as closely as existing conditions would permit, and the success of its efforts is attested by the visible benefits that resulted from them to the large number of cadets who were induced to participate in the various sports; by the enviable reputation the cadets have deservedly earned for clean sportsmanship; by the position the Academy has attained in athletics, and, finally, by the interest they have fostered in sane athletics here and in the Army at large.

The fact that the Association had no actual official status had its drawbacks in the limitations set its activities. And since athletics had become so prominent and were so intimately connected with the official life of the Academy, to the authorities of which, after all, belonged the

Digitized by *^.ooQle
-330-

responsibilities, it was deemed advisable and to the best interests of the Academy and of athletics, that the entire control, supervision and responsibilities should be vested in an official board or council appointed for that purpose by the Superintendent.

Such a council was therefore appointed about a year ago. The duties of this council do not differ materially from those of the council of the original association, whose traditions are being carried out as far as it is possible to do so under the existing conditions.

The present council is constructed along military lines and consists of a member of the Academic Board, the Commandant of Cadets, the Surgeon, the Adjutant, the Treasurer of the Military Academy, the Master of the Sword, a member of the Quartermaster's Department, and two officers skilled in football and baseball, respectively.

The official character of the present council gives it a prestige that was not possible under former conditions, while the selection of its members makes it possible to have the various departments represented, thus bringing all of them into close relation with athletics; and by giving to each a voice, a united and common interest in the conduct of athletics at the Academy is assured.

Collectively the council is responsible to the Superintendent, its nominal head, for all of its actions; individually the members are responsible to the council for the duties assigned to them by it. The nature of these various duties is explained under the rules adopted for the government of the council.

To those who are in a position to judge, the present method of control was the only logical solution of a question that was so intimately connected with the Academy.

All cadets except those of doubtful academic standing, who are pronounced physically qualified to participate in athletic sports by the surgeon, are permitted to try for a place on any athletic team for which they are found to possess the necessary physical qualifications.

No restrictions are placed upon a cadet on account of his athletic standing previous to his admission to the Academy. Since the conditions that are chargeable with the productions of the evils that necessitate corrective regulations at other institutions, can not obtain here, the authorities do not deem it necessary or wise to examine into the past history of a cadet for the sake of establishing an athletic caste at the Academy. To do so would mean to disregard the fundamental principle upon which this institution is founded, and to which more than any other single factor it owes the unique position it has attained amongst institutions of learning the world over; i. e., its absolute democracy and x the equality of its students.

So far as the authorities here are concerned, the cadet begins a new life upon his admission to the Academy; his past belongs to him, and that this was above reproach Is warranted by the fact that he was found worthy of what may be termed a government scholarship, which is obtainable only by those who are deemed mentally, morally, and physically qualified to receive it.

Once in the possession of the credentials entitling him to admission,

Digitized by LjOOQle

i

i
- 331-

a young man is entitled to every privilege, without restriction, that is extended to every other member of his class, and the formation, therefore, of any distinctive class or caste on account of conditions existing at other institutions, or on account of antecedents, for the basis of such a discrimination might just as well be social as athletic, is contrary to the spirit of the institution and decidedly offensive to those who are imbued with that spirit.

At the present time cadets are permitted to engage in the following athletic competitions during the year: football, baseball, fencing, basketball, hockey, indoor and outdoor meets and tennis; lacrosse was introduced experimentally this year.

All of the competitions, except the indoor and outdoor meets and tennis, are with teams representing other institutions; the three last mentioned being confined to the Corps of Cadets. The outdoor meet is an inter-class competition, and the indoor meet and tennis are individual contests.

The control of these competitions is entrusted to the various representatives on the Council (see Regulations for the Government of the Army Athletic Council), who act in the capacity of graduate managers, with much more authority than is usually vested in such managers, however.

With the assistance and suggestions of the captains and managers of the various teams, *and the approval of the Council, these representatives arrange the schedules, engage or make arrangements foT the detail of coaches, purchase supplies, engage trainers and officials; in fact they assume and are held responsible for everything pertaining to the branch of athletics which they represent.

At the first glance it would appear that these representatives monopolize all of the privileges which at other institutions usually belong to the captain or undergraduate manager. To a certain extent that is true, but it is held that so# long as athletics are given such prominence and form such an important part of the training of our young men, the responsibilities should be placed in the hands of those who are equal to them rather than in the hands of young and unexperienced undergraduates.

Here the duties of the captains and managers are defined by the representatives, their relation to the representatives being in the nature of aids, who carry out instructions and who do nothing on their own initiative that would influence the policy laid down by the representatives.

Under such methods errors of judgment, misconceptions of the ethics of athletics, questionable tactics of unscrupulous coaches, over-indulgence, the playing of an individual beyond the limit of his capabilities, and other mistakes due to misdirected youthful exuberance and inexperience, are made impossible.

The introduction of these methods was attended by more or less difficulty, as to the young man of the present generation, no matter what his own physical qualifications may be*, there is but one object in athletics and that is to win; beyond that he cannot or will not see any other.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-332-

That much of this spirit may be attributed to professional coaching cannot be denied. It is only fair to these coaches, however, to state that their success is dependent upon turning out winning teams, and that this standard of efficiency was invented by those who employed them and not by themselves.

The Council realized that ideal athletic conditions at the Academy could not be brought about by belittling the desire to win, and it made no efforts to make the desire less keen. What it did, however, wa3 to take steps that would bring' cadets face to face with the fact that no matter how much prominence was given to winning, there were other more lasting benefits to be derived from competitive athletics. To bring these facts out a change was made from professional to army coaching, and at the present time the only team not coached by graduates or other military instructors is the baseball team. The change has been invaluable to the Corps in general, for without detracting in the least from the quality of the various forms of athletics, the army coaches have given athletics a much wider significance by inducing large numbers of cadets to indulge in them, not so much for the sake of making a place on the team as for the benefits they derive from them personally.

In a general way the foregoing covers the principles upon which athletic competitions are based and illustrates the manner in which they are conducted at the Academy.

For the results attained attention is invited to the reports of the various representatives; to the superior physical conditions of the Corps of Cadets, obtained without jeopardizing the young men’s present or future physical welfare; the splendid record made by cadets in the quality of their efforts; in the envious reputation they have earned as exponents of the ethics of sportsmanship; in the absense of a desire to indulge in practices that are prejudicial to military discipline, or to straight, clean living, and to the Corps spirit that is synonymous with love of alma mater, and which the practice of athletics has engendered, until at the present time it is more deeply rooted than ever before.

At no time since their introduction have athletics been upon a firmer or more satisfactory basis than now. In number and variety they are sufficiently numerous to offer to every cadet an opportunity to select that particular form for which his physical make-up and aptitude best fit him; while the number of competitions is ample to develop a wholesome desire for athletics and create a healthy spirit of emulation without infringing upon the sterner and more serious military or academic duties.

In fact, the balance between mental and physical effort, mentioned before, appears to be adjusted to a nicety at the present time, and every safeguard should be thrown about this balance to protect if from being disturbed by those who, because they are unacquainted with the circumstances and conditions as they exist here, are endeavoring .to bring about a change, be it expansion or retrenchment.

-C. M. DANIELS, THE INDOOR. SWIMMING CHAMPION recently acquired a new record in the New York Athletic Club Natatorium. From a standing-start he covered the 150 yard backstroke swim in 2 min. 4 3-5 seconds, by using a combination crawl and trudgeon stroke.

Go< le
-333-

TOO MUCH PffNeV MHCtHG.

By C. F. Weege, M. D., Chicago Public Schools.

(Concluded.)

Stili another feature that is demonstrated by a class in fancy dancing is the unison in which the class acts and works. Every child must pay attention, every pupil must obey. The child is made to feel that it plays an important part in the work, and it knows that it must do its best, as the success of the whole class may be at stake. This certainly is an important point in the development of a child and a teacher who neglects to make it impressive neglects his duty. But here again we must remember that too much carries us beyond the goal. After all it is the individual we are trying to develop not a class. We have enough flocks and enough people who can follow a leader, but not enough leaders. Ought not our educational system strive towards making a leader of everybody and not merely be satisfied in making him a good member of the flock? Is it not the individuals that make a nation strong and powerful? Individualism is the foundation of civilization and to suppress it means to hold back and dam up the forces that bring a nation to freedom and prosperity. Is there a better or more ideal place to bring out the individual than the gymnasium? What branch of the school curriculum offers more opportunities to arouse a sluggish mind to action and instill agressiveness into an over-timid soul? And where have we greater opportunities to discover and calm an outburst of too much energy or to lead into its proper channels an overflow of high spirit? In this respect apparatus work is a medium par excellence to foster educational aims.

Another psychological phase in dancing is the training of memory. I doubt whether all my colleagues have as radical views on this point as I; 1 disregard absolutely the training of memory in my gymnasium. After my classes know the absolute necessaries such as the forming in line, the going to and from apparatus, and the fundamental exercises in steps and calisthenics and the rules of the games (of games I prefer those that have fewest rules) I care very little whether they remember anything or not, at least I do not emphasize the remembering of anything. The children are so overloaded with things to be memorized in the schoolroom that I think we may well give that faculty a rest when they get to the gymnasium. The experience among my Chicago colleagues is that the pupils don’t care to learn even a dance by heart. We inquired among our pupils and they frankly admitted that they much preferred a succession of steps given ad libitum to a drill of fancy dances. If we demand more steps in succession than the class can repeat without too much memorizing the pupils lose interest and the work is not free spirited action but a grind, and the recreation is turned into drudgery.

Closely connected with the above is the interest the children take in steps. As I have indicated above, if the teacher does not spend too much time on steps and does not come back with the same old thing until everybody can go through the performance like a mechanical toy, the interest is always there. The question is, are they more interested

Digitized by L^ooQie
— 334—

in steps than in apparatus work, and do they as the dancers claim find the latter uninteresting? I repeat that too many people are opposed to apparatus work without having actual experience as to its value.

Watch the children on one of our public playgrounds. Do they not make the most extensive use of the apparatus? They even go too far and try exercises far too difficult for them. (In a playground the supervisor is not always qualified to direct the exercises. But this direction is the all important part in the gymnasium. The teacher knows his pupils, knows their ability and wisely directs and guides as best suits the individual. It is this modifying of exercises, the understanding of the abilities of the child, the knowledge of the lurking dangers that makes a well-governed gymnasium far superior to the average playground.) And see the children on an outing or at a picnic. Are they practicing fancy steps, are they on the dancing floor, or are they romping around trying out their strength and skill at the ditches and on the trees? It 'is even difficult on such occasions to get them together for an organized game. They would rather take the teacher along to find out if he can jump over ditches and fences as well as over the horses and bucks in the gymnasium. If the big rough trees are just as easy for him as the climbing pole. But let us go to a gymnasium having a teacher of wide experience and a broad education as a teacher of physical training and let us observe the class. We will watch a class of girls, for to talk about uninteresting apparatus work to boys is so ridiculous that we may pass it over. The teacher has not called his class to order yet, so it seems, for we can hear rumbling noises before we get into the gymnasium. Well here is the gymnasium. What a lovely sight! A laughing, noisy, very unstable collection of little darlings in bloomers. You must smile when you get in there, whether you are of gouty, rheumatic diathesis, or inclined towards hypocrisy, crabbedness and sour temper, whether you have a proclivity towards the most elegant combinations of aesthetical gymnastics or if you prefer the simpler more nutritious kincT. In this hall life is action; action is strength, and strength is health. Such hearty laughter, such.ringing shouts, such an outburst of life can only come from healthy life-enjoying children. Look at that little tot with the red hair-ribbon! If she isn’t going to slide down that big ladder! See those two on the see-saw! My! How high they swing! And on the poles swinging and jumping and swinging again; and on the rings, one girl has her feet higher than her head. Here is that little one with the red hair-ribbon. Well, if she isn’t going up that big rope* Oh my, look! A little girl fell as some one bumped into her. She isn’t hurt though. She is crawling around picking up her candy. (What If teacher sees the candy?) Bang—Bang—goes the teacher’s gong. How quickly they respond. Everybody seems to have her specific duty in clearing the floor of apparatus. How quickly they form in line. Well that teacher means business; he doesn’t lose any time with preliminaries. They start out with a little run. Almost twice around the gymnasium. How they march, how straight they keep their bodies. They are lined up for calisthenics. Everybody seems to be eager to do her best. How an intermission for fancy steps and again calisthenics, winding up with

Digitized by L300Q le
335-

breathing exercises. This did not tire the girls, they seem to be eager for more work. The class forms a large semicircle, and the climbing poles are let down. The teacher shows the first exercise, jumping into the climbing position and down. The first two sets evidently have done similar exercises before, everything seems to be easy for them. In the next two sets there are some that have a little trouble. They, don’t jump as lightly as the first. The teacher calls their attention to jump on their tip toes and to bend the kness. Some have trouble getting their feet in correct positions, and they can’t hold themselves well, but everyone is eager to try again. All through the exercises on the poles the children display enthusiasm and joy. There is no sign of a lack of interest. On the contrary every girl works with a determination and energy that proves that she is heart and soul in the work. Uninteresting exercises would produce different action and response on part of the pupils. To complete the picture of this lesson, watch them during the last part, the game. They are playing one of their favored games, “Black Man”. The playing does not indicate that they have worked hard for forty-five minutes. Some are a little timid and dare not run across, but the teacher takes hold of their hands and runs with them. This helps. A little encouragement and they try it alone. Among other things the lesson has demonstrated that lack of interest is unknown in the gymnasium. If anything, a great many girls show so much enthusiasm that they must be held back somewhat.

The advantages of apparatus work over fancy dancing from the standpoint of physical development, must be obvious to any unbiased observer. Opponents of our system accuse us of over-developing muscular strength. The development of the functional powers of the vital organs which we aim at they can not or will not see. This is of prime importance and is one of the main objects of our system of physical training.

“Do not divide the man.” No, indeed! Do not develop one part of his body and rieglect the rest; do not overtax some mental faculties and let the others lie dormant; do not hamper the unfolding of the individual and deprive the will power of the necessary opportunities to battle with weakening, degenerating tendencies. Our aim must always be to educate, develop and train all the faculties of the mind and all the organs of the body. To neglect and overlook but one will mar our results. And we must conscientiously examine every means at our disposal and select that which gives the best result. These “Grand Stand” plays, these sophistries to deceive an uneducated public that is attracted only by glittering performances, have no place in education. They are but tinsel and very often hide the shortcomings of the system. It is our duty to fight for rational, sound pedagogical principles. We are too often led astray by the fancies of superficial minds. Here comes one who sees in athletics the panacea for the new man. Then someone discovers that folk dances are the only means of developing the coming generation. We have hardly mastered the folk dances when somebody claims that games and play are the onlv, the natural way of raising healthy and strong men and women We were just tired of play, play,

Digitized by Google
-386-

play and were longing for a chance to work again, when some philosopher, or theorist, from his library desk announced a new discovery. He says everything we have to-day is unfit for use. Just recently I read in an educational paper the ideas of one of these men on child training. He deals a death blow to all systems, the Swedish, the German, American, Sargent and all others true and would-be, claiming that they were originally intended for grown-up people and have not only no value but are even detrimental to child development. Let us go back to the founders of the German system of gymnastics and see how they worked.

Basedow, Salzmann in his famous institution at Schnepfenthal, Pestalozzi, GutsMuths, Spiess, Froebel, Jahn (every one of them schoolteachers) worked on the idea of giving the child physical development. Salzmann invited and encouraged grown-up people to take part in the exercises of the children. Spiess, who was so successful that the schoolmasters from all over Europe came to him to learn his methods of physical training; Spiess to whom not enough credit can be given for building up and broadening out the German system, had primarily the physical development of children in view. That the system is so thorough, so scientifically worked out, that it is also an ideal one for grown-up people is another reason why we ought to make it universal—is a reason that we should adopt it in every educational institution. To say that it was originally intended for adults shows lack of knowledge. We are too often hampered in our educational advauce by doctrines and ideas that were results of a spur-of-the-moment consideration, the offsprings of a mind that had its main activities confined to a laboratory or a library room. Such originators have no intimate knowledge of children, they see the child with the eyes of a theorist. I believe we all have many times discovered that ideas and schemes that seem to be just perfect when we hatch them at our writing desk, went all to pieces when it came to put them into action with Johnnie and Mary. To study a child, to find out its needs and desires, one must be a child with children; one must mingle with them and observe them when they give themselves as they are.

Let us thoroughly investigate everything that may help us in our cause whether it be of Swedish, German, American or any other origin. When a fair trial proves its efficiency we should retain it and condemn only that which investigation has proved worthless or of minor importance. Leave specialties to the specialist. It is a man we are training and it is our sacred duty to try our best to equip him thoroughly, to enable him to meet any and all difficulties in the battle of life.

—IT IS SAID that if mastication is carried on to the point of liquefaction of all solid food before it is swallowed, that indigestion will be impossible. When the food is masticated to that extent, digestion is much simplified, but cannot be perfected unless the digestive organs are thoroughly nourished and stimulated by arterial blood.

Digitized by
-337-

AMATEUR VERSUS PROFESSIONAL ATHLETICS.

Three articles by Wilbur P. Bowen, Professor of Physical Education, Michigan

State Normal College*

In view of the frequent discussions of athletics, it may be of interest to inquire into the meanings of the terms “amateur” and “professional.”

The word “amateur” is from the French “amator,” one who loves, and primarily signifies one who does something for the love of doing it. “Sport for sport’s sake” is the end and aim of tfie true amateur. The word “professional” is used in the same sense in referring to athletics as when we speak of the professions of law or medicine, and indicates a specially prepared person who does something as a matter of business and for the sake* of the remuneration it will bring. The two words differ in exactly the same way as the words “play” and “work;” the one indicating effort put forth to secure results. The amateur is in the full sense of the word a player, and the professional is a worker. It is a question of the mental attitude of the doer toward the thing he is doing; a matter of motives. If an athlete is incited to work for a place on a team by the desire to earn a sweater in which he may disport himself to his own advantage rather than because he likes the sport, he is as truly a professional as pugilist John L. Sullivan. On the other hand, if pitcher Frank Owen, of the Chicago .Base Ball Team, comes home to Ypsilanti and takes part in a ball game with old acquaintances because of his love for the sport, and without any thought of his regular business or any preparation for it, he is, for the time being, as Simon pure an amateur in the original meaning of the term as is Willie Smith of the fourth grade of the Training School. The same is true of teams. A team that plays rather than works, a team that is formed and promoted for the sake of the fun and the training the members can get out of it, is an amateur team; a team that plays for money or to advertise a patent medicine, or a university, is a professional team.

This may be all clear as a matter of theory, but since the true distinction is a matter of purpose and mental attitude, and since a man’s mental attitude can not be photographed or otherwise positively ascertained in all cases, it becomes necessary, in order to classify athletes on this basis, to adopt some standard that can be readily and accurately applied. The test that has been adopted is the question—Has the athlete ever used his athletic skill or knowledge for gain? Has he ever received wages or other substantial remuneration for athletic services? The application of the test, of course, involves a number of minor questions. It is decided, for example, that a money prize is the same as pay; that entering a contest with professionals makes a man a professional; that accepting pay for acting as an official at a game makes a man a professional; that one who is a professional in one line is a professional in all lines of sport; and that once a professional a man is a professional ever afterwards. Such a way of fixing the status of athletes necessarily brings injustice in some cases, for it rules out some who lack both the mental attitude and the special ability of the professional, while it lists as amateurs others who never so much .as drew a full breath unless they saw some gain in it. It seems to be the best way that can be devised, and on the whole it works well. As

Digitized by LjOOQle
-338-

the intelligence and the conscience of the public develop, the test will come nearer and nearer to drawing the line in the right place.

But the question is often asked, why so much fuss about it? Why restrict the doings of the amateur so rigidly and hedge him about so persistently? If a college student can earn $250 in the summer vacation playing ball, whose business is it? Why insist that he shall remain idle or work at less remunerative work in face of such an opportunity?

The answer is that amateur sport has a very large and important < place in the education of the youth of the country, and in order to maintain amateur sport successfully for educational purposes, in face of the encroachments of the greedy money maker, it is necessary to keep the professional athlete entirely out of the amateur field. As in the case of the lion and the lamb, the two will not thrive in the same pasture; and it is the amateur that is eaten.

The modern system of athletics is patterned closely after that of the ancient Greeks, with competition as the leading incentive. Their public centests, open only to native Greeks and with no prize other than a simple wreath as an emblem of victory, stimulated athletic activity to a marvelous extent; but soon the aggressive commercialism that is rampant in all ages and countries began to assert itself with the object of profiting from the athlete. Step by step arose the hiring and maintaining of picked athletes-by wealthy men; the gradual driving out from the national contests all but members of this class; the demand for great money prizes; and the introduction of more spectacular events. The public contests lost their influence to stimulate the activity of the Greek youth, and the national physique degenerated. The same course of events began to take place in this country some years ago and the leaders of amateur sport, not wishing-to see the history of the Greek games repeated, took a stand for the separation of amateurs from professionals. There are, at the present time, three, types of commercial enterprise anxious to promote athletics for commercial rather than for educational purposes. The first and worst of these is the gambling element, interested in sport because it offers a chance to induce people to bet, and interested in the athlete as long as he helps them to get something for nothing. Instances used to be common of partnership between athletes and gamblers with the object of playing into each others' hands; it is now infrequent, because of improvement in the moral principles of athletes.

The second is the promotion of public games and contests by hired athletes for the sake of the money people will pav to see them. Thisv is best illustrated by the so-called “clubs” of base ball players. As a way to make money this is entirely legitimate, and in the greater leagues the owners try to keep the games and the habits of the players clean and honest, so as to gain the patronage of the better classes of people.

The third is the promotion of teams to serve as advertisements for some enterprise, business, or institution. Business firms often promote athletic teams, sometimes chosen from among their regular employees, with the expectation that they will be more than repaid through the wide advertising these teams receive through the press. Schools and colleges frequently have athletic teams promoted and supported for the advertisement they give and the students they are supposed to attract. Athletes

Digitized by Google
•339—

of this type are not classed as professionals under the rules, although they are really such in the true meaning of the term. They will gradually drop out as educational institutions come to appreciate more fully the true value of athletics in education.

To see clearly why the presence of the professional is so fatal in amateur sport, it is necessary to notice the opposite points of interest sport has to the two classes. The essential thing in amateur sport is that as many as possible of the youth of the country shall receive the physical, mental, and moral education the sports can give when properly conducted. The essential thing to the professional is that he, individually, shall be able to beat the other fellow; as soon as he ceases to win, he loses his ability to secure employment. While the influences of amateur sport must be made to hold the player above temptation to petty meanness and disJ honesty, the self interest of the professional places winning above these, for he must win to live.

Having adopted a system of athletics in which we aim to secure inters est through the .offering of prizes, trophies and championships, if we permit the professional class to compete, with their exceptional ability and their exceptional temptations to crookedness, the incentive fails to influence the mass of students, because they know how small their chances are. Now that rules have been adopted against them, the professionals often try to hide the evidences of their professionalism so that they may compete with the amateur class. One great difficulty in enforcing the present rules lies in the dishonesty of the professionals, many of whom will stoop to any level of dishonor for the sake of the notoriety and the prizes to be won. We have been given an example of this recently, when one of America’s most famous athletes told in a magazine article, written soon after his graduation from college, how he had fooled the college authorities and passed as an amateur when he was receiving money repeatedly from different sources for his services as an athlete. He evidently expected to be lauded as a hero, but fraud is not as popular as he thought, and he was accorded only universal condfmnation and contempt.

A student recently showed me a letter from a college president offering him free board, room and tuition in return for services as a base ball player. The letter expressed a hope that the young man thus approached was studious and of good habits, as they were unusually particular about the scholarship and conduct of their students in that college. Such instances go to prove that moral rottenness in athletics is not confined to the professional athlete. Such underhanded commercialism on the part of a college president merits and would receive if generally known a more scathing condemnation than that accorded the athlete just mentioned; but the public, and even the educated part of the public does not fully appreciate the enormity of the educational folly underlying this college presi-1 dent’s point of view, even if we say nothing of his lack of moral principle. He shares with a very large group of educators the idea borrowed from the commercial world, and to a large extent from the professional base ball world, that the essential thing in college athletics is to put out a winning team. This monstrous fallacy, flavored as it is with the spirit of professionalism, and serving as it does as the true source of all the moral

evils that afflict college athletics, is still accepted as a part of the athletic

•

I

Google
-340-

platform in the majority of American schools and colleges that have an interest in athletics.

But, it is asked, where is the fallacy? Why is it not more important that a college or high school should put out a winning team, thus showing to the world the superiority of the institution, than that merely a large proportion of the students should become moderately proficient in athletics? Only a small percentage of all can ever achieve the highest excellence in this line; why should the others dabble in it at all? The answer is that the conditions of modern civilized life make it absolutely imperative, both for the sake of the individuals and for the race, that practically all shall have practice and training in vigorous bodily exercises, and that they shall thus gain an interest in such training that will stimulate them to active forms of recreation in later life. Everybody who stops to think of it knows that the occupations of today fail to provide the bodily exercise that health demands, and that fully 95 per cent of all the students in our high schools and colleges will go into occupations demanding a vigorous physique but not fqrnishing the exercise to produce it. Everybody knows that this results from the introduction of machinery to take the place of muscle, and from the movement of the educated classes into occupations requiring responsibility and nerve tension without bodily exercise; and that it is a condition that has come to stay. It means that the schools and colleges are under a requirement that did not exist a generation ago to provide physical education for the mass of students at any cost. Everybody knows that the average college and university is doing nothing of the kind.

On the other hand, of how great real advantage is the achievement of distinction for the college or school by a few superior athletes who are successful in defeating all the teams of the other institutions in the same part of the country? The general belief is that it serves as a wide and effective advertisement and thus attracts large numbers of students, but this belief is not supported by the facts. Harvard, the largest educational institution in America in point of numbers, is repeatedly beaten by smaller institutions; Michigan, in spite of the fear* of her speedy downfall, has continued to grow right along with her two or three years of defeats; the Michigan Normal College has not showed any marked change in the numbers of male students during several years of marked change from signal defeat to signal victory; and the institution claiming the largest enrollment next to Harvard never had an athletic team. A few students can be identified as having decided their choice of an educational institution because of its reputation for winning its athletic contests, but they are few. The chief advantage derived from having a winning team is emotional, and lies in the exalted mental state in which all concerned find themselves when the team wins. This gives students and teachers an occasion for holding their heads a little higher and expressing their loyalty to the institution with yells and songs of unusual vigor and aggressiveness. Financially, it enables the manager to get many times more money out of students, faculty and friends, because they all enjoy the aforesaid exalted state of mind to the extent that they will part with their cash to get it; it is a species of intoxication that so perfectly counterfeits the feelings of well-* being that they actually believe they have the real thing, and that it is not necessary to do any physical training to get it. Like lotteries, guessing

Digitized by v^ooQie
-341-

contests, and other schemes for getting rich over night, this plan of having somebody else take exercise for you is Very attractive.

The educational fallacy into which the above mentioned college president and many other educators have fallen has arisen because these trivial commercial and emotional advantages of putting out a winning team, Which is essentially professional, and so immediate and so enticing that they completely hide the educational and real advantages which are amateur. Like the deacon’s horse in “David Harum,” they are jockeyed off the track by the simple device of a wisp of hay held close under the nose. In the great movement for the establishment of playgrounds there is evidence that the American public is coming to appreciate the true value of amateur sport. Several large cities have already spent many millions of money in this way, tearing down whole blocks of buildings to make room for them, and to what purpose? To make money? No, but simply for the educational effect; to secure for great numbers the physical and moral training that only athletic sports can give. It is time for the universities, colleges and high schools to get off their hobby horses and get into line.

It is sometimes said in answer to all this that the writer is a freak, who does not appreciate the desire to excel and hence does not think that winning is of any importance. Not at all. The desire to win is all right in its place, and every one who plays should play to win; it is the natural stimulus and the strongest incentive to effort; but the people who are planning the system and managing it for the good of the students are playing another sort of game, and ought not to forget that fact. Success in this case is the equipping of the whole student body for a life work; it must look beyond the wisp of hay to the track far ahead. The school that puts the greatest percentage of vigorous, able-bodied graduates into the field really wins -the championship; the school that, ignores this purpose in the single aim of beating all opponents is sacrificing the future of a race for a x picayune rattle-box. _________.	_	.	._______.

THE STUDY OF GROWTH IN CHILDREN.

By John M. Tyler, Professor of Biology, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

Education is far older than man. Mammals and birds train their young. Long ago Nature framed and enacted her system of compulsory education. The aim of this system is survival and progress; power, efficJ iency, and fulness of life. Nature’s first and chief means of education is the home and family. School and college are mainly artificial devices to make good the deficiencies of home and early surroundings and to prepare for the fuller education of life. What the home cannot do the school must.

A century ago home and farm could furnish physical and manual training and nature-study; could train children to industry, economy, endurance, ingenuity, to forethought and responsibility. The chief business of the school was to give the knowledge of books which the home could not furnish.

Now old-fashioned farm life has disappeared, and its valuable training has been lost; the educational efficiency of the home has been narrowed and weakened. Hence the responsibility and burdens of the school have been vastly increased. It must develop a race of men and women who can meet

Digitized by L-OOQle
—342—

the emergencies and endure the nervous strain of modern sedentary life in town and city. This is no small' nor easy problem. School and college must be institutions not merely of learning, but of physical and moral vigor, of efficiency and power. They must develop as well as instruct and discipline. The school must furnish a tough, vigorous body as well as a keenly disciplined mind.

We all recognize that health and growth are the main business of the baby and the child. How big a man’s life and power shall be depends primarily on how fast -and how far he can grow. The chief business of the home and the lower grades of the school is to promote growth, not learning or mental discipline. Healthy growth in the child is to be promoted by the use of the muscles rather than through mental training, though this also is important. When the child runs and plays, he is increasing his appetite for food, enlarging the lungs, strengthening the heart, and stimulating the growth of all his vital organs. On the growth and development of these vital organs life and .health directly depend. He is also fortifying the nervous system against hysteria arid weakness during adult life. The strategic center of health and growth in the child lies in the muscles rather than in the brain. Hence the early years of school life should be years of muscular education mainly through plays and games.

The child would gladly play most of the time; he cannot sit still; he hungers for movement as for food. The craving for muscular exercise is as natural, normal, healthy, and beneficent as the hunger for food and drink. He craves and needs the exercise frequently and in small doses; only thus can it be most efficient in stimulating and promoting growth. To rob the child of his exercise is as really a sin as to nourish him insufficiently.

You say that the home is the place for play and physical training. This is true. But where can the city child play and run in a flat or in a microscopic back-yard. The school should promote growth and not hamper it, as it usually does.

Most of the brain of the child is very immature, almost embryonic, and needs very little exercise. Much thinking does it more harm than good. A few moments’ talk with the teacher several times during the day gives it all the exercise and stimulus which it needs. . Our question should always be: “How much work will most benefit the child?” not: “How much can he stand without evident injury?” Between these “recitation” periods the child is supposed to be busy at his desk. His brain is weary; his muscles clamor for exercise; but he must sit still. He learns to sit over his work and not think about it, to dawdle and loll over a book, and think he is studying. If he must sit still at his desk over his book, it will injure him less to dawdle than to study, even though the bad habit becomes ineradicable. But why not send him out on the playground and give him the exercise which he craves? It is far better for his mind as well as his body.

He can actually learn more on the playground than at the desk. The playground is the school of focused attention, quick thought, and right action; of getting on with his fellows, which he cannot learn in the small family at home; of making friends, of self-control, of fair play, and of a host of social virtues. On the playground he “grows and waxes strong,” which is about all that the Bible ever tells us of the childhood of its heroes. The years before ten, and especially between six and ten, are golden years

Digitized by LjOOQle
-343-

for growth. Their every possibility should be fully realized. The child Is like a caterpillar storing up material for the trying changes and metamorphoses which immediately follow.

Let us watch the girl a moment. Between ten and sixteen, and mostly between twelve and fifteen, she will change from a lank, angular child into a graceful, rounded, devoloped woman. The caterpillar becomes a butterfly. Every organ in her body is modified; most of them are transformed. Old material is removed and new added. A very large amount of waste is produced and thrown into the blood, clogging and poisoning all the organs. She becomes pale, loses her appetite, is irritable. She tires easily and quickly.

' and prefers sitting over the furnace register to a brisk walk in the cold air. Her brain is dull and her studies may become difficult. She loses interest in her work, and becomes inattentive in class.

Her appetite needs to be stimulated to furnish the material for growth and development. But above all her blood must be cleansed, purified, and enriched. Many a girl has been conditioned at school because of poverty of blood mistaken for mental or moral inability. The waste must be burned and the blood purified by oxygen brought in at the lungs. The most important question about the girl of ten or twelve is: “What is her lung capacity?” not: “What is her head-girth?” The latter will take care of itself in due time. With proper physical training her lung capacity will increase during these years with marvelous rapidity, as Anderson has shown. But usually she does not get the needed exercise. She does a little hous-work at home or “picks up” after the boys just enough to keep her indoon and sits still and tries to study at school. Her mother adds lessons r music; her aunts tell her not to be a tom-boy; her teachers urge her to stud harder. No one notices that the real seat of the difficulty is in the lung and vital organs. During these years the better scholars have the large lung-capacity.* If lack of oxygen and poverty of blood continues we hav invalidism or worse at nineteen or twenty. Then when the horse has long been stolen, we carefully lock the stable door.

The greatest need of our grammar-schools today is rational physical training, and the best form of physical training is free, but not too strenuous, play in the open air.

Under our present system physical disorders and morbidity rise to a maximum of frequency at about thirteen, and again at seventeen or eighteen, with but slight diminution between in the case of the girl. The physical condition of girls entering the high schools in our towns and cities is frequently or usually lamentable. This has been proven beyond doubt by medical examination in some of our cities, and is probably true, to a great extent, of all. Yet three-fourths of all the disorders at puberty and of the invalidism at twenty could be greatly mitigated or avoided by a sensible system of physical training applied during childhood.

We have no time or need to study conditions in high school or college. In the older pupils the brain has become the chief center of development and of education. Still physical training is needed, but the muscular system is no longer the all-important center which it was in childhood. Development has shifted from one system to another, and our plan of education must shift-its emphasis accordingly.

We are fast becoming a sedentary people living in offices and studies, or
—344—

behind desks and counters. The American woman almost never uses her heavy muscles, but only those of finger or hand. The whole strain of life and work falls on the nerves, which are least fitted to bear the heavy and continuous strain. A woman with a sound healthy nervous system is therefore a rarity among us. “Health comes in through the muscles, and flies out through the nerves.,, Our neglect of the nervous system in school and in life is costing us dear. The home cannot or will not remedy the evil. The school must do what it can, or the nation will pay the penalty.

Many of our most useful virtues and some of our most disagreeable vices are physical even more than mental. The dyspeptic can have neither faith, hope, nor charity. 'Courage, hope, calmness, cheer, endurance, all spring from the motor fully as much as from the mental centers. They are attained through muscular exercise more than through the study of books. If the teacher will develop strong pupils, she must first of all be strong herself. Only healthy parents can breed healthy children. Health of body and of mind must be insured and fortified in childhood. Hence physical even more than mental training is the great business of the child at home and at school. If we neglect or forget this fact, we shall find ourselves fighting against Nature and ultimately against God.

BOSTON PROVISION FOR EXERCISE, RECREATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION SHOWN IN A CIVIC EXPOSITION

By Everett B. Mero.

Although no special attention was given to subjects relating to physical welfare in the recent “1915” Boston Exposition, in that city, there were several features scattered through the various departments that were directly connected with gymnastics, athletics, playgrounds, recreation and the like.

This Exposition was held-io. show the people of Boston what the city, contained in the way of civic, economic, religious, social and otheii_arganr-ized forces for community betterment, and also to show what the city did notrpossess that it should have. Nothing just like it was ever held anywhere "Tn America but the idea is likely to take root and produce results in other cities throughout the country. If that happens it will be wisdom for the physical training or playground interests of any city holding such an exposition to make efforts in advance for adequate attention to the fundamental important work for which they stand. The initial Boston exposition has proven that the people will pay attention to what is graphically presented to them under such conditions.

The exhibits and parts of exhibits that had a bearing on health, physical welfare and kindred subjects would have made a notable department had they been gathered instead of scattered in all parts of the building. As it was, interesting suggestions were afforded that might be used in a public display of all the phases of physical training, active and passive, some time, somewhere.

Possibly there is a practical suggestion here for a future Turner festival, or for a convention of the A. P. E. A. It is by such methods as these

Digitized by v^ooQle
—345—

that popular interest is aroused, and educational seed planted in willing minds. There is need enough for rational enlightenment.

The Boston public schools had one of the most comprehensive exhibits in size and character of any in the “1915” Exposition. An important section of it was devoted to the recently improved methods of physical training in the schools of this city. Charts, tables and inscribed large cards told of leading points, photographs showed all stages of school room, school yard, athletic field and playground activities, incjuding military drill. The setting up drill required of football teams was emphasized. This part of the school department’s exhibit was prepared largely by Ernst Hermann, assistant director of physical training. The medical inspection, school nurse and other modern provisions for the welfare of pupils were shown.

School yard playgrounds received special attention in the city’s* educa-* tional exhibit. A large model school house was built and its triple yard space was populated with dolls to represent children, showing the crowded condition of yards under conditions that exist. Alongside, was another model school house with a modern playground attached, with equipment of apparatus, suitable instructors, etc. By these two graphic illustrations of good and bad conditions, any observer could see the advantages of desired improvements.

The City of Boston Bath Department showed a variety of photographs and plans of its municipal gymnasiums, swimming pools and beaches, bath houses, and attached facilities. Included in the display were the plans for a new gymnasium with baths to take the place of the first municipal gymnasium in the country, that in East Boston. This building is now in process of construction.

The Young Men’s Christian Association occupied a considerable space for its several departments, one being the gymnasium. Here an interesting comparison was made showing the development of pulley weights from 1874 to 1909, a machine of each period being located side by side. 'A spirometer was conveniently placed with an invitation to visitors to test their lungs. Scales were also there with which all who desired could weigh themselves. Photographs showed several features of gymnasium and athletic work carried on by the association. There were also placards telling in brief form of the need of rational physical exercise to offset modern city conditions.

The Posse gymnasium andmormal school had an attractive booth with numerous anatomical drawings by students, plans for a possible new gymnasium building, and literature of the school. Baroness Posse gave an address in one of the lecture halls on the importance of caring for personal health, especially by women. The address was illustrated by a class of young women in gymnasium costume who showed the exercises referred to by the speaker, and gave a portion of a “day’s order.”

Of playgrounds and recreation places there were several displays in the Exposition. The Massachusetts Civic League had a new map that told plainly of the successful extensive state campaign of a year ago which * resulted in 40 towns and cities adopting the compulsory law requiring adequate recreation centers, as a result of a combination of forces by the League and the Playground Association of America. A figure of a boy reaching for various play apparatus like hockey sticks, bats, footballs' tennis
jackets which were suspended just above his head was the foundation for an argument presented on a card—“Help us put them within his reach.” Joseph Lee’s famous saying, “The boy without a playground is father to tjie man without a job,” was in evidence in the form of a cartoon which iptroduced both members of that family.

the section of parks and playgrounds numerous views of varied character illustrated about all phases of the subject. The development of recreation centers as park features was shown in one large frame that held drafts of plans of such institutions dating from 1886 to the present year. Means for popular recreation of an unorganized and informal nature were represented by models of a proposed Zoo for Boston, and of a coming Aquarium.

A4Iecture on a series of various civic subjects was given by Graham Romeyn Taylor mainly on the Chicago South Parks recreation centers, apd on activities radiating from them. He laid some emphasis upon the rjecent development of organized walks into the country.

Anti-tuberculosis organizations, health committees and organizations bad attractive displays of their particular forrtis of education, the tuberculosis people especially presenting several mechanical features that illustrated important points in ways to command the attention of even casual visitors. An optical illusion by which first a view of a hygienically furnished and then a view of an unhygienic room were shown, was an example qf the devices referred to.

The Health Education League of Boston had a display of its literature v^hich is distributed in large quantities to tell people how to observe ordinary precautions for physical efficiency and right living surroundings.

The Women’s Municipal League presented several evidences of the active work it is doing for better living conditions, as well as for recreation and social center improvements. The Massachusetts Dental Hygiene Council' impressed the importance of its special efforts by models and photographs showing work in the schools and outside. And there were various Other exhibits that bore directly or indirectly upon good health, hygiene and sanitation.

The Boston 1915 movement, of which this Exposition was a somewhat tangible demonstration, is now being organized on a permanent basis. The various interests of the city are being grouped and each group is being formed into a working body to represent that interest. From each group will be selected a committee. The combined committees will be the Boston 1915 organization of the future. In this combination physical training, playgrounds and allied interests will presumedly figure incidentally under various other heads such as health, parks, recreation, etc.; for no recognition of physical welfare as a separate department worthy of distinct recognition in a plan for making an ideal city has yet appeared in any of the public announcements of the men who are promoting this interesting experiment for civic betterment.

—With best wishes for the success of this excellent magazine, which I find so helpful that I always recommend it to all those whom I find interested in such matters, I am Yours very sincerely

St. Mary’s College, Dallas, Tex. (Afrss) Anna McCoy Francis.
—347—

Misp

AND BODY.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING, C(}.,

'WTuconprfn.

9T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee; W»s Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil.; Fa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po*t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—WE WISH TO CALL particular attention to Mr. Shroy’s poem “Give us a Place to Play” printed elsewhere in this issue. Thete 1$ a swing in it that immediately portrays the man who has a warm feeling for the boys (and girls) who have no place to play. Mr. Shroy is priricipkl of one of the Philadelphia public schools.

—WE WOULD LIKE to call especial attention to Mr. Merb’s article in this issue on the recent local exhibition in Boston. He .shpws convincingly, that there were many admirable exhibits and that, had they been grouped under the head of physical training and recreation, va great and interesting exhibit would have resulted. This Boston procedure reminds us somewhat of the manner in which physical training was treated at the St. Louis Worlds Fair. The athletic end of our work was well taken care of, but when it came to getting an all-embracing view of the educative, the hygienic and the recreative value of physical training one had to go to the German exhibit in order to find all phases comprehensively grouped in one room. Our American exhibits were scattered all over the grounds. Every state had a little. What was shown out in the gyrn-1 nasium on the athletic field was lost to the millions of visitors and' the hundreds of thousands of teachers who saw the gymnasium only from the intramural railway. Judging by Mr. Mero’s report the people who design exhibits still are densely ignorant of what physical education really is, and what a wonderful exhibit a comprehensive display of this natiire would be. Here is a wide field for all teachers of physical training to do effective missionary work.

—THE COMMERCIAL VALUE of playgrounds by Mr. William

E.	Hannon, a member of a prominent real estate firm, reprinted in this issue, furnishes good arguments to win over many business mtii to the thought that playgrounds are not expenditures but good investment! it your business to get men who are always looking only t6 the dollars and cents in all movements to read this article. Most men atrt h&trt for playgrounds, only they can not see how a city can afford to spetid mdfch money for them. Let Mr. Hannon show them that as a business £rbp6si-tion it is a good investment to lay aside five per cent of all newly plotted land for playgrounds.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-348-

—THE TEACHING of the three Rs to very small children was condemned, fractions were declared to be of no mental value to the elementary pupil and the importance of physical development in children less than io years old was emphasized by James S. Leuba, professor of psychology at Bryn Mawr College, in an address before members of the Civic Club of Philadelphia.

“Children should not go to school at all until they are 8 or 9 years old,” he said, “and they should not be taught to read until they are 10. The matter of supreme importance is that they have their bodies developed.”

The meeting was held under the auspices of a special committee ap-oointed to investigate the needs of curricula in the elementary grades.

“Fractions,” said Professor Leuba, “are of no special mental value in • the training of children. If the grown person finds he wants to use frac-1 tions in. his business and has not grasped them in the study of mathematics, ’let him go to a night school. In writing the hands of small children are cramped, and the little muscles are improperly developed.

“The matter of prime importance is to develop muscles. Reading can be learned in six months after the child reaches the age of 10.”

Professor Leuba was followed by Professor John L. Stewart, of Lehigh University.

At the conclusion of the addresses resolutions were adopted which will be sent to United States Commissioner Brown at Washington. These recommend that the number of hours devoted to the schooling of small children be decreased from five to two and a half, that no classes are permitted to number more than thirty pupils and that two hours of work and physical exercises be included in the program each day.

' A. tentative suggestion was made that the ideal program for the elementary school would be: Regular work, one and one-half hours; manual training, one hour; organized physical education, one-half hour; spontaneous % play, one and one-half hours.

r v	.	•

-—BEING forced to work, and forced to do your best will breed in you. temperance, self-control, diligence, strength of will, content, and a hundred other virtues which the idle never know.—Charles Kingsley.

THE JOLLY CROWD.

/ .A Roundel by W. A. Stecher, Philadelphia.

The music: “In the Barn” by Charles Lindsay is a rustic dance written in 2-4 time.* '

The' arrangement and the steps of this roundel are very simple. Any number of pupils can take part. The class is to be arranged in open order, the pupils being at arms’ length apart. Each measure of music has two counts. While there are seven parts to both music and roundel, parts 3, 5, fr and-7 are repetitions.

* Published by Tbeo. Presser, Philadelphia, at 20 cents per copy.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-349-

Note:—The touch-step spoken of in the dance consists of quickly raising the leg forward (or in any other direction), then touching the extended foot lightly on the floor (like in a foot-placing) and again quickly raising it.

PART I.—8 Measures—16 Counts.

i—2 (Knuckles on hips.) Touch-step left forward and backward (counts i and 2), then change-step left (counts 3 and 4). When touching the left foot forward slightly bend the right knee, also, slightly bend the trunk forward; when touching the left foot backward turn the head right.

3—4. The same exercise right, but while performing the change-step face left about (counts 5 to 8).

5—8. Repeat measures 1—4 (Counts 9 to 16).

PART II.—16 Measures—32 Counts.

1—2. With a quarter turn left three steps forward and touch-step right forward (counts 1 to 4).

3—4. With a half turn right repeat this movement in the opposite direction, i. e., to the right and touch-step left forward (counts 5 to 8).

5—8. Repeat measures 1 to 4 (counts 9 to 16).

9—16. Repeat measures 1 to 8 but when executing the touch-step bend the stationery leg and slightly bend the trunk forward, and at the same time swing the rounded arms sideward (counts 17 to 32).

PART III.—8 Measures, is like Part I.

PART IV.—16 Measures—32 Counts.

1—2. Step and leap left sideward (counts 1 and 2) and touch-step right forward and backward (counts 3 and 4).

3—4. Repeat measures 1 to 2 to the opposite side (counts 5 to 8).

5—8. Repeat measures 1 to 4 (counts 9 to 16).

9—16. Raise the arms sideward (in an easy position) and repeat I to 8. When performing the touch-step right forward and backward place the knuckles of the right hand on the hip and raise the left arm in a half circle overhead (vice versa when performing to the right) (counts 17 to 32).

PART V.—8 Measures, is like Part I.

PART VI.—16 Measures, is like Part II.

PART VII.—8 Measures, is like Part I.

In performing the steps follow the “swing” of the music to which this dance has been written. This roundel can be used also as a costume dance.

If a longer performance is wanted this may be had (after performing the seven parts) by having the pupils face toward the center, i. e., one^half of the class face left and the other half right (- (- (- (-	-)	-)	-)	-)

The side-movements should then be executed to the front and to the rear of the room. After a repetition of the whole dance in this formation the pupils again face to the front and repeat Parts I to VII.
IN THE BARN

CHAS. LINDSAY

Copyright 1909 by Theo. Presser Co., Philadelphia. Used by permission of the publishers.

Digitized by v^ooQle
(fltt/rT rr	V  fz			FPPI
lm f i (		W-fcj		

marcato
-352-

—PHILADELPHIA has made a number of good contributions to the playground cause. The canvass covered baseball is one of those, another is the tether-ball without a net. Another one, but of a much greater value than either of the above is a new type of basketball. The wear on basketballs by play in the cemented schoolyards is great. Sometimes a ball will be worn through at the seams in less than a week, This means incessant patching by the playground teachers. During a conversation with one of these teachers the thought was expressed “would it be possible to have basketballs with the seams turned outward instead of inward ?” In order to test this idea the firm of Draper & Maynard were induced to make a number of balls with the seams on the outside. While this produced a rather rough looking ball, its wearing qualities were immense, and it has given such satisfaction that we wish to call the attention of all playground supervisors to it. The ball has been put on the market under the number 7 A. G. X.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

.NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—The examiners have come and gone, and left in their wake many good points. Mr. William Stecher, Philadelphia, read an interesting paper on “Gymnastics executed on Command and Rytbmically.” Mr. George Wittich of the Milwaukee schools, and Mr. Henry Suder of the Chicago schools, spoke on the subject of “Bad Habits in the Gymnasium,” from which the students absorbed valuable ideas.

—The election of class officers for the Junior class resulted as follows : President, Mr. Rudolf Hofmeister, St. Louis; Vice President, Mr. Albert Plag, Grand Rapids; Secretary, Miss Corinne Guenther, Topeka, Kans., and Mr. Wm. Nicoli of New York, Treas.

—The Senior class is headed by the following offiicers : President, Mr.Clarence Betzner, Cincinnati ; Vice President, Miss Maud Sutor, Menominee, Wis.; Secretary, Gladys R. Dixon, Indianapolis, and Treasurer, Mr. Alvin Herrman of St. Paul.

—There is a general meeting of both classes once every two weeks. This organization is known as “The Students Alliance Association”. The President of the Association is Mr. Clarence Betzner.

—On November 21, the students gave a dance in the lecture room which was thoroughly enjoyed by all.

—Mr. and Mrs. Theo. Stempfel entertained the class at Thanksgiving dinner. Strange to say no one was absent.

—Miss Florence Stackhouse ’09 was the guest of Miss Suter through the Thanksgiving vacation. Miss Stackhouse was the guest of honor at a luncheon given by the Wisconsin girls to the members of the 1910 class, Thanksgiving day. Miss Suter and Miss Amanda Kmippel, Mr. and Mrs. Rath, and Mr. Arnold Kniippel, were special guests.

—Friday night, December 9, the first of a series of Conferences was given. The object of these, meetings is to bring the students and faculty to-gether, to promote general good fellowship, and to advance work in the gymnasium and classes. Mr. Rath, chairman was unable to be present and Mr. Betzner presided Mr. Hoppe of Milwaukee read a paper on the “Barrenstreit” which was greatly appreciated. This was^ followed by recitations by the different students. Mr. Eichhopf gave an interesting sketch of his trip to Frankfurt, Germany last summer, where he participated in the Turnfest. The meeting was closed with an interesting debate “Should Physical Training be a sub-department of School Hygiene”.	Gladys	R. Dixon, Secretary.

Digitized by

Google
—353-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

GIVE US A PLACE TO PLAY.

“Git out,” yells the Cop, “’r I’ll soon put a stop To y’ur nerve rackin’ din, by runnin’ you in.

You won’t play on the street, when I’m on this beat,

So chase y’urself hence. Git away from that fence.” An’ the Cop he’s the law an’ we’ve got to obey,

But he don’t tell us what ’r where we can play.

“Git out,” yells the man when we kick his ash-can, Then he calls us vile toughs, an’ villains an’ roughs,

An’ names if I said would knock mother down dead.

We run all our might, to get out of his sight,

An’ bump into people who kick us away,

An’ growl, but don’t mention a place we can play.

“Git out of the way,” yells a man with a dray,

As he nearly runs down my chum, Billy Brown;

He raises his whip, and then all of us skip.

But we only change streets, for where else can we go To escape Cops and drivers, does anyone know?

If you were a lad, didn’t mean to be bad,

Had no place to meet, except in the street,

No place to play ball, ’r “tagger” at all,

No place just to —yell, when y’ur feelin’ real well, Now, honest and true, what on earth would you do?

Why, you’d swear and make bets, an’ smoke cigarettes; You’d gamble an’ fight, an’ throw stones just for spite. You’d try to live down to the names you were named! An’ you’d lie, with the gang; without feelin’ ashamed.

Big Brothers of oujs, we want to do right,

But try as we will, it’s a hard, uphill fight.

We’d rather play ball in a place where we dare,

Than skulk near a corner an’ gamble an’ swear.

We’d rather dim’ ladders an’ act on a bar,

Than dodge a policeman ’r hang on a car,

It’s up to you, Brothers, come, please don’t delay,

But establish a place where us fellows can play.

John L. Shroy.

Digitized by
—354—

END BALL AND CORNER BALL

Arranged as progressive games leading np to Captain Ball, for the Public Schools

of Philadelphia.

It takes some years until pupils are expert enough to play a fine game of Captain Ball. There are few organized games that may be played by younger children which have the elements of Captain Ball in them. It was, therefore, thought appropriate to arrange the well-known game of Comer Ball in two degrees of difficulty suitable for younger players. The following games have been arranged as games of low organization leading up to the more complicated game of Captain Ball. Game No. I is the simplest form and is suited for pupils of the 3rd and 4th grades. Game No. 2 is suited for all grades above the fourth.

END BALL.

Corner Ball No. i.

The field is a 30ft. square, divided into two equal parts. ^Across the outside end of each field is a smaller field or base 4 ft. deep. (See diagram.)

Any number may play. They are divided into two teams. About one-third of each team are basemen, who take their places in the base or outer field at one end, while the others are guards, and take their places in the inner field on the opposite side of the center line.

The game may be played in halves or for any length of time. Play is continuous during: this time.v

basket ball)

At the beginning of the game, (or at the beginning of each half), he tosses the ball up in the center, between two opposing guards.

All players must keep within their own fields.

If the ball rolls or is thrown over the boundary line of any field, the player nearest the line in that field, gets the ball, and brings it in to the



A point is made whenever a baseman catches the ball (a from a guard of his own team.

tr

r-

*

r

T

A	A	A	AAA.	1  1
B	3	5	3  O	1  1  1  l
3	G	8	3  0 O	1  4.  .+0
A	A	A	A  A A	0 90  't  1
VK	K	A	A  A A	1  1  1  1
		B	B B B	1  1  __ J
1  L			--•♦So it *				• „

RULES

The game is in charge of a referee, who calls all fouls.

Digitized by G< » gle
-355-

line, at the point where it crossed. From there he throws the ball to one of the players in the same field,

CORNER BALL (NO. 2.)

The field is an oblong 30 ft. x 40 ft., divided into two equal parts. (Any space may be used if this size is not available.) Each part contains two bases, placed in the far corners. A third may be added if desired. (See diagram.)

Any number may play. They are divided into two teams. Two players of each team are basemen and the others are guards. Their positions are shown in the diagram.

The bases are three (3) ft. square.

The object of the game is to throw the ball from a guard to a base-man of the same team.

The game is played in halves of five (5), or more minutes each. Play is continuous during this time, the only stop being that made to call a foul.

A point is made whenever a baseman catches the ball (a basket ball) from one of the guards of his own. team. It must be a fair throw, that is, the ball must not touch the ground, wall, or ceiling, before being caught by the baseman.

A	LA j	B
B	B	B
B		3
0	0	3
A ■	A	A
A»  A	A	A  A
B			E

	

RULES

Guards are not allowed to cross the center line, nor to step into the bases, nor out of the field of play.

f Basemen must always have both feet in their bases, but they are allowed to jump up to catch the ball.

The game is in charge of a referee, who calls all fouls, At the be^ ginning of each half he tosses the ball up in the center of the field, he-

ft •

Digitized by C^ooQle
-356-

tween two opposing guards. In case of a foul he gives the ball to a guard of the other team.

There shall be a scorer, who is also timekeeper.

If in the course of play the ball rolls or is thrown off the field, it shall be brought back by a guard of the team whose line it crossed. He shall put the ball in play by standing on the line, at the place where the ball left the field, and throwing it to one of the guards of his own team.

Fouls are made as follows:

1.	Carrying the ball, (taking more than one step.)

2.	Striking or touching the ball when if is in the hands of a player.

3.	Holding, pushing, striking, or tripping an opponent.

4.	Stepping across the center line, or out of the field, with one or both feet.

THE COMMERCIAL VALUE OF PLAYGROUNDS.

William E. Harmon.

Wood, Harmon & Co., New York ; Member Charities Publication Committee.

The plea for including parks and playgrounds in developing suburban properties has hitherto been made to the public spirit of real estate men, rather than to their business judgment. They have been urged to perform a civic duty, to make a present to the community of a part of the property purchased by them for hard cash, but it is my deliberate judgment, based on a quarter century of experience, that just the contrary is true; that here we have one of those rare cases where philanthropy is good business.

There is every reason for a careful study of so important a matter, for ordinarily the original street plan of a new plot fixes forever, the limits of territory available for public use. All generations to come pay tribute to or secure benefits from the good or bad judgment displayed when a plot of ground is first staked out and the plans recorded. But although most real estate operators will admit this, they are confronted by a much more vital question—the relation of their bank balance to the undertaking. So we must meet them'on their own ground, and if it can be demonstrated that a liberal contribution in parks and playgrounds will return dividends in dollars as well as in satisfaction, it will become the reasonable and usual thing for men engaged in the development of property to see how far they can go in a given case in yoking up public spirit with commercial returns.

The successful development of real estate is a practical matter involving a close analysis of conditions, and an energetic and persistent use of constructive ability. Aside from unexpected and accidental increment, the profits are not over large, and it is asking a good deal to expect a man voluntarily to give up for public use property for which he has paid unless it can be shown that his contribution to the public is made practically with-* out risk. Therefore I shall address^ this article solely to the spirit of self-interest of those who may be engaged in the devevlopment of real estate^ urging upon them the importance from a business point of view, of giving the public more liberal treatment in improvements and public spaces than they are now prone to give, or than they consider wise from their own point of view.

We originated the business of selling lots on instalments, and have

Digitized by
—357—

learned much in twenty-five years’ constant practice. Although the movement has become world-wide, it is still young and most people who are entering upon it are going into their first or nearly first adventure. So I hope that by giving the results of a long experience others jnay be encouraged to begin where we are leaving off.

Twenty-five years ago, we estimated that we had to sell our real estate at a certain percentage above cost in order to avoid the risk of loss; today we sell it at forty per cent profit and make more money by the larger volume of business. Many years ago we put in cheap improvements, and as few of them as were necessary to sell the property; today we put in every possible improvement which the retail selling value will warrant, or, in other words, all of the improvements that the land will stand. We find that the result of this policy is to lower the cost of selling, decrease the number of forfeitures and increase the chances of profit for the buyer. It is purely enlightened selfishness.

At one time a few years since, my associates and I were seriously engaged in a consideration of the “ideal charity”—attempting to find a form of charitable or public service in which a given sum of money could be utilized with the least possible waste, the greatest possible good, and which would leave a perpetual monument to the giver. We took up various forms of philanthropic activity—educational,- religious, care of children, care of the aged, and all others we could think of, and finally, somewhat to our surprise, arrived at the conclusion that vacant land was the only gift free from the risk of the decay which assails material construction and of the mismanagement which menaces capital dedicated to charitable endeavor.

This conception regarding vacant land shaped itself into the form of dedicated playgrounds or parks, close to big cities, which could forever be a recreation place for the neighboring population. We began to realize that we were cutting up land upon which people would dwell for all ages to come; we were changing wholesale acres into a form from which they could be changed again only at great cost. At this point it would be the simplest thing in the world to set aside, if we were so charitably minded, some of this land and leave it as a perpetual open space for generations to play upon. At that time no other aspect of the case suggested itself to us; it did not seem possible that such an immediate sacrifice to our future expectations would work any important benefit to our treasury balance; in other words, it did not seem a business proposition, although it did look like the most justifiable sentimentalism. In this we were mistaken.

There .were infinite business possibilities in such an act of generosity. Could we have seen ahead, as we can now look back, we would immediately have begun the segregation of lands for park purposes in all our subdivisions, and would not only have served the community better, but would have received a return in dollars and cents sufficient to repay us amply for every foot of ground so utilized. From a lack of courage we began in a reluctant and niggardly way to carry out this policy; conse-' quently, our education has been slow. But we are at last convinced that upon every consideration of public and private policy, intelligent land segregation pays the cost. When a concern voluntarily gives the public a part of the ground for which it has paid its money, it secures a place

Digitized by CjOOQle
-358-

in public confidence hard to reach in any other way. It indicates the ideals for which the firm is striving; the community is stamped with the impress of the generosity. It sets a standard to which the people can and will point in a^empting to induce others to come to the location for a place of residence; it puts city governments under an obligation which they cannot ignore, and it insures a fair hearing upon all one’s business affairs with the authorities. In any bitter public controversy that little piece of ground will fight your battles for you in the sentimental effect which it exerts on the public, and finally, it will exert its quiet but constant influence in upbuilding your business and your reputation.

Where these grounds are properly distributed and intelligently laid out it will be found in almost every instance that the land surrounding such spots can be marketed at a price sufficiently high to offset entirely the cost of the contribution; this is the final test of the value of enterprising beneficence.

Having watched the gradual growth of scattered suburbs into densely populated city blocks, one can but wonder at the short-sighted policy of the average municipal engineering department. There is no intelligible reason why a certain percentage of the area of every city is not set aside and incorporated into the official city map for small parks and playgrounds, as a matter of public well-being, exactly a$ streets and allays are treated. If five per cent of the area of the undeveloped land contiguous to large cities were properly distributed in small park appropriations, one problem of congestion would be solved without injustice to anyone.

In many cities in this country the engineering departments plot the whole area of the suburban sections in anticipation of future development, showing sewer and street elevations, street widths, etc. Park sites could be made a part of this planning, and would be accepted by developers without question. If short-sighted, they would not realize the value of such spaces to the sale of their land, but they could set their prices so as to treat these parks as they do the areas set aside for street purposes. In this way, cities could get all the park lands necessary without any cost whatever. This plan would apply only where the operator undertook the opening up and construction of streets on his own account. In case streets are opened and improved by the city, and lands contained therein condemned for street purposes, these parks could be included in the same condemnation proceedings, and their cost assessed on the abutting property; so the city would be in exactly the same position with regard to the acquisition of parks, as it now is with regard to the acquisition of streets.

In the districts outside the city limits, which in course of time will become a part of the city or suburban cities in themselves,. the appeal mu9t be made to the business instincts of the real estate man, and I am confident that the sacrifice which he would make in setting aside a small percentage of his land for park purposes is only apparent and not real. Where the lay of the land lends itself to such treatment, it is often advisable to set aside land for this purpose on the edges, or in low spots of the sub-division, rather than from the central or high-priced portions. In this way there may be practically no sacrifice, as the land may be valueless for construction purposes.1 The need for parks coming only with a dense population, the dirt from cellars would fill up the low land long before it would be needed.

Digitized by ooqLc
-359-

These small parks should not ordinarily contain over a few acres, and my general theory is that five per cent of the total land area is ample if properly distributed; a park of two acres to every forty acres of land, would give a piece of playground 200 by 400 feet, and go far toward supplying the neighborhood requirements for many years to come. If these parks are deeded to the city in the dedication of streets, the conveyance may contain a provision that in case they are ever used for any other purJ pose than park or playground, they shall revert to the heirs and assigns of the grantor. This would offset a certain tendency to utilize such ground, when once in the city’s possession, for sites of public buildings.

It may seem to one cutting up a tract of land more or less remote from a center of population, that a long time must elapse before such ground would be used. As far as the developer can look ahead, there will be ample vacant space for children to play upon, but if he is made to see that the problem is not what will happen in this one generation, but in the many generations to come, he will understand the gravity of the situation.

If the obligation one owes society can be liquidated without serious inroads on the prospective profits of the landowner, educative methods will accomplish satisfactory results, but not quickly; if, however, it can be shown that money can be made by this policy, it will be adopted without resistance. The cost of land takings by condemnation proceedings is so expensive in built-up parts of the city, that great economic purposes can be served by intelligently anticipating such requirements. It would be worth while to supplement this experience by actual investigation of successful suburban developments and of relative prices in the neighborhoods of small parks.

It is a pleasure to present this short record of experience as a lesson learned by one actually engaged in the business of cutting up and develops ing property, who has had to fit his generous instincts, in whatever degree he had them, to the cold obligation of showing a final balance on the right side of the ledger.—The Survey.

SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS REPORT, WASHINGTON, D. C., 1909.*

Mrs. Ellen Spencer Mussey,

Chairman Committee on School Playgrounds, Board of Education, Washington, D. C.

Dear Madam:—I have the honor to make the following report of the work in the Public School Playgrounds during the summer of 1909.

There was received from Congress $900 with which to repair and maintain eighteen school yards already equipped with playground apparatus, and $750 for grading and equipping six new ones. No provision was made for supervision which is most essential as the unsupervised play-, ground may be a source of evil rather than good.

* Up to the present year, the summer work upon the school playgrounds has been under the control of the Washington Playground Association which started and nurtured the playground movement in this city. It became the decision of the Board of Education to have undivided control over playgrounds connected with school property, so the general association gave up its responsibility which was transferred to the Board of Education and placed under the physical training department.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-360-

To meet the expense of supervision, a voluntary contribution was taken up in the schools which with the receipts from “button day” and various school entertainments amounted to $3,729.66.

With this amount it was planned to open fifteen school grounds, nine of which were for white children and six for colored, for a period of six weeks. At the end of this time the Washington Playground Association offered the Board of Education $1,000 with the provision that as many playgrounds as possible be kept open for four weeks longer. These grounds were open from 9130 to 11130 o’clock in the morning, and from 5 to 8 o’clock in the evening, for a period of ten weeks. They were to be found in every section of the city, so that the children of the well-to-do as well as of the poor, could have the benefit of supervised play.

Owing to the delay in collecting money teachers were not appointed until June 1st. Meetings were at once held by the directors of physical training and instructions given concerning the work as a whole. A program was planned, games studied with view to their adaptation to the age and sex of children, literature on the subject was distributed and lessons given in folk dancing.

Before the close of the school year, a visit was made by the playground teacher to each school which would have its playground open during the summer. She gave to each class a talk upon the use of the playground,

\ and invited the children to attend. At the time of this visit she also obtained from the teachers above the fifth grade a list of the names of a few trustworthy and dependable children who would be in attendance and helpful on the playground during the summer term.

The playground committee was fortunate in securing for the summer the services of Mr. B. W. Murch, one of our school supervisors, who by reason of experience as a teacher on the playground, by personal fitness and supervising power was well qualified to act as supervisor of school playgrounds. He was ably assisted in the colored schools by Miss Turner, the assistant director of physical training.

ATTENDANCE.

Heretofore the method of estimating the average attendance upon the school playground has been based upon the number of children on the playground at a certain time, plus fifty per cent which was added as a rough estimate of the number of children who had attended and departed before the time of counting. As this seemed to be too generous an estimate it was decided this year to add only twenty-five per cent.

The aggregate attendance in the morning on all school grounds was 52,725, and in the evening, 86,257, making a total attendance of 138.982. The average daily attendance in the evening on playgrounds for white children ranged from 94 on the smallest ground to 250 on the largest ground. On the playgrounds for colored children the average attendance ranged from 74 to 152.	gardening.

A strong effort was made this year to have the playground work coordinate with the gardening work. Under the direction of Miss Sipe, the supervisor of gardening, a teacher spent some time of each week on a playground instructing in gardening and working in harmony with the play teacher. Heretofore there has been some discontent on the part of principals of schools having grounds open during the summer, in that the gardens carefully planted and reared during the spring, were tramped
—361—

upon and injured by children in play. Care for the garden is something to be learned by children, many of whom are destructive, not by nature, but from lack of training. This is only one of the many opportunities for teaching which makes the supervision of the playground truly educational. In this connection, Mr. Murch says:	“The gardens of the

Arthur and Dennison schools were in specially close proximity to the play space, and at these schools the gardens were not injured by the children.”

INDUSTRIAL WORK.

In the report handed in by the teachers at the end of the season, in reply to the question “Has industrial work been a success?” all answered in the affirmative with the exception of two, one of whom was a man.

Industrial work was done in the morning and consisted of crocheting, basket making, lace making, all forms of raffia work, embroidery and some bead work. An exhibition of this work was held with that of the Municipal Playgrounds at Carnegie Library. The showing was a surprise even to those interested and reflected great credit on both teachers and pupils.-Mrs. Malcolm, the industrial teacher for the summer, says that “Most people who have seen this exhibit are delighted to know that the children are being taught on the playgrounds to make so many useful things.”

I believe all lines of industrial work for both boys and girls to be exceedingly valuable, and if funds are available it is our intention to extend the work next year.

NEW PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT.

The six school grounds now being equipped out of the last Congressional appropriation are the new Cooke, Langston, PetwTorth, Bowen, Ten-ley and Grant schools. This equipment consists of twelve swings, four see-saws and a sand bin. These pieces of apparatus seem to be the most popular and are such as do not require instruction on the part of the teacher, after the children have learned to take their turn.

We have twenty-four school yards thus equipped which it would be well to keep open from April until December. To supervise these grounds during the school months, as well as during the summer, ten thousand dollars are needed. There ought to be on each playground two teachers, a director and an assistant. It is acknowledged that the value of such work depends upon the wisdom of the one in charge who stands in the relation of a teacher or wise parent looking after the moral and physical welfare of all.

Next to proper supervision, the greatest needs of the grounds today are proper grading, surfacing and shelter from sun. Mr. Lanham, the superintendent of trees and parking of the District of Columbia, states that the city will furnish all trees needed on school playgrounds but that a charge of from four to five dollars would be necessary for planting each tree and furnishing a tree box for protection of the same.

I would suggest that in the future an estimate be made of the number of trees needed for school playgrounds with the cost of planting the same and that Congress be asked to make the necessary appropriation for this purpose.

Respectfully submitted,

Rebecca Stoneroad,

Director of Physical Training, in Charge of School Playgrounds.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-362-

BALL GAMES, II.*

By S. Y. Gillan.

“Ante over” was played by two opposing groups, but they seldom divided by choosing sides, for exact division at the outset was not important. Two boys would usually challenge the rest:	“Give us the first ball, and

we’ll stand the crowd.” The two groups took opposite sides of the house and the ball was tossed over the roof of the house, the side throwing it giving the signal “Ante over.” If any one on the other side caught 'it, all ran around to the opposite side, charging in two squads. The one carrying the ball would hit one of the opposite party, who then changed sides. The object was to “break up” a side by thus bringing over all its members. This was the only game in which both girls and boys engaged.

One-cornered cat was played by three boys, one with a bat, and the other two in turn were pitcher and catcher; the batter facing each alternately until caught out, when he surrendered the bat to the one who caught the ball. Two-cornered cat was a degree higher in the scale of evolution. It was played by four boys with two bats and was enriched by a new element, the bases. At the beginning each pair of players would “toss up for bases,” the winners taking the bats, the other two playing alternately as pitchers and catchers with stations behind the two batters, who might be “caught out,” for after the “third tick,” that is, after the ball was hit three times, the batters must exchange bases, and while making the run a catcher who should throw the ball across in front of a runner or hit him was entitled to the bat. Three-cornered and four-cornered cat, played by six or eight boys, was governed by substantially the same rules, but some-' times the contest element of “sides,” or group against group was emphasized by adopting the rule of “one out, all out,” so that all the batters changed with the catchers whenever any one was caught out or crossed out.

From this contest between groups it \fras but a short step to “town ball.” This was played by any convenient number, usually from four to a dozen on each side. There was a careful choosing of sides. A home base and three, sometimes four, others were marked on the ground. The • first inning was decided by lot. Each side had aT pitcher and catcher; the others of the outs were scattered about the field outside the circuit of bases, but without any systematic arrangement. The ball being soft, crossing out or hitting the one who was running the bases was in order. There was no umpire. It is clear that base ball was evolved from town ball, as it is virtually the same game more highly organized and modified so as to adapt it to the use of a hard, heavy ball.

So far as the writer is aware the games above noted were the only ball games played in the country schools of the upper Mississippi valley fifty years ago. Shinney and foot ball had been heard of as a sort of tradition, but were not played. Tennis had not been heart! of, and of course golf was unknown.

Most of these old ball games still survive and a few new ones are now played in the country schools.—Am. Journal Education.

* See Mind and Body for December 1909 for the preceding article.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—363-

GYM NASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

-FOLLOWING THE EXAMPLE OF THE NEW YORK CITY BOARD OF EDUCATION, the New Haven Conn. Board of Education has abolished football in the High Schools. A resplution was introduced prohibiting the game after January 1. After a long discussion, in which every member of the Board favored doing away with the game, it was voted to table the matter until the Intercollegiate Rules Committee settled upon the rules for next year. The opinion was unanimous that the game, as played this year, is unfit for young men, and that unless the English Rugby game be introduced, or a radical change made in the rules of the American game, football will not be allowed in the future.

-CANADIAN FOOTBALL VERSUS AMERICAN FOOTBALL. On Saturday, Dec. 11, two representatives teams of Canada gave a demonstration of Canadian rugby at Van Cortlandt Park, New York City, before an enthusiastic crowd of 20,000 spectators.

The two teams “The Hamilton Tigers” and the “Ottawa Rough Riders” were brought on by the New York Herald to demonstrate their game of football owing to the recent controversy on the American style of plaving. A great number of American football experts were invited to be present to witness the game. The game was a success in demonstrating that the open play style appeals to an American crowd. At the outset the crowd was somewhat “cold” toward the game, but once it began to appreciate the fine points of the game it rooted wildly for the new game.

There is no doubt but that this exhibition game will have a great effect on the Rules Committee when they meet to make such changes as seen desirable for the American game.

Expert opinion given by the veteran football players was unanimous in commendation of the game as a sport less dangerous to life and limb than the game in the United States. The open character of the play, with its punting and running passes made a distinct impression upon the critical spectators and it was the general opinion that the exhibition would lead to many reforms in the rules governing the game in the United States.

-WITH THE BASIS OF AMERICAN FOOTBALL, which has already been learned as a foundation, old football players think that the American players would be able to show that the possibilities exist in the Canadian game which are greater than the Canadian players have utilized.

One point in the Canadian game seems to have been uniformly approved. That is the protection which is given to a player who is catching a punt. No player under the Canadian rules, must approach within three yards of the man catching the ball, and this seems to meet American indorsement. The reason for approval of this precaution is that the man who is trying to catch the punt is more than likely to be in a position with extended arms where he is unable to protect himself, and for that reason is apt to be tackled with such force that he may be injured. The three-yard rule obviates this and where the game is played by our younger players, who are more susceptible to injury than the older and experienced men, the three-yard rule would seem to be a valuable addition to the American code and a precaution which could in no possible manner work injuriously.

There is another point to the Canadian game which gave satisfaction to a great many American experts. That is their rule which compels the ball to be run out of touch by the defending side.

For example, in the Canadian game, if the ball is kicked over the goal line the defending side must get it back into free territory by its own efforts, and is not allowed to carry it out to the twenty-five yard line, as is the case in the American game, and enter into scrimmage again. If the defending side fails to get it out of jeopardy, points may be scored against it. The points are numerically small, but by permitting them to be scored, the Canadian game emphasizes the fact that credit is due to an attacking side when it crosses the goal line of its adversary, if the latter is unable to ward of threatened danger.

The point is made that this is more like real football. A greater value is placed on good punting. Such a rule would be likely to increase the number of

Digitized by
-364-

punters on a team and to restore to the game its original characteristic, skill in kicking as well as in running with the ball and passing it.

Undoubtedly it would add to the work of the backs, and possibly it migh be a play of such general value to football in general that it would require the addition of another player to the American team—say two full backs instead ot one.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—THE things which our friends do with and for us form a portion of our lives, for they strengthen and advance our personality. But the things which our enemies devise against us do not form part of our lives; we only experience them, reject them, and guard ourselves against them as against frost, storms, rain, hail, or any other external inconvenience which may be encountered|—Goethe.

—COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY—Columbia University entered upon its one hundred and fifty-sixth year on September 22, 1909, and it is stated that the registration is the largest in its history. This season a change has been made in the physical training of the freshmen and sophomores in the Department of Arts, under the direction of Dr. Meylan. Instead of exclusive gymnasium work, they will exercise out of doors in the new South Field whenever the weather permits, and the athletic work will include various games.—Med. Review of Reviews.

—WE MAY SAY that the minimum diet of a person taking.very little exercise corresponds to about 2y2 pounds of round or 25 eggs a day.

While it is important to know that an egg represents only about 1/25 of the day’s ration, and that ten eggs are approximately equal to a pound of lean meat, there are certain qualitative considerations of quite as much importance as the quantitative.

While the fat of an egg is about one-tenth that of beef round it is more intimately combined with phosphorus, so that it approaches the reconstructive value of a proteid. Even as a source of energy it is more valuable, for about 96 per cent is utilized by the body while, for meat, only 80 to 90 per cent is actually assimilated.

On the other hand, the proteid of egg is probably not equivalent in reconstructive value to that of meat. The proteid molecule may be decomposed into at least sixteen different fairly simple nitrogenous substances, not all of which are present in any one form of proteid. The molecular weight of proteid varies between 10,000 and 16,000, 100 to 500 times the weight of the ordinary molecules of the inorganic chemist. Obviously, the proteid molecule is really one of compound nature, and the animal must have available a considerable variety of molecular moieties in order to build up its own form of proteid for its several organs. While detailed understanding is not yet attained, we know both as a practical and a theoretic matter that the nearer a proteid comes to that of the body using it as food the better it is. Cannibalism has even

Digitized by VjOOQle
—365—

received recent scientific support, though obviously in a jpffrely academic sense. As the pig presents many analogies to man in digestive physiology, and particularly in being almost the only omnivorous quadruped, it is an open question whether the prejudice against pork is logical, except as indicating the necessity of caution as to infections by thorough cooking.	The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

—FATIGUE. “The blood of a fatigued animal injected into a fresh animal has been found to produce all the symptoms of fatigue in the latter. A German, Weichardt, claims to have produced this toxin artificially, and also to have developed an antitoxin which, when injected into a tired animal, brings about a restoration to a condition of renewed ability to work.

It is believed by this and other investigators that our increased power for work, which come§ after persevering in that work, is due in large part to the production of some such antibodies, and that by the help of these we are able gradually to establish for ourselves a higher plane of fatigue. There is some ground for such an hypothesis, but while an artificial antitoxin for fatigue would prove a boon beyond price to the race, we fear that we shall still have to rely upon the usual organic processes for the lessening of “that tired feeling,” or for bodily restoration.

The effectiveness of the nutritional powers must enter as a large factor into the problem of fatigue, and it is now believed that in many persons who have little capacity for endurance there has not been a full development of the powers of which they are really capable, and that a certain amount of excitement and the explosion of a comparatively larger amount of contained energy is needed to stir up their nutritional powers and so to bring about the storing of normal amounts of material for work. This, of course, is based upon the same theory as the use of bacterial vaccines for the calling forth of the defensive powers of the body to disease. Some crisis in life of an emotional character is needed to bring out all the physiological forces and to tune them to a higher pitch of working capacity, of which the possessor little dreamed.

While not thoroughly established, it is pretty generally believed that all work, both mental and physical, draws upon the same total of nervous energy, so that one who tries to do both mental and physical work is burning the candle at both ends and must regulate the amount of one to the other according as he has the energy to spare. To be both a scholar and an athlete requires more energy than any but rare specimens of manhood can furnish.

While change of work apparently rests the organism it does not restore its vigor, and it is believed by some psychologists that the apparent rest is rather due to the reaction from the boredom of the thing in hand, than from real physiological weariness.

The study of fatigue is especially of moment to the teacher, and the physician who has to do with the regulation of the educative tasks laid out for the growing child. For the general practitioner the subject is also of importance in connection with his cases of nervous prostration, for the cardinal symptom of neurasthenia is that of pathological fatigue. Three distinct classes of these chronically tired people have beerv defined, and it

Digitized by t^ooQle
-366-

becomes necessary for the physician to place his patient in one of these groups before he can intelligently treat him; first, there are those who are literally “born tired,” or who have not been endowed by nature with the average amount of bodily energy; second, those who have overdrawn upon their stock of energy for work; and third, those persons who have not had a sufficiently great stimulus to call forth their energy-storing and recuperating powers to their normal capacity.

Once the patient is classified, the matter of treatment is clear. For the first, a bringing of the bodily powers to their utmost and the suppression of ambition by which such are often fretted and stimulated to overdo; for the second, the cure by rest of body and mind, and the correction of waste of energy through unhealthy emotional channels; for the third, encouragement and stimulation into higher ambitions in life and the overcoming of the habitual bodily feelings.

For all of us the education to economy in the careful direction of

o.ur energies will be a help in reducing the amount of fatigue which we experience.”

—“THE PREVENTION of incipient flat-foot is of great importance, especially in childhood, adolescence and the time of life when fat begins to accumulate and thus increase weight for the feet to carry.

Acting under instructions from the German Society for Public Hygiene in Berlin, the author compiled the following list of rules for the prevention of flat-foot, which has been revised and is to be. distributed by the military authorities as well as the committee of schools:

1.	The shape of the human foot is radically different from that of all the other creatures of the animal kingdom.

2.	The majority otf the changes of the foot are not congenial, but acquired.

3.	The foot should be cared for like any other part of the body by means of daily cleansing and cutting of the nails in a straight direction.

4.	Movements of the toes should be carried' out with the bare foot. The foot should be turned inward in the joint.

5.	In walking and standing the tip of the foot should be placed straight forward, and not outward.

6.	The shoes and stockings 'must be neither too short nor too narrow and pointed.

7.	The shoes and stockings should be differently shaped for the right and left foot.

8.	The greatest length of stocking and shoe should be at the inner side of shoe, corresponding to the natural shape.

9.	Laced shoes are the most suitable, as giving the best support to the foot during work.

10.	Attention should be paid to the proper position of the feet in athletic and gymnastic exercises. (See No. 5.)

11.	When choosing a profession a physician’s opinion should be obtained concerning the shape and power of resistance of the foot.

12.	When disturbances develop on that part of the foot professional assistance should be secured without delay.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-367—

By accepting these suggestions for the diagnosis, prophylaxis and treatment of flat-foot we may hope that this troublesome, painful and distressing complaint will come to be limited to a minimum number of cases. Benefit would also accrue to the army, which at the present day loses a high percentage of otherwise fit recruits on account of flat-foot—about 25 per cent, in Germany and about 33 per cent, in Austria.”—Med. Review of Reviews.

—THERE are some schoolroom punishments in very common use incompatible with the best physical interests of the pupils. The maintenance of discipline is, of course, essential to progress and to mental tranquillity. In some schools, however, “discipline” is worshipped, and for its maintenance some harmful punishments are inflicted. Nor is the offending culprit the only one to suffer. Not infrequently the whole class is punished for the misdeeds of a few.

A very common form of punishment is the keeping in at recess time. This is wrong. It ought'not to be permitted. The recess hour is for the children; it is the recreation hour and surely the younger children can ill afford to lose it.

Another punishment, simple and inoffensive in itself, becomes harmful from too long infliction. The placing of the head on the desk and keeping it there until told to sit up seems a mild sort of thing. But when the unnatural position is kept for an hour or longer, perhaps because the teacher has forgotten the child, it becomes a really severe and harmful practice. This form of punishment is limited to the younger classes and these are the very ones most harmed by it.

The possibility of harm should be eliminated from all punishments administered to school children.	Hygiene.

—TESTS recently made with tuberculin in the Sea Breeze Hospital, Coney Island, indicate that from twenty-five to thirty per cent of the children under ten years from the East Side of New York are* infected with tuberculosis. The investigation was made under the auspices of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor at the suggestion of W. H. Maxwell, superintendent of city schools, and Dr. John W. Brannan, president of Bellevue and Allied Hospitals.

The children were those taken on one-day excursions by the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. Up to the middle of August 728, 381 boys and 347 girls, had been physically examined and tested for tuberculosis. Of the total who received the tuberculin 205, or 28.1 per cent, showed a positive reaction. The percentage of reaction among the girls was much higher than among the boys, being 35.1 per cent, as against 21.7.

These tests seem to emphasize the fact that all cities need outdoor schools for their tuberculous children. At the present time, as stated in “The Survey,” there are only three such schools in Greater New York, all semi-private. ‘ The tests also verify figures obtained in Paris, Vienna, Edinburgh, Stockholm and Boston as to the relative frequency of tuberculosis among small children.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—368-

BOOK REVIEW.

—“LAGGARDS IN OUR SCHOOLS;’ is the title of the most recent publication of the Russell Sage Foundation, written by Leonard P. Ayres, A. M. The book consists of 252 pages with 106 tables and 38 diagrams. Dr. L. H. Gulick, who wrote the introduction, concludes as follows:	‘‘The	most	significant of the findings of the investigation are:

(1) That the most important causes of retardation of school children can be removed; (2) That the old-fashioned virtues of regularity of attendance and faithfulness are major elements of success; (3) That some cities are already accomplishing excellent results by measures that can be adopted by all; (4) That relatively few children are so defective as to prevent success in school or in life.”

The book is subdivided into 20 chapters as follows:	Chapter	I—The

Backward Children Investigation; Chapter II—The Problems of Retardation and Elimination and their Significance; Chapter III—Some Factors Affecting Grade Distribution; Chapter IV—Extent of Retardation in DifJ ferent Systems and Schools; Chapter V—Mortality and Survival in the Grades; Chapter VI—The Elimination Study of the Bureau of Education; Chapter VII—Rates of Progress; Chapter VII.I—The Money Cost of the Repeater; Chapter IX—Causes of Leaving Schools; Chapter X—The Nationality Factor; Chapter XI—Physical Defects and School Progress; Chapter XII—Irregular Attendance as a Contributary Cause of Retardation; Chapter XIII—Promotions; Chapter XIV—The Factor of Sex; Chapter XV—Age the Controlling Factor in Elimination; Chapter XVI— Are Conditions Improving?; Chapter XVII—An Index of Efficiency for Public School Systems; Chapter XVIII—Remedial Measures, Legislative and Administrative; Chapter XIX'—Reform in and Through School Records; Chapter XX—Retardation and Society.

Mr. Ayres, in Chapter XI, comes to the following conclusions:

“1. That physical defects decrease with age; that age is the important factor and must be taken into consideration in all investigations dealing with defectiveness and school progress.

2.	It has been shown that vision does not follow the same rules as do the other defects.

3.	The examinations conducted in New York have shown higher percentages of enlarged glands, defective breathing, hypertrophied tonsils and'adenoids among the dull children than among the bright children.

4.	It has been demonstrated that physical defectiveness has a distinct and important bearing on the progress of children.” ;

The author concludes the book thus:	“Success	is necessary to every

human being. To live in an atmosphere of failure is tragedy to many. It is not a matter of intellectual attainment; not an intellectual matter at all, but a moral matter. The boys and girls coming out of school clear-headed and with good bodies, who are resolute, who are determined to do and sure that they can do, will do more for themselves and for the world than those who come out with far greater intellectual attainments, but who lack confidence, who have not established the habit of success but within whom the school has established the habit of failure.”

The book is published by The Charities Publication Committee, New York. It may be obtained from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Mil-* waukee, Wis. Price $1.50.

Digitized by CjOOQle