MIND AND BODY

VoL 30	February,	1934	No.	325

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ms second-class matter October 14, 19/6, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

---------------------------------

Original articles and reprint^

♦---------------------------------

IS PHYSICAL EDUCATION WORTH WHAT IT COSTS?

By Dr. Jesse F. Williams.

Physical education may be judged by the same economic standards used everywhere in measuring the worth of services affecting man, and that judgment is to be based upon actual and potential values. A careful analysis of any program will consider aot only the worth of the procedure in force, but also the possible accruals that would come from greater expenditure, different organization, and new purposes. Moreover, it should be remembered, the worth of services can not always be evaluated fully by economic standards. If physical education reduces the pains, worries, and discomforts of the living, if it adds to happiness and the joy of Kving, if it serves men and women as a wholesome medium for self-opression in socially desirable ways, its commercial worth is with difficulty appraised. *

* Paper read at the New York State Teachers Convention, November 29—29, 1923, Albany, N. Y.

Digitized by v^ooQle
390

To expound theTworth of physical education involves at the outset a consideration of values. Values are of two kinds: actual and potential. “Potentially, even a member of the leisure class may have very great value,” as Carver remarks, “that is, he may have capabilities which, when developed, made active, and wisely directed would produce enormously; but if they are actually dormant or going to waste, their actual value is nil, and there is nothing to compensate for the large consuming capacity of the individual.”

Potentially physical education may have very great value, may have capacities for service unrealized, may, when widely directed and generously led, produce enormously. Thus, any estimate of the worth of a physical education program should consider not only the actual worth as represented by the prevailing practise, but indeed its potential worth as a service of man.

It should be stated also, at the outset, that values are determined by two considerations: namely, the relative scarcity of the product, and the approval or disapproval given by the people to the procedure in question. The latter may have no relation to the former whatever, altho frequently people value highly that which is not abundant. The instances of disapproval of the product when the supply is scarce indicate the complexities of the problem, and often illumine the prejudices, customs, traditions, and superstitions with which we have to dead. To students of physical education the worth of their program is exceedingly clear, and their critics appear as hopelessly ignorant, narrow, or stubborn. It is easy to pass judgment on opponents of any cause. More difficult, and vastly more important, it is to understand the cause of the difference, to comprehend the weights used by the others making the test, and to get some uniformity of judgment concerning the things to look for.

Are we not justified in stating that values are determined by the relative scarcity of the product? Physical education makes its claim for worth on the basis of its contribution to health, strength and vigor, to happiness, to certain social and moral attitudes and habits. The lack of health, the absence of happiness, the inadequacy of social and moral development have ever in the history of man been the justification for means that sought their development The	Tumschnlen led by Jahn, the Burschenschaften of the German

universities, the Jugendbund, founded by Stein, were worth the money, time, energy and even the lives of the German patriots who worked so zealously for German unity and German independence. Certainly the above values were scarce in that crazy patch-work of German states in the latter part of the 18th century. When Ling, by poems, dramas and gymnastics sought the restoration of Swedish national life, he found a decadent people, and faced a situation of national humiliation. In recent times it took the Boer War to awaken the English nation to its tremendous weakness in effective citizenship. It seems to be characteristic of peoples to value high the qualities or services that are low, and to rate of real worth vigor, vitality, courage, loyalty, self-sacrifice, when these are required in dramatic ways, as in war.

Digitized by L^ooQle
391

But values are also determined by the estimation that individuals malm without recognition of scarcity as a criterion, and with little appreciation of the role of the product in the historical life of man. For example, eggs may be scarce, may command in the market a very high price, indeed may be known as one of the staple foods since primitive man pushed thru the underbrush to rob a bird’s nest, and yet to one who dislikes eggs or disapproves of eggs their value is not important. Much of the non-appreciation of physical education is of this sort. Physical education is not worth to some persons what it costs, because the activities of physical education are not liked or are disapproved. The basis may be ascetic without the critic realizing his intellectual propinquity to St. Simon Stylites; or it may be puritanic, in which all play, joy and happiness are considered works of the evil one; or, more frequently, it may be a remnant of scholasticism with its emphasis on mental gymnastics which possibly may lead to earning a living, and with its distrust of physical gymnastics which to these critics lead nowhere.

We must remember that a great many people are thinking thoughts that are distinctly medieval, and that the ideas concerning man’s nature, his possibilities, and his purposes are much more ancient than those that have to do with the life of domestic animals. It is entirely possible to convince rural folk of the opportunities and possibilities of hog culture, but it is a matter of extreme effort to get acceptance of even a limited idea of human culture and development. Part of this difficulty is due to that monstrous and disastrous motive, “the maximum production of wealth to the square mile’’ with its corollary that health and happiness can be purchased.

But as teachers, as leaders in our communities are we not justified in raising the question, “What procedures ought to arouse social approval and what ought to arouse disapproval? Some would contend that the social emotions called forth by any particular phenomena are final; there is no appeal from social approval or social disapproval. The phenomena are bad. Thus, when the farmers of New York State cause an emasculation of the Welsh-Slater law the acts are good; the disapproval is final. Or when State departments of physical education are inadequately staffed, improperly supported, the phenomena are final. But suppose certain social acts habitually call forth a certain type of response, and as a result of such responses the nation weakens itself, or civilization destroys itself, does this affect the case? It becomes then most clearly the duty to help form the responses that society shall make, and everywhere to assist in shaping the valuation of social acts in toms of the nation’s needs. “Nothing is more essential in our attempt to escape from the bondage of consecrated ideas than to get a vivid notion of human achievement in its proper historical perspective,” says Robinson,* and certainly this is of paramount importance in physical education.

• Robinson, J. H. “The Mind in the Making.” Harpers, New York, 1921, P. 82.

Digitized by LjOOQie
392

From this consideration of values it seems to be clear that the problem of evaluating the worth of physical education is twofold. First, what is the evidence of its essential nature and indispensable quality in terms of the nation’s needs, and, second, what is the evidence of its contribution to the fullness, joy and happiness of life; as a social agency, how much is it worth in helping human beings to live happily and well? Let us consider these two questions in some detail.

Modem physical education is considered as an agency of civilization, of essential nature and of indispensable quality, because of the nature of man and the character of modem civilization. Regarding the nature of man, it must ever be remembered that the type of modem man which we know is relatively recent, occupying the stage of history for probably the last 5,000 years. For at least

50,000	years B. C. we must go back to the Neanderthal man. For something like 50,000 years primitive man roamed the forests, lived in caves or crude shelters, forced to adjust to change of fauna, forests and climate. But these adaptations are indeed mild compared to the pressure for adaptation that has come to man in the last 1,000 years, and particularly in the last 500 years. To-day a naval officer flies at the record speed of 274.2 miles per hour, but only two or three days ago in the history of man steamships and railroads were discovered, and only yesterday man “came upon the magical possibilities of electricity,” while less than sixty minuta ago man learned “to sail in the air and beneath the waters’’.

These tremendous changes that characterize civilization leave the essential nature of man unchanged. He is still a biologic animal. The story of the development of his muscles, of his vital organs, including his nervous system, give no indication that he is prepared to neglect the physical activities which played so prominent a part in fashioning his form and integrating his actions. Contrariwise, the very opposite is revealed by the opinion of competent observers, and by the statistical studies of men, women and children.

Altho the biologic organism, man, has persisted little changed in the last 10,000 years, the environment has become markedly modified. In very recent times changes have occurred in America giving sanction to the demand for national physical education. The development of the factory system, beginning about 1860, has proceeded with such rapidity that to-day we see all the important industrial processes removed from the home and carried on by industrial organizations in shop or factory. Parallel with this remarkable social change has come a shift of the population so that to-day over 51 per cent of the population live in cities of 8,000 inhabitants or over. This is no trifling note, but a matter of serious importance. It reveals on the one hand dislocation of home life, increased hours for leisure, and little opportunity for children to grow and develop naturally in the tidy, brown bung?low of the modem city. It reveals, on the other hand, the appalling lack of opportunities, both in city and county, for normal social Be thru physical education.
393

The significance of physical ecucation in modem life is stressed in Professor George D. Strayer’s recent article in the Journal of the National Education Association.* In one place he mites:

“One who would argue against the program of physical education and health service must base his case upon the assumption that we do not receive an adequate return for the money invested in this field. It will be hard to make such a case, since whether we measure the work in physical education and health service in terms of happiness of individuals, in terms of increased intellectual achievement, or in terms of economic efficiency, the answer is overwhelming in favor of the work that the schools are doing.” This brings us to the second part of our problem of evaluating the worth of physical education, - namely, what is the evidence of its contribution to the fullness, joy and happiness of life; as a social agency how much is it worth in helping people to live happily and well?

Modem physical education to-day plays a prominent part as a socializing agency. In social centers, in that admirable movement for wider use of the school plant, in settlement programs, in cburch and club the activities of physical education have increasingly been used, because they are the mainsprings of expression, because they assist greatly in social contacts, and they offer a rich field for that give and take spirit so essential for people in a government such as ours. But not alone in America is this true. Wherever human beings gather the social! dng influence of physical education activities touches reason and emotion. The following excerpt from a letter written by a Chinese girl in China to a Chinese student at Teachers College charmingly portrays this spirit:

(Written by a Japanese Girl.)

Chinese girls came to Japan in this month, and they were staying in Osaka. They are Olympic game’s champion.

One day in the before Olympic day, Japanese girls visited to the Chinese girls they staying house. Japanese girls were afraid at first, but immediately they became friends. The Chinese girls are could to speak little English, the Japanese girls too. Japanese and Chinese girls made a group here and there, and they speaked with a movement.

Then they went to the yard, and took hand each other to play a game “cat and rat,” every one shouted with every language. And then they took a supper, three Japanese girls and three Chinese girls were in one table. Japanese girls made “Sukiyohi,” and they were seemed very happy.

After, they played some games Japanese girls said, “we must go back.” Chinese girls said, “we must to part with you, if we more speak is happier than now, but we could understood Japanese by this meeting. My friends are your friends. Your friends are my friends.” Japanese girls said “Sayonara,” Chinese girls said “Arigoto.”

* Strayer, G. D. Financing American Education, Jour. N. E. A., Nov., 1923, P. 352.

Digitized by L^ooQle
394

Physical education has within itself the possibilities not only for wholesome social contacts in socially desirable ways, but it also may be an effective means of real joy and happiness. To the individual moved by commercial standards, and buoyed up by the delusion that after he is rich then he will buy his happiness, this has little meaning. For such we must bring a helpful substitution, as Galsworthy suggests, changing the slogan of “maximum production of wealth to tine square mile” to “maximum production of health and happiness”. This is no idle task, nor indeed is it a futile one. It lies largely with the school teachers of America to say what the ideals of Americans shall be. Something of our problem here is suggested by Professor John Dewey when he writes, “Deliberate, unscrupulous pursuit of self-interest is as much conditioned upon social opportunities, training and assistance as is the course of action prompted by a beaming benevolence”.*

Physical education in its games, its sports, its dances offers rich opportunities for individual and social well-being and happiness, for stimulating social contacts, for social and moral learnings in sportsmanship and other citizenship values. For these values physical education must be taken out of the hospital class, where we have thought of it as a device for correcting the evil effects of confinement in school rooms. Let us not cramp our programs by the actual worth of much that is inferior in physical education to-day, but begin to realize the potentialities of a program that is based upon human needs. Let us escape from the bondage of thinking of physical education merely as a corrective of undesirable school life, and let us work to make it a positive factor in national vigor, national strength, national health and national happiness.

Is physical education worth what it costs? For thousands of years man has been tediously and often unprofitably developing a civilization. He has built huge cities and fouled the air, he has taken play and recreation spaces for factories, he has built school houses and has been trying the experiment of putting the young of the human species thru a teaching and learning process. And the race degenerates.

1 to 1 1-2 % of school children are mentally defective.

Over 1% of school children have heart defects.

5	to 10% of school children have or have had T. B.

20 to 30% of school children are malnourished.

25 to 35% of school children have defective vision.

5 to 8% of school children have defective hearing.

15 to 18% of school children have defects of nose, throat, adenoids and tonsils.

50 to 98% of school children have defective teeth.

To make up for these deficiencies in environment the school followed the advice of European enthusiasts who had something to sell, and tried correcting these evils by 10-minute lessons in calisthenics in the classroom. Is physical education worth what it

* Dewey, John. Human Nature and Conduct. H. Holt & Co., N. Y., 1822. P. 317.

Digitized by v^ooQle
395

•oats? Spend many times more the paltry sum appropriated today and watch the dividends. Increase the capitalization by play spaces, gymnasia, pools, parks, more and better trained teachers, ncher and more natural programs, then the returns that a few question to-day will be apparent.

DISCUSSION OF DR. JESSE F. WILLIAM'S PAPER “IS PHYSICAL EDUCATION WORTH WHAT IT COSTS?”

By Henry Panzer, Newark Normal School of Physical Education and

Hygiene.

We compliment Dr. Williams on his fine address. We agree with him heartily: “Physical education is worth what it costs.” But, it seems to me that the splendid arguments and statements lead to a rather vague and futile ending..

1.	As we are talking shop values, let us regard physical education as a store which offers for sale certain commodities well worth while in the development of ideal citizenship. The speaker states what these commodities shall be. He says, “Physical Education in its games, its sports, its dances, offers rich opportunities for individual and social well-being and happiness, for stimulating social contacts, for social and moral learnings m sportsmanship and other citizenship values”.

Not one word here, mark you, of the citizenship value of perfect bodily development and health which since the time of ancient Greece has been the ideal of every outstanding nation.

2.	Then the speaker states that owing to the conditions of living in our present day civilization the race degenerates.

Here we are given a list of percentages of school children with mental and heart defects, tuberculosis, with defective vision, hearing and teeth; with nose, throat, adenoid and tonsil troubles; also the percentage of those suffering from malnutrition.

May I also quote from actual figures of the U. S. army draft of the late war where similar defects and percentages have been compiled. Here we are informed "	*	"ll	picked

percent on account of deformities.

From the general draft, of 82,592 men examined, 62 percent were discharged and of these four and three-tenths percent on account of deformities.	4

Among the defects listed by the speaker, no mention is made of such deformities involving the bony and muscular structure. If medical examinations prove with all positiveness that at the beginning of school life an average of from seven percent to ten percent of the children suffer from lateral curvatures of the spinal column and that this number increases in three-fold proportion up to the end of school time, there would be sufficient reasons to give to this fact due consideration and to seek means of improving such conditions.

men examined were discharged

one-fifth

Digitized by

Google
396

Now, just here we must differentiate between physical education and physical training.

Physical education includes medical inspection, hygiene, nutrition, and other correlated subjects; also exercise. By means of the first mentioned factors, we endeavor to keep the body in perfect health by preventing the defects mentioned by Dr. Williams.

Through exercise, that is, through the various activities of physical training we endeavor to prevent and correct the deformities not mentioned by the speaker. In perfecting bodily development the outcome must be health, vigor and happiness.

In reference to this, may I quote Sir George Newman,* * whs in 1919, at the time of the publication of the English Syllabus of Physical Training was the Chairman of the British Board of Education. He said, “But proper nourishment, effective medical inspection and treatment, and hygienic surroundings, however excellent, will not of themselves build up a sound physique. Physical exercise also is required. Many and various are the forms which it may take. Undirected, indiscriminate exercise, however, suggested by the whim or fashion of the moment can not take the place of a scientific system of physical training, which is indispensable as much for the normal healthy development of the body, as for the correction of inherent or acquired defects. Especially is this true in these days of close industrial application in more or less restricted environment, cramped positions and confined atmosphere. At the same time, it is essential that physical training should be carefully adapted to the needs and capacities of varying ages and should possess the elements of freedom, refreshment and elasticity”.

3.	Personally, I do not believe in the 10 minute classroom lesson. Least of all do I favor a classroom lesson starting with respiratory exercises. But I do believe that at least fifteen minutes should be devoted to such work, if lack of gymnasia, over crowded schools and curricula compel tis to follow this course. Evidently, to our country, physical education is not worth its cost. If we are compelled to use the accomodation at our disposal, why not use it to the best advantage?

If we sift our material, free our gymnastics from too many drills and exhibition work which depend more upon memory than muscular force, and are little adapted for the purpose of stimulating the functions of the body; if we train better teachers, insist that all formal work in gymnastics be executed with the utmost precision and detail; and, what is most important, with real progression and order, may we not then obtain some real benefits even from a 15 minute lesson in classroom? Then, there would be less need of clinics or “hospitals” for corrective gymnastics.

I presume that the speaker in offering commodities such as games, sports and dances* and in suggesting to increase the capital-

*	Sir George Newman: Syllabus of Physical Training for Schools., pp. 34.

*	In justice to Dr. Williams, I must state, that in reading the paper he also mentioned gymnastics. Let us hope that Dr. Williams means formal as well as informal work.

Digitized by v^oosle
397

ization by play spaces, gymnasia, pools, parks, which undoubtedly are needed, has not forgotten the essential work to be done in gymnasia, certain activities which have alwavs been considered standards, namely, gymnastics. And I mean by this, gymnastics including recreative work such as games, athletics and dances. I also presume that Dr. Williams does not intend to make out of the gymnasium a playground, nor a penitentiary, but that there discipline and order should be some of the habits acquired by our youth.

It may be well to review for you a few of the fundamental considerations which lead to the adoption of gymnastics as a means of exercise.

(a)	Games and plays develop the same muscles as other daily activities, i. e., flexors, and therefore are not conducive to good posture except as to add to the general bodily tone.

(b)	Children, when they enter school have already acquired defects.

(c)	Posture exercises—What plays would take the place of such exercises?

(d)	Educational value (self control, co-operation and leadership, accuracy). What is the difference of the motor equipment of a man who has had gymnastic training plus free activities as contrasted with one who has received all the training on the playground and athletic field? Better poise, more finish as shown by the efficient and graceful management of his body, not only in gymnastic movements but also in social contact as well. Quoting Dr. Edward M\ Hartwell,* who was recognized as one of the foremost students of gymnastic questions:— “The ends of exercise may be characterized in a general way, as first, the promotion of health, and second, the formation of proper habits of action.”

What we need is a well-balanced program, a day’s order which will include the most important activities, arranged according to purpose, taught correctly and conscientiously, always considering that physical education is an art. Let us thus be artists and not mere bungling artisans!

Our foremost leaders, Hartwell, Gulick, Sargent, Seaver, Bolin, Arnold, Stecher, and others have made physical education their life’s work. They have done their utmost to promote our cause, “to move upward, working out the best.”

We are easily inclined to criticizing and so undermining their work, why not let us get together and make our criticism and convictions constructive and positive. Then we may present a solid united front to our country at large and use undivided efforts to convince all: that Physical Education is Well Worth Its Cost.

* Jacob Bolin:

“Why Do We Teach Gymnastics?” p. 38.

Digitized by

Google
398

THE CONCEPTION, ORGANIZATION, AND PROGRESS OF ASSOCIATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF HEART DISEASE IN AMERICA.

By Joseph Sailer, M. D., Professor of Clinical Medicine, University of

Pennsylvania.

The idea of an Association for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease originated with Dr. Lewis Conner, of New York Ci(y, who had observed, as all have observed, cases of laboring men with heart disease who, having had their failing hearts restored by hospital care, were obliged, upon their discharge from the hospital, to return to heavy work, the only kind they could do, with prompt injury to their hearts and consequent return to the hospital. This seemed to Dr. Conner not only uneconomic but also barbarous.

As a result of his individual efforts for several years, an association was formed in New York City. The success of this association in co-ordinating the various agencies in New York City, which are able to assist these heart cases, inspired similar efforts in other cities, of which Philadelphia was one of the first.

Such an association is organized for the purpose: first, to discover the number of cases of heart disease in the city. This is no easy task. Among the school children a nearly complete census of heart cases can be made, but among the laboring classes it can be done only when the cases present themselves for relief from their symptoms, or as a result of examinations made in industrial plants; second, to take care of all of these cases that, for any reason, chiefly financial, are unable to receive proper care in their homes but which are not so seriously ill as to be obliged to remain constantly in the hospitals.

If posable an occupation is found for the patient in which he can earn his living without too great a demand upon his physical strength. Efforts are also made to teach these men new trades of some simple nature which are easy to perform, for the majority of these patients have not sufficient education to enable them to perform clerical work.

Such tasks as basket making, simple terra-cotta work, and certain forms of weaving, have been found not to be beyond their aptitude, and in New York it was found that a considerable proportion of these cases have been made self-supporting. They are kept under constant supervision at the cardiac clinics, as are other cases, who are able to continue at their previous occupations; and, when it is necessary, they are_ enabled to rest, if at any time the heart should show signs of flagging.

A more difficult problem is the wife of a laboring man who has cardiac disease. The physical work these women are required to do is considerable, and it is very difficult to persuade them to leave their homes, while it is usually quite impossible for than to neglect their work when they are at home.

As different associations were formed thruout the country, it became apparent that a closer co-ordination of all these organiza-

Digitized by

Google
399

tions would not only be useful to each particular organization in the way of improving the work of each one thru the experience derived in other places, but also by standardizing the work, would enable the results obtained in one place to be compared with those in all other places.

Moreover, it is believed that by organizing such organizations thruout the country, the problem of caring for the heart cases wiM be greatly facilitated, first, by arousing public interest in the subject; secondly, by enabling heart cases to receive adequate supervision if they move from one place to another, and thirdly, in the case of small communities, by co-operation and concentration of certain forms of effort, such as vocational education, institutions for the care of children, etc., economy could be promoted by having the different organizations sufficiently large to minimize the overhead expenses.

National Association Organized.

As a result of this feeling, there was appointed in St. Louis in June of last year, a committee to form a National Association for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, and it is hoped before long to organize in Pennsylvania a Pennsylvania Association which will be a part of this National Association, particularly interested in the welfare of the heart cases in Pennsylvania. *y ><d 'I

Just what form this will take has not at present been determined, but that associations intend to co-operate earnestly for the study of methods of prevention and relief of heart disease, to stimulate tnru-out the State and the United States the organization of similar agencies wherever they may be needed (and there is no place where such agencies are not needed at the present time), is an assured fact.

What the outcome will be remains for the future to show. That the number of cases of heart disease can be reduced, particularly if we can begin everywhere with the school children; that the number of working days of the laborer with heart disease can be increased so that he will be better able to care for himself and for his family and will be less of a charge upon the community; and that the comfort, happiness and duration of life of the victims of heart disease can be increased; these results hardly admit of doubt.

If the work progresses, as those who are interested in it expect, there can be little doubt, moreover, that it will be of benefit not only to the unfortunate objects of its efforts, but also to the community at large; and that it will result in the increase of economic efficiency of patients with heart disease, has already been shown by the experience in New York City.

Probably no form of effort for the sick promises such large returns as does this attempt to combat disease of the heart by organized methods on a large scale.

Below is given the list of cities in the United States and Canada in which Associations for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease have been formed, also a list of cities which have cardiac clinics where associations may be formed in the future:

Google
400

New York City, an association with 38 cardiac clinics.

Chicago, III., an association with 8 cardiac clinics.

Boston, Mass., an association with 6 cardiac clinics.

Montreal, Canada, an association with 1 cardiac clinic.

Hot Springs, Ark., 1 cardiac clinic.

Toronto, Canada, 1 cardiac clinic.

New Haven, Conn., 2 cardiac clinics.

Des Moines, Iowa, 2 cardiac clinics.

Indianapolis, Ind., 1 cardiac clinic.

Brookline, Mass., 1 cardiac clinic.

New Bedford, Mass., 1 cardiac clinic.

Worcester, Mass., 1 cardiac clinic.

Detroit, Mich., 1 cardiac clinic.

Minneapolis, Minn., 2 cardiac clinics.

St. Louis, Mo., 2 cardiac clinics.

Cleveland, Ohio, 1 cardiac clinic.

Pittsburgh, Penna., 1 cardiac clinic.

Memphis, Tenn., 1 cardiac clinic.

Milwaukee, Wis., 2 cardiac clinics.

New Rochelle, New York, 1 cardiac clinic.

There are associations in 4 States in the United States and 1 in Canada. There are cardiac clinics in 14 States or 23 cities in the United States and 2 in Canada.

CONVALESCENT CARE OF THOSE THREATENED WITH OR SUFFERING FROM HEART DISEASE.

By William D. Stroud, M. D., in Charge Convalescent Ward and Heart Clinic, Philadelphia Hospital for Contagious Diseases; Secretary, Association for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, Philadelphia.

At the present time the problem of convalescent care for various types of patients is much discussed. It has many supporters, but many others feel that on a large scale it is unnecessary. Many believe, first, that separation of the various members of families, which is unavoidable in any plan of country convalescent care, is unwise. Second, that the great difficulty in educating the average patient to the advantage of such care before returning to the exacting routine of his daily life, makes the providing of a large number of beds in specially planned homes in the country unwise. These two points have made many of the best able to sponser and provide such homes look skeptically upon any project which may include country convalescent care.

In the care of those actually suffering with, or most of all, threatened with heart disease, no such arguments are practical; for if the plans for the prevention of heart disease have been unsuccessful and the heart is definitely damaged, this damage is usually permanent, and the care of this damaged heart becomes a life-long problem. A problem never to be successfully solved unless the patient can be made to understand the limits within which he must

Digitized by xjOO^LC
401

plan the activities of his future life. Experience has taught that it is almost impossible to teach this lesson in the home, and that undoubtedly the best results are to be obtained by permitting such patients to learn to recognize and understand these limits by actual experience in well-supervised convalescent homes. Then with the lesson well learned they may return to a modified routine of their daily life under the supervision of a family physician or a heart clinic.

Admitting, then, that convalescent care is an essential link in the front line of a successful attack upon the problem of the prevention and relief of heart disease, how can it be made most worth while? Convalescent care of cardiacs quickly divides itself into four classes.

I.	Those with apparently undamaged hearts but convalescing from infections which usually or occasionally damage the heart.

II.	Those with actually damaged hearts also convalescing from the infections included in Class I.

III.	Those with actually damaged hearts in whom the disease is stationary or possibly slowly progressive.

IV.	Those with advanced heart disease on the border line of heart failure, or in whom a return to a condition in which the heart is able to successfully carry on its work is, at the very best, to be only of short duration.

Before going a little more into detail as to the best methods to meet the problems presented by each one of these four classes, let us remember that in youth approximately 90 per cent of all heart disease is believed to be caused by some type of infection. This apparently occurs thru bacterial invasion, most often in acute rheumatic fever, chorea (St. Vitus’s dance), acute or chronic tonsilitis and diphtheria. In later life the chronic poisons of intemperate eating, drinking, etc., and venereal diseases are usually the causative factors.

That type of convalescent care most practical and which will in the end produce the greatest results is that applied to Classes I and II. In them it is perfectly possible, in some, to prevent cardiac damage, and in all, to minimize, at least, any inevitable damage to the heart which has already occurred. This is the work which has been carried on by Dr. Eustice in his country convalescent home at Brookline, Mass., for the last six years, and which had been begun here in Philadelphia by the Philadelphia Association for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease at Little White Cottage at Devon, from April until November of last year, where unfortunately over one hundred such cases had to be turned away for lack of space. Dr. Furbush, in the heart work at the Philadelphia Hospital for Contagious Diseases at Second and Luzerne Streets, where post-diphtheritic cases suspected of heart damage are held under observation, is also making an important contribution to this work. This is the type of preventive work which should appeal to all, for it is a definite plan to save and prolong life.

Digitized by v^ooQle
402

' Altho it will always be necessary to provide for care of those felling in Classes III and IV, vet it must ne evident that with the successful accomplishment of the task of properly caring for Classes I and II the numbers in Classes III and IV will be greatly reduced. At present the facilities for caring for these unfortunate individuals in Philadelphia are entirely inadequate. New York Citv, because of the work at the Burke Foundation at White Plains, under the supervision of Dr. Frederick Brush, is in fact the only city where sufficient beds for proper country convalescent care of such cases have been provided.

It is my sincere hope that this short article may make clear the dire need in this, the City of Brotherly Love, for greatly increased facilities for the proper country convalescent care of those threatened by, or suffering with, heart disease.

THE NEED OF TRAINING FOR PARENTS*.

By George E. Johnson, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

“Do you know/’ said a parent recently, “I believe it is getting to be more and more difficult to bring up children. Why, parent-craft requires about as much knowledge as a profession.”

“Yes,” was the reply, “it requires a knowledge of several professions.”

Once upon a time bringing up children was a simple matter. My grandfather and grandmother, on my mother’s side, reared eleven successfully. My grandfather was a farmer, a lay Methodist preacher, a Justice of the Peace, a mender of harnesses, a cobbler of shoes, and pulled his neighbors’ teeth. My mother had as an heirloom the crude forceps, or hand-forged turnkey, provided with a hinged iron claw, by means of which the primitive dentist gripped hold of the aching member and literally twisted it out of the sufferer’s jaw.

For those days, Grandfather was a successful dentist. I imagine he would be regarded somewhat differently today. He was a successful father, but I doubt that he could have reared his children so happily by his methods under present-day conditions.

Now, I do not mean to imply that there is any similarity between rearing children and pulling teeth, but I do think that this illustration suggests food for thought. Society has gradually and consistently come to require higher standards of knowledge and attainment for certain responsibilities and duties. If a man would practice law, or fill a tooth, or write a prescrpition for a sick horsa or carry our mail, he must conform to standards of knowledge and efficiency fixed by law.

Not so for the task of rearing children. The law sets no standards of knowledge, skill, or proficiency for the practice of parent-

* Read before the Parenthood Institute of the Boston Health Show, October 1928.

Digitized by L^ooQle
403

hood. Yet the supreme responsibility, the gravest obligation, the highest duty that come to most men and women, come to them as lathers and mothers. Do we need to train for fatherhood and motherhood?

Some say that Nature provided the essential knowledge for the practice of parenthood. It is quite true that skill and wisdom of parenthood progressed far under a “let-it-alone” method; parental love and common sense safeguarded childhood not altogether badly thru the ages of man’s progress. But here is something for us to consider—that parental love and common sense have not increased appreciably, if at all, in recent generations, while complexities, difficulties, and dangers in physical, mental and moral and social adjustment have constantly and tremendously increased. Each generation of parents finds new problems of greater complexity added to those that preceded, until mother-instinct and grandmother-lore are no longer adequate for their solution.

Some who agree that Nature has not alone provided sufficiently for parenthood say with respect to the need of training for parenthood that public education is helping out the home as never before and that the great body of highly trained and efficient teachers supplies what parents never could.

It is true that the school interests itself far more than formerly in the general welfare of children and assumes many functions formerly left to the home. I well remember how, a quarter of a century ago, a young superintendent of schools in a small town in this Commonwealth succeeded in interesting the dentists in making an examination of the teeth of school children. The results of that investigation proved astounding to the dentists, the teachers, and the public generally. One of the dentists offered a dental chair at a small expense for use in one of the school buildingB and each of the dentists donated a morning a month for examining and remedying the defects of the children. When the matter was reported to a charity organization of the town, a prominent member of the society and successful business man of this city, met the proposal with the objection that there was no more need of establishing a dental chair in a school building than for establishing a barber's chair. The only reply that occurred to the astonished superintendent was that the gentleman had perhaps a very exaggerated regard for a hair-cut or a very meagre one for the care of the teeth of children.

Surely it is a far cry from that point of view to the present attitude in many public schools of our Commonwealth which are doing so much for child betterment.

But in spite of the many things that the school is doing to relieve the responsibility of the home, it should be remembered that, after all, the school has a child for hardly more than one-fifth or one-sixth of the waking hours of the year, while the home must still bear the brunt of the burden and in a far more intimate and subtle way. For the most part still, only by hap or mishap, do future fathers and mothers learn to manage well or ill the children they may have. Our high schools generally do not recognize directly in their courses the need of training for parenthood. Rarely does a college admit for

Digitized by Google
404

credit towards a diploma any study that applies directly to fatherhood and motherhood. A student may prosecute a study of the digestive apparatus of a crawfish or how long it may take a decapitated angleworm to grow another head and whether, perchance, it may be a better head than the first one; but how a child behaves and why he behaves as he does and how the behavior may affect his after life are questions still too often left to kindly friends or grandmother lore to answer.

More important still, the first years of life are generally spent entirely in the home. Increasingly these years are coming to be regarded as the most important of all in determining health and personality. Three-fourths of all the deaf, says Dr. Gessell, a considerable portion of all the blind, one-third of all the crippled, three-fourths of all those defective in speech come to their handicaps in these years.

Not alone does the body suffer, but the soul as well. The great fundamentals of personality and character, says an eminent psychologist, are practically finished with a child’s first pair of trousers; a child may be made or broken by his fifth birthday. For the most part, the home and not the school determines the great issues of individual life. In all the hue and cry for better schools and better teachers, we should hear one clear note for more efficient homes and parents.

I wish it were possible to give an estimate of the extent that grandmother lore good and bad, instead of scientifically established knowledge, is the guide of parents: such lore as, “a crying infant is always in need”; encouraging thumb sucking; managing children thru fear—“the bogey man will get you”; authority without reason—“because I told you to”; treating children as inferiors; breaking the will; not sparing the rod but spoiling the child; lying to children because they don’t understand; exposing to children's diseases to have them over with, not knowing that it is many times as dangerous to have measles in the earliest years of life as it is in later childhood, or that whooping cough in the first year of babyhood is more dangerous than small pox to an adult. While, as Woods Hutchinson said, it isn’t so very dangerous to be alive, in many localities it is twice as dangerous to be a baby under a year of age as for an adult to have typhoid fever. A young father and mother who were trying to rear a child in accord with what enlightenment they could get, found their methods much disapproved of by their hired woman who had had much experience as the mother of twelve children. Finally the young mother said, “Now, Martha, tell me about your children. Where are they now?” “I lost all of my children but three,” said Martha, whereupon the young parents hesitated to substitute Martha’s methods for their new-fangled ways.

It is the recognition of the need of training for parenthood that has led to various measures for child-welfare and parental training. “Baby-week” and “better babies” contests have interested and influenced many thousands of parents. The Federal Board for Vocational Education has published and sent out broadcast most excellent literature on the care and training of children. Mother-craft schools,

Digitized by Google
405

schools for home-making, the Y. W. C. A., Chautauqua, Parent-Teacher Associations, Mothers’ Meetings conducted by Kindergarten teachers, and correspondence courses, have extended opportunities within the reach of many. But it remains a deplorable fact that our colleges, including state universities, and our great public education system, wherein lies our chief hope, have made but meagre provision for education for parenthood. It does not seem to me that we can legislate men and women into being good parents; parenthood at its best can be only a free-will offering. Nor can we leave it to scientists to rear our children; they must be reared by fathers and mothers in the home.

Oliver Wendell Holmes suggested that a child’s education should begin with his grandparents. Surely, in comparison, it is a modest proposal to have his education begin with his parents. “It is always a race between education and catastrophe,” says H. G. Wells. A good way for education to gain a lap on catastrophe is thru a better preparation for parenthood.

The very last words of the Old Testament are these: “And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to their children and the heart of the children to their fathers lest I come and smite the earth with a curse”. Where shall future parents get that knowledge and understanding of children, that sympathetic honesty that shall turn the hearts of parents and children to each other?

That astute and efficient old rascal, as he appears to me, Bismarck, said a wise thing. “What you wish to have in the nation you must put into the schools.” It seems to me that our high schools and our colleges and state universities might greatly increase their •ontributions, if they would, towards better parents, better homes, better babies, better children, better men and women, a better nation, and a better world.

VENTILATION WITH WINDOW INLETS.

Probably the most convincing rebuttal, from a practical standpoint, to the conclusions of the New York State Commission of Ventilation in favor of open-window ventilation, is contributed by Samuel R. Lewis, of Chicago, to the American School Board Journal, June. This article is an elaboration of Mr. Lewis’s discussion of the subject at the recent semi-annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

Mr. Lewis, for instance, makes the confident assertion that the desirable and comfortable conditions in rooms ventilated with hooded window inlets and exhaust flues are obtainable only when all of the following arrangements are effective, and conditions are unsatisfactory if any of them are not effective:	.	*	t

1.	The inlets, necessarily teacher controlled, must be open and cold air must be entering.

2.	The area of the mlet openings must bear a definite relation to the outside temperature, the presssure of the wind and the intensity of suction in the vent flues.

* Reprint from “Heating and Ventilating Magazine.”

Digitized by

Google
406

3.	The radiators must be heated.

4.	The doors to corridors most be closed.

6.	It must be comparatively cold outside, the colder the better.

Mr. Lewis refera to a series of tests he made covering a number of grade schools in Evanston having window ventilation, with radiators and gravity vent flues. He found that only the rooms on the windward side received enough fresh air to neutralize the odors and give a sensation of freshness. The leeward rooms did not have enough pull to draw fresh air in thru the windows against the wind effect. The teachers in these buildings had learned to open the doors to the corridors so that the wind blew across the building. The windward rooms received some fresh, cool air. The leeward rooms received warm air from the uncontrolled corridors and in several cases from the basements and toilet rooms. A number of tests of temperatures and moisture and distribution were made under laboratory conditions, and verified tbe foregoing conclusions.

“By watching closely the arrangements in a windward room," states Mr. Lewis, "I could maintain comfort, frequently changing the window adjustments and operating the steam valves on the radiators. There were a few interludes even then, when the pupils near the vent openings were subjected to uncomfortable drafts, even tho I was giving undivided attention to the matter. Watching the teacher and not interfering m any way, I observed that she could operate most of the time with but one window inlet open, and would frequently close even that one. In her defense I will admit that the outside temperature was low—around zero.

“On the leeward side the teacher objected to my closing the doors to the corridors. So great was the wind effect, causing a low atmospheric pressure in the lee of the building, that the window openings acted as outlets, and a gale of cold air entered the room thru the vent flue. I tried sitting in front of the vent opening for a time. The cold air on my legs and body was disagreeable. It would kill a tender child, I judge, if kept up very long. In self-defense one either opened the doors to the corridors or closed the window openings."

Mr. Lewis also referred to a large school in northern Michigan which had hooded window inlets and mechanical exhaust. The inlets have fine screens and adustable hoods to deflect the air upward. Every classroom window has an inlet. The radiation is unshielded, but is of the wall type, and covers almost entirely the exposed wall below the window stools. The rooms have thermostats. The vent outlets are on the sides of the rooms opposite to the windows, and are near the ceiling. There is a vacuum system of steam circulation.

“On entering the building,” reports Mr. Lewis, “I had a primary feeling of open-mindedness, and tried to eliminate all prejudice. I felt that the mechanical exhaust scheme ought to do away with the difficulty I found at Evanston with the leeward rooms. The hooded inlets were adjustable, bad fine screens to keep out snow and some of the dust, and the automatic temperature regulation ought to relieve the teachers to some extent. The building h«d
407

been used for several years and the operating conditions, as to intelligent manipulation, would be what one could expect for any system of ventilation.

"It was about zero outside. I entered at about 9:30 A. M. I found some classrooms with two of the five or more window inlets open. In no case were more than two inlets open on this morning, giving an aggregate area per classroom of about 72 sq. in.

"Where they had 25 pupils and 72 sq. in. of inlet, and the corridor door was closed, ana the radiator was receiving heat, the air smelled sweet, there was a pleasant coolish breeze or zephyr across one's face, the occupants were happy, and I felt a warm glow of appreciation toward the New York State Commission of Ventilation.

“I wandered around from room to room. Pretty soon I found a bad one—regular old-fashioned classroom odor. The inlets were closed; the teacher had felt a chilly draft and had shut them.

"Again, I found a room with the corridor door open. The room was chilly and the odors were objectionable. The corridor had no thermostats and was very warm. The teacher said she had found the room getting chilly and had closed the window inlets and opened the door to the corriaor so as to get a little air circulation.

"We analyzed the history of this affair. On entering the room with the class, the teacher, in accordance with instructions, had opened the inlets. How could she know just how much wind pressure and how cold it was, ana how much steam there was available in the radiators? She guessed at how much to open them and proceeded with her business. Pretty soon, because it was windy and cold outside and there was too much opening, the room became chilly despite the fact that the thermostat had caused steam to enter the radiator. The teacher was compelled in self-defense to close the inlets, and having learned that the room soon became close under these conditions, had opened the corridor door. The vent fiue was functioning. The easiest source of supply of air to satisfy the vent flue came from the corridor. This air was warm. It passed over the thermostat and caused the thermostat to shut steam off the radiators in the room. Half of the room was chilly and odorous. The other half was hot and smelly with air drawn from toilet and locker rooms via the corridor. You should agree with me that conditions here were fairly hopeless and should understand why the corridor doors must be kept closed with such a system.

“The only quick cure for this difficulty was to shut the corridor door, throw the window sash up, letting cold air strike the thermostat, heating the radiators, then very slowly to adjust the window inlets.

"By this time it was long toward noon. The building was warm and the sunshine and heat from the occupants had begun to take effect. The authorities had discovered that I was around and began to tell me their troubles. The principal mentioned several rooms which were too cold and in which they were having drafts. On visiting these I found that the radiators had been closed by the thermostats, which had functioned properly at 68

Digitized by

Google
408

degrees. In several cases direct sunshine, striking the thermostats, had caused them to close the radiators.”

As Mr. Lewis points out, anyone experienced with heating and ventilation and with automatic temperature regulation knows that we have to install enough heating apparatus m buildings to heat them in the coldest weather, and that prevention of overheating is the greatest labor for a system of automatic temperature regulation.

After the early hours of each cold day, and in mild weather, the thermostats must keep the heat shut off nearly all the time, else overheating with all of its evils will be in effect.

With window inlets and flue exhaust (the system recommended by the New York Commission) when the radiators are shut off there is no means of warming the cold entering air. It falls to the floor, outraging the feet and legs, instead of creating the desirable fresh motion around the breathing zone. The cola air falling into the room tends to force what warm air there is, upward, ana the thermostat receives no notice to turn on the steam until intolerable conditions exist at the floor. The cure, of course, is to raise the window sash and get a cold impulse against the thermostat so as to turn steam on the radiators. “I cannot seem to like the disease or the cure,” is his comment.

“These temperature and regulation difficulties persisted off and on all afternoon,” he continued, “and were exceedingly unpleasant, if not dangerous, to the occupants of the building. Apparently window ventilation is pretty good early in the day and pretty baa later on in the day.

“The persistent opening of corridor doors into the rooms caused reversal of currents from the locker and toilet rooms in the basement and these unpleasant odors occasionally permeated the building.

“There were four attic exhaust fans, placed rather inaccessibly. One of them had its outlet damper blocked shut. Apparently, the outlet at the ceiling was so ineffective that no one noticed that a good share of the classrooms had no vent.”

As a result of Mr. Lewis's experiences, he comes to the conclusion that:

1.	Exhaust ventilation, either mechanical or gravity, using cold air inlets leading directly to the rooms, is not satisfactory for school buildings.

2.	Fans should be placed in such locations as will permit observation as to their efficiency.

3.	Toilet, locker, shower rooms and the like should have separate ventilation and must have provision for air supply from some warmed place.

4.	Window inlets leading directly from outside, even tho hooded, are unsatisfactory, both mechanically and in their functioning.

5.	Radiators in classrooms having fixed seats should have shields to prevent excessive radiant heat from striking the occupants of adjacent seats.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
409

6.	It is impracticable and undesirable to enforce the keeping of doors from classrooms to corridors closed.

7.	It is impracticable and undesirable to enforce the keeping of classroom windows closed.

8.	It is important in schools to install automatic temperature regulation for corridors, as well as for classrooms.

Mr. Lewis is frank to admit that the old systems of ventilation are faulty, but he makes the important points that we cannot abandon thermostats. Clearly we cannot use a system of ventilation, he states, which only operates when the radiators are hot. Radiators can’t be hot all the time and must be cool most of the time. ”1 do not see,” he concludes, "how we can abandon plenum fans.”

FUNDAMENTALS IN COMMUNITY RECREATION ON WHICH ALL OUGHT TO AGREE.

Based on Seventeen Years’ Experience of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are . . endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are ... the pursuit of happiness.—From the Declaration of Independence.

It is the privilege of community-minded men and women everywhere to work to restore and preserve for all the people of America and especially for children their right to play and happiness.

1.	That in nearly every community with a population of

8,000	or more there is need of a man or a woman who shall give full time to thinking, planning and working for the best possible use of the leisure hours of men, women and children.

2.	That community leisure time programs should continue thruout the entire twelve months of the year.

3.	That it is the responsibility of the entire community to maintain recreation opportunity for all the citizens and that there ought, therefore, to be, as early as possible, support of the recreation program thru public taxation under some department of the local government.

4.	That there should be in every state a home rule bill which will permit the people of any city or town to make provision under their local government for the administration of their community recreation.

5.	That there is need in every community, even tho the municipal recreation administrative body be most effective, for private organization of citizens in their neighborhoods to make the fullest use of the facilities provided, to make sure that what is being done is meeting the deeper needs of the people of the neighborhood.

6.	That the emphasis ought to be not only on maintaining certain activities on playgrounds and in recreation centers but also and definitely on the training of the entire people in leisure time activities, so that within the home, in the church and thru-

Digitized by v^ooQle
410

•ut all natural, human relationships there shall be the best opportunity for wholesome good times.

7.	That the purpose in training children and young people in the right use of leisure ought not to be merely to fill up the idle hoursbut also to create an active, enegertic, happy citizenship.

8.	That even tho the beginning of a city or town recreation program be children’s playgrounds, other features ought to be added progressively from year to year until music, dramatic activities ana discussion of public questions, training for more intellectual uses of spare time, ana other valuable activities have been included, so that all ages and all kinds of people may find vital interest.

9.	That every boy and every girl in America ought to be trained to know well a certain limited number of games for use outdoore and indoors, so that there will never be occasion for any boy or any girl to say that he cannot think of anything to do.

10.	That most boys and girls should be taught a few simple songs, so that, if they wish, they may sing as they work or play.

11.	That all employed boys and girls should have opportunity in their free hours to enjoy companionship and wholesome social life.

12.	That thru the community recreation program every boy and girl should come to appreciate the beautiful in life.

13.	That adults, thru music, drama, games, athletics, social activities, community and special day celebrations, should find in their common interests the opportunity for a common community service.

14.	That every new school built ought to have a certain minimum amount of space around it provided for the play of the children.

15.	That nearly every new school building ought to have an auditorium preferably on the ground floor and should be so constructed that it is suited for community uses.

16.	That if a suitable meeting place for community groups is not available in the schools or elsewhere, a community building should be provided thru community effort.

17.	That each child, under ten years of age, living in a city or town should be given an opportunity to play upon a public playground without going more than one-quarter mile from home.

18.	That every community should provide space in sufficient area for the boys of the community to play baseball and football.

19.	That every community should provide opportunity for the boys and girls to swim in summer ana, as far as possible, to skate and coast in winter.

20.	That every boy and every girl ought to have opportunity, either on his own home grounds or on land provided by the municipality, to have a small garden where he may watch the growth of plants, springing up from seeds which he has planted.

21.	That in new real estate developments of five acres or more, not less than one-tenth of the space should be set aside to be used tor play just as part of the land is set aside for streets.

Digitized by LjOOQle
411

FOUR-SQUARE EDUCATION.

Charles Hubbard is captain of the varsity foot ball eleven at Harvard. He won his “H” as a member of the varsity crew. But that is not all. He has just been awarded one of the most important honors and prizes offered by America’s oldest college—the Francis H. Burr scholarship, which yields a stipend of $450. Nor is Hubbard the only Harvard athlete whose class-room standards have mot been lowered in the attainment of athletic distinction. Henry Dunker, another member of the regular foot ball team and a star sprinter on the track, is this year’s recipient of the John Harvard Scholarship. Both students obtained three and one-half “A’s” •ut of a possible five.

Burr was himself captain of the 1908 foot ball team; but he was much more than that. During his undergraduate years he impressed faculty and fellow students alike with his all-round ability, his essential versatility. He was what we sometimes call many-sided, a tower of strength which stood four-square to all the winds that blew—as Tennyson once said of the Iron Duke. He was admired, as much for his genial sociability, his intellectual alertness, and his moral worth as for his extraordinary athletic prowess. When he died in his senior year, his troops of friends established this scholarship in his memory to be annually awarded “to that undergraduate who combines as nearly as possible Burr's remarkable qualities of character, leadership, scholarship and athletic ability.”

Among the early Greeks the disc thrower was honored along with the lyric poet, the marathon runner along with the eloquent orator, the graceful dancer along with the profound philosopher and the ethical teacher. Since then, as before, there have been desert periods of arid scholarship and barren years of mere militant materialism. Too often one phase of education has been stressed while another has been slurred. Too often the body has been developed while the mind has been neglected. Or else men have been educated as if they were mere minds, without physical prowess or manual skill or social instincts or moral ideals or spiritual aptitudes. From one extreme to another the pendulum has swung. A period of over-emphasis on hair-splitting metaphysics has been followed by a period of over-emphasis on industrial achievement or commercial prosperity. The soil of human nature has been tilled in quarter-sections. And that is something that never should be done.

The need is that every potential citizen shall receive a foursquare education. That is what the schools are for.—Philadelphia “Evening Bulletin.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
412

XTRACTS AND REPRINT

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

By Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia, Pa.

THE OPEN AIR SCHOOLS.

From the Medical Review of Physical Education and Sport, Paris,

The question of the "open air schools” related to that of physical education; if one takes into consideration, as we think it is right, that the latter not only includes mere bodily exercises, but the study and realization of all conditions favorable to the normal development of the child. From this point of view, the “open air schools and camp vacation schools,” are for us, of prime importance. The open air school has been established as a school for weak and debilitated children. Here they enjoy favorable hygienic conditions and are supervised by an experienced school physician. The same type of an open air school exists on the Boulevard Bessieres, Paris, which has already given excellent results. If debilitated children benefit under better hygienic conditions, it should not be reserved to a comparatively few, but should be extended to all children of our schools. Certainly this idea, if carried out with the necessary financial backing, would be ideal. But the large sums it would require to support such schools make the plan not feasible. This is one of the reasons why other means have been provided to accomplish it.

The open air school takes care of the infirm child. With the real camp vacation school, however, there exists an intermediary, which aims to grant to the highest possible number of children the benefits of open air, physical training, diet and hygiene. It is this kind of a camp to which the children flock during August and September for frolic, rest and recreation. One of this type exists in Paris at 1’ OEuvre du Bastion 42, supported by the "Union des Femmes de France,” and one at Versailles at 1’ Ecole de Gaily— Trianon.

In the following we outline some details of the work as it is conducted at the Bastion 42, Paris.

This institution looks after the general welfare of the infant and the growing child. Six months before its birth the future mother has a pre-natal consultation with the director in charge of the institution, who guards and guides her in regard to her health. After the child is bom it is placed under the care of Dr. Mulon, until it reaches the age of three. From the third to the sixth year it is enrolled in the Kindergarten division, which is in charge of Dr. Giboulot. During this period of the child’s life, there is no real physical education work, merely hygienic measures, precise supervision of diet and the general development of the child. Some easy games and plays, some interesting and amusing pictures and a

Digitized by Google
413

sand bin constitute the pastime of the child in the Kindergarten. With the advent of the sixth year the child is transferred to the division of hygiene and physical education. There it passes under the supervision of Dr. Roueche for medical measures and under Dr. Richard for physical training. A precise physical diagnosis of each child is made, which determines the proper amount and the kind of exercises for each individual case. The child receives now its first instructions of rhythmical movements.

Let us still mention a service of pre-apprenticeship. When in an attractive form the child has the opportunity to do some manual work, it feels encouraged, becomes interested, self-reliant and proud to undertake and finish it. This is one of the aims of the institution to arouse the child’s ambition to do efficient work.

The school at the Bastion 42 is open the whole year. The children can go there every day for physical training, work or pleasure, under favorable hygienic conditions and a prevalent high moral atmosphe-e. This institution is in a broader sense an auxiliary to the public schools. During July it is a veritable vacation colony. The children arrive there at 8 A. M. and leave at 7 P. M. after devoting an entire day to bodily and mental exercises, play, pleasure and to diversified activities according to their inclination and age.

This school presents therefore, an experiment of much interest of what may be done for the physical welfare of the child.

A multiplication of similar institutions would be of great benefit to the rising generation.

Digitized by L^ooQle
414

THE GREAT SPORTIVE EVENT.

Translation by Dr. D. Besser.

Below are two photographs, illustrating the great “Annual Cross Country Run,” which took place, March 11th, at the Hippodrome at Coumeuve, France, upon a 16 Kilometre track.

The upper picture shows the victor Mr. Arbidi in the act of crossing the finishing line. His good condition can be noted; it indicates that an able athlete does not require any exaggerated efforts at the height of his training.

The photograph below pictures Mr. Percevault the champion of the “Paris-University-Club,” finishing thirtieth, elbow to elbow, with his competitor. This is a splendid record for a college athlete, who is often obliged to neglect his physical training for arduous academic studies.

Digitized by Google
415

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENJT

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.	JJ	/

Circulatory Adaptations to Exercise.—The human body exhibits a remarkable versatility in meeting the rapidly changing exigencies of every-day life. In part, this unusual aaaptability, which can rarely be duplicated in mechanisms of human construction, is due to the “extravagance of nature” in the development of the animal organism. As Meltzer once described the situation, numerous important organs and complex tissues are built on a plan of great luxury. Some organs possess at least twice as much tissue as a normal or even maximal activity would require. In other organs, especially in those with an internal secretion, the margin of safety amounts to ten or fifteen times the actual need. It is surely no disadvantage in the long run if Nature is not as economical with her resources in the body as a stricter guardian might demand. Those species that are provided with an abundance rather than a paucity of useful structure and energy, and are thus prepared to meet many emergencies, are presumably best fitted to survive in the struggle for existence.

Another factor of advantageous adaptability is often found in the instances in which one and the same function can be cared for by more than one mechanism. In reference to this, Meltzer has called attention to the vasomotor apparatus. It has long been known that, after eliminating the influences of the sympathetic and the control nervous system, the blood pressure is well taken care of by the peripheral mechanism of the walls of the blood vessels. A further instance of the existence of parallel devices for the accomplishment of one function has been demonstrated anew recently by Meek and Eyster* at the University of Wisconsin. It is well known that an increased circulation is one of the conspicuous effects of physical exercise; indeed, such circulatory activity is an obviously indispensable reaunite for the transport of essential oxygen and food material to the contractile tissues, as well as the prompt removal of rapidly accumulating wastes and heat. By an ingenious device for determining the cardiac size and output, the data being computed from the silhouettes secured from roentgenograms taken during the diastolic and systolic phases of the heart cycle, it has been made evident that not all persons respond in the same manner to exercise. Usually the cardiac output per beat is increased by activity, the effect being represented by an average output of 79 c. c. before exercise, which increased to 94 c. c. following work. In a few persons the heart rate alone changed. Sometimes the diastolic size of the heart showed an increase during exercise; often it did not. In any event, the minute volume output always increases with exercise, a characteristic change being represented by the figures 5,900 c. c. at rest and 10,750 c. c. during work.

* Meek, W. J., and Eyster, J. A. E.: Cardiac Size and Output in Man During Rest and Exercise, Am. J. Physiol. 63 : 400 (Feb.) 1923.

Digitized by

Google
416

One cannot avoid concurrence with the belief of Meek and Eyster that in exercise the output of the heart may be increased either by a larger output per beat or by an acceleration of the pulse or by any combination of these two factors. In any event, the outcome is a beneficent one for the body. The multiple protection against unexpected contingencies is not the least of unique superiorities of the devices for human function.—Journal,	Med.

Assoc., Editorial March 31, 1923.

Keeping the Blood “Fit” by Exercise.—In the modem cult of personal hygiene, physical exercise occupies an exalted position. The experiences of thousands of persons attest the benefits that may be derived from various forms of vigorous activity. Here, as in many other instances in which the pendulum c f interest swings rapidly from one enthusiasm to another, it is not always easy to identify the advantages, or to foresee the possible harms. It sometimes happens that the attempt to analyze our experiences meets unexpected difficulties, or fails to reveal any rational basis for the accepted beliefs. This has in large measure been the case with the physiology of exercise. A study of current textbooks is illuminating in this respect. They point to increased, circulation, respiration, elimination, metabolism and neural activity as beneficial effects of exercise; yet one might equally well argue that these are an inevitable incident or necessary concomitant of muscular contraction rather than a specially advantageous by-product. One popular writer,* for example, points out that in vigorous activity there is an increase in the force and rate of the heart, the respirations are increased in depth and frequency, perspiration becomes more marked, and more waste is eliminated. There is in this heightened activity of the body systems a more or less complete change in the liquids of the body. He asserts that combustion of chemical compounds in the cells releases new energy; old accumulations of waste are removed, and all the mechanisms for action are put in tune. Even reflective states, he adds, are assisted by exercise, altho, if carried to the point of fatigue, mental activity afterward is slowed down; and it is concluded that the scientific use of exercise involves the selection of forms and the extent of action that will favor best the particular somatic result desired.

Unfortunately, these consideration are too indefinite as to the physiology of exercise. No one questions that it may be good for the body in many ways. But precisely why? A muscle becomes weakened thru disuse, and ultimately atrophies. Its functional ability is maintained and enhanced by exe-cise, and strong, well developed muscles are an obvious advantage. Recently, Broun of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Reseirch has added a new chapter to the physiology of exercise, pointing to the probability

* V/ilHams, J. L.:	Personal	Hygiene	Applied,	Philadelphia,	W.	B.

Saunders Company, 1922, p. 120.

Digitized by LjOOQie
417

that it stimulates the hematopoitetic system to increased efficiency. The conclusion is based on observations of the effect of vigorous muscular activity, exhibiting itself in blood destruction. A slight increase in the total red cell volume and^hemoglobin content of the organism frequently occurs during a single day of exercise in animals previously kept under sedentary conditions. As Broun has fancifully expressed his scheme of experiment, animals long accustomed to sedentary life, and in which presumably little blood was being destroyed or made, were exercised vigorously with the idea that the blood-forming tissue might be “caught napping,” and not at once make up such unusual corpuscle losses as exercise would entail. This is precisely what seems to happen, and$t is particularly evidenced by the increase in the number of reticulated red corpuscles in the peripheral circulation such as always follows hemorrhage or other unusual demands made on the hematopoietic tissues for new cells.

Broun argued that the loss of blood cells which has been demonstrated in sedentary individuals after vigorous exercise produces a temporary anemia in them only because their blood-forming tissues are not in condition to compensate {for the increased corpuscular wear and tear. Further investigation by him has now shown that a course of “training” thru {exercise greatly facilitates the functioning of the bone marrow. The latter adapts itself to the increased demands made. For this reason, in normally active individuals a virtually constant balance is (maintained between blood destruction and blood formation in spite of occasional unusual exertions such as may be supposed to cause a temporarily increased blood destruction. These investigations have contributed an important chapter to the science of the physiology of exercise. They show that it must be an important factor in the maintenance of an efficient hematopoietic tissue. Anatomic evidence points in the same direction; for Kiilbs long ago ^observed at necropsy that exercise increases the amount of red marrow. Perhaps precise information of this character will before long give a more specific meaning to the current vague statements ^regarding the power of exercise “to develop the organs of the vital systems.”—An Editorial: The Journal A. M. A., March 17,1923. *

* Broun, G. O.: Blood Destruction During Exercise, J. Exper, Med. 36 :481,1922; 37 :113 (Jan. 1) 1923; 37 : 187, 207 (Feb. 1) 1923. t Kiilbs: Verhandl. d. Kong. f. inn. Med. 26 :197,1909.

When radiant heat falls on a body part of it is reflected from the surface, another part is absorbed and transformed into sensible heat, increasing the temperature of the body, and the remainder is transmitted thru the body and has no effect on the temperature. Both heat and light (radiant energy) follow the same physical laws, so what is said herein concerning Tight pertains also to heat. Likewise, reflecting values given in a table will serve as a guide to radiating values, as good radiators and absorbers are bad reflectors, and vice versa.

Digitized by Google
j ("Jymnasium and PLAYGROUN J)

FIELD BALL, ADAPTED AND PLAYED BY THE GIRLS IN THE HIGH SCHOOLS THRUOUT THE STATE OF

MARYLAND.

»y Minerva Stern, Physical Director, Allegany County High School,

Cumberland, Md.

Field Ball was introduced and played in the County High Schools of Maryland this fall for the first time. A Girls’ Field Ball League consisting of six or seven schools was organized in each county. The League opened about October first; all games were played before Thanksgiving.

The winning team of each county played for County Championship and the County Championshkip Team played the Championship team of Baltimore for State Championship honors.

Field Ball is a combination of Soccer and Basket Ball, quite a vigorous game played in the open, which makes it a good wholesome fall activity for High School Girls.

It is a faster game than Hockey, a trifle more strenuous, but very interesting and exciting to both players and spectators if well played, on account of the pass work called forth, due to the large field.

Field Ball seems to have stepped into existence to answer the problem of how to finance Hockey teams in High Schools.

Field Ball has many advantages:

1.	Field Ball may be introduced in High Schools in all locations, for the only equipment necessary is a Soccer ball.

2.	It may be played on the boys’ Soccer field by reducing the width and height of the goals by adjustable posts.

It requires eleven players on a team with same positions as in Soccer or Hockey.

3.	It is another progression in the group of ball games leading up to Basket Ball.

Finally Field Ball affords two months of good outdoor activity with the element of competition which calls forth co-operation and tram work, plus the benefits derived physically. It builds up the health, cultivating endurance and speed, putting the girls in good physical condition to enter the more strenuous indoor activities such as Basket Ball.

Heretofore we have passed from the Captain Ball field to Basket Ball without giving the players the freedom and endurance of a larger field of play, or the experience of the pass work so necessary. We find in the game of Field Ball an excellent preparatory game for Basket Ball.

Digitized by Google
419

We found the game rather strenuous due to a local rule, that is, not allowing a team to put more than two substitutes in thru-out the game and then only if a player is disabled.

This may be greatly improved upon by allowing the teams to use as many substitutes as they wish, thus not allowing a player to play longer than her strength or endurance will permit, also bringing more girls into play.

The rules are as follows:

1.	The Game.

The game of Field Ball is played by two teams of eleven girls each. The aim of each team is to throw the ball thru the enemy’s goal.

2.	The Ball.

The Ball is to be No. “0” soccer.

3.	The Field.

The field shall be the soccer field using the mid-line, goal and penalty area lines. The goal is 8 feet wide and 8 feet high.

4.	Officials.

The game shall be in charge of a referee, who may choose a timekeeper and a scorer. It is better to have linesmen to help the referee on "out of bounds’ and goal rulings.

5.	Playing	Regulations.

a.	Time—The game shall last four quartos of ten minutes each, with five minutes rest between. Goals are changed at the end of the half.

b.	The game begins with each team in its own half of field, throwing the ball at least fifteen feet into enemy's country, with or without a run. None of the thrower’s side may cross line until the ball has gone past midline. If onrushers get ahead of the ball or if it is not thrown 15 feet into opponents area, attackers lose 15 feet. If repeated the other side starts the ball. Two hands must touch the ball to own it, but it may be thrown with one or both hands. A ball caught up or picked up must be thrown within three seconds. It may be regains after one bounce or one juggle. It may not be handed to a team-mate but it must be thrown 15 feet if catcher is nearer enemy’s goal. Backward, it may be thrown any where, if catcher is at side of or behind the thrower. A player must be at rest on one or both feet or jumping when throwing the ball. Guarding is not allowed except as in girls’ basket ball. Ball should not be touched if held by another, but if caught by two it is tossed up by referee.

c.	Scoring—A team scores 2 points when the ball goes thru the goal (as in soccer) if thrown from outside goal area and 1 point if thrown from within goal area.

Penalty throw scores 1 point, if successful.

d.	Out of Bounds—The ball is out of bounds when it crosses the end or side lines. It belongs to the team that did not touch it last. On ball crossing end line, defenders shall take ball and may throw it into field from any part of goal area with or without a run. When the attackers are entitled to the ball beyond the end-line, one shall throw it into the field while standing at the eomer nearest

Digitized by Google
420

where the ball crossed the end line. Defenders must remain at least 15 feet away from the thrower unt'l a ball has been thrown.

Violations.

1.	Stepping with both feet while holding ball.

2.	Juggling or bouncing twice.

3.	Combination of a bounce and a juggle.

4.	Kicking ball.

5.	Throwing while lying down or kneeling.

6.	Handing ball to teammate.

7.	Touching ball held by another.

8.	Rolling tne ball.

9.	Holding ball longer than three seconds.

10.	Interfering or being what seems rough to official.

Penalty.

Within goal area—gives a “penalty throw” with goal guarded only by goal keeper—eveiyone else must be outside of penalty area. ( '*a Outside Goal Area—Gives an unguarded throw to opponent at spot where foul was committed. Everyone must be 15 feet away from thrower.

PLAN FOR YEARLY SCORING OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

ACTIVITY.

Philadelphia Public Schools, School Year Ending June, 1923. William A. Stecher.

The scoring plan for the physical education work in schools is based upon the wish expressed by the resolution of the Board of Education, dated June 13, 1916, that, among other things says: “Providing as rapidly as feasible for at least one hour per day for instruction in physical training and hygiene, including opportunities for athletics and free and supervised play.”

The Division of Physical Education, in consequence, has endeavored to create many opportunities for afterschool play and athletics. The scoring plan, therefore, has Extra-Curricular as well as Curricular Activities. Based upon the plan shown below the 185 elementary schools are grouped as follows:

Group I. Schools with After-School Playgrounds with paid playground teachers.

Group II. 7th and 8th grade schools with adequate facilities. (Yard space chief factor).

Group III. 7th and 8th grade schools with poor facilities.

Group IV. 5th and 6th grade schools with adequate facilities. (Yara space chief factor).

Group V. 5th and 6th grade schools with poor facilities.

Group VI. 4th grade schools.

The Plan in General: The curricular activities of the school are rated on the basis of 100 points. Extra credit is given for participation in extra-curricular activities. Thus many schoofe

Google
421

will be able to score over 100 points. Those 7th and 8th grade schools so doing are designated "AA” Schools (Excellent).

Because the 5th ana 6th grade schools have a decreased range in extra-curricular activities, schools in that group scoring over 95 points are designated “AA” Schools. A Fourth Grade School must score over 90 points to be known as an “AA” School.

Scoring Plan:

I.	Currictuar Activities—Value 100 points.	Value

1.	Age Aim work (running, jumping, throwing, chinning).... 50

(School Average for Doth terms).

2.	Games (Each grade	has	prescribed games)............. 25

(Games played to be noted monthly on the back of the Teachers’ Summary Sheet. To be checked at the close of the term in the same manner that the age aims are checked. This factor is not to include your general impression of how they are played, but is to answer the question, “Were they played?”)

3.	Instruction—HOW	................................. 15

a.	Froe Exercises and Tactics.........5

b.	The Age Aims.................... 5

c.	Games.............................. 5

4.	Co-operation and Interest............................ 10

Total.............................................100

II.	Extra-Curricular Activities

(Additional points to be added to the curricular activities score). *1. After School Play—Opportunity for half hour per child per

week.................................1	Point per grade

* Those schools having after school playgrounds with paid teachers are grouped separately.

2.	Field Days

a.	Local .............................5

b.	Sectional Track and Field Meet..... 1.5

c.	Belmont Meet, Complete participation 3.5 Partial participation in proportion

3. For participation in each league sport... 2.

4. For participation in indoor track meet... 1.

5.	Boys' or Girls' Swimming Meets, or Penn

Relays ................................5

Based on the foregoing the following table shows the standing of the 185 elementary schools:

Excellent Very Good Good Fair Poor Points	100 and over	90 to 100	80 to 90	70 to 80	Under 70

Group I	9	11	3	10

Group II	13	19	19	5	0

Group III	0	6	16	3	0

Points	95 and over	86	to	95	78	to	86	70	to 78	Under 70

Group IV	6	13	18	9	0

Group V	1	3	7	6	0

Points	90 and over	84	to	90	77	to	84	70	to 77	Under 70

Group VI	2	6	6	3	0

31	58	69	27	0
422

An analysis of the above table shows what really would be expected; that is, that those schools that have afterschool playgrounds, and those schools that have adequate yard facilities score the greatest number of points. Pupils m schools having mod facilities do better physical education work than pupils that have

poorer facilities.

Averages According to Groups.

The average scoring by groups is as follows:

Group	I—5	and 6 grade schools with good facilities............87.1

Group	I—Afterschool Playgrounds..........................97.3

Group	II—7 and 8 grade schools with good facilities..........92.3

Group	III—7 and 8 grade schools with poor facilities..........86.0

Group	IV—5 and 6 grade schools with good facilities..........87.1

Group	V—5 and 6 grade schools with poor facilities..........81.1

Group VI—4 grade schools.............................................82.8

Tha average score of the city as a whole is..............89.0

A Comparison in Track and Field Work.

The average scores of the city, as a whole, using only the measurable events, t. e., running, jumping, throwing, chinning, or knee raising, during the last five yearn is as follows:

1919	1920	1921	1922	1923

72.0	83.3	84.6	85.8	86.8

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN SPECIAL (ORTHOGENIC) CLASSES, IN THE PHILADELPHIA SCHOOLS.

Assignment of Games, Folk Dances, Track and Field Events.

Each assignment is for a period of two weeks.

It is advisable, at times, to finish the lesson with some short activity, additional to the assignment.

A description of each Game, Folk Dance, and Track and Field event will be found in “Games and Dances,” Third Edition, to whiek the page references are made.

Monday

1	Running Race p. p. 14,17, 26

2	Standing Broad Jump

p. 272

3	Standing Broad Jump

4	Long Jump

Rope, p. p.

14,26, 28

6 Standing Broad Jump Running Race

Lower Grade.

Tuesday	Wednesday	Thursday

Cat & Mouse Oats, Peas, Cat & Mouse p. 13	Beans

p.7

Follow the Oats, Peas, Follow the Leader	Beans	Leader

p. 15

Cat & Mouse Did you ever Cat & Mouse Follow the See a Lassie Follow the Leader	p. 4	Leader

Bean Bag	Lassie	Bean Bag

Catch, p. 16	Oats, Peas,	Catch

Beans

Bean Bag Lassie	Cat & Mouse

Catch	Oats, Peas, Follow the

Cat & Mouse Beans	Leader

Friday

Running Race

Standing Broad Jump

Long jump rope p.p. 14, 26, 28

Long Jump Rope Standing Broad Jump

Long Jump Rope Running Race

Digitized by Google
6 Ball Throw	Spin the	How d'ye do Spin the		Ball Throw
Overhead p. 109	Plate, p. 25	P.5	Plate	Overhead
7 Ball Throw	Bean Bag	How d'ye do Spin the		Ball Throw
Overhead	Catch	Lassie	Plate	Standing Broad
	Follow the Leader		Cat & Mouse	Jump
8 Ball Throw	Hand Tag	How d’ye do Hand Tag		Standing Broad
Running Race		Oats, Peas,	Catch the	Jump
	p. 15	Beans	Bean Bag	Running Race
9 Ball Throw	Skip Tag	Lassie	Skip Tag	Ball Throw
Long Jump Rope p. 15		Oats, Peas,	Cat & Mouse	Running Race
	Spin the Plate			
10 Long Jump Rope Squat Tag		How d'ye do Squat Tag		Standing Broad
Standing Broad	Bean Bag	Lassie	p. 15	Jump
Jump	Catch		Follow the Leader	Running Race
	Middle Grade.			
Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday	Thursday	Friday
1 Running Race	Cat & Mouse	Muffin Man	Cat & Mouse	Hopping Race
p. p. 14,17, 26	p. p. 13,24	p.9	(2 cats)	p. 37
2 Standing	Black Man	Muffin Man	Black Man	Standing Broad
Broad Jump	p. 56		Cat & Mouse	Jump
p. 272				Running Race
3 Ball Throw	Two Deep	Muffin Man	Two Deep	Standing Broad
Overhead	p. 84	Jolly is the		Jump
p. p. 109, 276		Miller, p. 12		Ball Throw Overhead
4 Potato Race	Follow the	Jolly is the	Black Man	Potato Race
p. p. 41,277	Leader, p. 15 Two Deep	Miller	Two Deep	
5 Standing	Ball Relay	Jolly is the	Ball Relay	Ball Throw
Broad Jump	Overhead	Miller	Overhead	Overhead
Potato Race	p. 80	Muffin Man		Potato Race
6 Long Jump	Ball Relay	Little Sister	Ball Relay	Long Jump Rope
Rope, p. p.	Underneath	p. 17	Overhead	Ball Throw
14, 26, 28	p. 81		Two Deep	Overhead
7 Long Jump	Ball Relay	Little Sister	Follow the	Long Jump Rope
Rope	Under		Leader	Running Race
Potato Race	Black Man		Cat & Mouse	
8 Ball Throw	Catch the	Little Sister	Catch the	Standing Broad .
Overhead	Wand	Muffin Man	Wand	Jump
Hopping Race	p. p 26, 56		Ball Relay	Ball Throw
			Overhead	Overhead
			Digitized byCjOO^Ic	
9 Running Race	Hand Tag	Muffin Man Squat Tag		Long Jump Rope
	Two Deep	Jolly is the	p. 16	Ball Throw
		Miller	Ball Relay	Overhead
			Under	
10 Standing Broad	Third Tag	Little Sister	Third Tag	Ball Throw
Jump	and Run	Jolly is the	& Run	Overhead
Potato Race	p. 37	Miller	Ball Relay	Running Race
			Overhead	
	Upper Grade		i.	
Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday	Thursday	Friday
1 Running Races	Day or Night I See You		Day or Night Hopping Races	
p. p. 14,17, 26	p. 60	p. 28		p. 37
2 Standing Broad	Three Deep	I See You	Three Deep	Ball Throw
Jump, p. 272	p. p. 83-93			Overhead
8 Standing Broad	Ball Relay	Carrousel	Ball Relay	60 Yard Dash
Ball Throw	Overhead	p. 33	Underneath	
p. p. 109, 276	p. 80		p. 81	
4 Ball Throw	Ball Relay	Carrousel	Ball Relay	Potato Race
Shuttle Relay	Overhead		Underneath	p. 277
p. 270	Day or Night		Three Deep	
5 Chinning and	Hop & Pull	Carrousel	Pull over the	Chinning and
Knee Raising	p. 78	I See You	Line, p. 78	Knee Raising
p. 276			Three Deep	Potato Race
€ Standing Broad	Ball Relay	Shoemaker’s Dodgeball		Progressive
Jump	Overhead	Dance, p. 60 p. 116		Stand. Broad
Ball Throw	Day or Night			Shuttle Relay
Overhead				
7 Long Jump Rope Dodge		Shoemaker’s Third Tag &		Ball Throw
60 Yard Dash	Hop & Pull	Dance	Run, p. 37	Overhead
			Pull over the	Long Jump Rope
			Line	
8 Potato Race	Catch Me	Shoemaker’s Fox and		Triple Stand-
p. 273	p. 27	Dance	Chickens	ing Broad
Chinning &	Dodgeball	I See You	p. 41	
Knee Raising				
9 Ball Throw	Third Tag &	Carrousel	Ball Relay	Ball Throw
Free Style	Run	I See You	Overhead	Free Style
	Dodgeball		Fox and	Shuttle Relay
			Chickens	
10 Ball Throw	Three Deep	Shoemaker’s Ball Relay		Long Jump Rope
Overhead	Pull over	Dance	Underneath	60 Yard Dash
Potato Race	The Line	Carrousel	Day or Night	

Digitized by Google
425

------------------------------------

News, notes and comments

❖-----------------------------------♦

A STATE LETTER IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR

MISSOURI.

By Henry S. Curtis, Director Of Hygiene and Physical Education.

The letter is granted by the State Department of Education on the basis of 809 points as follows:

1. Health, including posture and absence of physical

defects ......................................   100	points

2.	“M” Scholarship for previous year................. 100	points

3.	"S” Scholarship for two previous years............ 200	points

4.	Sportmasnhip ..................................... 100	points

5.	Third Badge Test................................   100	points

6.	Scout Master, or Captain, or Leadership........... 200	points

7.	Guardian of Camp Fire.......	  200	points

For performance in baseball, indoor baseball, American or soccer football, basketball, hockey, track or swimming, graded “S” by the physical director, 100 points. For making school team in any of these events in which there is a regular series of contests, 200 points. For walking 100 miles in one year in not more than twelve walks, 100 points.

Out of 1600 possible points the student will thus be expected to secure 800 at any time during his or her course. Of these 100 must be in health, 100 in scholarship and 100 in sportsmanship and at least 300 in athletics. The letter shall be granted only on the approval of a committee of the local faculty and the State Department of Physical Education. So far as possible the letter will be also conferred by a member of the Department. It is believed that each point counted in this series will be an advantage to the student as a teacher and will also give him or her a prestige with the children which could be secured in almost no other way. Such proficiency is required of every one who receives a Rhodes Scholarship. The state letter will mean a somewhat similar distinction and should be considered in the final recommendation of students.

The state will also issue to the winners of the “M” a diploma recording the performance of the student and signed by the Department of Physical Training, the President of the College, State Superintendent of Schools, and the State Director of Physical Training.

CERTIFICATE OF PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY.

(To be used in connection with granting the state letter.)

This is to certify that________________________________________

has won the State Letter in Physical Education with the following points:

Digitized by LjOOQle
426

1## im Health If# in Sportsmanship #0 in Scholarship.

••in ______________________________

•0 in..............................

•0 in ______________________________

•0 in..............................

M in_______________________________

____________________   _	.Physical Director.

_________________________President.

_________________________State Supt. of Schools.

.........................State Director of

Physical Education.

Speaking to the'teachers at the last meeting of the Pennsylvania Education Association, Governor Pinchot when mentioning physical education said that of all school subjects it is the one that can do definite things. He mentioned Theodore Roosevelt and called attention to what hard muscular work had done for him. "Physical education,” he said, “can give to pupils the strength and vigor that they will need to become useful citizens.”

-------o------

Compulsory physical education in all the schools and high schools of the United States was advocated at a meeting of the Tacoma-Camp Lewis sector of the Association of the Army of the United States, held at the Officers’ Club at Camp Lewis, Tacoma.

The plan was introduced at the Camp Lewis meeting by Brig. Gen. Maurice Thompson, adjutant general of the Washington State National Guard, urging it as a measure to prevent unnecessary losses in time of war.

The plan was approved by Brig. Gen. Robert Alexander, who commended the schools of Tacoma for the high point to which they have developed the physical education of the young men amonglthe students.

-------o------

In many parts of Germany the present time is bringing to the fore front movements similar to those that found expression there over a hundred years ago. Leaders of the type of Jahn are appearing and are gathering around themselves the youth of the land. These adolescents are taken on walks thru the country, are taught broad patriotism and are encouraged to sing well-known folk songs. The aim of these teachers is to create a fellowship, a social atmosphere and idealism that shall help the country thru the adversity and the dark days that now are upon it.

A recent letter from Germany states that on account of the difficulty of paying teachers and of the impossibility of paying for the heating ana lighting of buildings the indoor physical training work in many gymnastic societies has been seriously decreased and, in some cities has been discontinued. Outdoor games, however, appear to flourish to an extent unknown to us. The game that

Digitized by

Google
427

is most popular is called handball. It does not, however, resemble our handball game but is a combination of soccer and basketball. It is more like our new game called “speedball,” this also allowing the “handling” of the ball. In the circuit of Brandenburg, it is reported, there are over 300 teams organized in handball leagues.

-------o------

That the socalled physical education bill has aroused some very decided opposition is evidenced by the following editorial from the “Beacon-Journal” of Akron, Ohio, entitled “Fess Joins the Uplifters.”

“The national treasury is bulging even unto the point of bursting with unneeded money. We only owe something less than twenty-five billions of dollars, and our taxes are so low that most of us are beginning to feel uneasy that we are not doing our duty to the country. Observing these pleasing conditions the Hon. Simeon D. Fess proposes to remedy them as soon as may be. For this purpose he has introduced three bills into congress which will at once absorb eleven and a half millions of this painful surplus and in time, if his bills become law it is conservatively estimated they will guard against the dangers of a full treasury by extracting about twenty millions annually.

“The first of the bills shows that our eminent senator does not

agree with those misguided persons who assert that the country already has too many colleges and universities. For it provides for a national university at Washington. This is not for the purpose of education but supereducation, as no one can enter it unless he is a master of arts. What it is to teach we do not pretend to know, but from the published account of the bill its primary purpose seems to be to train the papsuckers in the way they should go.

“We do not know whether this training is open to senators and congressmen as well as to future diplomats and board and bureau job-nolders. If so and if it is proposed to specialize a course to teach senators something about the Constitution of the United States, we are going to withdraw our objection to it, even tho it calls for a $500,000 appropriation at once to get plans and things ready to spend many times that sum later on. But until we know, as painful as it may be, we are going to oppose the government setting up any such enteiprises to be supported by the taxpayers of the country until it affirmatively appears that every object provided by it—except training the papsuckers—is not now taken care of by dozens of institutions in the country. So much for that for the time being.

“The published report of the great Fessian idea proceeds to give us this further delectable information:

“No. 2 of the Fess bills provides for the promotion of physical education in the United States thru cooperation with the states in preparation and payment of supervisors and teachers of physical education, including health supervisors and school nurses.

“Embarking upon this field along the lines suggested by the junior Ohio senator would cost $10,500.00 of federal money the first year. To carry out the purpose of the act $10,000,000 would be

Digitized by

Google
428

appropriated in one lump, and this part of the expense would fluctuate in after years according to the number of children in each state taking advantage of the act. It would never run below $1 for each child served.

“To administer the act, there would be created in the bureau of education a division of physical education, and for the new salaries entailed there would be an annual appropriation of $300,000. New duties would also develop upon the United States public health service, under the bill, and $200,000 would be appropriated each year for additional salaries there.

“The third of the Fess bills calls for co-operation by the federal government in paying salaries of teachers, supervisors and directors of home economics. The initial appropriation would be $500,000 but each year there would be added $250,000 so that in nine years the annual appropriation would be $3,000,000. The bill also carries an incidental appropriation of $50,000 a year.

“We cannot imagine any taxpayers reading this without being convulsed with delight. It points the certain way to nourish his keen sense of obligation to a benign and paternalistic government that proposes to let him know it is still there by keeping up his tax rate. And in the meantime all the job huntere that are weary and heavy laden will sing paeans of resounding praise for the good times coming.

“Jobs and yet more jobs will there be for senatorial plucking and which if used wisely should not only keep the nation in perfect health, vastly elevate its correct knowledge of economics, but should also be invaluable on election day. These bills it is hardly necessary to say should find no place in the legislation of this country unless we are willing to throw up the sponge and acknowledge that henceforth we should look to the federal government for everything.

“But what shall we say of those who preach economy and father such stuff as this? Had Berger introduced these bills we would not have been surprised, but coming from the junior senator of Ohio who has lived long enough to know better we are surprised and most disagreeably so.”

Scranton, Pa. was chosen as next year’s meeting place for the Pennsylvania State Physical Education Association. A. Lester Crapser, of Scranton was elected president, John F. Bell, of Philadelphia, vice president, and Miss Fern F. Lamade, of Jenkintown, secretary-treasurer.

-------o-------

First action toward the revision of physical training in high schools of Washington, D. C., to bring benefits of exercise to as many pupils as possible, was taken by the board of high school principals at a recent meeting in the Franklin school.

The board did not attempt to outline a program, but contented itself with the decision to develop the plan immediately. It voted to reconvene soon, when all principals will be organized into a committee to work out the project.

Digitized by Google
429

The principals also favored unanimously a program of home hygiene and nursing, which they decided should be incorporated into the general plan of physical training. If it were made an independent subject, it was pointed out, it would have the aspect of an elective subject and thus might not reach all pupils.

-------o—-------

In the Newark, N. J. News a reader takes issue with President Ball of the Board of Education in the following note:

Sir—I commend the editorial, "Over-riding Opinion of Its Educational Expert.” Dr. Corson should resign in favor of Mr. Ball. Evidently President Ball has very little consideration for the boys and girls who, because of circumstances, are obliged to leave school while in the sixth or seventh grade. Are these boys and girls to have no physical training below these grades? Have they not a right to be taught to train their bodies as well as their minds so they may become good citizens?

Come, let all the voters of this city pull together for the right of these children to have now, while they are in school, that exercise which in all probability they may never again receive.—Fair Play.

-------o-------

Dr. Payson Smith, Massachusetts Commissioner of Education in a recent address at Worcester said: A great change in the educational system during the next decade will be the substitution of "why” for “how” in the planning of curricula and the application of principles.

All education must be individualistic in order to be effective because it is first of all a preparation for life, Dr. Smith declared. The old program of "mass education” failed to give the individual child a fair chance to develop his possibilities, and must be discarded. Adequate training along the lines indicated will cost more than heretofore, Dr. Smith conceded, adding that he was not primarily interested in costs, but in results. He criticized the present system of athletics, in that it develops the few who usually need it the least.

“That which the most intelligent desires for the education of his own should be the community standard,” said Dr. Smith. In general, the common school education should be every bit as good as that of private schools.

"I prophesy that during the next 10-20 years, educators will be asking 'why' a course is given or a method used, rather than ‘how’ the work is to be done. This change will clarify the view of the value of education, as well as improve the method. Every subject in the curriculum will be subjected to the most careful scrutiny and a purpose will be demanded for its teaching.

"There are two larger objectives in American education, both of which have been distorted, Dr. Smith declared. The first is ‘development,’ the other ‘treatment of knowledge.’

"The idea that schooling was to prepare for another institution higher up has done much harm to education in the best sense. The true test should be ‘what does education prepare one for in life?”

Digitized by VjOO^lC
480

“Educating men in the mass is fundamentally wrong. Each must be trained in his own way, for his own life work. In physical education, the system which produces 20 to 30 men for the stadium, and the rest of the school receives development of nothing save lungj>ower is placing physical education on a wrong plane.”

--------o-------

The Baltimore Sun in a recent issue prints the following:

An effort to standardize, as near as possible, the physical education, athletics and the teaching of hygiene in American colleges is .being made by the President’s Committee of Fifty on College Hygiene, a national organization, according to Dr. W. S. Small, dean of the College of Education, University of Maryland.

Dean Small has recently completed a two weeks’ trip to normal schools, colleges and universities of Virginia and North Carolina, where he made investigations of the programs of hygiene and physical, education.

The movement toward standardization takes the form of a report which the organization is now compiling. It will be the first complete report of its kind. In it will be recorded information gathered on so-called field trips to about 300 institutions thruout the country. This information includes a thoro study of organization and administration of hygiene in colleges.

Stress is laid on the amount, object and character of instruction in hygiene, student health service, including health examinations and provision for sick students, required and voluntary physical education activities, such as intercollegiate athletics and trie regulation and supervision of working and living conditions in the institution.

Special questionnaires for comparative use, filled out by each institution visited, furnish complete data which will be entered in the committee's report. They are relative to the evaluation of hygiene program at each institution, as well as the instruction and training in the subject.

Summarized, the questionnaire contains such questions as the following: Is this program (used at the institution specified) likely to develop safeguarding health interests and incentives, rational health habits, intelligent health attitudes? Will the graduates be likely to secure periodic health examinations? Will they be able to select wisely the scientific health service they need? Does it give' a proportionate attention to social hygiene that will influence students and graduates? Will these graduates be likely to meet their responsibilities for the hvgiene of their dependents in the home, business and the community?

-------o-------

Due recognition is not always given to the importance of odors in ventilation problems, the general viewpoint being that objectionable odors are a side issue, as it were, objectionable, perhaps, from an aesthetic standpoint, but having no direct effect on the health of the persons subjected to their influence and no particular bearing on the design and operation of the ventilating equipment.

Some years ago, while the writer was in charge of the ventila-

Digitized by

Google
431

tien division of the Chicago Health Department, the subject of odors in connection with ventilation practice was analyzed. The Complaint Clerk was requested to withdraw from the files 10t current ventilation complaints received during the preceding month. These complaints came from schools, factories, restaurants, office buildings, apartment buildings, in fact from practically every source, and represented all types of occupancy and of ventilating equipment.

The complaints read, “Poor or inadequate ventilation,” “Air foul,” “No fresh air,” etc., and usually gave no indication of the actual cause of the trouble.

The 100 complaints selected from the files had all been investigated and with the exception of seven, the real difficulty located. A tabulation of the analysis follows:

Routine ventilation complaints ................................ 10#

Complaints due to odors..........................................43

High temperature or high humidity, or both...................... 28

Low temperature or objectionable drafts......................... 17

Dust ............................................................ 4

Smoke............................................................ 1

No apparent cause for complaint.................................. 7

Total........................................................ 100

Of the 43 complaints due directly or indirectly to objectionable odors, 16 could be directly attributed to odors from restaurant Kitchens entering the dining room, or adjoining buildings, odors from refuse or other objectionable material in the neighborhood of the fresh-air intake, odors from accumulations in supply ducts or other parts of the equipment and to similar causes. 27 of the 43 were attributable to body odors in the places under investigation, such as theatres, schools, factories, etc., where the air supply was deficient, or improperly distributed, or where an excessive temperature or humidity accentuated conditions due to this cause.

It can readily be seen from the foregoing that the subject of odors is one that cannot be ignored, as it is, according to this analysis, the most important single factor that causes dissatisfaction with the ventilating equipment. Furthermore, the popular belief that odors have an aesthetic bearing only on our comfort and well being is not an entirely safe hypothesis.

The late Dr. Henry B. Favill, a recognized authority on therapeutics, frequently called the attention of his students to the decidedly harmful effects on convalescent patients of bad aesthetic environment.

The flat dweller, recovering from debilitating diseases, who is forced by circumstances to sit, for example, on a rear porch, with the depressing view of littered back yards and dirty alleys, and the objectionable odors emanating therefrom, has a much poorer chance of recovery than a person likewise afflicted who has an opportunity to recuperate in the country, or in more pleasing outdoor surroundings.

The harmful physiological effect of objectionable conditions that affect any of the senses is well recognized by the experienced

Digitized by Google
A'*'

Z2

physician. It is not entirely clear, furthermore, that objectionable odors may not have a direct harmful influence.

It has been suggested, according to Howell, that the circulation of the brain is affected by odors, either pleasant or objectionable. Shields made some experiments on the vascular supply to the skin of the arm by means of the plethysmograph and noted that odors caused a constriction of the blood vessels in the skin, which is usually interpreted as meaning an increased flow of blood to the brain.

/ pparently Shield’s observations made no distinction between the effect of odors that were pleasant, or those that were objectionable. The fact remains, however, that odors in all probabilities, do affect the blocd supply to the brain and to other parts of the body.

At the present state of our knowledge, it is impossible to say to what extent harm may result.

The sense of smell is located in the upper part of the nasal cavity and covers a small area about 250 square millimeters in either nostril, partly on the nasal septum and partly on the upper turbinate bone. Odorous substances to be perceived must be in gaseous form. They are brought into contact with this small area in breathing, or by the process of sniffing. The gas enters into solution on the moist surface of the olfactory membrane and acts chemically on the sensitive hairs of the sense cells.

It is assumed that there are certain groups called odoriphore groups which are characteristic of all odorous substances and Hay-craft has formulated certain fundamental conceptions tending to show that odorous properties are periodic functions of the atomic weight in accordance with Mendelejeff’s Periodic Law.

Odor perceptions have not yet been ultimately classified as have taste perceptions into a few distinctive groups. Zwaarde-maker’s classification is conceded to be the best to date. He classifies odors under nine headings as follows:

1.	—A etherial odors, such as given off by fruits.

2.	—Aromatic odors, such as camphor, citron and resinous substances.

3.	—Fragrant odors as of flowers and perfumes.

4.	—Ambrosial odors typified by amber, musk and bodily odors.

5.	—Garlic odors, as found in the onion, garlic, sulphur and some other inorganic substances.

6.	—Eurning odors, such as roasted coffee, tobacco smoke, benzol, phenol, etc.

7 —Goat odors, typified by the characteristic odor of this animal, by caproic, or caprylic acid found in the sweat, etc.

8.	—Repulsive odors, given off by many narcotic plants or acanthus.

9.	—Nauseous odors, or fetid odors from certain plants and from the products of putrefaction.

All odors can be placed in some one of the foregoing subdivisions and probably future investigation will reduce this number to a few fundamental groups.— Heating & Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by

Google
438

THE CHILD SPIRIT.

No wonder a large part of the teaching of religion has been that if we would be saved in this world or any other we must get away from maturity that knows too much, that is cynical and sophisticated, that is ready to impute motives and surmise the worst, and g* back to the wiae-eyed faith of childhood's innocency. It will not do for the world-wise and the world-weary to scoff at that belief which a child brings to bear on all that is roundabout. Of course, it is no true service to those who are growing if those who are grown keep from them plain truths, harsh facts they need to know for self-defense. But the education should be gradual; it should not be hurled upon the young learner all at once like an avalanche descending the mountain side to overwhelm whatever is below.

All our learning as we grow older is a mournful thing if we have left behind entirely the child we used to be. If we can no longer enter into a game with rapturous abandon, then we have grown old. If our enthusiasms are stupefied, our reactions to our surroundings sluggish, we have lost something out of our lives that nothing replaces. If for us there are no longer mysteries we cannot explain, if the fairies do not whisper any more, if Pan has left the reeds along the river of our lives, we have ceased to be children; and what have we received in place of the glamour and the magic? For it’s “old” people who have kept the child irresistibly in their blithe humor all their days, the earth gives thanks; and those who left the child behind them long ago and are now disheartened, morose and selfish, will be no great loss when they go.—Phila. Ledger.

A study of pupil guidance in its various aspects—moral, social, educational and vocational—was recently completed by the guidance committee of the Cleveland Schoolmasters’ Club.

The committee’s report, presented at a meeting of the club, describes and evaluates, from the point of view of both teachers and pupils, the guidance methods and activities in all of the city’s junior and senior high schools.

The committee which, under the chairmanship of Prof. Garry C. Myers, of the Cleveland School of Education, has been at work since last October, utilized elaborate questionnaires to obtain information, convictions and opinions from nearly 800 high school pupils as well as from the school administrators and faculty members. It is plainly evident, from the report, that the preaching of the elementary principles of familiar morality is exceedingly distasteful to pupils and correspondingly ineffective. Vastly better results, the report indicates, are being obtained through assembly programs, socialized recitations, student clubs, modified honor systems, self-government plans, school newspapers and magazines, contacts with the outside world and with the homes and other methods which place emphasis upon the concrete rather than upon the abstract.

So great is the number of such devices considered and so carefully have they been evaluated and explained that the report comprises a clearing house of school activity knowledge.

Digitized by

Google
484

The Eye Sight Conservation Council of America represents a distinct and organized phase of the general tendency towards social, economic and physical betterment. It aims to bring about improved vision among the masses of the nation, experience in education and industry having shown that a long train of ills, involving grave consequences, follow in the wake of defective eyesight.

Headed by L. W. Wallace of Washington, executive secretary of the Federated American Engineering Societies, and guided by a dual governing body consisting of a Board of Directors and a Board of Councillors, whose membership includes representatives of the federal and state governments, universities, science and industry, the Council is carrying on in the schools of the country a campaign for better vision. “First Health, Then Wisdom” is the slogan which the Council purposes to bring into the schoolhouses of the land.

Among the leaders in the movement is James J. Davis, Secretary of Labor. Other federal officials identified are John J. Tigert, Commissioner of Education, Morton G. Lloyd, Ph. D., Chief of the Safety Section, U. S. Bureau of Standards, and Dr. Allen J. McLaughlin, U. S. Public Health Service.

University representatives on the Board of Councillors include Prof. Joseph W. Roe, head of the Department of Industrial Engineering, New York University. Prof. Thos. D. Wood, Columbia University, Sidney E. Mezes, Ph. D., LL. D., President of the College of the City of New York, Charles H. Judd, Ph. D., Director of the School of Education, University of Chicago, and Prof. F. C. Caldwell of Ohio State University, Columbus. The work of the Council is in the immediate charge of Guy A. Henry, General Director, with headquarters in the Times Building, New York City.

One of the conspicuous services performed by the Council was its participation in the nationwide assay of waste conducted by Herbert Hoover as chairman of the Committee on Elimination of Waste in Industry of the Federated American Engineering Societies. This committee, whose field activities were directed by Mr. Wallace, found that heavy annual economic and physical losses were occurring in American industry thru poor vision of the workers. All this, for the most part, was characterized as avoidable waste, which the Eye Sight Conservation Council has undertaken to wipe out by a thoro and systematic plan of education.

Of the 24,000,000 school children in the United States, approximately 10,000,000 can justly claim that their country is not giving them a square deal, according to Prof. Wood. “For,” he says, “they are laboring under a grave handicap — eye defects — which could be mitigated to a great extent, if not corrected entirely, by the intelligent supervision ot the state and of the teachers of the nation, thru proper eye tests of all pupils.” Retardation is another evil caused in part, at least, by imperfect sight.

The economic aspect of poor vision is becoming the serious concern of investigators. Americans, in the opinion of Mr. Hemy, must correct their physical defects if they are successfully to com-

Digitized by v^ooQle
436

pete with the cheaper labor of other countries. “Looking at conditions from a purely economic angle/' says Mr. Henry, “one is appalled at the resulting waste of effort and the inefficiency of millions who daily contend with the handicap of faulty vision.”

Research has become an important agency in the effort of the Eye Sight Conservation Council. The Council's research plan aims to determine the extent to which attention is being given to the conservation of vision in the educational, commercial and industrial activities of the United States. A study of statutory provisions now in force and effecting eyesight will be carried on.

Experiments to determine the true economic value of perfect vision will be made. It is proposed to measure the improvement in health, increase in quality and quantity of production, advancement of individual performance, and decrease in losses due to waste and accident. Factory, home and school lighting, now a subject of scientific research here and abroad, will be studied.

The Council, thru its Field Secretary, Charles F. Southard, is prosecuting its work in the schools of many cities. This work embraces lectures to parents, teachers and pupils with motion picture illustrations.

C>peration with educational authorities is the prime purpose of the Council. An illustration of this co-operation is found in New York City, where the Council participated in the observance of Health Day in the schools, when the eyes of more than 1,000,000 pupils were tested.

Wherever the Council works, it strives to establish the principle of continued supervision of the children, mothers co-operating with the teachers in identifying defects, often hidden, and in applying corrective measures.

PROGRAM FOR THE CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN SECTION AM. PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION ATLANTIC CITY, APRIL 14, IS, 16,1924.

Monday, April 14th.

School Visitation and Registration Headquarters, Senior High School.

Senior High School 8:15 P. M.

Organ Selection ________________________Arthur	Scott	Brook

Addresses of Welcome—Mayor Eld ward L. Bader, Supt. Chas.

B.	Boyer and Lewis B. Glenn, Pres. Board of Education.	v

Organ Selection—Arthur Scott Brook.	*

Address: Secondary School Athletics, Professor Wm. H. Geer, Harvard University.	«	<

Informal Reception and Dance conducted by Miss Elizabeth Burchenal.

Tuesday, April 15th 10:00 A. M.

General Session Vernon Room of Hadon Hall.

Chairman, Carl L. Schrader, Massachusetts Director of Physical Education.

Digitized by v^ooQle
436

Address—The Art of living, Dr. Duncan Spaeth, Princeton University.

Address—Character Building in Youth, Mr. Cameron Beck, Personnel Director New York Stock Exchange.

Address—Fifty and Efficiency, Dr. W. G. Anderson, Yale University.

General Discussion.

Men’s Athletic Section, 2:30 P. M., Auditorium Junior High School.'

Program made possible by the New Jersey State Athletic Association.

Chairman, Dr. J. H. McCurdy, International Y. M. C. A. College.

Address—Training Values, Dr. Duncan Spaeth, Princeton University.

Address—Athletic Values, Mr. Lory Prentiss, Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

Address—Football Values, Dr. Albert H. Sharpe, Ithaca School of Physical Education.

General Discussion.

Women’s Athletic Section, 2:30 P. M., Auditorium Senior High School.

Chairman, Miss Elizabeth Burchenal, New York City.

Address—Measuring Efficiency, Miss Agnes Wayman, Barnard College.

Address—Swimming Values, Miss Grace A. Thomas, Central Branch Y. W. C. A.

Address—Soccer and Field Hockey Values, Miss Hazel Cub-berly, New York City.

Address—Track and Field Values, Miss Katherine Sibley Syracuse University.

General Discussion.

Swimming Demonstration, 5:15 P. M., Hygeia Pool.

High School Students.

Convention Banquet, 7:30 P. M., Egyptian Room of Hotel Breakers.

After Dinner Speakers:

Honorable Arthur F. Pierson, New Jersey State Senator.

Honorable Payson Smith, Massachusetts Commissioner of Education.

Wednesday, April 16th.

Public School Section, 10:00 A. M., Auditorium Senior High School.

Chairman, Dr. Chas. H. Keene, Pennsylvania Director Bureau Health Education.

Address—Physical Education in the Light of Modem Psychology, Dr. George E. Dawson, International Y. M. C. A. College.

Address—Physical Education and the Home, Mrs. Drury L. Cooper, President New Jersey Congress of Mothers and Psumt Teacher Associations.

Digitized by Google
437

Address—Women's Athletics (from a Broad Standpoint), Dr* E. H. Arnold, New Haven Normal School.

Address—Physical Education and the State, Dr. Payson Smith, Massachusetts Commissioner of Education.

Business Meeting.

Cafeteria Luncheon, 12:30 P. M., Senior High School.

Normal School Physical Education Demonstration, 2:00 P. M., Senior High School Gymnasium.

Schools taking part: Boston Normal, New Haven Normal, East Stroudsburg Normal, Temple University, Newark Normal, Trenton Normal.

Physical Training Demonstration, 8:15 P. M., Auditorium Senior High School.

Atlantic City Public Schools.

Folk Dance Institute.

Miss Elizabeth Burchenal will conduct a Folk Dance Institute of three lessons during the Convention. The lessons will be given in the gymnasium of the Senior High School.

Tuesday, April 15, 5:00 to 6:00 P. M.

Wednesday, April 16,8:30 to 9:30 A. M.

Wednesday, April 16, 5:00 to 6:00 P. M.

Copies of the Institute material will be given to all who register for the course.

A fee of three dollars will be charged those who observe as well sm those who actively participate in this course.

This is the first time that an opportunity of this kind has been, provided during a convention. Miss Burchenal is one of the foremost exponents of Folk Dancing in the United States. Students and teachers who register for this course will not only receive the printed material mentioned above, but will also have direct contact with the Burchenal Method.

Information.

Convention Headquarters, Senior High School Albany and Atlantic^ Avenues.

Junior High School is located at the corner of Ohio & Pacific Aves.

Haddon Hall Hotel, North Carolina Avenue and the Boardwalk.

Breakers Hotel, New Jersey Avenue and the Boardwalk.

Schools. Secure list of schools at Headquarters.

Registration $1.00. Normal School Students 50 cents.

Banquet $2.50. It will be necessary for you to mail your request for & banquet reservation not later tfcan April 7. The banquet committee would appreciate your mailing check with your first communication.

Admission to ail meetings and demonstrations will be by badge only.

Secure your railroad Certificate (not a receipt) when purchasing your ticket so that you may be given the fare and one-half rate.

Easter week is a busy time in Atlantic City. We suggest that you write early for your hotel reservation.

For further information write to:	F.	W.	Maroney,	M.	D., Texas Avenue

School, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Digitized by CjOOQLC
488

Suggested advice to members of the organization respecting reduction authorized on the Certificate Plan for benefit of members and dependent members of their families.

A reduction of one and one-half fare on the Certificate Plan will apply for members attending the meeting of American Physical Education Association, Eastern District to be held at Atlantic City, N. J., April 14-16, 1924,—also for dependent members of their families, and the arrangements will apply from the following territories:

Eastern Trunk Line Association (Mr. C. M. Burt, Chairman, New York.)

New York State (east, of and including Buffalo, Niagara Falls, Suspension Bridge and Salamanca, New Jersey, Pennsylvania (east of and including Erie, Oil City and Pittsburgh), Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Virginia and West Virginia (east of and including Wheeling, Parkersburg, Kenova, Orange and Norfolk.)

New England Passenger Association (Mr. N. W. Hawkes, Chairman, South Station, Boston, Mass.)

The following lines in New England, Passenger Association territory have authorized fare and one-half on Certificate Plan

Boston & Albany R. R.

Boston & Maine R. R.

Central New England Ry. Central Vermont Ry.

Grand Trunk Ry. System, (Maine, New Hampshire, Vt.) Maine Central R. R.

Montpelier & Wells River R. R. Narragansett Pier R. R.

New England Steamship Co.

New York, New Haven & Hart ford R. R. Rutland R. R

St. Johnsbury & Lake Champlain R. R. York Harbor & Beach R. R.

Central Passenger Association (Mr. C. A. Fox, Chairman, Transportation Building, Chicago, 111.)

We have the pleasure in advising that the carriers will authorize for this occasion, concession of one and one-half fare on the Certificate Plan from Central Passenger Association points in States of New York, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.

Southeastern Passenger Association (Mr. W. H. Howard, Chairman, Healey Building, Atlanta, Ga.)

The reduced rates will apply from Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina.

General Information.

Children of 5 and under 12 years of age when accompanied by parent or guardian will, under like conditions, be charged one-half of the fares for adults.

The following directions are submitted for your guidance:

1.	Tickets at the regular one-way tariff fares for the going journey may be obatined on any of the following dates (but not on any other date)—April 10 to 15. Be sure that when purchasing going ticket you request a Certificate. Do not make the mistake of asking for a “Receipt”

2.	Present yourself at the railroad station for tickets and Certificates at least thirty minutes (30) before departure of train on which you will begin your journey.

3.	Certificates are not kept at all stations. If you inquire at your home station, you can ascertain whether Certificates and thru tickets can be obtained to place of meeting. If not obtainable at your home station, the agent will inform you at what station they can be obtained. You can in

Digitized byCjOO^IC
439

sueh case purchase a local ticket to the station which has Certificates im stock, where you can purchase a thru ticket and at the same time ask for and obtain a Certificate to place of meeting.

4.	Immediately on your arrival at the meeting present your Certificate to the endorsing officer, Dr. F. W. Maroney, Director of Health Instruction, as the reduced fares for the return journey will not apply unless you are properly identified as provided for by the Certificates.

5.	It has been arranged that the Special Agent of the carriers will be in attendance on April 15, from 8:30 A. M. to 5:30 P. M. to validate Certificates. If you arrive at the meeting and leave for home again prior to the Special Agent’s arrival, or if you arrive at the meeting later than April 15 after the Special Agent has left, you cannot have your Certificate validated and consequently you will not obtain the benefit of the reduction on the home journey.

6.	So as to prevent disappointment, it must be understood that the reduction on the return journey is not guaranteed, but is contingent on an attendance of not less than 250 members of the organization at the meeting and dependent members of their families, holding regularly issued Certificates obtained from Ticket Agents at starting points, from where the regular one-way adult tariff fares to place of meeting are not less than 67 cents on going journey.

Certificates issued to children at half fares will be counted the same as Certificate held by adults.

7.	If the necessary minimum of 250 Certificates are presented to the Special Agent, and your Certificate is duly validated, you will be entitled up to and including April 19 to a return ticket via the same route over which you made the going journey at one-half of the regular one-way tariff fare from the place of meeting to the point at which your Certificate was issued.

8.	Return tickets issued at the reduced fare will not be good on any limited train on which such reduced fare transportation is not honored.

9.	No refund of fare will be made on account of failure to obtain proper Certificate when purchasing going ticket, nor on account of failure to present validated Certificate when purchasing return ticket.

PROGRAM FOR THE ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

To be held at Kansas City, Missouri, April 23, 24, 25 and 26, 1924.

Convention Headquarters—Hotel Baltimore.

All sessions except demonstrations to be held at Hotel Baltimore. Pre-Convention Program of activities in the schools and playgrounds of the city, April 21 to 23.

Wednesday, April 23, 8:00 P. M.

Introductory session.

Brief addresses by Mr. 1.1. Cammack; Superintendt of Schools, Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Carl Schrader, President of the Association.

Folk dancing and recreation for the delegates conducted by Miss Elizabeth Burchenal.

Digitized by Google
440

Thursday, April 24, 9:30 A. M.

General Session, President Carl Schrader presiding.

President’s address.

Address by Dr. Jesse F. Williams of Teachers’ College, Columbia University.

Probably an address by Mrs. Herbert Hoover of Washington,

D. C.

General discussion of papers.

2:00 to 4:30 P. M.

Demonstration of gymnastics.

4:30 to 6:30 P. M.

Demonstration of swimming.

7:00 P. M.

Banquet at the Hotel Baltimore. President Schrader wiM preside and will introduce speakers from among members of the Association.

Friday, April 25, 9:30 A. M.

Meeting for women; program to be arranged by Miss Blanche Trilling, chairman of the Association’s Committee on Women's Athletics.

Meeting of Y. M. C. A. section; program to be arranged by Martin I. Foss, of the Chicago Y. M. C. A. College.

Meeting of the Mens’ College Directors section, program being arranged by Dr. J. H. McCurdy.

12 SO Noon.

Luncheon and Business Meeting of the Mid-West section, Hotel Baltimore.

2SO	P. M.

Meeting of the following sections:

Public Schools, Therapeutic, American Gymnastic Union, Women’s College Directors, Industrial.

Programs for these section meetings are being arranged by section chairmen.

8SO P. M.

Minor League Athletic meet.

Gymnastic Demonstration at one of the high schools.

Saturday, April 26, 9:30 A. M.	i

General session, Dr. J. Anna Norris, President of the Mid-West section presiding.

Probable addresses by Dr. Henry S. Curtis, State Supervisor I of Physical Education for Missouri and Dr. Raymond G. Schwegler i •f the University of Kansas.

General discussion of papers.

12 SO Noon.

Council luncheon and meeting.

2SO P. M.

Automobile tour of the city.

8SO P. M.

Major league athletic meet.	'

,1

Digitized by v^ooQie