Editorial Committee :

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the Technical committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd «Chestnut8t'8, St.I_OUI8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., Managing Editor, 7S0 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE Wl8.

MENTAL EFFECTS OF PHYSICAL EXERCISE.

By CARL ZIEGLER, M. D., Supt. ot Physical Culture in the Public Schools of Cincinnati, O.

Read before the Principals’ Association of Cincinnati at their monthly meeting, Tanuary 14, 1899, and at the Convention of Gymnastic Instructors of North America, held at Cleveland, O., July 5 to 10, 1899/

44 AM ENS Sana in corpore sano,” is a maxime so well known and so I Vi often quoted, that one might suppose that with our knowledge of the physical effects of exercise, educators would at least have applied exercise for the purpose of building up the bodies of their pupils, in order to furnish to the mind which they are training a suitable habitation. How erroneous this supposition is we all know. Although educational leaders have at all times pointed out the fact that the body is the instrument of the mind, that without a physical being able to execute the dictates of the mind, the best mental training will avail but little, we still see that often the physical being is neglected, yea, it is allowed to deteriorate under the strain of acquiring knowledge, and we wonder why it should be so, why at the dawn of the 20th century educators do not recognize the importance of physical training from a physiological standpoint and are actually ignorant of the physiological importance of physical education.

With the glorious example of ancient Greece before us, with the sturdy vigor and manly qualities of the ancient Romans to admire and to pattern after, what does modern education do toward developing the outer man ?

Over four hundred years ago Montaigne wrote, 4tWe have not to train up a soul, nor yet a boby, but a man; and we cannot divide him.” *

* Published at the request of the latter organization by the North American Gymnastic Union (Turner-Bund).

Digitized by LaOOQle
-146-

Two centuries later Locke begins his “Thoughts on Education” with, “A sound mind in a sound body is a short but full descriprion of a happy state in this world; he that has these two has little more to wish for, and he that wants either of them, will be but little the better for anything else.

Yet to-day there are only two nations that can lay claim to a system of education which recognizes the importance of both, mind and body, namely Germany and Sweden, where physical development, physical education,* if you will, is a strictly compulsory part of the curriculum in every school; where every child that is not suffering from organic disease or physical deformity is obliged to participate in the prescribed physical exercises, the same as any other study.

France, also, has during the past quarter of the century taken up physical education and is making it an integral part of the curriculum in all schools.

To these countries then, where for years the effiacy of this double education has been proven, we must look for the results obtained, and for a study of the effects which this bodily training has had upon the mind.

Dr. Schmitt of Bonn, and Dr. Lagrange have.written excellent works, both of which have been translated into English, upon the “Physiology of Exercise,” books that are well worth reading by all who have charge of the education of children, mentally or physically.

In this conntry men of note have in recent years begun the study of this important subject and have, although working along different lines, come to the same conclusion, to wit, that physical training not only improves the physique of the pupils, but also improves and quickens the mental faculties. I will mention here Dr. Stanley Hall of Clark University, Dr. Fitz of Harvard, Dr. Scripture of Yale, and Prof. Halleck. These men have given much study and made many scientific tests in order to determine what relation, if any, exists between physical and mental development.

Prof. Halleck’s splendid book, “Training of the Central Nervous System” is another book which I can cheerfully recommend to all educators.

There is no doubt that with the further advance of scientific research, with the growing realization of the fact that upon the welfare of the individual depends the greatness of a nation; with the growth of that human spirit which recognizes that the community is responsible for the health, well-being, and happiness of its constituent members, and that the child of to-day, who will be the man of the morrow, is entitled to every opportunity that will make of him the best possible citizen, there is coming a change that will, no doubt, revolutionize past methods of education in this country.

As evidence of this search for better methods of education we have the present discussion by your honorable body.

That there is an interdependence-of mind and body we all recognize. We all know by observation as well as bv actual experience, that when we have bodily ailments our minds do not work as well as when we are at our best physically. We know that we cannot do as much work

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-147-

mentally or physically, when we are improperly nourished, be it under-or overfed ; that we cannot put forth our best efforts mentally if we have to do hard physical labor, or accomplish difficult physical feats when the mental work has been severe: that long continued mental exertion influences digestion unfavorably and that with poor digestion we become irritable hypochondriacs, and that by prolonged hard manual labor or physical-over development we have stunted intellects.

Oppenheim, in his work on “The Development of the Child”, says: “When one realizes the close relationship between body and mind— a relationship so intimate that no man can say where it begins and ends—one can see the full importance of these figures (statistics previously quoted). Dwarfed bodies, as a rule, mean dwarfed minds and souls, poorly nourished frames do not go hand in hand with a clear and normal intellectual moral growth. What helps one helps the other; what twists and weakens one helps to debase and enfeeble the other.”

Knowing these facts we must then asume that the best education will provide for a harmonious growth which will permit of equal development of mind and body. Let us study this relation of body and mind by a few illustrations.

Take, for instance, a craftsman who is fairly well educated and who enjoys discussing current events after his day’s work, he will grasp the meaning of your arguments and meet them with intelligent and'strong reasoning. Change his occupation to one of hard manual labor and note the result. His conversation becomes listless, his arguments weak and his understanding poor; he will frequently ask you to repeat what you have said and there is a lack of interest even in his pet topics. He will show all the signs of mental fatigue although he has apparently not exercised his mind at all. If we now reverse the conditions and set him to work upon some difficult problem, perhaps some intricate piece of machinery to repair, note the result. You will see that his step, formerly light and buoyant becomes slow and dragging, his posture naturally erect and easy is now bent and slouchv—in fact he is a very tired man, become so not through physical but mental work.

Or take the same man and reduce the quality and quantity of his nutrition and you will see that he is not the same, either mentally or physically. I have read sdmewhere of a man who wrote part of a book at a summer resort whither he had gone for this especial purpose; the part was much below the standard to which he was accustomed and the result was that on arriving home he rewrote that part of the book.

The following experiment will also demonstrate the influence of fatigue, mental or muscular, one upon the other:

I rotate a muscle from a freshly prepared subject, fasten one end of it and to the other attach a small weight and then apply an electric current; the muscle will contract a certain distance; however, after a few contractions it will not respond so readily or contract as much as at first unless you increase the stimulus, i. e. increase the strength of the current. By thus repeatedly increasing the stimulus you will eventually exhaust the muscle so that not even the strongest current which the battery can produce will cause the muscle to contract. In like manner if you use the same battery for any length of time it will run out, i. e.

Digitized by
-148-

the current will become weaker and weaker until it becomes impereptible. This shows that in order to do hard muscular work repeated stimuli from the will are necessary, for the amount of stimulus (innervation) put forth determine the force of the muscular contraction, and in great muscular effort, therefore, be it either in a supreme effort or in long continued moderate work, the mind becomes exhausted as well as the muscles.

This would seem to show that physical exercise would therefore be a strain upon the mind rather than a relaxation as is in general claimed to be.

This would indeed be the case if we were always to perform new and complicated exercises, but as the exercises are often repeated and the difficulty of comprehension is usually overcotne after a few repetitions there come to our aid new elements of the nervous system, which the battery in the foregoing experiment does not possess, namely automatism and the reflexes. There is no doubt that all voluntary movements are under the direct control of the will; thus before I can raise my arm I must first will to do so—an impulse from the will starts the motor centers which send the stimulus to the muscles which raise that arm; that impulse and stimulus is a strong one the first time, but upon repetition it needs not be so strong and soon the arm may be raised almost unconsciously, perhaps in imitation of some one else who is doing so—the movement has then become automatic and the mental strain almost entirely removed. Likewise after having learned an exercise if we give the impulse to begin the same we will continue till another impulse inhibits further movements; the brain in the meantime taking no special part in the exercise.

Another element in saving brain wear is the reflex or better automatic reflex movements as for instance in walking. Walking, we all know is an accomplishment that brings many a fall an,d requires many a struggle to acquire, yet once learned, it requires but the impulse to set the legs in motion and they will continue to move without any further attention from the mind, the pressure of the feet upon the ground will furnish the reflex, that keeps the legs going.

This was demonstrated by Prof. Goltz, of Strassburg, in 1881, when he brought to the congress in London a dog, which he had been able to keep alive after removing the entire brain substance. The animal in being started moved and walked like an automation, without turning aside or trying to avoid obstacles. Its movements were no longer under the influence of the will or of external stimuli. It simply performed reflex movements which habit had made automatic. (Lagrange, Physio-logy of Exercise). We see then that certain movements can be performed without the will either controlling or being conscious thereof. These movements, however, are not the ideal physical exercises, for while they are not under the influence of the will, they will be slow and listless, entirely without vigor and consequently do not affect the circulation sufficiently to bring about a free flow of blood through the parts used, in fact they produce a state of venous congestion which will cause a sense of weariness out of all proportion to the work performed. You have all
-149-

*

noticed that, when yon wander aimlessly about, the legs soon become weary, you have a sense of heaviness that soon becomes almost unbearable. This is caused by the blood flowing freely into the parts, but that vigorous muscular contraction which is so important in propelling the blood through the veins, is entirely wanting. While the blood is thus carried to the extremities causing engorgement of the veins the brain is not receiving a sufficient supply of nourishment thus causing anaemia of the brain and adding to the feeling of discomfort. Note the difference in your feelings when you take a vigorous, brisk walk, noticing everything that comes in your way, how cheerful and pleasant you will become, and, especially if it be in the country you will soon feel as though you would like to sing with the birds that you see in the trees and fields. This is because the circulation is perfect all over the body, the vigorous contractions of the muscles brings the venous blood back to the heart, from the heart to the lungs, causing an increase in respiration, aerating the blood and bringing more oxygen to the organs at work and also carrying off* the used-up effete materials which result from muscular as well as from brain work. This result is also obtained by physical exercise, especially if performed in company with others, and if they are of a kind that give pleasure and at the same time are varied enough to avoid monotony. But the exercise must also be vigorous enough to influence respiration and circulation, and to do this the mind must be on the work performed. But this fixed attention need not be sufficient, at least not after the exercises are learned and have become automatic, to become a mental strain. Furthermore by giving attention to the exercises the mind is taken from the work previously indulged in. The improved circulation relieves the congestion of the brain and carries to it materials with which to replace the broken down brain substance, thus giving the same an opportunity to recuperate.

Another thing to be considered is that the quantity of blood in the body is normally the same in all parts: if however we use one part to the exclusion of the others, a larger amount is carried to this part causing congestion of that part and the consequent anaemia of the others is detrimental to those parts.

That the working brain is affected the same as muscular tissue has been conclusively proven by Dr. Mosso, the Italian scientist, by numerous experiments with his celebrated table. This table is so constructed that when a man is placed upon it the equilibrium is perfect, but the balance is so delicate that the slightest addition to either end causes that end to sink. Given the man a problem to solve, the table immediately inclines toward the head end, thus showing that the flow of blood has become greater, that there is a larger quantity in the brain than normal.

We know also that use of tissue means wear, and wear means breaking down of tissue, and that this worn-out material must be removed, or else it generates toxins, which manifest themselves in the muscles by pain and swelling, in the brain by headache, drowsiness and inattention. If, now, we have the latter condition, anything that will increase the circulation bjr which this effete material is washed away, fresh nutriment carried to the organ, giving it an opportunity to recuperate its powers so it can do better work will be beneficial to it. Lagrange says: “Perhaps the

r

Digitized by VjOOQle
-150-

most interesting effect of this active congestion of the organs under the influence of bodily exercise is that experienced by the brain. All thinkers have noticed that physical exercise is favorable to brain work. The Peripatetics disputed while walking and found their arguments more easily when the body was warmed by exercise.” Rousseau also noticed this fact. He says, “Walking and movement favor the action of the brain and the work of thinking.’’

We have thus far considered only the alterative effect which exercise has upon the functioning of the brain. Whether physical exercise has a direct influence upon the growth of the brain tissue or not has long been a moted question. Recent research along this line seems to prove that it does influence the growth favorably. Luyis in his book “The brain and Its Functions” says: “I have been able to demonstrate that in persons who had undergone amputations at a distant date, subjects who had long been deprived of the use of an upper limb, for instance, there existed certain long disused portions of the brain, coincident, very distinctly localized atrophies. I have, moreover, demonstrated that the atrophied regions of the brain are not the same in the case of the amputation of the arm.” You are all familiar with the celebrated Laura Bridgman case and know that in her brain certain localized atrophies were found, corresponding to the centers of sight and hearing.

Now, if non-use brings about atrophy of the brain the same as in the muscles, and exercise of the muscles develops muscle fiber, is it not safe to assume that it will also develop brain tissue if that exercise is performed under the influence of the will ? Many experiments upon the simian brain, which resembles the human brain very closely, and experiments performed upon individuals, have enabled scientific men to map out accurately not only the centers for sight, hearing, speech, etc., but also those for the leg and arm, even for the toes and fingers, so that physicians can diagnose tumors in the brain from the local disturbances in the muscles with an accuracy that seems astonishing. Now, if we consider that all the more important centers are in proximity to each other, it would seem that the use of one center would influence in a measure at least the neighboring centers also. In a lecture held at the dedication of the Y. M. C. A. Training School Gymnasium at Spring-field, Ma>s., (reported in Physical Education), Dr. Hall said:	“The	muscles

are the organs of thought to a certain extent, just how far we do not know, but if you use them to educate the heart, you must use them to educate the intellect. In the first place all the brain centers that move this arm and leg are located right here in a spot not larger than my finger. Now right there in the midst is the brain center for language, and the moment that this brain center is effected the man looses the power of speech. Now in educating the hand and arm you are educating this part of the brain area that appears to be the seat of language, and we know that language is the organ of thought.'’ Keeping in mind what has been said regarding blood supply to working tissue, we can readily see that the amplitude of blood to those parts must be beneficial to the centers that are in such close contact with them, i. e., the psychical centers. If we, furthermore, consider the complexity of evtn simple movements or acts, the number of muscles involved and the consequent large number of brain centers, which must give the stimulus to the nerves, connected with these muscles, we c&n readily see the amount of work these brain -centers

Digitized by CjOOQle
-151-

accomplish and the influence that must necessarily be exerted upon the contiguous centers. Take as an example the act of leaping a fence. How easily is it done by the experienced, and see what hard work an inexperienced man will make of it. And no wonder, for nearly all the muscles of the body are involved m the act and to bring about a harmonious orc5dmate action of them all is no small task. Some muscles contracting, some relaxing, others preparing for action, when the former have done their part: to analyse such an act is indeed interesting, but time will not permit. Such an analyses would also show us that other faculties come into play and are trained and developed thereby. The eye must gauge the distance and height, a judgment must be formed as to the number of steps necessary for the run and their length regulated accordingly.

Resoluteness and quickness of thought are required, for to waver but for an instant may mean disaster, timidity undermine the muscular power and make the attempt futile. (Quoted from “Mental Growth in Physical Education,” by Jacob Bolin.) Kay, in his book on “Memory” says: “Physiologists accept, besides the five senses just mentioned (sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch), a sixth, the muscular sense. We mean by this sense the peculiar sensibility of a muscle to its own states and conditions when in action, so that the mind is able to determine with accuracy the amount of effort that is necessary to be put forth on any given occasioh. By means of this sense we discriminate (i) between different degrees of exertion put lorth or called out; (2) the duration of different muscular sensation, giving an idea of time, as also of space in movement through space; and (3) between the speed or velocity of different movements. We thus by it determine the resistance of bodies, their force, weight, and other mechanical properties; measure distances and velocities, and ascertain the form, size, position, and so forth, of external objects.” We thus acquire by this sense a vast store of sensations which either cannot be gained through other channels or which, if reached by several ways, is at least more secure and less liable to lead to wrong conclusions. The eye alone cannot give a correct idea of distance without help from the muscular sense telling it how far to reach in order to grasp an object; telling it in what conditions to place its muscles in order to cover a certain distance. And this sense can only be developed by muscular exercise. An occurance from life will illustrate this training of the muscle sense.

A friend and I were tramping through the country some years ago when we came to a brook which we wished to cross. The distance was about ten feet and as the water was quite deep and no bridge, there was nothing left but to jump, which I promptly did, crossing safely; my friend, however, although well able to leap further than the distance required, jumped about two feet short and stood ankle deep in the water. His judgment of distance was all nght, but he erred in his judgment as to the amount of innervation necessary to jump just so far. The pupil gains also, through the very act of creating them, a thorough knowledge of his physical powers; he learns to compare them with others ; the timid becomes emboldened through the knowledge of his powers, and the bold learns to recognize the superiority of others; he learns by diligence and perseverance to overcome difficulties and acquire faiih in his own abilities, and this application will also show itself in his mental work. Through the application necessary to acquire feats of skill the pupil also learns to fix his attention. In free gymnastics in class and under command of an experienced instructor, his attention must be fixed not only on the instructor, but also upon his class-mates and his body, and in doing so he trains both eye
-152-

and ear as well as his muscular sense. In these class exercises he also learns to subordinate himself, not only to the command of the teacher, but also to the welfare of his class, for upon the effort of the individual will depend the exactness and acurracy of execution of the work by the class. Furthermore, by the execution of exercise upon command are developed the powers of inhibition and motor-response; the waiting for and response to the commands train these psychic powers to do the right thing at the right time, not too soon nor yet too late; it teaches precision and decision, and makes far better ‘ discipline and respect for authority. The execution of exercises in rhythm tends to give each individual rhythmic and graceful movements; to increase that faculty or even create it when slow or entirely absent, and to slow it if it be too fast, as in nervous and excitable people.

Dr. Hall (Physical Education) sums up this subject as follows : Rhythm underlies everything: poetry, music, our gait. The old German maxim is : The mother of prose is poetry ; the mother of poetry is music ; the mother < f music is rhythm; the mother of rhythm is God. Rhythm underlies every movement, underlies our thoughts.

There is in man what is called a psychic constant. For instance, in most most people it is about .76 of a second regular time; it varies a little with different people. That psychic constant is the time toward which we approximate if we close the eyes and attempt to beat time. That this •‘leg-time*' is the constant toward which one gravitates is shown by a great many experiments. The power of rhythm and its effect upon the genesis of “Ameri-canitis** is sh«»wn in this, that if you accelerate that rhythm you produce a state of tension ; if you retard it you produce a state of rest.

Now, the power of rhythm is, you see, extra-human, infra-human, and perhaps also super-human. Marching, dancing, etc., we need it. It is a good thing because it is conducive to the soul. Now the power of rhythmic movement is almost incalculable. I think it educates the will and especially the heart. The emotions* of all things are rhythmical in their nature.

In Hammerling's “Aspasia” Socrates is made to say: “Rhythm is proportion, and proportion is morality. A rhythm of the body must necessarily nil the whole nature of man with appreciation and love for beauty of proportion. When this has once been seen, everything coarse, unpolished, and base must be despised. I envy you of your beautiful rhythm of body and sjuI, Theodora.’*

In the foregoing I have spoken of the results to be attained by a complete system of physical education, not by that fractional part which we are at present giving to our children. With the .latter we can only hope to combat the ev.l tendencies growing out of our present school system; we cannot hope to develop or create new powers in the few minutes per day given to this subject at present; all we hope for now is to retard the physical degeneration which is taking place.

The facts here stated have ail been proven by long observation and by actual experiment. But lest some of you may think they are only the phantasies of a gymnastic crank, I will close my paper with a few examples related by men of high professional standing, interested scientifically only’’ physical education.

The late Dr. Seguin, in his book on “Idiocy,** relates many instances of mental growth through physical education. This is one. Among his patients was a child who could not speak, who had apparently no emotions, no



Digitized by Google
-153-

desires ; who could not use his muscles, could not grasp an object if placed in his hand. In the beginning of his exercises an assistant held the child before him with the child's hands stretched out, the palms up, so the doctor could let a little staff fall into the child’s hands, which were then closed upon it by the assistant, whereupon the patient’s arms were given a quick jerk which sent the staff back to the doct r’s hands. By continuing this a long time, gradually increasing the distance between the two, the doctor succeeded in creating a certain amount of attention in the child, directing it to his hands, and when he noticed the pain which resulted from the falling object he became angry and tried to throw it from him. Later he was made 10 hang by his hands from the rungs of a ladder; the fear of falling induced him to grasp in obedience to the will. And so, step by step, he was led forward, his tasks increased until from a mere living corps, a bunch of flesh without apparent life, he became a boy who differed very little from other dull children.

D. Hamilton D. Wey, superintendent of the Elmyra Reformatory, reports at great length upon the success of his experiments at that institution. The first class in gymnastics was formed, as an experiment, in June 1886. It consisted of 12 men from 19 to 29 years of age, who for two years had made no progress either in their school-work, hand-craft, or their morality, whose sensibilities and susceptibilities were on a par with those of domestic animals. There was no provision for this kind of work and so it was conducted whenever opportunity offered, in the prison court, in the barns, or the basement. It continued for a period of six months. I cannot here enter into detail as to the gymnastic work undertaken; be it sufficient to say that it was along the same lines ^s that of the German turners.

At the end of the six months there was a decided improvement in the men’s physiognomy, carriage, muscular increment, and general betterment of tissue and vegetative functions. But better than these were the evidences of mental stimulation and quickening. As proof of this mental improvement the percentile averages are given as follows : During the five months preceding the gymnastic treatment their average for that time was 45.25. During the six months of treatment it was 74.16, and during the six months immediateb following 71 per cent.

“A study of these statistics,” says Dr. Wey, “will show a simultaneous and rapid improvement from the beginning of treatment, along the threefolc line of moral, physical, and intellectual capacity. The advance made in moral and intellectual development is most striking, and occurs in no isolated case, but is common to all.” Further on he says: “Physical training is related to discipline through the establishment of greater amenability to law and order, from strengthening of parts, regulation of function, and removal of nervous irritation arising from unharmonious adjustment of the several systems of the body.”

Dr. Scripture of Yale made a series of tests to ascertain the reaction time. These experiments were made with instruments registering thousandths of a second. He found that the reaction time of the fencing mister, an unlettered man, was much shorter than that of students unskilled in physical exercise. The reaction time of his assistant, Dr. Hammond, a man of intellectual culture and also an expert fencer, was shorter than that of the fencing master. This would show that the proper development of both faculties enhances them both as compared to one-sided development.

Dr. Fitz of Harvard made similar experiments with an apparatus consisting of a wheel upon which was a white spot, visible only a short space ot

/

»

Digitized by v^ooQle
-154-

time as the wheel revolved rapidly. Over eight hundred people were tested as to their ability to touch this spot, and the lowest per cent, of failures was found to be recorded against the college champion lawn tennis player, showing that the power of perception and the ability to direct his hand in response to the stimulus received through that perception had been more highly cultivated by him through his tennis playing.

These statements show the truth of some of my assertions; others have been proven by equally reliable men; but time will not permit me to g » further into details. Neither will I, at this time, attempt to draw any conclusions from what has been said, or make suggestions for the application of these theories to our system of school work. As stated above, we are on the right track; able men are in the lead, and there is no doubt that out of darkness will come light, and that light will show the true relation of bo:iy and mind and their influence one upon the other, and when that new light shines fo th in all its brilliancy, our children will be educated so that they will indeed have a sound mind in a sound body.

GYMNASTICS FOR COLLEGE WOMEN.

Read before the Alumni Association of the Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics by DR. LOUISA SMITH, Director of the Bryn Mawr College Gymnasium.

IN considering this subject one of the first questions which presents is, “Why should it be deemed necessary for college women to have gymnastics at all ?” Have not a majority of them already attained to a great extent all the physical development they will ever have ? Are not their habits of life and movement already fixed to a very great extent? Can we hope to do very much for them either in an educational or corrective way ? In answering these questions let us adopt the physicians’ motto and say, “While there is life there is hope.”

But let us take it for granted that women entering college have not attained quite all their physical development and that movement habits have not to any great degree become fixed, and suppose the director tries to plan a careful and comprehensive course in educational gymnastics, a course which shall cover the four years of college life, one in which there shall be progression, in which each part shall follow the preceding part in logical sequence, a course which shall give to the Senior a physical development which shall equal her mental attainments.

Suppose the director tries to make out such a course, what are some of the difficulties which confront her? At the very outset there is the problem of grade. Did you ever hear of a college for women requiring of its entering students anything in the way of physical examination, any certain degree of physical education ? There are entrance requirements in French, German, English, mathematics, history, etc., but absolutely nothing in physical education. What is the result ? If gymnastic work is made compulsory in your college, your Freshman class is made up of all sorts of conditions. There is the athletic girl, strong, vigorous, full of life; a girl who has always been accustomed to tennis, golf, and riding ; a girl who can swim, row, fence, and skate ; who is eager to throw herself into basket ball for the honor of her class. But

Digitized by Google
-155-

right by her side, as the class “falls in” for the first time, may be the pale, thin, nervous girl; one who loves her books to excess; who would never take any exercise unless compelled to do so; who has never skated except to turn her ankle; who does not know how to play golf and who does not want to know how ; who dislikes tennis because “you have to run so much and you get so hot”; who has never learned to swim because she is afraid of the water; a girl who shrinks from the roughness of basket ball ; who, ten chances to one, has a spinal curvature acquired from improper postures as she bends over her books.

Then, as you become better acquainted with your Freshman class, you will find there are some girls who have had gymnastics all their lives and who are very fond of gymnasium work. There will be others who have been made to go regularly to a gymnasium and who so cordially dislike the work that they do not hesitate to tell you so.

There are still others who have never done anything in a gymnasium, but are willing to come to the class and are prepared to like gymnastics, provided some disaffected person has not gained a hearing before you had an opportunity to make a favorable impression. Then again there are other girls who have never had any gymnastics and who are of the very decided opinion that they do not want any.

What is to be done with a class made up of such heterogeneous material ? A very easy solution of the problem might seem to be to divide the class, putting all those who have had any gymnastic work in one division and all those who have had none in another. But here again would come in the question of grade, for we all know there are gymnasia and gymnasia. Besides, your non-gymnastic division would be heterogeneous again, for it would be composed of strong and weak girls and girls who would come between these two extremes. You say, subdivide again and have each division composed of a strong and a weak division. Very well, and when this is done there would be occasion to divide and subdivide again and again, until at last the work would practically be individual. This would be excellent if one had the time, strength, and assistance necessary, not to mention the tact and patience to make individual work interesting and a delight to the student.

Of course, the real solution of the problem is to require an entrance examination in physical development and attainments. This would not only arouse more earnest interest in physical education in the preparatory schools, but would exclude from college those girls who are physically unable to endure the strain of college life and who in their Senior year become nervous wrecks and, being sent out into the world, diploma in hand, are incapable of doing any good to any one, and are surely no credit to the college.

But the day of college entrance examinations in physical education is a long way off, and in the meantime what is to be done ? The1 only remedy which presents itself to my mind at present is for the director to accept any and all students presented to her by the college, but on her own responsibility subject each individual to an examination in gymnastic attainments. This, together with the regular physical examination, should give a pretty good idea of a student’s ability, and

Digitized by
-156—

yvith this information as basis the director should, be able to plan some kind of a course. The Freshman, and for that matter all the other classes, might be divided into a beginning and an advanced division. And one can readily see how such a division might act as a stimulus, first to the beginners to prove themselves worthy of promotion, and secondly to the more advanced to prove themselves capable of taking the lead.

As to the precise character of the examination to be given, that is a matter for the individual director to decide for herself. There might be required a certain degree of ability to execute with precision and quickness some simple military commands, to perform with accuracy certain free movements, and to. do with a certain degree of ease and skill some simple apparatus work.

The examination having been made, the director is fairly launched on her sea of troubles. She must now plan her course. She must determine in her own mind the relative value of purely educational gymnastics and those of a more recreative type. She must fully appreciate and remember just how much time, how much nervous energy, how much vitality is required by the college to be expended in the preparation and recitation of lessons. She is to remember that each and every professor in college has planned a course which, if a student were to follow it in every detail, would consume every bit of the,twenty-four hours not expended in eating and sleeping. And each professor is disposed to find fault if his lessons have not received what to his mind is the proper amount of attention. The number of hours a week the students are required to come to the gymnasium is a matter which must influence the making out of a proper course. The director must also take into consideration the time of day her students are to come to her. Are they to come to the gymnasium in the early morning when they are fresh and receptive, or in the late afternoon and evening after they have been worked to the point of exhaustion by the other professors. To my mind, in the latter case the recreative element should enter very largely into consideration.

And this brings us quite naturally to call attention not only to recreation in the form of gymnastics, but also in that of athletics and out-door sports. The title of this paper forbids my discussing these subjects, but permit me to say in passing that they should form a very important part in the college girl’s life. They should not, as is perhaps the tendency in some colleges, constitute nearly the whole course in physical education, but should go hand in hand with gymnastics. Each should help the other.

There is one other phase of college gymnastics which we must consider for a moment and that is corrective and medical gymnastics. As the director makes her physical examinations she will find here and there a student with a decided spinal curvature ; many with just a slight curve, some with flat chests, some with round shoulders, a few with a marked one-sided development, some with forms of heart disease or other disorders that are capable of being benefit ted by gymnastics. Here is apparently a vast field of labor. But what can the busy director do with all these needy students. Not very much, unless she

Digitized by

Google


—157—

bas unlimited time, strength, patience, skill, and tact. In the first place, although the studeht may have the very best intentions in the world to start with, it will not be many wreeks before some entertainment or some lecture, that she “just ought to go to,” comes on the only evening and at the only hour she has in all the week for her treatment. And who would miss the opportunity of one’s life just for a lot of stupid exercises. And once the charm is broken, it is easy enough to find excuses ever after. What college girl would prefer, after a hard day’s work, to go to the gymnasium and pull at chest weights rather than # go across the hall to her friend’s room to a fudge party. Such a girl would justly be considered a freak.. Thus it is very easy to see that, if anything is to be accomplished, corrective gymnastics must not be left to the choice of the student, but must in some way be made compulsory. But here again one is treading on very dangerous ground. Care must be exercised not to require too much of the girl’s already very fully occupied time. Tact must be used to make the most stupid of exercises and the most trying of postures interesting, or else rebellion will come sooner or later, and then much of the good one might have accomplished is lost.

It is a fact that what we can get for nothing in this world almost always appears to us of comparatively little value. So it would seem that, if the director might be allowed by her college to charge each student treated a good sum for her services, her work and efforts would be vastly more appreciated and her care more eagerly sought after.

But, here again, a girl who is able to pay a good sum besides all her other college expenses is able to employ the best of specialists for her trouble and, of course, she would prefer to go to him rather than trust herself to a mere teacher of gymnastics who has never been heard of outside the college grounds. Thus, sad as it may seem, the good results to be obtained from corrective gymnastics in college are very limited.

In recapitulation let us note that, in the first place, we took cognizance of the fact that although not a startling amount can be accomplished in the way of educational gymnastics with the average college woman, yet we are justified in making some attempt. We noticed some of the difficulties that stand in the way of preparing a proper course. We have tried to propose a remedy for some of these evils. We would again emphasize the importance of the recreative element, and, much to our regret, acknowledge the inability of the average college director to do much with corrective gymnastics.

But I trust you will pardon the gloomy picture drawn of college gymnastics. There is a bright side to the work and, even though it is not all “honey and jam” to be a college director, neither is it all wormwood and gall. For is it not something of a privilege to come in contact with these fresh young lives, to gain their confidence and respect, to help make them stronger and better and purer, to feel that through your work they will be better enabled to grasp the problems of their intellectual duties, and afterward the graver problems of life ? I think so. And I would say most fervently and earnestly: “May God bless the college girl and give his divine guidance to the college director that her influence may ever be forigood.”

Digitized by CaOOQle

r
It K	w	^	_	m	Published	Monthly.

yVVaP ftND BODY; -* preidenker publishing CO..

Subocription Price, $ 1.00 per Year.	2v£il-wa,\aJce®,	"WT.ecoaa.elaa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NATIONALITIES IN ATHLETICS.

THE population of the United States, leaving out of discussion the aborigines, the Indians, is composed of the offspring of former immigrants, or those born of them and raised here and those that were born in foreign countries and have immigrated here to make the Union their home.

Both of these two divisions ,groupe themselves into quite a variety of nationalities, each with characteristic, physical and mental peculiarities.

The English race predominated overwhelmingly in the earlier part of the history of the country while later on the Irish and Germanic races formed a large percentage of the new-comers.

The descendants of the ancient Romans, particularly the Italians, did not sooner than the last decades come to this country in a comparatively large number.

From a physio-ethnological standpoint it is interesting to compare the physical abilities and idiosyncrasies of these different nationalities as we see them manifested and enthusiastally displayed in those events that permit of comparison, i. e. athletic feats, contests, and competitive games. Inasmuch as the greater number of immigrants themselves when they come to this country are of such an age that they may be excluded when we discuss athletics, we must confine ourselves to their descendents.

The Englishman and Scotchman is a lover of out-door sports and games and to him we owe the vast interest taken in these branches.

The Irishman has a well-known inclination to the art of self-defense, he is in a large measure responsible for the popularity of boxing and pugilism.

The German is fond of a somewhat more systematic sort of exercise and joins a Turnverein. The same holds good, although in a much lower degree and in smaller percentage, of the Bohemians, of the Swedes and Norwegians.

Heretofore the Italians have taken little interest in physical education .

As the population in successive generations undergoes a more thorough amalgamation, we notice also an amalgamation process in the national characteristics of physical recreation.

Tendencies thus develop, which assume peculiarities that are preeminently the property of the American youth. We have typical American games, as baseball and the like.

N

Digitized by L^ooQle
-159-

Gymnastics and athletics are practiced in a way, differing considerably from what is done in other countries in this line.

On the whole the American is a lover of sport and athletics, and recent observations tend to prove that there is not very much difference as to the nationality to which the father or forefather belonged. Of late, especially, we notice, that the different nationalities are proportional^ quite well represented in the different forms of athletics. The same seems to be true in regard to ability,

We see English, Irish, and German “stars” in the base- and football-world ; so, too, among the athletic and bicycle-heroes; no race or nation seems to be barred or unable to produce athletes. As we distinguish morally good and bad men, we find good and poor athletic possibilities in every nationality.

The Anglo-Saxon and Germanic races, however, perhaps are slightly in advance in this respect.

The Indians, although always heralded as a type of physical strength, agility, and endurance, have heretofore failed to show their superiority; only sporadically we hear of an Indian athlete or player of exceptional ability.

In straight football, perhaps, a game just fitted for the Indian, he ranks superior to the white man. Is it possibly only the lack of opportunities that keeps him in the background in other respects ?

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF

NEW YORK CITY.

A paper read by DR. M. AUGUSTA REQUA before the Alumni Association of the Anderson Normal

School of Gymnastics.

PHYSICAL education in the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx has formed a part of its course of study for so long a time that no one knows just when it was introduced. The course of study stated, “No system of education and school management is complete which neglects to provide for due attention to physical training. The pupils should be exercised daily in such a manner as to expand the lungs, develop the muscles, and impart a graceful and easy carriage to the body.”

In the past each teacher defended upon herself and fulfilled these requirements in accordance with her own individual views. Occasionally some systematic work was attempted, and from 1891 to 1896 some of the schools gave considerable attention to the subject. But it was not until 1896 that a uniform system was introduced into every class-room throughout the boroughs.

In introducing a uniform system of physical education into the public schools of the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx the principal aim was body building, and of secondary consideration was a special training of physical powers.

The aim of the different systems of physical education are clearly defined. In the educational gymnastics of. Ling body building is the keynote to the whole system. In preparing the work it was decided to

Digitized by <^.ooQle

r
-160-

follow the principles of the Ling system, and so to arrange work from the other systems that all that is desirable and peculiar to them might be given in conformity to the principles of Ling.

This plan would probably be called “eclectic”; but as all systems are absorbed and controlled by the principles of the Ling gymnastics, it is really a logical outgrowth of that system, and it is, therefore, properly speaking, Ling gymnastics with amplifications.

In the public schools the curriculum is overcrowded. It is, therefore, imperative that no exercise be given unless it has a demonstrable value. Mere variety without a distinct relation* to future use, mere variety without true progression, is an injustice to the child. Every exercise, every lesson can and should tell first and always for health, second for strength, third for grace, fourth for skill.

Most of the work in an elementary school is done in the class-room and is therefore limited. But some of our present buildings and every new school is provided with a well equipped gymnasium. The apparatus, according to the latest specifications, consists of three or more Swedish “boms” according to the size of the room, stall-bars as many as the room permits, not exceeding sixty, 1 dozen or more climbing ropes, 2 bucks, 2 spring-boards, 3 jumping standards, 6 chest-weights, 5 dozen each of wands, dumb-bells, Indian clubs, rings, basket ball outfit, hand balls, and bean bags.

The method employed in introducing the subject was as follows : The boroughs were divided into sections, and delegates from all the schools assembled at centers in those sections and received instruction. The method of instruction was an easy lesson, copies of which, with explanatory notes were distributed among the delegates. The delegates taught the lesson to the teachers, and gave them the lesson and the notes to copy. The teachers then taught the same lesson to their classes. By these means a lesson was carried each week into every class-room. As both teachers and scholars were untrained, it was necessary to begin with the most elementary work. The exercises were of a very simple character, and as all must start from the beginning, the introductory lessons served for all grades, the only difference in the requirements being that the higher grades spent less time on any one lesson. These lessons contained the elements of physical education, i. e., (1) correct position of the body in standing and sitting; (2) the simplest exercises so given as to aid ift securing these correct positions, while at the same time the body is taught to obey the will ; (3) the simplest exercises to aid in securing ease and grace ; (4) respiratory exercises, both for hygienic reasons and also as a basis of voice culture.

The work so far has been handicapped because of a lack of an adequate teaching force ; but we trust the time is not far distant when this need will be supplied.

The public schools of Manhattan and the Bronx are magnificently organized and disciplined, and the principals and teachers as a body are intelligent, active, and earnest. The only need is an adequate force to carry out the work of tlje department.

In answer to the question, “What can be done to place the physical



Digitized by ^.ooQle
-161-

training department on a firm basis and give it a permanent place in

our schools,’* I would state :

1.	Every instructor should stand for a definite amount of training, practical and theoretical, and be licensed by the state the same as every other teacher.

2.	Physical education should be placed in the school curriculum as a branch of instruction, and not as a means of diversion, recreation, or relaxation.

3.	The director or supervisor should be qualified to superintend all that pertains to the physical well-being of the child, and should so act.

4.	All the exercises should be planned in accordance with hygienic principles.

5.	A correlation of the great systems of physical education should be made in accordance with these principles.

6.	Every regular school teacher should receive as careful training in this subject as in any other, and should be required to pass a successful examination before receiving a license.

7.	Every school board should have a committee on school hygiene which would look after not only the physical exercise, but all that pertains to physical betterment.

8.	In order to bring about all of the above mentioned needs, a thorough, vigorous campaign of public education is of the first importance.^

DEFECTIVE SIGHT AND HEARING.

By Mrs. FRANCES W. LEITER.

THE educational system of America tenaciously requires that the mental proficiency of pupils, in all grades, be carefully tested at stated periods during the school year. Upon the results of these tests the student is advanced, or held back for more thorough work. The cause, or causes, of the failures “to pass’’ have not been carefully investigated. These are not always due to dullness of intellect. Defective sight and hearing account for many cases. The child with medium mental capacity, but quick to see and hear, and consequently prompt to respond, is generally considered apt by the teacher; while, perhaps, the one sitting by his side, really more capable, is pronounced a poor student, because his sight is defective, or hearing is impaired.

* There may be some among our readers that will accuse us of what we ourselves have often condemned, viz. of being system defenders, or rather system-partisans^ But we cannot, in good faith, silently pass over Dr. Rtqua’s statement that all systems are absorbed and controlled by the principles of Ling’s gymnastics.

This is entirely in contradiction with the facts, nor has it ever been claimed by Ling’s disciples themselves. We coincide very heartily with most things Dr. Requa says in her article but cannot help suggesting a somewhat more extensive study of the principles underlying other systems and especially the German. The German system was at its very birth intended and especially systematized for school-work. It is founded on pedagogical principles, whereas Ling originated his system from a curative and medical aspect.—Ed.

Digitized by <^.ooQle


-162-

It is lamentable that so many promising boys and girls have settled into hopeless mediocrity as students, with distressing discouragement during the rest of life, through these defects which are not properly appreciated, if understood. Sight and hearing are so materially concerned in the process of education, that any limitation upon these senses cannot fail to result in limitations upon the sucees of education.

With prompt and proper attention, such difficulties can be partially remedied, if not wholly overcome. This matter has received little thought until recently. A leading periodical states that Russia was the first to investigate and test the sense of hearing. This occurred in 1878. So far as can be definitely ascertained, as late as 1893, there were only twelve reports of similar investigation : three in Russia, three in Germany, two in France, one in Denmark, one in Scotland, and two in America.

The situation is becoming a grave one. It is estimated that ten out of every fifty children show some defect in one or both ears. One city discovered that the eyes of fully one-half the children examined were somewhat affected; while a per cent age sufficiently large to occasion concern, were poring over books with positive danger to vision.

Various causes produce these defects. Deafness, in greater or less degree, sometimes exists at birth, or is the result of some disturbed, changed condition of the organs of hearing through disease or accident. The Eustachian tube is frequently closed by a catarrhal condition of the throat and nasal passages.

Sight difficulties may also be congenital. The general disturbiug cause grows out of the privileges and demands of the higher civilization which is taxing eyes to the utmost. Myopia, or near-sightedness, the most common difficulty, is becoming evident everywhere. Eminent ophthalmologists may disagree as to the cause, nature, and treatment of certain eye troubles, but there can be no question that school-life is largely responsible for some of the prevailing defects of vision among children. There is too much close work, and too prolonged. Too many school houses are not sufficiently lighted. Too frequently pupils are seated facing windows while they study. Blackboards are unfavorably placed. If, to these conditions, are added books poorly printed, .in fine type, the strain upon the eyes cannot fail to be injurious.

The growing girl, ambitious to compare favorably with adepts, produces marvelous specimens of her fingers’ deftness with the needle; but, frequently, at the extravagant expense of clear vision, though it may not become apparent until later in life.

We fail to enumerate the principal causes of these seriously growing defects, if we do not include the physical degeneration which is resulting from the confinement and strain of the school room.

The effects of education upon the Yuma Indians, Arizona, are proofs of the case in hand. The old warriors objected because the confinement did not agree with the children. The chiefs were finally won over to the ideas of civilization. The schools flourished from an educational standpoint, but the children soon lost there “forest air of rolicking freedom,M and the “evidences of physical depression and deterioration were apparent.”

To withhold longer from our children the advantages of systematic
-163-

physical training and its protection from the increasing strain of mental application will soon become a crime at the door of this intelligent people. The idea prevails that this discipline is already established in the majority of schools. It has been carefulty estimated, after painstaking investigation, that, out of sixteen million children attending the public schools, not more than two million, in cities of eight thousand inhabitants and over, are receiving this instruction, and much of it is imperfectly given. The time has passed for believing that only the city-bred child suffers physical disability. The boys and girls in rural districts are also needy, if this “all round” development is to be secured.

The very circumstances of school life, as they exist in our cities and towns, pave the way for disabled sight and hearing, upon which the failure of education so largely hinges. We cannot expect perfect exercise of the serises without more perfect physical conditions.

While plans for securing this are tardily maturing, some steps may be taken to lessen the difficulty with eyes and ears which do not, cannot fully perform their functions under existing circumstances. Thoughtful care on the part of the instructor will place pupils with poor eyes and dull hearing in seats favoring their need. Some assistance from experienced specialists will enable teachers to aid materially in examining students, though the work cannot be accomplished in a single week. Where marked defects exist, in either sight or hearing, the cases should be referred to a professional. If glasses for the eyes will prove helpful, and patents are not able to provide the same, surely the state, which furnishes books under like circumstances, is called upon to meet the emergency. We trust, however, this will not prove an unwarranted harvest for opticians and result in placing spectacles upon the children permanently, who rather need absolute rest for the eyes for a time, with perhaps some treatment under medical advice, as well as bodybuilding and strengthening, which will naturally be attended by more perfect exercise of the senses.

It is the duty of each board of education to inquire intelligently into the situation, sparing pupils disastrous strains which can be avoided easily, if taken in time. The entire responsibility rests upon the teacher’s not calling the attention of the school authorities to children needing these helps and improved conditions. A great duty devolves upon all having any fostering care over children in the home, to secure for them favorable physical conditions during the growing period, and a practical knowledge of the laws of personal hygiene. Then can the most perfect sight and hearing possible for each individual become a cherished possession during life.

The state does not fully discharge its duty in the matter until competent “medical examiners,” employed and paid by the state, shall yearly determine each student’s physical fitness for the work which the curriculum assigns, from the primary grade up through the high school. The opinions of such medical examiners should be respected, though it may somewhat interfere with the regular order of mental discipline. Our children are, so to speak, herded together in public schools like so many sheep who are yearly driven to the “grade bars,” beyond which is higher intellectual pasture, when the physical condition of many has not been equal to the work already attempted.
—164—

The government does not hesitate to inspect mines, test boilers, examine incoming vessels, etc., that the danger to human life may be reduced to the minimum. Even more skilfully and assiduously should the children of the nation be protected against circumstances for which the state is responsible, whose results are disastrous to success in life, and, indeed, to life itself sometimes. In the schools of to-day we are sowing the seeds of difficulties and diseases which may mean total blindness at an early age in the future for many of the rising generation. The world needs healthy, strong men and women, with fair mental acquiremenes, rather than dyspeptic graduates whose bodies are poorly equipped for the emergencies of existence. Culture counts for little when one is physically unsound or disabled.

Until at least one yearly physical examination is fully established, we cannot properly estimate why we fail, as a people, to reach high-water mark under all the advantages of the present day. To know the prevailing condition of pupils in our public schools will be to understand the imperative necessity for systematic physical training.

1st

2d

3d

4th

1st

2d

3d

4th

1st

2d

3d

BALANCING BOARDS.

From “Manual of Heavy Gymnastics,” Chicago Public Schools.

LESSON I.

Exercise. Grasp neighbor’s hands and step on board with right foot, walk forward, jump down on both feet.

Exercise. Walk forward with follow step, left (right) foot in front. Exercise. Walk forward with touching of floor before each step. Exercise. Walk forward, hands on hips or shoulders.

'	LESSON II.

Exercise. Front-sidestand, hands on front member’s shoulders. Step on board with right foot and walk sideways, left.

Exercise. As in Exercise 1, but walk sideways, right.

Front-cross-stand.

Exercise. Step on board with right foot, swinging left leg forward, backward, forward and place foot on- board in four counts. Then same with right leg, walking forward.

Exercise. As in Exercise 3, but cross foot forward at first and third count.

LESSON III.

Grasp neighbor’s hands.

Exercise. Walk forward to middle of the board, place right foot forward, execute one-quarter turn left and return right. Walk to end of board and jump down. By walking forward grasp neighbor’s hands, while turning, loosen hands and place hands on front member’s shoulders. The quarter turn may be repeated several times. Exercise. As Exercise 1, but at middle of board place left foot forward and execute one-quarter turn right and then left.

Exercise. Walk to the middle of the board, bend and raise trunk twice. Walk to end of board and jump down.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—165—

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but bend trunk backward twice.

LESSON IV.

Grasp neighbor’s hands.

1st Exercise. Walk forward with bending of stationary knee, in raising left foot forward, bend right knee.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but raise heel and bend knee.

3d Exercise. Walk forward, raise knee, stretch forward and place foot on board in three counts. Jump down at end of board.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but stretch backward.

LESSON V.

1st Exercise. Side-stand; place hands on front member’s shoulders and walk sideways left (with cross step right).

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but walk right with cross step left.

3d Exercise. Walk with side step, two pupils grasp hands and face each other.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but walk with cross step.

LESSON VI.

1st Exercise. Rear-cross-stand; place right foot on board, grasp neighbor’s hands and walk backward.

2d • Exercise. Follow-step backward left.

3d Exercise. Follow-step backward right.

4th Exercise. Walk backward with touching of floor before each step.

LESSON VII.

1st Exercise. Grasp neighbor’s hands, place right foot on board, stretch right knee and place left foot forward on floor, move right foot forward and stretch knee, continue to end of board.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but place left foot on board.

3d Exercise. Walk to middle of board, hands grasped, bend and raise trunk twice with raising of left and right leg backward alternately.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but bend trunk backward and raise left and right leg forward alternately.

LESSON VIII.

1st Exercise. Front-sidestand ; hands on front of member’s shoulders, right foot on board, walk sideways left to middle of board, bend trunk sideways left and raise right leg sideways; walk to end of board with bending trunk and raising leg.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but walk sideways right, bend trunk right and raise left leg.

First rank, No. 1; second rank, No. 2.

3d Exercise. No. 1, rear-cross-stand at board; No. 2, front-cross-stand, right foot on board, grasp neighbor’s hands and walk. No. 1 walk backward and No. 2 forward.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but vice versa.

Digitized by Google
-166-

SWINGING BOARD.

The swinging boards, which are mainly fastened on the rings, will be used by pupils of first and second grades.

LESSON I.

1st Exercise. Stand in front of board, grasp rings, flex arms, and place both feet on board. Change to sitting position.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but place feet over board to rear stand and back to front stand.

3rd Exercise. As Exercise 1, but raise legs to sitting position, flex arms and place feet on board. Step down, forward or backward.

4th Exercise. Sit on board, hands on rope, step back, and swing.

LESSON II.

1st Exercise. Stand in front of board, grasp rings, flex arras, and place feet on board; bend and stretch knees several times. Step down forward.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but bend left knee and raise right leg forward. Practice alternately several times.

3rd Exercise. As Exercise 2, but raise leg backward.

3th Exercise. As Exercise 1, but flex arms and raise feet to sitting position. Step backward and swing. Leave board at end of forward swing.

LESSON III.

1st Exercise. Grasp rings and place left foot on board, step backward, place right foot on board, bend knees and swing forward and backward. At end of each forward swing bend and stretch knees.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but after two or three swings, change to sitting position and swing, leave board at end of forward swing.

3rd Exercise. As Exercise 1, but stand on left foot and swing right leg forward and backward. At end of back swing step down.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but stand on right and swing left leg.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. Burkhardt.—Address has been changed. Several causes contributed to the step taken.

Rud. Weber, St. Louis.—Your contribution had been mislaid. We must, however, insist that contributors send manuscripts in English; we cannot undertake the work of translating communications. We wish to add, that we shall gladly publish such reports, if they are computed in such a way as to be intelligible to the great majority of readers and admit of comparisons with other reports of the same nature.

Miss C. St. A.—Your inquiry can only be answered by letter, which will be done as soon as you send us additional tacts and data.

Fest-Committee, Philadelphia.— Where is your report ?

K,

Digitized by
-167-

BOOK REVIEW.

—“Outing” for September is a delightful number, which carries a pleasant variety of outdoor sketches and beautiful illustrations. The contents include: “Sea Rivals for America's Cup,” by Captain A. J. Kenealy ; “Sport with Sharp-tail Grouse,” by Dr. H. A. Scott; “A Bear Hunt in New Brunswick,” by Frank

H.	Risteen ; “The Golf Clubs of Long Island,” by Charles Turner ; “Ten Days’ Outing in Indian Territory,” by E. H. Hudson ; “The Cruise of the Catboat Elsie"; “Trolling,” by H. G. Daniels ; “A Gentleman Rider,” by Kent Warfield ; “Wheeling Through the San Joaquin,” by Chas. Howard Shinn ; “Fishin’ for Fiddlers,” by Geo. V. Triplett: “Rail Shooting on the Maurice River Marshes,” by B. W. Mitchel; “Paddle, Camp,* and Baby,” by R. K. Wing; “Shooting in the Field,” by Ed. W. Sandys ; “Lost in the Australian Bush,” by Hy. Virstow, and the usual editorials, poems, records, etc.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Considerable international interest has been stirred up over the forthcoming yacht race between the Britisher “Shamrock” and the Yankee “Columbia” for the American Cup. Designer Herreshoff is sure that the cup is safe, as he is satisfied that the “Columbia” can win from any yacht ever built.

—Spalding’s Official Football Guide. The 1899 edition of Spalding’s Football Guide is mammoth in size, containing no less than 240 pagtfs, devoted to everything of interest to the game, from instructions to the novice to a critical analysis of the work of the leading players. The new rules are, of course, the feature of the book, and are published exclusively in Spalding’s Football Guide. The records of all the leading teams are given, and the photographs embrace teams and players from every section of the conntry. The Guide is for sale by all newsdealers or will be sent to any address in the United States or Canada upon receipt of 10 cents by the American Sports Publishing Co., 16 and 18 Park Place, New York City.

—The Cincinnati Lawn Tennis Association gave a large tournament on September 18.

—The West Point cadets have commenced their football practice already and thus far have shown good form in their entire work. Their schedule is as follows:	Tufts College, September 30; Harvard,. October 14; Dartmouth,

October 28, and Yale, November 4.

—It was a matter of great surprise to the lawn tennis devotees when J. Parmley Paret won the all-comers tournament, thus becoming the challenger for the national championship. His playing against Champion Whitman in the challenge round was also first class, although he went down before him. Paret is also one of the best writers on tennis in the country.

—As usual, the University of Chicago will have a star football team this season. Coach Stagg will tune up the team on the high school teams around Chicago.

—After winning more amateur prizes than any American in 10 years on English soil on the running track, George F. Sanford, the Yale athlete and coach, has returned to this country. Sanford will have charge of the Columbia athletes this fall, and will act in the capacity of head coach.

—Coach Woodruff and Captain Hare of the University of Pennsylvania football team will no doubt be the usual factors ip the football world this season.

—Kraenzlein, the University of Pennsylvania athlete, was the bright star of the A. A. T. championship games at Boston last month, winning first in the 120 and 220 yards hurdles and running broad jump, and second in the running high jump and 100 yards dash. Only one world’s record was broken, and that

Digitized by t^.ooQle
—168—

was by Richard Sheldon in the discus hurling. He beat the world’s record by 4 feet 3% inches.

—The knowing ones say that Flanagan, the weight-thrower, is capable of throwing the 16-pound hammer 170 or 175 feet if he cared to, but as he gets fifty dollars from the New York Athletic Club for every time he breaks a record, he finds it to his advantage to chop it off a little at a time. Flanagan coached the Princeton weight men this spring.

—Pony Polo, which is a much more dangerous game than football, does not come in for one-tenth the denunciation that the latter game does.

WORLD’S BEST RECORDS.,

(Compiled from the Clipper Annual.)

RUNNING.

ioo Yds.—o 4-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *9 4-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage, W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, S. H. Rush.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—485^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47yx sec.: W. Baker.

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F- Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carrol.

*16 lb Hammer Throw—158 ft. 4 in.: J. Flanagan.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Throwing—118 ft. 9 in,: C. Heneman.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. %% in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3}^ in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 6% in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Jump—14 ft.	in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—4X ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnet. *33 ft. Sfc in.; J. Wall.

Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2^ in.: W. MacManus.

Running Broad Jump—23 ft. 3^in.: C. H. Biggar. *24 ft. 6y in.: W. T. M. Ncwburn.

Pole Vault—11 ft. \o% in.: R. G. Clepp.

NATATION.	ROWING.

*$^-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

*U-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19^ min.: Yale Freshman Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 sec : H. Davidson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson.

*440 Yds.—31	sec.: J. S. Johnson.

*880 Yds.—1:22 2-5 min.: A. Norseng, K. Pander.

*One Mile—2:45 min.; J. S. Johnson.

* Amateur.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:384:5 sec.: J. H. Tyers?

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—26:08 min.: J. Nuttall.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—80 ft. 8in.: W. Allason.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

GERMAN LITERATURE.

PHYSIOLOGIE DER LEtfcSBUEBUNGEN.—F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D........   60

METHODIK.—ZETTLER............................................1.00

GESCHICHTE DER METHODIK.—PROF. DR. CARL EULER................2.00

“	“	“	“	“	“	“	bound................2.50

SCHWEDISCHE HEILGYMNASTIC.—F. J. HARTELIUS....a.......... -...170

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER MAEDCHEN UND FRAUEN.—DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER................................... ...............1.00

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 EAST WATER ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS.



Digitized by C.ooQle