MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	MAY-JUNE, 1932 No.	405

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Fublic Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind,

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHEF, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, Editor,

504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the pcsicffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND THE MACHINE AGE.

Joy Elmer Morgan

Groups such as the American Physical Education Association are in a position to understand better than the rest of us the crucial significance of our heritage of physical vigor. May I suggest that because you are students of this special problem, because you hold positions of peculiar importance in the community, you also carry obligations to interpret the significance of this heritage to your associates in the teaching profession and to the citizens of the community who determine our customs and our public policies. There was a time when physical vigor could be taken largely for granted. The necessity of war, the grim struggle with soil and climate made daily demands which exposed weakness and rewarded strength. The advantage of being strong was easily apparent. The constant association with soil, sun, and fresh air kept men close to the sources of their strength. It is no longer possible to take the mere fact of physical vigor for granted. If we wish to maintain the accumulated vitality of the ages we shall have to give some consideration to the ways

Digitized by L^ooQle
50

of living necessary to preserve that vitality. Concretely this means that each of us must be an interpreter of the value of physical fitness. It means that you in contact with your classes, with your associates, with the homes you visit, in addresses before groups of which you are a member, in your writings, in your activities as a citizen, must make your influence felt; that you must exert a steady pressure in behalf of higher standards of physical wellbeing.

I would like this morning to suggest answers to three questions: first, in what ways is the machine age affecting our lives? Second, what changes should be made in our ways of life in order that we may enjoy the advantages of the machine age and avoid its dangers? Third, what can you personally do to improve conditions?

In the writings of Charles Dickens we get our first vivid picture of the effects of the machine. The textile mills take the place of hand weaving. People accustomed to the easy pressures and the simple ways of the small town and countryside are quickly herded together in large towns without water supply, sanitation, police, or education. Under those conditions disease spreads, crime increases, the family tends to disintegrate, and there is a general sense of depression and social decay, reflected in the stirring narratives of Dicken’s novels. Looking back upon that period it is now plain that the worst fears were unfounded, that it was possible for humanity to adjust itself to the new conditions and to rise to a higher plane of wellbeing for all the people.

The present mechanical revolution is much more farreaching and pervasive than the changes which took place in the time of Dickens. The increase in machine power staggers the imagination. It discounts both the physical force and the skill of man in favor of the machine.

In the first place, it has shortened the working day and the working week, giving an increased leisure. I believe this increase in leisure to be much greater than is ordinarily realized. We have in the schools of the United States today 30 million young people who under conditions of an earlier age would have been at work in the shops and the factories. Within the past century we have practically halved the length of the working week.

In the second place, the machine age has raised the standard of living until today people enjoy a variety of food, a beauty and comfort of clothing, a quality of housing, and a variety of transportation far beyond that of earlier periods. In addition to this we have piled up surpluses of farm products and manufactured goods until today some 7 or 8 million of our people are unemployed. The forces which have produced these changes are really only beginning to operate. Most of our unemployment is not temporary; it is permanent and chronic. It will continue until we have shortened the working week and the working day. There are just two ways to absorb the surplus

Digitized by LjOOQle
51

energies of our people. One is to shorten the period of labor so that the work will be distributed among all. The other is to raise the standard of living so that we shall create new activities and new industries to administer to the welfare of mankind.

A third effect of the machine age during recent years has been the further concentration of population in cities. Conditions in these cities are vastly better than in the time of Dickens but they are still far below the standards which should be maintained by a civilized people. Already the tide is beginning to flow out of the cities. People are returning to the suburbs and to the land to seek conditions more favorable for themselves and their families.

A fourth result has been to concentrate financial power in the hands of fewer and fewer people and along with financial power goes the management of life itself. Perhaps at no time since the days of St. Francis of Assisi has the individual been so uncertain in the management of his life as at the present moment.

A fifth effect of the machine is to change many of our people from outofdoor activities which tended to build up strong bodies to indoor sedentary activities which tend to weaken and destroy physical vitality. This is a fact of great mental and spiritual, as well as physical significance.

You will be able to think of other ways in which the machine age is affecting our lives but these are the principal ones: increase in leisure, a higher standard of living, the concentration of population in cities, the concentration of financial and industrial power, and a change from active outdoor to sedentary indoor occupations. Our next question is, What changes should be made in our ways of life in order that we may enjoy the advantages of the machine age and avoid its dangers?

We should face the fact that fewer men working fewer hours can now do the world’s work. We are approaching a time when work—the mere providing of food, clothing, shelter, and transportation—must become a minor rather than a major phase of human activity. We face the need to distribute this work, which carries with it the right to earn and the right to buy, so that there will be a fair share for all.

Preparation for leisure is one of the major educational problems of our day. There has been a tendency to mechanize not only our work but equally our play. I believe that tendency to be inherent in the commercialization of recreation. I do not believe it can be corrected so long as the arts of recreation are left in the hands of those who would use them for private profit. The time has come when recreation for all must become as universal as education for all—when indeed it must be thot of as one of the major phases of education for both children and adults. This means an increased emphasis on physical education. It means that you who are here must be succeeded by a much larger group of men and women who will be better trained, better rewarded, and more fully appreciated by the public than you have been. Think what it would mean to America if we

Digitized by kjOOQle
52

could have devoted to this great task of physical education one trained worker for every ten teachers in our schools so that there would be a mighty army of 100,000 devoted to this important phase of our life. I suspect that the services of this 100,000 would do more to protect our national existence—even if war should come—then all the hundreds of thousands that constitute the forces of our peacetime armies and navies.

America has the highest standard of living in the world, but it is not high enough. We must extend more widely the benefits which are now enjoyed by relatively few. The standard of living is merely applied labor. When we have a large surplus of labor, it is a clear indication that the standard of living should be raised sufficiently high to absorb that labor. This means that people must have better food, better houses, better clothing, better automobiles, more generous education, and worthier recreation than heretofore. It means the creation of new industries and new occupations.

Already within our best schools are the beginnings of a new civilization. The school of tomorrow will be a community institution. Cities will be so built as to put at the center of each neighborhood the parks, the playfields, the school, the library, and the clubs. The school of tomorrow will be more generous and flexible than our traditional institutions. The public will absorb into its schools, activities now associated with the YMCA and the YWCA, with social work, with art centers, with health preservation and with the movie, the dancehall, the bowling alley, and the golf course. The schools will be characterized by increased attention to three needs: first they will give much greater emphasis to the relation between physical and mental health; second they will give more time to educating for leisure; and third they will include a comprehensive program for adults as well as for children.

Our people need to recognize more clearly the relation of physical health to mental health—to the hygjene of our American life more particularly. They need to appreciate the importance of physical vigor to clear thinking. The relation between physical and mental health has been well described by the great psychologist William James in his essay "The Gospel of Relaxation:”

In the unhealthy-minded, apart from all sorts of old regrets, ambitions checked by shames and aspirations obstructed by timidities, it consists mainly of bodily discomforts not distinctly localized by the sufferer, but breeding a general self-mistrust and sense that things are not as they should be with him. Half the thirst for alcohol that exists in the world exists simply because alcohol acts as a temporary anesthetic and effacer to all these morbid feelings that never ought to be in a human being at all. In the healthy-minded, on the contrary, there are no fears or shames to discover; and the sensations that pour in from the organism only help to swell the general vital sense of security and readiness for anything that may turn up.

Digitized by

*

Google
53

Some of the worst tragedies which afflict individuals today come from physical inability to stand life's strain. The whole “tempo of American life," as James Truslow Adams has expressed it, has been speeded up untile—owing to the number and variety of sensations and the constantly shifting environment—modern man is called upon to make a far greater number of adjustments to the world than was his remote relative in the caves and forests of Germany or Java. As a result there is a set of qualities which the spirit of our times does not encourage: poise, balance, steadiness, stability.

The concentration of population in cities might easily be made an advantage rather than a disadvantage if the cities were planned for worthy living. The power which the machine gives may well be used to make our cities centers of health and happiness for all. We have already gone far in providing schools for approximately one-fourth of the city population. Entirely aside from education, regarded merely as a phase of city housing, the schools are indispensable. Imagine the situation tnat would soon exist were the children now in the classrooms turned permanently into the congested streets and alleys of the cities. The city of tomorrow will be planned around the home as its center. The home itself will provide for sun and light and fresh air. There will be places for play both indoors and out. There will be an opportunity for gardens and neighborhood activities. There will be fewer and bigger streets. Streets will be used for traffic and not for parking cars. Sidewalks wijl be segregated so as to protect pedestrians from the dangers of the auto and the poisons that now fill the air. Schools and homes and parks will be interrelated so that children can go to their study or their play without the dangers of crossing traffic lanes. These are some of the more obvious changes that lie just around the comer.

The concentration and misuse of Jinancial power I believe to be a passing phase of our civilization. There is now in all civilized countries a strong tendency to redistribute wealth through higher taxes on inheritances and incomes. This has created a counter-tendency on the part of those who hold great wealth to seek the control of government itself. And they may be able to do so for a time, but in the end the masses will assert themselves in one way or another. A new leadership will arise and in one form or another will assert itself.

The change from physical activity to relative inactivity in many of our occupations has led to such measures as the exercising machines, the increase in Turkish baths and massage, and other substitutes for the purification of muscles thru their own activity. The nationwide spread of the “daily dozen" and the morning exercises has been an attempt to offset the muscular decay that goes with indoor inaction. These are artificial substitutes for the real thing. The best effects of physical activity are lost when elements of interest, volition, and variety are lacking. It is thru education, thru the activities of such

Digitized by i^ooQle
54

groups as yours, thru a great increase in hiking, boxing, gardening, golf, pingpong, bowling, tennis, dancing, and horseback riding, that we shall find the natural correctives for the limitations of a sedentary life. It is of the utmost importance that thru education and practice we establish not for a few but for all a reasonable program of physical activity. We cannot do this without changing the character of the physical education program in the school so that we shall develop there both the philosophy and the activities which will be useful in the years beyond the school.

Finally may I suggest a few things which you can do to improve conditions. Consider what the machine age has done to you. This will help you to understand its effect on others. How do your lot and your physical condition differ from what they would have been in the world as it operated in 1900? What adjustments have you made? What adjustments can you make- to insure not only the physical vigor which would have been possible in 1900 but an even finer and free development of your physical heritage.

You can make yourself a student of life in the particular community in which you work. The things you see with your eyes are much more persuasive to the people of your community than what you read, for the simple reason that what you see they too are in a position to see. You can spread information, arouse ambition, create ideals, suggest plans, interest citizens, encourage adult education. You will learn much from parents and citizens. The teachers as the largest single group of professionally trained people in the social order have a special responsibility for general community welfare. Let every teacher select as his very own some pivotal point of community leadership

You can visit homes and talk with parents about the welfare of their children. If the schools are to secure funds with which to carry on their indispensable service they must have the goodwill and understanding of parents. There is no better way to secure such an understanding of the school than to maintain close cooperation between parents and teachers. The rearing of a child under the conditions of modem life is a joint responsibility. It requires the combined efforts of the home, the school, and the community. When you visit a home to inquire after the wellbeing of a child you are recognizing the importance of that home. You are emphasizing the responsibility which the teacher holds for child welfare. You are giving the parent some of the expert knowledge of your profession and you are getting from the parent some of the devotion and the affection which he has for his own flesh and blood.

You can exert a steady pressure toward a more rational curriculum. It is sheer nonsense to spend time teaching Latin to students who do not know how to care for their bodies. A curriculum which teaches higher mathematics to students who do not know how to play or to be happy is a form of foolishness. To do these things is simply to bring Latin and higher mathe-

Digitized by v^ooQle
55

matics into disrepute and to create a distaste for scholarship and study which retard education. The curriculum of the schools must be built around the needs of life and we cannot ignore the need today for more physical activity, for training in leisure, for an increased devotion to the fine arts of music, drama, human relations, gardening, and architecture. These are the materials with which we shall build our civilization. There is no reason why we should hold ourselves in perpetual bondage to a medieval curriculum or an ancient notion of school management. It will not be easy to make these changes. It is necessary to overcome not only the vested interests and the inertia of the school itself, but also the apathy and prejudices of many parents.

You can help to work out standards of physical fitness and activity and to interpret those standards to the children, to the parents, and to those who manage school and community life. Much of our failure to make progress springs from our failure to make plans. We have not been willing to put forth the labor necessary to define our own purposes, to state them clearly, and to pursue them with the vigor and intelligence necessary for their realization.

You can work thru your professional organizations to accomplish certain large reforms which as an individual you would be unable to achieve. This is a corporate age, demanding large organization, much research, and concentrated expenditure of money and effort. Every dollar and every day of labor that you invest in effective work on the part of your professional organizations will yield large returns to the schools and to the community. Thru committees you can frame a program of physical education from the kindergarten thru college. You can help to encourage physical education for adults. You can influence taxpaying bodies and legislative authorities.

Finally may I suggest that this is no time for paralyzing pessimism. It is a time for inspiration, for planning, for higher ambitions, for a deeper appreciation of our great national heritage. We have all that our forefathers had with which to work. We have a rich and mighty continent, a varied and gifted population, a great tradition of democracy, justice, and equality. We have the highest standard of education ever achieved and by extending our educational enterprises still further we can lift America to new levels of happiness and achievement. If we teach our young people to expect little they will be satisfied .with little. If we teach them to expect much, to look forward to great things, and to be willing to make large sacrifices in the interest of each other, we shall push forward to a new era of social advance and human progress.

This article includes the major part of the address made by Mr. Morgan, Editor of the J’l. of the N. E. A., before the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, April 1932.

Digitized by AjOOQle
56

THE EDUCATION OF THE WHOLE MAN.

Otto T. Mallery

I admire physical education because it results in skill rather than information. The country is full of people with information they can’t use. Give a man skill and he will find a way to use it. If you see a person bored and miserable he may have information but the chances are he has no skill he likes to use in his leisure hours. For the use of a skill, even a little one, brings satisfaction and releases new energy. By the time a man by patience and perseverence has acquired a skill he has learned some self control, with the accent on the “control.” Give a man something he can do that he likes and he feels like a regular fellow. A doer is rarely a harsh sideline critic. He is more interested in improving his own technique than in pointing out the faults of other people. Doers are livelier than encyclopaedias. They do not live on a shelf. The great service that physical education is performing in the school system is to increase the proportion of activity to passivity. Doing is better than listening. Physical education is life-giving and energizing. When I came into the playground movement as a young man I found that physical educators were the men to be leaned upon. They had the technique needed to start the playground movement. Mr. William A. Stecher, then director of physical education of the Philadelphia Public School System, was our guide, philosopher and friend. Out of the playground movement has grown the demand for new skills, some not originally included in the scope of physical education, but physical education was the daddy of the playground movement. Both physical education and playgrounds have helped to broaden the conception of education from something done to you in school to something done by yourself in and out of school. The value of anything in school is in proportion to its carry-over value. Much information doesn’t carry over; skill is more likely to. To have a leisure time skill when unemployed is to possess a mental life belt. To keep up one’s skill is to keep up one’s courage. It is a great sight to see the young men at the Shelter for the Homeless Unemployed in Philadelphia engaged in shadow boxing. With only fifteen cents’ worth of food per day they have the energy to keep up their skill and at the same time keep up their courage and physique for better days.

Musicians are having a hard time during this period of unemployment but at least they keep tooting and trying to toot more skillfully. To make music is a good preservative of mental poise [not always other people’s poise] but no matter how bad the music, it preserves your own equilibrium.

A little knowledge may be a dangerous thing but a little skill is not. A little skill is far better than none. I learned the piano since the age of forty. Those who hear me play say I

Digitized by AjOOQle
57

can’t. However I am not dependent on an audience as Paderewski is. In this I have a great advantage over him. I admit he doesn’t write to me for advice about his playing; neither do I ask any favors of him. My playing is not for his benefit nor for anybody’s benefit, but it benefits me and harms no one who doesn’t hear it. A friend fitted up a hole in my fence just the right size for a pitched strike. It was intended for my twelve year old son, but father became more skillfull than son. It rests me to develop this trifling skill. I have just learned the American twist serve at tennis, or something like it. The timing and rhythm of it is a distinct pleasure. In the spring the revival of any old skill, like tennis, is a keen enjoyment. An old skill is as welcome as an old friend found again. Also the revival of the skill brushes the cobwebs out of the brain and makes mental work easier.

Those who have no skill have no brush for the cobwebs and their garrets may never get a good cleaning out. People whose brains are full of cobwebs are every day jumping out of the window. They never learned the broad jump or the high jump. The only jump that requires no skill is the down jump. Even a stone can fall. The destruction of property in the cities is becoming greater. Empty houses are pulled to pieces not for profit but because the boys and young men have no special interest and nothing else to do. A Columbia student named Catlin found a gang of boys dismantling an empty house. He suggested making it into a club house. He showed them how to make chairs and tables. They grew skills, and made over the house into better shape than before they destroyed it. Eventually there were twenty gangs making themselves club houses and at the same time special interests. The absence of special skill seems to be a cause for destructive depredations just as the possession of skill energizes and motivates the whole man.

We have in the United States this year a great English educator, L. P. Jacks, president of one of the colleges of Oxford University and editor of the famous philosophical Hibbert Journal, who says what I have been saying with such eloquence and persuasiveness that it has all the power of a new gospel. His book is “The Education of the Whole Man.” This whole man, when you see him, is a charming gentleman of many years and more youthfulness. Before he says a word he has convinced you that he must have mastered the art of living. He is preaching the gospel of skills for happiness and skills for balance from one end of the United States to the other, under the auspices of the National Recreation Association.

The principal object of my talk is to urge you to read Dr. Jacks' book, “The Education of the Whole Man,” at least four times. One of the central thoughts is: M,The human body is naturally skill hungry, and until that hunger is satisfied it will be ill at ease, craving for something it has not got and seeking its satisfactions in external excitements which exhaust its vitality

Digitized by v^ooQle
58

and diminish its capacity for joy. Short of skill, the perfect health even of the body is impossible.”

This book and Dr. Jack’s presence in this country are a godsend to the Commission on the Enrichment of Adult Life, founded by the National Education Association two years ago. This commission was created by some of the many progressive leaders of the National Education Association. It has aroused increasing enthusiasm at the convention of the National Education Association with its speakers and programs. It is asking the teachers and the school systems to give more consideration to the development of leisure time skills with a carry-over value. It is seeking ways and means for the education of the whole man. Physical educators have long shared this purpose and have been trying to do what Dr. Jacks and the Commission on the Enrichment of Adult Life are preaching. You have the faith, and the works must follow, Much of the leadership must come from you.

When Emerson was a young man he belonged to a study club of young men. He was asked what made leadership. At the next meeting he said he believed that leadership comes from surplus energy, that men who were able to do their routine duties and still have surplus energy were likely to be leaders. He was then asked what made surplus energy. He said he would like to have time to think that over, and at the next meeting he said that faith was the basis of surplus energy. They accused him of leading around to the argument that religion was the best basis for faith and therefore the best basis for leadership. No, he said, he had thought that over but it was clear that many of the bases for religion had fallen away in the course of years, that faith based upon religion was more difficult, but if you can’t have faith, he said, than have a confident illusion.

Whether because of your faith or because of a confident illusion, you physical educators are among the natural leaders in developing the skill of the people, the greatest of the nation’s assets and the foundation of the nation’s health both for body and mind.

Address made to the Recreation Section, A. P. E. A. Convention, April 1932.

WHAT PRICE POSTURE TRAINING?

Armin Klein, M. D., Boston

Body mechanics has been defined by the orthopedic subcommittee of the Hoover White House Conference[l] as the mechanical correlation of the various systems of the body with special reference to the skeletal, muscular, and visceral systems and their neurological associations.

Normal, or perhaps, good body mechanics may be said to obtain when this mechanical correlation is most favorable to the function of these systems. The indexes of good body mechan-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
59

ics common to all individuals whatever their types of body build may be are:

[A] first: head up, with the chin in, balanced above the shoulders, hips, and ankles second: chest elevated with the breast bone the part of the body farthest forward, third: abdomen flat and drawn in below but free and mobile above, and finally: normal unexaggerated back curves.

Good body mechanics as indicated by the afore-mentioned requirements are not generally manifested. Statistics obtained from the examination results of the world war draft, posture surveys by Lee[2] and Brown at Harvard, Cook[3] at Yale, and Klein[4] and Tnomas in the public schools at Chelsea, Mass., reveal a practical unanimity as to the prevalence of bad body mechanics. The Chelsea Survey was made in 1923 and 1924, for the Childrens Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor in the Williams Public School of Chelsea, Mass., and included the experiences covering a period of two years with the body mechanics among 1708 children of both sexes varying in age from five to eighteen years. Only about 8% of the school children examined at Chelsea showed good body mechanics. To be sure, the prevalence of poor posture decreased somewhat in the older children examined so that about 12% of the children in age group 14 years and over showed good posture. Lee and Brown[2], and Cook[3], dealing with still older persons, of college age, found only about 20% with normal spinal contour. Thus though good posture is somewhat more prevalent as children grow older, poor posture is most common and is not outgrown to any marked degree. It is safe to assume that only one fifth to one fourth of our youth exhibit the indices of good body mechanics.

Good body mechanics bears an apparent relationship to good health. Visceroptosis, the common concomitant of poor body mechanics and the causative factor in great part for arthritis, constipation, cyclic vomiting, neurasthenia etc., is corrected by the acquirement of posture. Backaches, dysmen-norrhea, etc., in cases where there is no active disease present are relieved on normal physiological function of the body parts with the change from poor body mechanics to good body mechanics. In the Chelsea Survey it was found that improvement in body mechanics resulted in greater improvement in nutrition, health and morals.

Improvement in nutritional condition was found more frequently among the children who received posture training [20%] than among the control group which had regulation calisthenics [about 15%]. And improvement in nutritional condition was more frequent in those who actually improved in posture [about 24%] than in those who showed no change in posture [about 15%] There was also strong evidence that posture training produced lower morbidity rates. Attendance records were kept

Digitized by LjOoq le
6°

for the fall, winter, and spring periods of the school year. The morbidity rate or the rate of absence due to sickness in the posture class was 39% lower in the spring quarter than it had been in the fall, whereas in the control class the rate for the spring quarter showed an increase of 2% over the rate of -the fall. The experience in the control class showed the same general tendency as similar studies of morbidity and absences from school, carried on simultaneously by others in Maryland and Missouri. The rates of the control group and those of the Maryland and Missouri studies seemed to bear out the theory that children ordinarily were in better health in the fall following the summer vacation and the long play periods out of doors. During the school year, however, the children are kept indoors sitting in poor positions. The natural result is increase in absence due to illness. But the tendency of the morbidity rate in the spring quarter for children who received posture training was directly opposite. By spring their rate of absence from school on account of illness had decreased so that it was 38% lower than it had been in the fall and also considerably below that of the control group. There could be no question but that posture training was associated with the low morbidity rates of the spring quarter among the trained children. Therefore it was concluded that posture training and improvement in body mechanics were beneficial and improved the health of the child.

Improvement in body mechanics is to be expected with posture training. Our experience with the Chelsea school children, a group selected at random in a public grade school, showed that after one years’ training six-tenths of the trained children but only one-tenth of the untrained children of the control group improved their posture. The incidence of good, and bad posture in the trained and untrained groups was, to be sure, practically identical at the beginning of the survey when all the children were first examined. At the end of the school year the posture of almost all the trained group, where it showed no improvement, at least remained the same while that of many in the untrained group grew worse.

Not only did more of the children trained in posture improve but their degree of improvement was greater than that of the untrained children. Sixty-three per cent of the trained children who could improve [that is, children with B. C. or D grade at the first examination] had progressed at least one grade, whereas the corresponding percentage for the control children was only 10. When the possible improvement was two grades, 24 percent of the trained children and only 1 percent of the untrained children improved to that extent. Among those who could have improved three grades, 8 per cent of the posture group but none of the control group did so.

Then we observed for two years two groups of trained and untrained children with percentages similar to that of the whole group and with the findings in the posture and control groups at the end of the first year approximately the same as those

Digitized by t^ooQle
61

among the total posture and total control groups at that time. At the end of the second year of observation it was found that for the control group the percentage of improvement was about one-half of what it was in the first year and the regression was one-half greater. On the other hand among the trained children improvement was nearly as great in the second year as in the first, with no increase in the regression, and most striking of all was the fact that more than one-half of those who improved during the first year improved also during the second. Those of this group who had good posture at the beginning of the second year maintained it and two-thirds of the others improved.

Regression to a poorer posture after a summer vacation was twice as great among those who had improved as among those whose posture did not change in the first year. About five-sixths, however, of those whose posture grew worse during the vacation improved during the second school year. During the summer vacation, as undoubtedly with any subject taught him, the school child forgot to a certain degree what he had learned about good body mechanics. The habits of good posture evidently were not fixed in a single year.

This regression was not so evident in the control group. Of them only 19% had poorer posture as against 33% of the posture group who were worse after a summer’s vacation. The control children had no training in posture to forget. In fact, about one-fourth of them, owing to the active outdoor healthful life of the vacation period improved at the end of the vacation. The posture of only about one-fifth of the children in the posture group, on the other hand, with the harmful effects of school life neutralized, as it were, by posture training, was improved through the helpful effects of vacation. More forgot what they had learned about posture, and proved thereby that children will show a reversion to poorer posture with a cessation of training unless the training is continued long enough for the maintenance of good posture to become a fixed habit.

From our experience with the children observed over a two year period it was concluded that there are few children whose posture cannot be improved under proper training. In fact, the proportion of children free from structural defects whose posture cannot be improved is less than 5 per cent. It is true that some children require longer training than others. Since good posture once acquired was maintained, on the whole, over the two year period, it seemes reasonable to expect that with posture instruction continuous through grade school, the habits of good body mechanics should become fixed and lasting.

Corroboration of the retention of improvement in body mechanics once gained was accepted by the Hoover White House Conference[l] from their data collected from experiences at private schools like the Rivers School in Chestnut Hill, Mass, and at colleges like Yale and Smith. The conference report also stated that analysis of other groups of college students showed

Digitized by Google
62

that without posture training only a negligible number of C and D postures changed to the higher grades.

We ask you then to accept, as did the scientists and experts of the White House Conference, the following proposition. Good body mechanics is not prevalent, but when it is in force it does bear a definite relationship conducive to good health and does persist in force if it is effected by adequate training continued long enough for the habit of good body mechanics to become fixed. If all this is accepted, it naturally follows that adequate posture training should be instituted to insure enough improvement among those exhibiting poor body mechanics so that good body mechanics may become predominant and prevalent. Then because of the close association between good body mechanics and good health we may hope for the prevalence of better health concomitant with the prevalence of better body mechanics.

Good body mechanics to be prevalent presupposes adequate supervision maintained long enough for the habit of good body mechanics to become fixed. Such supervision to be most effective should begin in infancy. Properly balanced food to insure normal nutrition, proper positions for holding the infant, and proper symmetrical positions in recumbency for the infant should all contribute to the best ground-work for the development of good body mechanics.

Then, in a general way for the child who has reached the so-called preschool age [2-6 yrs] and has begun to show evidences of faulty body mechanics, utilization of the keen imitative tendencies of this age in play and games which compel the exhibition of good “posture” will insure the acquisition of the early fundamentals of good body mechanics.

In later childhood, six to twelve years, and perhaps even with some children in the latter stages of the preschool age whose physical and mental coordination is further advanced than is usual at that early age, purposeful exercises in body mechanics should constitute the “posture” training. These exercises are to be differentiated from those usually designated as calisthenics now so generally the vogue in most public schools. The latter bring about the mechanical correlation of the various systems of the body only indirectly and most inefficiently. And since only with such mechanical correlation can there be the best function of those systems, more or less formal exercises planned chiefly to induce good body mechanics should replace the calisthenics prescribed at present in the physical education programs of most communities.

Then if the same types of exercises advocated for the group 6-12 years of age are prescribed with perhaps some modification for the older children, i. e. for those from the age of 12 up to the time when they leave the grade schools, the habits of good body mechanics should have become fixed. Of course, children in this age group who have attained and continued to retain “A” and “B” body mechanics grades at check-up examination might be excused from the prescribed “posture” exercises.

Digitized by LjOOQle
63

To carry out such a general plan of body mechanics training would require supervising instructors in physical education who themselves had been adequately trained in the principles of body mechanics as an introduction to the whole subject of physical education. Such instructors would always make the principles of good body mechanics the underlying basis of all games and exercises they taught, and would require the exhibition of good body mechanics at all times. Such instructors would also teach the principles of good body mechanics to the grade teachers and supervise the latter as they in turn inculcated the principles on the students at work and at play in the classroom.

All this instruction, as was proved in the Chelsea Survey could be given by the regular grade school staff without undue rearrangement of the school activities or increase in curricular work. And the effect of such instruction over a continued period of time should eventually be a race of individuals which on the whole should have good body mechanics associated with good health. Of course there would still remain some who would have poor posture. It would be too much to expect everybody to acquire and retain good body mechanics even if the means we advocate were afforded. We still have ignorant and mentally untrained individuals in our country and that in spite of the fact that the means for acquiring education is theoretically afforded every one through our public school system because every body does not avail himself of all the advantages offered by it.

With the opportunity for the acquisition of good body mechanics afforded by universal posture training good body mechanics would as a rule be acquired and then retained. The Hoover White House Conference presented evidence to substantiate the “fcarry over” of improved habits of posture. Girls who improved their ratings in body mechanics while under instruction at private schools, maintained that improvement, and in some cases even advanced their grades while at Smith College, where, because of their high ratings they were so exempted from further posture training.

Thus we believe that good body mechanics is conducive to good health. But good body mechanics is not prevalent. Improvement in body mechanics, however, can be acquired and such improvement does “carry over” if it is effected by training adequately prolonged to insure the formation of good posture habits. Such instruction is feasible in the grade schools without disruption of the curriculum. Therefore we maintain that training in body mechanics is distinctly worth while, and should be made universal in schools.

[1]	“Body Mechanics — A publication of the White House Con-

ference on Child Health and Protection”

The Century Company—1932

[2]	Brown, L. T. — “A combined Medical and Postural

Examination of 746 Young Adults”.

Amer. Jour, Orth, Surg., Vo. 15, No.

11, Nov. 1917. P. 774.

Digitized by v^ooQle
64

“Results of Exercise for the Correction of Postural Defects”. N. Y. Med. Jour. & Med. Record Vol. 117, Feb. 7, 1923.

“Postural Defects in College Men”. Amer. Phys. Ed. Review”. Yol. 28. April 1923.

[4]	Klein, A. & Thomas., L. G. “Posture & Physical Fitness-

Children’s Bureau, Publication No. 205 Gov’t. Print. Off. 1931. Washington, D. C.

Address delivered to 37th Annual Convention, A. P. E. A., April 1932.

Editor’s Note:—An address on Posture always arouses a warm discussion pro and con. The address made by Dr. Klein to the Convention of the A.P.E.A. was no exception. Some teachers believe firmly and enthusiastically in the need for almost universal instruction in special posture exercises; many others are just as strongly opposed.

The editors of Mind and Body will be pleased to receive thoughtful opinions and scientific facts on this subject with a view to publication. Surely it is high time that a definite effort be made to reach a more common agreement in this matter.

A NEW ENGLAND CITY, THEN AND NOW.

By Howard W. Haggard, M. D.

Associate Professor of Physiology, Yale University.

You have read a description of a New England city of a hundred years or more ago. You can visualize it, perhaps: a rather pleasant place to live in, it may strike you; a bit old-fashioned but restful; white painted wooden houses, lighted by the warm glow of candles, with wide, open fire-places and crackling logs, and from the streets outside, the sound of horse-drawn carriages. A pleasant, healthy sort of life; that is the impression we get. But one is inclined, quite unconsciously to think of such a town as being equipped with all the sanitary necessities that we now take as a matter of course in any city.

Noah Webster left his impression of a town of that period. He lived then and should know what he was talking about; he studied the matter and wrote a history of epidemic diseases; for all of his florid language, I think he gives us a realistic picture of the conditions. He says: “Away, then, with crowded cities—the thirty-foot lots and alleys, the artificial reservoirs of filth, the hotbeds of atmospheric poison! Such are our cities —they are great prisons, built with immense labor to breed infection and hurry mankind prematurely to the grave.”

♦Printed by permission of the Eastman Kodak Company.

Digitized by v^ooQle
65

And you would have found it so. In those houses there were no bathrooms, no running water, merely a well and hand pump, and, in the streets, no sewers. There were no provisions for removing refuse; the vacant lots served for that. There were no fly screens in the houses, and there were hordes of flies. Around the church, the graveyard grew at a rate that would appall us today. And many, many of those graves, the majority, were for the young—the babe, the child, the young man and woman. Read the ages on the tombstones of an old graveyard; it’s a revelation. Perhaps somewhere beyond the church you will find, also, the remains of the old wooden pesthouses where men and women and children with smallpox were kept; only the largest cities had hospitals.

Preventive Medicine Makes Possible The Modern City

Now, when you consider a city of today, you visualize its advancement in terms of paved streets filled with automobiles, tall brick and stone buildings, and electric lights. But you fail to see the real advancement that makes all this modern city life possible: below the streets, the mains piped to evexy house, carrying unpolluted water, and the sewers that drain them; the arrangements for disposing of refuse; the quarantine for the sick; the clean city hospital and operating room; the inspecting of food and milk; the refrigeration of food; the fly screens; and the drained marshes.

Imagine these things taken away from your city, imagine it returned to the primitive conditions of a hundred years ago, and you will see that it is almost uninhabitable and certainly disease-ridden.

These measures that I have mentioned are broad and general ones; everyone is willing to subscribe to general sanitation. Its utilization required little cooperation from the individual except for the appropriation of taxes to bring it into full effect. The benefits derived from it are fairly obvious; they would be more obvious if you were to compare the mortality records from a city of a hundred years ago with those of one today. On that old mortality list there would be diseases that you hardly hear of at all today. Typhoid fever, perhaps, would head the list, and with it would be such scourges as cholera morbus, which took its ghastly toll of the babies.

One can be jubilant, indeed, over the triumphs of general preventive medicine. But already we are drawing nearer and nearer to the utmost limits that can be achieved by it. Then further advancement will depend upon the acceptance and utilization of another type of preventive medicine, one that requires the active cooperation of each man and woman for the control of diseases that cannot be arrested by general measures of sanitation and prevention. It is toward this end that education is needed most. And the education could come best from an understanding of the progress of medical history.

Digitized by LjOOQle
66

Present Knowledge Not Utilized

As I have said, a great many of the modern medical achievements have grown out of the demonstration that germs are the cause of infectious diseases. So great have been the advances in that direction that we have tended to overlook the fact that there are great fields of medicine in which knowledge has advanced little, if any, over that which Hippocrates could have supplied twenty-three hundred years ago. I need hardly mention the common head cold with its vast literature and little knowledge. Individual medicine—physician to patient in treating existing disease, excluding dentistry and surgery which are, of course, dependent upon an application of the germ theory—has not made that same glorious advance of general preventive medicine under the impetus given to it by bacteriology.

Faced by that fact, there are those who constantly urge increasing activity in medical research. Such is very desirable. But unfortunately it is not multiplicity of research that leads to discoveries. Pasteurs, Kochs, and Listers are not born with every generation. There is a vast amount of work being done in the laboratories throughout the world today, and there is an enormous mass of literature devoted to matters scientific. There are, altogether, more than twenty-five thousand journals given over to scientific publications. The cost of this work is enormous. But in the face of this scramble for medical discoveries, one great fact is sometimes overlooked. It is this: the discoveries which have already been made are not by any means utilized to their full extent. The vast majority of men and women die of diseases that are preventable if detected in their early stages. There exists a wide discrepancy between what medical science has to offer and what is accepted and used.

It is true that men and women in health are more willing today to seek medical advice toward the prevention of disease than at any time previously. But the fact remains, nevertheless, that such are a comparatively small portion of the total population; most are indifferent until disease has become evident in pain and disability.

One of the greatest advances that could be made in medicine need not come from the discovery of new ernes and new treatment, but only from the wider utilization of the existing measures. And what an economy that would be. Not discovery, but education is what is needed most—education that will bring an appreciation of what modem medicine has accomplished and can accomplish if given full cooperation. The solution to this problem would appear to me to lie, in part, in a better knowledge of the history of medicine. A knowledge that will show the path that medical science has followed and the one toward which it leads. Then, and then only, will each man and woman realize the part of cooperation to be played, not in treating existing disease, but in preventing disease—preventing it by the cooperation of the presumably healthy man and woman, with the physician.

Digitized by v^ooqIc
67

UNDERWATER GYMNASTICS*.

C. L. Lowman, M. D., Los Angeles.

The commonest misconception regarding this physical therepy modality seems to be that it is the treatment of paralysis by “swimming.” I have even heard some orthopedic surgeons say “your swimming pool,” or “How about your swimming treatment?” The objection to this is twofold. In the first place, muscle reeducation under water is not swimming. Certain movements of the free floating type produce progression and often some of the same movements used in swimming are employed, but the purpose is not to teach swimming.

The chief reason for objecting, however, is the danger of swimming instructors getting the idea that they are competent to treat paralytic and other types of cases in the water. The result is that the untrained and unscrupulous take such patients into the water when it is often too cold, and give them swimming strokes which usually strengthen muscles already strong, such as the pectorals, and increase their tendency to contracture or their overaction against weakened opponents, such as the deltoids. This increase of pleasurable activity of a recreational character may be good, but it is at the expense of increasing deformity.

Also the impression that pool work is chiefly for patients with paralysis should be corrected. My early demonstration of its value in the treatment of both acute and chronic poliomyelitis probably led to the emphasis on this aspect of its use. However, a great variety of conditions are amenable to its use. One of its chief advantages is the removal of gravity load from the joints, due to buoyancy and possibility of movement of the whole body, or any of its parts in any direction. The buoyancy factor is effective for both assistive and resistive movements, and movement of parts in the water that cannot be moved out of it because of pain and spasm. Fear, apprehension and inhibitory reactions against movement either do not develop or are greatly lessened. This decreases the time of treatment and avoids delays, which are often disastrous in joint lesions of traumatic or postoperative type. Nervous and mental tension is reduced because of the relaxing effect of the warm water and the decrease of tactile sensation through the skin. Morale is increased and a better physiologic state obtained from relief of pain, fear and anxiety, and the production of a pleasurable state instead.

There is an erroneous idea in some minds that this modality can be administered by employees having no special training or that a nurse or any one who can swim might be a suitable technician. It happens that the reverse is just the case. I have found that some of the best trained technicians, with even

•The Council on Physical Therapy of the American Medical Association has authorized publication of the following article.—H. A. Carter, Secretary.

Digitized by Google
68

a master’s degree in physical education, have required laborious attention and much teaching before mastering a proper technic.

A simple knowledge of kinetics is not sufficient by any means to qualify a technician. The teacher should have an extensive knowledge of abnormal kinesiology and the pathologic aspects of her cases; a good personality; a thorough acquaintance with all the pedagogic tricks needed in teaching and a knowledge of the limitations of this modality—its indications, contraindications and technic.

I find that the commonest error, made by even well trained technicians, is the tendency to overwork the patient. Nothing is so deceptive as work in the water. It is very fatiguing, especially to the weak and afflicted. The gravity load being removed, the parts move more easily through a greater arc and this freedom is misleading and makes actual grading of the amount of movement to be used quite difficult. Having had a personal experience, following painful injury of my legs, I have had this point brought forcibly to my attention. Periods as short as five to ten minutes are all that patients with severe involvement can stand.

I[l] have already called attention to the limitation of the character of work done in pools as the result of physical factors.

The chief difference between the former use of small tanks, into which the patients were suspended by shoulder belt and chain, and the present use of shallower pools with the technician in the water, is that in the former the extremities alone could be moved without aid or control of the technician. Now the technician is at hand to guide and assist, and trunk motions, which are of vital importance in many cases, can be accomplished.

Many laymen believe that the influence on paralytic and other ailments is due to some inherent potency or active principle in the water. This idea probably has gained ground because of the use of natural hot springs in some places for work of this sort, and it is common sales talk in advertising sanatoriums and resorts at which hot springs exist to claim that the efficacy of treatment by or in these waters is due to some active factor in them.. The value of underwater gymnastics, however, is one ct physics and not of chemistry.

The best proportioned pools are from 9 to 15 feet wide, 18 to 30 feet long, 2 feet 6 inches deep at the shallow end, and 4 feet 6 inches deep at the deep end. In a pool from 20 to 30 feet long, the floor of the shallow end for 6 or 8 feet should be very nearly level, with just enough slant for drainage, the last four feet of the deep end being the same, with opposite slant, the discharge outlet at the deep end being at the junction of the two inclines. This allows an area for walking in uniform depth for children at one end and for adults at the other. Walking

1. Lowman, C. L.; Physical Equipment of Therapeutic Pools, J. A. M. A. 94:845 [March 22] 1930.

Digitized by v^ooQie
69

in deep water is of great value for the beginning steps after various leg and hip operations, as the amount of weight borne can be accurately graduated. This allows the patient, at first with crutches and then without them, to go through the motions of stepping and walking with but a slight amount of weight actually being borne on the operated parts. In this way the usual stress or danger to the operated area is avoided and pain and inhibitory spasm are eliminated. Increased nutrition and muscle tone also improve callus formation. Data on post-traumatic therapy of the pool comprise the subject matter of a paper now under way.

Another point is the confusion of the recreational and reeducational features. Technically, it is not sound clinical or physiologic treatment to mix the two as is done in some pools. The play factor has no place in the schedule during the stage of concentrated muscle training. The latter is regulatory and disciplinary in character and is actually mental and muscular effort, or work, and not play. It may be granted that in children too young to have much power of concentration, and in those a little older whose attention span is limited, the stimulus to action must be covered up and interest aroused through stories or games. However, this plays on the dramatic instinct of the child, who likes to act out his emotions. The constant effort of the technician must be directed toward getting definite, deliberate motor response to command by purpose and direction— not by indirection—even though that is better than none at all. In spastics, the latter method may have to be used at first, to avoid too great an effort and concentration and prevent increasing tension and rigidity.

For patients not requiring strict dosage such as patients being treated because of faulty posture, a recreational swim will not do any harm, nor will it for patients with paralysis at the end of their course of treatment, when the final stage of recovery has been reached; i. e., the amount of comeback proved. To me it seems highly inconsistent, during the stage of actual technical muscle training, when an effort at stimulating the muscles to maximal exertion is made, to attempt prescribed .and carefully graded dosage of exercjse of paralyzed or impaired muscles and then at any time during the day to allow free recreational swimming, or play, without the protection of braces to the weakened muscles. If the latter activity, unsupervised, is to be allowed oh a play basis of free response to emotional impulses and desires, of what use is a carefully laid out plan of graded, supervised muscle training. If work in the water, under a cautious technician who allows only slow, deliberate movements is fatiguing, what must happen to the affected muscles in the unfeupervised activity? The very condition of the handicapped paralytic patient requires him to make greater effort to accomplish his movements. Hence, to compensate his sense of inferiority he will be too persistent in his attempts and become

Digitized by kjOOQle
fatigued or else overdevelop existing normal or overactive muscle groups. This tends to favor deformity.

If swimming is to be allowed, the patient with poliomyelitis, and even the patient with bad posture should be most carefully supervised and only those strokes that are corrective be allowed. This, however, is far from being free pool play. In any case it should not occur on the same day as actual muscle training treatments.

I should like to sound a note of warning to technicians regarding the handling of frail individuals even in reasonably warm pools. The danger of chilling the skin must not be overlooked because of the bad effect on the general well being of the patient, especially if he has a kidney lesion. I have noted that quite a high percentage of patients with early, acute poliomyelitis show a nephritis of varying grades—sometimes only slight, and sometimes one that takes several weeks to clear up. Even in the equable climate of southern California, after these patients leave the pool they chill rapidly because of the slight amount of fatigue produced by their efforts in the water, and it sometimes takes quite a while to restore a normal skin temperature. Any patient who has suffered a lengthy illness from a debilitating disease or infection, is susceptible to this reaction. It is advisable to cover the patient with a large, hot bath towel or blanket immediately after he leaves the pool. As patients are raised from the water with the electric hoist, the attendant drops a warm towel on them at once, so they are not exposed to the air while being transferred to the dressing room. It is also well to have a hot air blower in the dressing room, which can be directed against the body, and not only assist in drying but prevent chilling. Occasionally persons with poliomyelitis in severe form, or with paralysis from fractured spines, who are in a depleted state, and become subnormal readily, are obliged to have their treatments discontinued or reduced in duration or nunfber. Unless great care is taken in estimating the point of fatigue, many patients are allowed to overdo. Even if they are chilled but slightly they may take cold and suffer from congested sinuses or disorders of the respiratory tract, aside from the effect on the kidneys already mentioned.

The question of hygiene of the pool is one that also needs special attention, even though the water is chlorinated. The patient should be properly prepared by local bathing, or a shower, when possible, before entering the pool.

One of the reasons why technicians who remain in the water for long periods should wear rubber suits is that the bacterial load of the pool is reduced and more easily controlled. In pools used by women bathers this factor is more serious than in men’s pools. One technician in the pool for eight hours is equal to sixteen patients at thirty minutes each.

The hypochlorite solutions are better than the use of free chlorine gas because there is less danger to the children from possible escape of free gas, as has occurred in some pools. The

Digitized by
71

hypochlorite solution, according to government tests, appears to be more of a bacteriacide than the free chlorine, and less irritating to the eyes.

Whenever possible it is advisable for the patient to take a rest period immediately af£er the pool treatment, because of its fatiguing effect, and particularly as it is easier to take a nap at this time. This is valuable in nervous and highly strung patients—spastic patients, choreic patients and hypertense children in general.

The use of sun treatment in connection with the pool, or at other times, is one that should be graded very carefully under a physician’s prescription. The fact that the sun’s rays are a powerful stimulant makes it rather poor physical therapy to try to whip up a body that has just been placed in a fatigued state by another modality. Many times, in the interest of stimulating the child’s activities, there is a tendency to do too much rather than too little and, as already stated, the exercise of common sense and caution is of great importance. Highly strung, erratic, children of the lithe type under any treatment need to develop poise and control, and should have a slowed down program rather than a speeded up one. Those with a great deal of mental drive frequently spend too much energy in everything they do, and care must be taken in physical therapeutic treatments not to aid this tendency.

The points brought out may be thus summarized:

1.	Avoid too protracted periods in the water in order not to develop fatigue.

2.	Avoid chilling and too rapid cooling of the skin.

3.	Use great care in protecting affected and painful joints, or other parts, while drying and changing clothes.

4.	Avoid careless handling from bed to pool.

5.	Do not fail to give splint support to operated or paralytic joints.

These points must be especially watched in acute poliomyelitis cases.

Patients with chronic poliomyelitis should, in addition to these suggestions, have greater consideration of trunk exercises to develop better body balance. One should avoid careless supervision of activities.

In fracture cases the technician’s time should not be wasted on small arm fractures and others that can be handled just as well without this modality.

One should not expect the pool to restore arthritic joints that are practically ankylosed.

In scoliosis one should not expect to do more than raise the general tone, possibly lost from long cast or recumbency treatment.

Early treatments after fusion should not be given without a protective waterproof back splint until at least three months after operation and then only on the surgeon’s orders, unless there is roentgen evidence of certain and firm ankylosis.

Digitized by UjOOQle
72

Spastic patients should not be taken into pools that are noisy and where other active work is going on. The water should be hot. Cold or cool pools are contraindicated.

Only the auxiliary playthings that are used as an essential part of the treatment should be employed—those for grasping, handling, pushing, blowing, and the like.

BRITISH ENGINEER INVESTIGATES THE CAUSES OF STUFFINESS.

Prof. Leonard Hill, the highly regarded British heating and ventilating engineer, is responsible for an interesting report on stuffiness as a result of experiments which he recently carried out at the London Light and Electrical Clinic. It has recently been suggested that central, or electrical, heating should be installed in new houses in the United Kingdom and the expense of chimneypieces saved. This suggestion actually has been carried out in the case of a number of houses built by municipal councils.

Professor Hill states that his experiments show that the stuffiness felt by many people in a closed room may be due to the character of the radiation. Carbon dioxide excess, oxygen want, and crowd poison theories of stuffiness are obsolete, and the theory, popular in America, of ionized air acting as a kind of vitamin, nas not been confirmed.

“In my own case,” states Professor Hill, ‘‘and in that of more than 50% of others tested by me, an exposure of the skin to a source of long infra-red rays, such as a dull red electric heater, congests the membrane of the nose and tends to obstruct the airway and produce stuffy feelings. This is particularly the case with those subject to catarrhal conditions. The effect is a reflex nervous one and is set aside by cooling the skin with a fan or by proximation of a cold surface, and, notably, by short infra-red rays from a source of heat such as a glowing fire, a ‘beam’ radiant gas heater, or an incandescent lamp, if this is brought close enough. The unpleasant burning sensation produced on the skin by the rays of the electric fire is turned into a softer and more agreeable sensation by simultaneous irradiation with one of these other sources.

“The effects of the .long infra-red rays do not happen if the skin is perspiring or wet with water, for a film of water or water vapor screens off these rays. Water vapor in the outside atmosphere screens off the long infra-red rays of the sun, while the long rays coming from sun-heated surfaces are mitigated in their effect by cool moving air, or on warm days by the perspiration. The differences in effect of the long and short infra-red rays appear to depend on the fact that the long rays are absorbed by the horny layer of the epidermis and warm the surface, while the short rays penetrating to deeper parts of the skin excite flushing and transudation. Those who are susceptible to the stuffy effects of long infra-red rays open the windows.”—Heating and Ventilating.

Digitized by v^ooQle
73

DEVELOPMENTS IN MEDICINE IN 1931.

By John F. Anderson, M.D.

Developments in medicine in 1931 have been less spectacular and somewhat lacking in the elements of novelty as compared with those of other recent years. Nevertheless 1931 has been a year of progress and sound advancement in medicine. The period has been one of consolidation—largely concerned with the correlation, correct interpretation and evaluation and, in some cases, successful application of the epoch-making discoveries of the two or three years immediately preceding. This has been particularly characteristic of developments in the fields of—

Endocrinology Nutrition and Anesthesia.

The major developments have been in two fields—one in the field of endocrinology which includes the study of the internal secretions and the relief of those conditions which arise from deficient hormone secretion by the endocrines or glands of internal secretion. The other is in the field of vitamins.

The discovery of Steenbock, Hess and Windaus that an antirachitic action could be conferred upon certain substances by irradiation has stimulated research leading up to the discovery of the antirachitic vitamin itself.

During 1931 announcement has been made by different groups of investigators of the discovery of the crystalline vitamin D prepared from irradiated ergosterol. This undoubtedly constitutes the greatest advance in the study of this vitamin. A more recent announcement has been made of the discovery of the crystalline form of vitamin C which is one of the most elusive of the vitamins and the most easily destroyed.

Clinical and laboratory investigations reported in 1931 have further emphasized the importance of vitamins in the prevention of many of the ills, which affect human beings. It has become more clearly recognized that the individual must receive an adequate amount of each of the vitamins in order to maintain average normal health.

Of greatest importance, the principle of optimum nutrition and promotion of positive health, vitality and resistance as distinguished from the merely adequate has been extended and applied in investigations whose purpose has been to explore the zones of nutrition attained by increasing the supply of "protective foods” above the minimum levels required for normal health.

A number of observers have reported during the year concerning the importance of vitamin A in increasing the resistance to infection, particularly of the respiratory tract. This vitamin is associated with the antirachitic vitamin or vitamin D in cod liver oil.

Di( ■ zed by ^.ooQle
74

In the field of endocrine therapy the most interest was excited by the announcement of complete relief of the symptoms of the condition known as Addison’s disease by administration of the hormone “cortin”—the discovery and preparation of which from the cortex of the adrenal glands of animals was announced in 1930 by Swingle and associates. The complete relief of symptoms in the advanced stages of Addison’s disease by administration of cortin is said to be just as prompt, specific and dramatic as the relief of diabetic coma by insulin.

Removal of the adrenal cortex has been known to be fatal to animals. A method of testing “cortin” was developed from the circumstances that the lives of adrenalectomized animals could be prolonged by administration of cortin.

Other developments in this field were the discovery of the important part played by the hormone isolated from the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. These hormones have a controlling action as regards certain of the sexual functions. It has also been announced that one of the hormones of the anterior pituitary has a definite action in promoting the growth of hair.

Dochez and associates reported that they had succeeded in cultivating the virus of the common cold in chicken embryo broth so that they were able to reproduce the typical symptoms of the cold by cultures made in this way several generations old.

The year has witnessed considerable advance in the art of using local and general anesthetics, particularly with reference to more conservative evaluations of some of the newer anesthetics such as the barbituric acid derivatives and avertin and their use as “basal anesthetics” in combinations with ether, nitrous oxide, and ethylene.

—Long Island Medical Journal.

THE FUNCTIONS OF THE EYES IN THE ACQUISITION OF AN EDUCATION.

Lloyd Mills, M. D., Los Angeles.

“We must not hurry. We have not a moment to lose.”

—Moliere.

The opinion that the high-speed methods of modern education demand modification and humanizing is being asserted with increasing vigor and scope. Gilbert Chesterton piquantly remarks that “to say that moderns are half-educated may seem to be too complimentary by half, but the nuisance is that they get the last half and not the first. They do not know the elements of anything but only the ends of everything.” W. S. Thayer emphasizes this prevalent belief when he speaks of “the fault which is commonest in all our American education; namely,

♦Read before the Section on Ophthalmology at the Eightieth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Portland, Ore., July 10, 1929.

Digitized by CjOOQle
75

the attempt to give a smattering of many things at the expense of the foundations.” The father of six children, from college to primary age, said to me: “I am amazed at the tremendous whirl of activity in school life and more amazed at the paucity of cultural results.” Teachers, who are as much the victims of • the system as are the pupils, with but few exceptions, say that they are obliged to hurry to such a degree that they cannot demonstrate the known technic of giving an education in the rush to give contact with the number of different educational impressions demanded by the curriculums. It is of interest in giving further evidence of the pernicious effects of the whole present system to note that nearly half of the medical papers presented at the 1928 health institute of the Los Angeles public schools dealt with functional nervous conditions arising from the forcing of the teachers themselves.

The whole basis of this kind of educational effort appears to be wrong. The child is launched into a vortex of speed, as soon as he can interpret letters, words and numbers, in which the outstanding idea is to bring him to and maintain him at his so-called maximum efficiency by means of the lash of competition with his fellows and with other schools applied through the use of flash tests, stop watches and the individual and class graphs of the daily record. The final results of the persistent application of these pressure factors which produce and maintain this miscalled maximum efficiency, the theory of which was well tested and thoroughly discredited in industry, can only be strain and injury save in exceptional cases. When a reasonable point of physical speed of any sort is exceeded, organic efficiency begins to suffer and educational stress is no exception. "He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes” was recognized even in Shakespeare’s day.

The trained investigator who observes the effects of these methods on the human body, and who sees the measurable extent to which practically all serious achievement is paid for by struct-tural and functional body changes, cannot fail to wonder whether these payments are not too often out of proportion to the benefits received. It is strange that the element of payment should have been left out of the pedagogic equation, and yet it is very often an outstanding feature, mentally, nervously and visually.

The usual mental adjustment to excessive speed is the replacement of accuracy by impression, and the gradual production of poor memory for details and bad mental habits. A large variety of conduct disorders definitely spring from the bad adjustments of intellectual potentials and educational demands: “Children are bom neither free nor equal and the schools make the truth too apparent, but often at great sacrifice of children. The outraged, humiliated, crushed, angry, disgusted or depressed [or overdriven] child finds an outlet in conduct as certainly as does the one whose brain power is never utilized adequately or the one who is satisfied with colorless mediocrity.” The nervous reactions to educational strain include irritability, easy

Digitized by LjOOQLe
76

fatigue, crying, despondency, restlessness and the unnatural need of stimulus, all of which are expressive of emotional disturbance. The ocular adjustments to educational forcing are the production of ocular muscle imbalances whose nature, exo-phoria or esophoria, is largely determined by the type of mentality; the production of eye strain through prolonged overattention, and the graver structural changes of the ocular disease myopia.

The curriculum experts mainly are answerable for this cloud of witnesses to the ineffectiveness of high-speed programs and should be made to explain the high physical cost of this type of training when balanced with its questionable profits. What matter if a class does not measure to some empiric norm which has no truly practical significance? Why is it needful to spur youth to more breathless endeavor? What goal is so outstandingly desirable as to demand this bitter struggle? The world does not require faster and more neurotic persons but urgently needs more accurate and more dependable ones, and I submit that accuracy, the underlying factor in intellectual dependability, is threatened at every point by speed. Only persons of the highest mental quality can pass through the process of incessant forcing unscathed, but the rank and file and most of the leaders bear their scars. Why not call a halt on such educational programs before being forced to do so by the rising parental clamor and make accuracy the chief criterion and the goal?

The education expert, aside from his total failure to evaluate human waste in education, has made the fundamental error, in basing his system on speed, of considering that central vision, the greatest single medium of education, is susceptible of an indefinite enlargement by training and will. J. A. O’Brien, whose work focuses and is the standard of all the current highspeed teachings and is much followed, repeatedly makes the impossible assumption that foveal vision is susceptible of amplification and that the adjacent macular region, by training in speed, is capable of acquiring more or less of the function of foveal vision. His statements are worthy of careful study, as they contain the chief elements on which the present educational movement, an admitted experiment, is based. O’Brien says:

“The perception that occurs [during the fixation pause] is of two kinds, foveal and peripheral. The area that can be grasped by foveal vision in any one fixation is relatively small. Only about five letters will be “unequivocally clear” when the eyes are held quite stationary. The adjoining letters will not be so sharply defined but will shade off gradually into a hazy outline growing fainter as they recede from the foveal area. These letters are grasped only by peripheral vision. The area of peripheral vision is consequently much larger than that of clear vision. . .Practically no conscious attempt is made in the present

Digitized by LjOOQle
77

«

teaching in the schools to develop peripheral vision or to enlarge its areas.”

The practical facts concerning central vision, which demand a clear and much needed statement for the correct appraisal of their educational values, are these:	The	retina,	at	the	posterior

pole of the eyeball, contains a minute pit, or depression, called the fovea. This varies slightly in size but usually measures about t.6 mm. across. This area is rod-free and has a special arrangement of the visual cones and outer nuclear layer of the retina which is limited to the fovea, is not susceptible of modification save by injury or disease, and gives this region its limited and peculiar sensitiveness to visual detail. Hand in hand with this accuracy of visual appreciation goes visual memory, as the quality of this form of memory is directly related to the clarity of the visual picture, a matter of the greatest importance in the technic of education.

The smallest appreciable area of foveal vision is a point, subject to the errors of spherical and chromatic aberration in the globe. Its largest area is bewilderingly small and, while slightly variable in individuals, it rarely exceeds a word of five letters at one fixation at the reading distance. Clear central vision has little spread even when projected out on the horizon and its maximum of about 2 degrees of arc actually never is greater than a single fixed distant point of attention. Foveal vision and its efficiency can be expressed by a formula and is impaired more or less seriously by errors of refraction.

Weymouth and his associates recently have studied the visual acuity within the area centralis, covering a field of 2 degrees 50 minutes, or 0.84 mm. in diameter. They found that there is a uniform decline of visual acuity within this area, essentially the same as that determined for the entire retina by Wertheim. They showed that within this central area the sensory gradient drops rapidly but continuously “from a sharp maximum at the axis of fixation [presumably the center of the fovea]; and points separated radially by as little as 10.64 minutes, or 0i0528 mm., show distinct differences of acuity.” The isopteral charts made in this study illustrate the exceedingly small limits of maximum visual acuity and show that in accurate fixation the visual acuity of the zone approximately 1 degree either side of the point of fixation has dropped to 0.6. This becomes 0.4 at about 3 degrees from the point of fixation; 0.3 at about 5 degrees, and 0.2 at almost 9 degrees.

It will be noted, in testing practical foveal vision with scrupulous precision, that usually only five letters, or six at the outside, actually can be recognized at a single steady visual fixation. It will be evident also that the shading of these letters into indistinguishable symbols is not gradual, as O’Brien states, but practically is abrupt, and that not more than one letter, at the most, on either side of the five in a long word actually can be identified without definite lateral movement. Lateral oscillation or movement, known in reading practice as saccadic move-
ment, will, however, make enough of the preceding and succeeding words sufficiently clear to permit them to be guessed or even recognized in any quick look. This saccadic shifting always takes place after each fixation and preliminary to the next fixation. This, however, is a form of use of foveal and not of peripheral vision, by which no words whatever can be comprehended in a single exact fixation. Accuracy of perception thus is shown to be a quality of foveal vision alone during the simple conditions of a steady fixation. It is not clear, then, how peripheral vision by the mere process of ocular movement suddenly develops a power that it does not possess under the infinitely more favorable conditions for vision given by quiet fixation.

We know further, as physicians in this especial field, having experience with the end-results of hemorrhage, exudate, rupture and holes in the fovea, and with the more central lesions which impair or destroy foveal function, that neither the fovea nor the zone of retina just about the fovea has the capacity, under any conditions, of acquiring any greater power, breadth or quality of vision than it has naturally. The anatomic structures which have been placed there are immutable and no amount of literary alchemy, tachistoscopic exposures or other educational spurring will transmute their visual quality into that of a higher or different order.

The eccentric fixation which occurs in scotoptic or dark adaptations and, occasionally, after injury, macula degeneration, disease or strabismus, never leads to the evolution of a form of vision that even remotely possesses the qualities natural to normal central vision. This eccentric vision always is peripheral in type and merely recognizes gross form, movement, color and light variations with a little greater sensory keenness than is usual to periperal vision. Certainly the proponents of the theory of educating the extrafoveal region to foveal function by tachistoscopic or other training cannot find any comfort in observing the relatively poor type of vision that long and often forced use of extrafoveal vision has produced in these cases.

Peripheral vision lies outside the foveal area and functions mainly for location and protection. It recognizes movement, projection into space and form and is especially keen in appreciating variable intensities of light and color. It is literally the vision of impression, however, and by its spatial judgment of the forms of sentences, paragraphs and the shape of words undoubtedly is of much aid in regulating fixations in reading. Peripheral vision and its efficiency cannot be expressed by any formula and, within wide limits, it is unimpaired by errors of refraction.

The fovea, in ordinary vision, passes with extreme rapidity over every point in line between two objects some distance apart, but when there is neither the need nor the will for seeing intermediate objects either they are not perceived or they are sensed in the normal impressions of form, shape, size, color and movement derived from peripheral vision. They make little or

Digitized by LjOOQle
79

no impression on the memory, however. An increasing recognition of intermediate objects occurs as the ocular swing is shortened. In fact, the keenness of sensory recognition at the foveal center is so great that, as Weymouth states, foveal vision “can perceive differences sixty times smaller than it can fix separately.” In the short passage across the one to four words that constitute the usual fixation field in reading, the fovea, now backed by the mental desire to see, and utilizing the definite values given by th§ quick saccadic shifts and occasional regressive movements, accents the impressions of shape given by peripheral vision and experience, and confirms the impressions of sense as furnished by the context. Foveal vision, at some time during this short transit, actually must see part, at least, of each word, even in the most rapid forms of casual reading, without the need for that definite fixation which is required for the sake of comprehending and relating ideas.

The visual interpretation of the words in the interfixation areas must be foveal in origin as it cannot be peripheral for physiologic reasons. The mental premonitions derived from the context account fully for the substitution of synonyms which occurs so frequently in oral and general reading. The experienced reader, of course, does not require to see words in detail in order to identify them. Their shape, sensed by side vision, together with two or three letters seen by central vision in well known association, often enables such a reader to form the habit of a flowing reading pattern with a broad interfixation movement and a minimum of fixation pauses. Such a pattern is approaching the ideal, but its backgrounds are mental and this type of flowing vision and an accompanying appreciation of the context rarely, if ever, can arise out of training in speed unless the test subjects have appropriate mentalities. It is obviously a waste of time and effort to attempt to train the usual indifferent minds to such a goal. Relatively few reach the Olympian heights of a real intellectual apparatus.

It is recognized generally that intellectual capacity practically is determined at birth and that, while a child never can exceed this capacity, he often learns far less than his inherited mental power would promise. This normal unwillingness to arouse oneself to concert pitch, except at need, probably explains in part why the usual rate of silent reading is unnecessarily slow and inefficient. It is certain that the reasonable acceleration of this rate both by training and by increasing the interest of methods and material is worthy of general acceptance, always with the check that the degree of comprehension is not to be lessened and that physical strain of any sort never is to be permitted. Fast readers comprehend better than slow ones, on the whole, but the active mentality which has made them fast readers also has given them quicker perceptions. The permanent retention of facts, however, one of the great ends of early education, as between a fast reader and an equally intelligent but more deliberate reader, usually is much in favor of the latter. Even the speed of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
80

word-by-word fixation can be increased considerably and made to flow fairly smoothly by accelerated silent reading. Such a rapid fixation of single words, though not advised for general use, is of much possible value in especial cases and certainly is to be preferred in all cases to any method that destroys accuracy.

Persistent attempts to do the impossible task of enlarging the span of visual accuracy by flash and speed training not rarely lead to potential and actual deviations of the eyes. Exophoria 'more often results in the restless, nervous child with too active a mind, and esophoria in the deeply intense child, the mental habit appearing to be the main factor in determining the form of ocular deviation. I have come to believe that the production of myopia, with its characteristic exophoria, which usually becomes evident at about that period in life when school affairs begin to press, is bound up with the hurried and abnormal use of peripheral vision, with its accompanying and enabling muscular overaction, in eyes physically capable of so yielding. The person with myopia, who is usually fast-minded, persisting along these lines of always seeking mass effects and speed rather than accuracy, gradually acquires nothing but peripheral vision, practically speaking. It is evident, since the far point in myopia may vary from 33 cm. in moderate cases to 2.5 cm. or less in high myopia, that there is no foveal vision beyond this far point and the whole field beyond tips distance possesses only peripheral vision. The training of these children, consequently, must stress deliberation and accuracy, without hurry. The reeducation of their neglected foveal vision is what they actually appear to require.

General acceptance must be made of the fact that there is a definite and individual limit to the speed of correct recognition and perception and if this limit is exceeded there is a penalty in the lessening of accuracy, poorer memory and inhibition of the associative values which are so important a part of learning. Poor memory, so constantly associated with the excessive use of peripheral vision among the fast-minded, is so common and outstanding a fault in myopia with exophoria that a statement to the effect that peripheral vision has little if any memory values probably presents the exact fact. Many times I have had the experience of finding that children who had won prizes or commendation for the doubtful accomplishment of reading more than 300 words a minute had retained actually nothing of the subject matter in their tests. Such educational travail is a total loss. The ‘Veil read” person, on the other hand, literally is he who reads well, whose speed is sufficient to give accuracy of perception, continuity of thought and association, and good memory.

Interesting testimony as to the uncertain values of high speed, even in the cultured mind, is provided by Huey, a trained investigator, who, after maintaining the speed of a page of solid reading a minute for half an hour at a time, ingenuously admits that “after such reading a very hasty review of the leading points was the most satisfactory procedure.” What can be expected of

Digitized by L^ooQle
81

the retentiveness of our children under comparable conditions if an expert makes such an admission?

There is much additional evidence, which every physician who deals with children and youths can provide, in favor of the necessity for a prompt reduction in the speeds and complexities of the modern educational systems.

Garry C. Myers says:

Today schools and teachers are rated largely on the speed with which their pupils can perform certain standard tests. The stop watch has been the magic instrument in the pernicious practice of forcing the child to hurry. . . .In the atmosphere of speed and hurry the greatest strain is always upon those who need the most comfortable atmosphere in which to try to think. Any child learns best when he is most nearly comfortable. Something happens to the nervous system of many children under such conditions which does not promote their physical and mental health. Obviously, too, the modem mania for speeding furthers intellectual dishonesty and impairs the pupil’s personality.

Broome, Spett and Myers confirm my own experiences with children when they show that learning, when accuracy is emphasized produces greater speed than when speed alone is emphasized. Sturt found that, if attention is directed solely to speed in learning to typewrite, accuracy is lessened, but speed generally improves when attention is directed solely to accuracy. If emphasis is put on accuracy in any educational line, and the learner can work under comfortable conditions, speed, within individually natural limits, is sure to follow.

Healthy interest iti a given task is recognized as the surest of all means of leading to its mastery. An alert mental tone is susceptible of being brought up by interest, like good physical tone, and this mental alertness often keeps the special senses, such as vision, in good functional activity. We recognize, as eye physicians, that the process of convergence—accommodation which is used to bring objects to focus—is fundamentally an attention reflex. Much eye disturbance, especially in the hyperopia of youth, results from a lack of sufficient interest to arouse one to the pitch of seeing sharply. The focusing apparatus comes into perfect tone and function when the habit of healthy interest is created. The recent introduction of moving pictures into education has been a most effective means of arousing and sustaining the interest of children and has improved the memory of tasks so done to an unusual degree. Too much of our visual use normally is unassociated with mental activity and consequently is unproductive. Instruction in accuracy of perception and the added interest given by means of moving pictures shown under correct visual conditions should reduce much of this visual twilight.

In calling to mind the faults of our educational systems, attention should be drawn to the changes in the curriculum of the junior schools by which former high school subjects are now taught in the grades and studies which formerly were taught

Digitized by <^.ooQle
82

in college appear in the high schools. Education demands a certain but definite degree of aging for its understanding and utilization and there is little value in exposing a child to so much when he actually can master so little of it. Too many children are becoming overwhelmed by the very volume of what they are supposed to learn, although most of these victims of system, if handled within their individual capacities, would make good records. The educational experts who have been responsible for the difficulties of these children should bear in mind Wile’s comment: ‘‘Conduct disorders are nonconformities of individuals inadequately adjusted to their environment. . . .It is wise to think of the degree to which society functions in creating the difficulties of individuals.”

The subject of elementary education is too important to be left to the jurisdiction of educational experts alone, as problems of vision and of mental and nervous reactions, among others, enter deeply into the matter. The fullest collaboration of the best balanced of all the groups involved should be given to this most vital of educational problems.

Were I asked to outline a tentative plan of fundamental education based largely, as it must be, on the known facts of visual function, I would suggest that:

1.	Simple demonstrations and definite instruction in the limits of central vision, not alone on print but with objects of all kinds, should be begun in the kindergarten and first grade. This should be applied specifically to letters and numbers and to words not exceeding five letters in the first and second grades. The relation of good memory to this form of vision alone should be demonstrated to and understood by every child. The definite standard and accuracy should be demanded from the start rather than speed.

2.	In the second grade, in the interest of clear vision and clear understanding of words and their meaning, and interfixation movement should not exceed two words.

3.	Eye injury usually begins in the third grade. Every child, regardless of intelligence, should have learned by this time that a single word of five letters is all that can be seen without effort; that the small link words may be passed over casually in silent reading, as they are comprehended indirectly, and that pause should be made on or near all words expressing action or ideas; i. e., active verbs, nouns and important adjectives. The habit of an interfixation range of between one and four words, according to the material and purpose of the reading, will be formed by this method, without leaving the habit of pausing to individual misdirection more than is necessary. Speed can be increased within limits that are normal for the individual after accuracy has been established as the cornerstone.

4.	Flash tests should be done away with in reading and all suggestions of excessive speed should be removed from reading and arithmetic texts and from the school room in general. Flash

Digitized by Google
83

tests in arithmetic, with their simpler fixation areas, are justifiable if the pupils are not marked or graded on the results.

5.	The number of specific facts and skills which have to be acquired within a given time, especially by the slower pupils, should be lessened. A wider use should be made of self-teaching textbooks and exercises by means of which the child may learn at his own speed and the teacher be given greater freedom to aid him. The fullest possible recognition of the greater capacity for progress of the intelligent child will be given by this arrangement so that, after the standard tasks are done, each child may amplify this work according to individual capacity. Every schoolroom, in this simple way, will become what each schoolroom actually should be, a real “opportunity room.”

<-	—♦

Gymnasium and playground

♦ — — - ■ ■ ♦

As announced in the April issue, we will print each month at least one of the numbers given in the Demonstration Program at the Philadelphia Convention of the American-Physical Association. The following rope skipping dance is the second in the series.	________

ROPE SKIPPING DANCE

[Arranged by Janet Walter and Samuel Judelsohn]

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

Number of pupils—Seventy-two 6th grade girls Music—“Parade of the Wooden Soldiers”—Sheet music or Victor Record [73400—old] costume—Regulation blue romper suit [no blouse]

Blue anklets to match suit

Black shoes [preferably “Mary Janes”]

Units—Four units, each composed of three ranks of six [18 girls]

Formation—Four columns each composed of front ranks of 6’s in open order. Pupils in each rank are numbered 1 to 6 from right to left.

Floor Plan

	[Audience		on	all	four	sides]
	X	X	X	X	X	X
H H H	X	X	X	X	X	X
H H H	X	X	X	X	X	X
H H H						
H H H						
H H H  j _j j	T	T	T	T	T	T
"1	T	T	T	T	T	T
	T	T	T	T	T	T

h h I-h H h h H H h- h h (■ I- h H h h

Digitized by v^ooQle
84

Description of Dance

Steps—In the stepping step the spring is made from one foot to the other, as in running in place.

In the jump the spring is made from both feet, and the landing is on both feet.

Rope Swinging—The rope is swung continuously as in regular individual rope jumping, except as otherwise indicated. The rope is swung forward unless otherwise stated.

Introduction—8 counts

Stand with arms sideward, rope back of ankles.

Part I [32 counts]

Two stepping steps [right foot leading] forward [2 turns of rope] and 4 jumps in place [4 turns of rope], facing left on last jump, 8 counts.

Repeat 3 times on lines of a square left, 24 counts.

Part II [28 counts]

Swing rope backward and forward [to and fro without passing over head] stepping over rope [right foot leading], and two stepping steps forward [2 turns of rope], 8 counts.

Repeat twice, 16 counts.

Swing rope backward and forward [to and fro] stepping over rope, 4 counts.

Part III [32 counts]

a.	With 2 stepping steps forward and 4 jumps, pupils numbered 1, 3, and 5 move in counter clockwise direction, encircling Nos. 2, 4, and 6 respectively, who stand in place with knuckles on hips, 8 counts. Repeat 8 counts.

b.	Nos. 2, 4, and 6 do the same, moving in a clockwise direction, 16 counts.

Part IV [8 counts]

Stand in position with arms sideward.

Part V [64 counts]

a.	Two balance hops left and right forward [2 turns of rope] and 4 jumps in place [4 turns of rope], 8 counts.

Repeat right and left, 8 counts.

b.	Files 1, 3, and 5 face left; 2, 4, and 6 face right. Repeat “a”, finishing with turning to the front in 4 stepping steps in place on the last four counts [4 turns of rope], 16 counts. [Alternate files have changed places.]

c.	Repeat “a”, 16 counts.

d.	Files 1, 3, and 5 face right, 2, 4, and 6 face left, and repeat “b”, 16 counts. [All files have returned to original pJac6Sj

Part VI [Interlude, 20 counts]

a.	With arms sideward, rope held in rear, a bounding swing hop left and right and a triple balance hop turn left, 8 counts.

b.	Repeat opposite, 8 counts.

c.	Stand with arms sideward, rope back of ankles, Nos. 1, 3, and 5 facing left, Nos. 2, 4, and 6 facing right on last count,

4	counts.

Digitized by Google
85

Part VII [32 counts]

Pupils in alternate files are facing each other.

a.	Two stepping steps forward, right shoulders passing, and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

b.	Two stepping steps forward and 4 jumps in place, facing about on the jumps, 8 counts.

c.	Repeat “a”, left shoulders passing, 8 counts.

d.	Two stepping steps forward and 4 jumps in place, facing front on jumps, 8 counts.

PART VIII [8 counts]

Stand in position with arms sideward.

Part IX [44 counts]

Two stepping steps forward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts Two stepping steps moving left sideward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

Two stepping steps moving backward and 4 jumps in place, 8 counts.

Two stepping steps moving right sideward and hold rope in rear, 5 counts.

21 Tiny steps turning anti-clockwise in place.

[2 complete turns] finishing with arms sideward, 15 counts. 3 steps backward, starting left and 2 jumps in place and hold arms sideward.

Manner of entering and leaving

Entrance and Exit No. 2

WEST

H H H H H H HHH H H H H H H H H H

Entrance and Exit No. 3

11111

11111

11111

h h H h h H h- h H h- H- H h h h h h H

EAST

T T T T T T T T T T T T f TT-TTTT

Entrance and Exit No. 1

V Entrance ^ and Exit No. 4

Curves indicate movement of the columns.

Enter— In columns of ranks of 3’s

Run to places in open order and face audience.

Exit—	Pupils face toward exit

Run off in columns to the same places where they entered.

Digitized by Google
86

<> - ■ - — ■■ ♦

Health education notes

■ > - ♦

MALE SEX IS WEAKER, ANALYSIS INDICATES

Is the male sex, after all, the weaker?

Dr. S. J. Holmes raises this question in the current issue of Hygeia in a discussion of the great differences in the mortality of the sexes.

Men in general are more exposed to the fortunes of war, industrial hazards and other external circumstances that make for high mortality. Women on the other hand are subject to the dangers of childbirth, cancer of the breast and several other diseases that tend to cause a higher death rate among women.

Nevertheless, study of statistics has shown that more women than men live to advanced age. In early infancy there is a marked excess of deaths of boy babies. In stillbirths this excess is also noted and in abortions it is higher still.

Whooping cough is the one epidemic disease that causes the death of more girls than boys. Tetanus acquired at birth causes death in a conspicuously larger number of boys than girls. Dr. Holmes deduces from this fact that girls have a greater resistance to the infection.

Other figures analyzed tend to show that a high death rate among males is a characteristic of the human species, a circumstance strongly indicative of a general constitutional inferiority of male infants.

THE NORMAL CARDIAC OUTPUT OF MAN

The output of blood from the heart is the foremost factor in maintaining the circulation. It is doubtless related to the need of oxygen, a physiologic feature that varies greatly with the work in which the body may be engaged. There are measurements to indicate that the difference between rest and severe exercise may involve changes as large as 1,000 per cent, the latter figure representing a cardiac output of 30 liters of blood per minute. For an organ as small as the heart, this is indeed a remarkable performance. Accurate knowledge of the heart’s output under standard conditions of health is obviously desirable, for from this the consideration cf the cardiac reserve or the ability of the heart to increase its output must start. Its importance in the consideration of cardiac disease need not be stressed here further. Unfortunately, the methods for estimating cardiac output in man have not been convenient or always trustworthy. The procedure instituted by Grollman at the Johns Hopkins University Medical School has eliminated most of the errors and reduced the difficulties. By the use of the new method he

Digitized by LjOOQle
87

has made measurements on the largest series of healthy persons yet reported. The number is sufficiently large and of a degree of accuracy to permit the evaluation of the normal cardiac output of man. The data also are evidence for the constancy of the cardiac output of man and • the possibility of predicting a value for the normal individual. This ability to predict the cardiac output is particularly important for the clinical applications of determinations of the cardiac output, Grollman believes, for it permits one to compare a given determination with the average normal value and thus conclude as to the degree of its abnormality. Grollman’s figures for fifty-one persons in the resting, basal condition indicate that, like the basal metabolism, the heart output of normal men and women is a function of their surface area and can be predicted with a high degree of accuracy. The cardiac output per square meter of body surface under fixed standard conditions was found to be 2.2 liters a minute. For the average sized person this represents about 3.8 liters of blood a minute. From this one may readily calculate that, day by day, the heart of a person at bodily rest must eject several thousand liters of blood. Like the maintenance of body temperature, this is a fairly fixed function in health; when the performance becomes impaired or upset, serious physiologic embarrassments are likely to ensue unless some compensatory factors intervene.

DENTAL HYGIENE AMONG CHILDREN

Addressing the students of the Royal Dental Hospital, London, Dr. William Hunter, the originator of the doctrine of oral sepsis, said that the care of the teeth was now given greater importance in relation to bodily health and that this new outlook gave an entirely new importance to the work of the dental surgeon. Instead of being concerned only with the preservation of the health of the teeth, he was concerned in an even higher degree with the health of the body. On the physician lay the first responsibility for recognizing the existence and possible importance of any mouth infection present in his cases, and it was for this reason that thirty years ago Dr. Hunter gave the condition a name of its own, oral sepsis. He feared and deprecated putting the whole responsibility for dealing with this infection on dentists, terming it dental sepsis and regarding it merely as a matter of dentistry. The infection played such havoc in many cases with the health of the individual that it now had a greater part in medicine than in surgery. The evils of mouth sepsis were so great that they could not be met by driving patients through the overburdened dental hospitals. The situation could be met only by dealing with it at the outset among children at the school period, when they could all be brought under observation and proper dental care and habits of mouth hygiene impressed on them. The chief measure required was

Digitized by kjOOQle
88

the provision of dental nurses in the schools to carry out and inculcate simple measures of mouth cleanliness. The importance of this was being recognized more and more, especially in America.

Between 1904 and 1907 Dr. Hunter carried out an experiment at the London Fever Hospital on the effect of oral sepsis on the complications of scarlet fever. The sepsis was dealt with by simple measures without calling in the aid of any dental surgeon and the number of children showing secondary adenitis fell from 9.6 to 1.8 per cent; cervical cellulitis, from 5.2 to zero, and glandular suppuration, from 1.7 to zero. The removal of this sepsis thus prevented the worst complications. The later sequel of this work was even more interesting. When he came back to duty after the war he found that, in the last five years of his work, oral sepsis, instead of being present in a fourth or a half of his cases, was practically absent. It was clear that increased dental care had been at work among the school children of London. The character of that care was made clear by the striking report of the London County Council for 1927. Starting from a small beginning in a single school of 245 children in 1906, the council had created a great dental service which now treated 125,000 children yearly [out of the million children in its schools] and performed operations totaling half a million, of which 60,000 were performed under an anesthetic.

SCHOOL SICKNESS

In ‘‘schoolsickness” Treynor of Council Bluffs, Iowa has coined a name to describe a condition which he feels is becoming more and more a specific problem for the man who is working with children. “Schoolsickness” is characterized by nervousness, which is manifested in anxiety, restlessness, irritability and a highly emotional state. The child usually has a poor appetite. He sleeps poorly and may be subject to night terrors. He is underweight. All of these symptoms will be magnified if any truly organic disease is present. All are aggravated by the approach of any school crisis, such as examination, athletic contests, or inspections. Naturally the condition is seasonal, becoming more pronounced as the school term advances and usually improving greatly during vacation periods. Sex has little influence, boys and girls being equally exposed. Temperament and innate physical stamina are the factors which determine to what degree a child will develop “schoolsickness.” There are no demonstrable pathologic changes except so far as emotional states may be regarded as being pathologic. The treatment of “Schoolsickness” consists largely in an analysis of the situation, as regards physical condition, school, home control and outside activities. Success then depends on the degree to which disturbing elements can be eliminated or compensated

Digitized by LjOOQle
89

for. Treynor believes that the first step must be to rid ourselves of the delusion of educational democracy. The day that we cease to believe that every child must have identical educational opportunities will mark the beginning of a sound system. Why penalize the superior child in the matter of opportunities when his sacrifice is patently of no advantage to the inferior? Would it not be better for all concerned if the inferior child were taught subjects within his comprehension which might later become a means of self-support? And at the same time, the superior child be allowed to fulfil his intellectual possibilities? Wny not let him capitalize his superiority instead of allowing his inferior side to dominate him? Ungraded classes, supervised by well chosen, well paid instructors would solve this problem, lightening the strain of fear, anxiety and worry imposed on them by the competitive system. Perhaps the time will come when a child’s report card will be marked only Satisfactory” or “unsatisfactory.” “Satisfactory” will mean that the child is doing as well as we might normally expect him to do, taking into consideration his age, his health, mentality, degree of social adjustment in the schoolroom and his emotional poise. In order to make such a scheme workable, healthy, enthusiastic and, above all, sympathetic instructors must be employed. Above all, we must rid our schools of those instructors to whom the school represents merely a means of livelihood. But until we have arrived at this millennium let us eliminate the one great evil in today’s system: pressure. More leading and less driving; less stress on competition, more on honest effort; less supervision; more spontaneity—these are the means through which schoolsickness will cease to exist.

THE HUMAN BRAIN

The human brain contains few mysteries for Prof. Dr. Oskar Vogt, chief of the department of brain research at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, who has been pursuing the subject since 1898 when he founded the department. It was Dr. Vogt who was called to Moscow to analyze Lenin’s brain, when the Soviet leader died.

Dr. Vogt regards the brain more as a piano keyboard than as a mysterious mass of tissue, and he can “play” on it with much the same exactitude as a skilled musician can produce melody. The comparison is made by Dr. Paul Kommueller, Dr. Vogt’s assistant, who sees a parallel with musical composition in the varieties of new combinations which occur in brain analysis. In an interview with the United Press, Dr. Vogt described some of the conclusions which he has reached in more than thirty years of research.

The research department has succeeded in dividing the outer strata of the brain into more than 200 different sections, showing ten different layers, in which it is possible to classify

Digitized by Google
90

certain functions. By comparing the brains of talented persons with those of mental defectives or criminals, Dr. Vogt has been able to isolate distinct anatomical faults and peculiarities in the latter.

“In the third brain strata,” Dr. Vogt said, “which is essentially the association strata, the brain of a known criminal shows certain peculiarities. This part of the brain of a criminal is often defectively formed, and entirely different from that of a normal person. This does not mean that the criminal is an abnormal person, but simply that he Is a bit unbalanced, and his power of resisting temptation is weakened because this section of his brain is weak, or perhaps does not function at all. So he is unrestrained; his impulse toward crime does not have to overcome the resistance which it does with a normal person.

“One cannot say unreservedly that all such weakened brain strata denote a criminal type. One cannot establish a single criminal type and we do not seek to. We do seek, however, to establish the possibilities for predicting mental proportions for all persons. Within the great mass of mankind, there is a certain number of mental weaklings, and within this number, there is a certain proportion of criminals.

“The mental processes and capacities are co-ordinated; they must work together if the person is to be normal. The inherited characteristics of each person form a certain influence, but genius is not inheritable; genius comes from the highest possible harmony of mental functions. The joining of parental traits in the offspring naturally disturbs this harmony.”

Dr. Vogt believes that production of a super-normal brain through eugenic selection might be possible, but that it is far from likely, due to the difficulty of eliminating the personal equation in the great mass of marriages. Instinct rather than scientific consideration determines the majority of matches today, despite the great gains of eugenics, he says.

“A complete, well planned program of eugenic selection is impossible to realize,” he said. “The only means which can be certain would be sterilization of confirmed criminals and mental defectives.”

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE CHILD PRODIGY

Child prodigies have always attracted the attention of the public and of connoisseurs but they have seldom been studied to any extent in a scientific manner. Since the eleventh century, accounts of the wonderful accomplishments of children have been written. The belief is widespread that unusually early maturity is an unhealthy manifestation, and that children who at a tender age accomplish wonders are lacking in vital energy and are not likely to live long. This assumption is strengthened by the fact that physicians have seldom examined child prodigies unless they present some unusual physical manifestations. Only

Digitized by CjOOQle
91

recently, a Swiss physician, Dr. Bienstock, published an article on his son, who developed early an unusual talent for music but who died in his twenty-third year from a tumor of the spinal column. Bienstock’s article, “A Tumor of the Pineal Body," lays the chief emphasis on the disease and raises the question as to whether the disorder that was the immediate cause of death had any causal relation with the young man’s early developed musical talent. Whenever psychologists have studied child prodigies they have been particularly interested in the child’s accomplishments or performance. Dr. Franziska Baumgarten - Tramer, instructor in the University of Berne, recently subjected a number of child prodigies to an intelligence and character test and reported her observations in a book that she discusses in a recent number of the Deutsche medirinische Wo-chenschrijt. As not all the parents were willing to accept such publicity, she was obliged to confine herself, for the present, to the results in examinations of an 8 year old danseuse, an 8 year old chess prodigy, a 6 year old pianist, a 9 year old piano virtuoso, an 11 year old violinist [boy], a 14 year old violinist [girl], a 13 year old bandmaster, a 10 year old artist [drawings], and a 6 year old geographer.

A fact especially striking is that all the children examined took great delight in displaying their accomplishments. They never suffer from stage fright and want to perform as often as possible. Child prodigies are aware of the fact that they must provide for themselves and for their parents, that they should feel a sense of responsibility for the quality of their performance, and that they must strive for perfection in their art. This sense of responsibility explains the occasional over-serious manner assumed by child prodigies, which is in marked contrast to their usual childlike demeanor; for they are fond of playthings and of playmates if opportunity is afforded them. Child prodigies are model children as to behavior. They are strongly attached to their parents and follow their instructions implicitly. It is usually assumed that cnild prodigies are tormented by their parents, overzealous to extract from them the last ounce of profit. That appears to be the exception, for the parents know, or soon learn, that more can be accomplished through love than through application of severe measures. In the older children, the character is influenced by the intentionally emphasized childlikeness in such a manner that they often take on a certain manliness. The intelligence test, with a single exception, revealed a level that was far above the average. It showed that the children were by no means onesided in their mental development. For example, the girl violinist showed considerable talent for drawing and possessed good technical understanding. The pianist possessed noteworthy talent for mathematics, and the danseuse marked ability in logical debate. In many fields the children showed ability in the solution of special tasks, which exceeded anything that experimental psychology had ever recorded. The chess prodigy

Digitized by AjOOQle
92

committed in four minutes forty dates to memory, and the 9 year old pianist answered better the general searching questions intended for gifted children aged 12 to 14 than did several hundred such children. On the other hand, some remarkable and unexpected deficiencies were discovered. The young violinist was unable to bend a piece of wire into the simplest geometric shape, and the 9 year old piano virtuoso could not draw as well as a 4 year old child. The 8 year old chess prodigy who played simultaneously and won twenty games of chess with twenty of the best players of the Berlin chess club has no conception of the realities of the outside world, does not know the day of the month, and cannot distinguish the simplest coins. Most of the children were physically well developed. The authoress, who has been observing some of the child prodigies for more than ten years, found that a considerable number of these children are no longer developing in the direction that was so prominent in their childhood. For example, the chess prodigy is studying theology in America and is said to be a promising student. Probably this deflection of talents to another field is the chief basis for the assumption that child prodigies "peter out” in later life, a view that is expressed in the clever though somewhat caustic remark of Franz Liszt: “Child prodigies have their future in the past.”

QUACKERY AND THE NEGLECT OF SCIENCE

The rapid development of scientific knowledge is usually regarded not only as evidence of progress but also as the forerunner of important practical applications. New discoveries, whether in the domain of chemistry or in that of physics or biology, are likely to lead to novel inventions, revised procedures, and changes in our mode of living. Such innovations affect our environment; they may equally well alter human activities and our bodily welfare. There are, however, features of progressive information that do not always augur as well as might be expected. Enthusiasm for the new sometimes leads to hasty revisions of the “tried and true” methods of the past. There is not infrequently a tendency arid a willingness to revamp or even discard what is old and to substitute the new even before adequate information may be at hand to justify radical changes. This has been the reason for almost innumerable disappointments in the use of new drugs. A chance favorable observation may have awakened great expectations and given rise to hasty generalizations and earnest recommendations. Mistaken judgments are particularly likely to occur in medical practice because of the “natural remissions” in many disorders. The medicatrix naturae is almost always quietly at work for the patient. Another handicap that may attend the extension of really meritorious discoveries is chargeable to unfair and unwise exploitation of the sort quickly engineered by the quack and the charlatan. These enemies of true progress range in character from the often well

Digitized by LaOOQle
93

meaning but ill informed pseudoscientist to the outspoken impostor. The layman and even the professional are thus often unable to distinguish the wheat from the chaff. They sense the ridiculousness of certain types of sales propaganda and they become antagonistic to so-called scientific discovery.

This sort of reaction applies to the modem knowledge of the vitamins. In his chairman’s adress at the Philadelphia session, Wilder[l] of the University of Chicago remarked that the advertising and propaganda of commercial houses and purveyors of food have become so ubiquitous and at times have been so glaringly unscrupulous as to arouse critical resentment in the conservatively minded and to make physicians unreceptive even of authoritative information. Gigantic signboards proclaim the therapeutic advantage of this or that. The air is filled with radio messages in song or in verse, extolling the special health giving virtues of one food or another, ad nauseam. It is a constant annoyance, further intensified by the arrant nonsense proclaimed by an army of uneducated quacks. As a result of all this, Wilder adds, the profession is acquiring an antipathy to the subject of dietotherapy, and some physicians have been goaded into actual hostility. The idea that ordinary, everyday folk are in any danger of vitamin or other deficiency is ridiculed; the increasingly probable condition of mild or incipient avitaminosis is rejected before the evidence is examined; the conclusions of the serious students of nutrition are ignored, and dietitians are denounced because of their efforts to put these principles into practice.

Guyer[2] of the University of Wisconsin recently spoke in a somewhat similar way regarding the misjudged merits of our knowledge of the internal secretions. He states that while the modest achievements of the biologist, the pathologist and the biochemist toward an understanding of the nature and functions of the internal secretions do not measure up to the expectation of a public appetite fed mainly on sensationalism, still the facts, unmagnified by the imagination, are certainly both interesting and significant. In defense of his view, Guyer presents the interesting reminder.

“Many physical and even mental abnormalities in man are being traced to deficiencies of the endocrine glands, or to upsets of their normal interrelations at different physiological periods in the individual. Height, the general form and external appearance of the body, whether slender or broad, the length of arms and legs, the shape of the face, the quality of the voice, the distribution of hair or of fat on the body, and even the emotions are in greater or less measure conditioned by the relative functionings of these regulative substances during early development and later life. Furthermore, the amount and quality of the internal secre-

1.	Wilder, R. M.: The Significance of Diet in Treatment, J. A. M. A. 87:435 [Aug. 16] 1931.

2.	Guyer, M. F.: The Internal Secretions and Human Well Being, Science 74:159 [Aug. 14] 1931.

Digitized by ^ooQle
94

tions in various family strains are probably as much the expression of hereditary factors as are many other individual characteristics; hence the problem as it affects existing personality and health is not only one of present physiology but also one of parentage.

The already known facts develop enthusiasm for further research. The abomination of quackery should not permit the intelligent physician to overlook the helpful truths of the newer knowledge.

FLY CASTING CLASS AT DULUTH CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL, DULUTH, MINNESOTA.

During the month of March a class in fly casting was organized at Duluth Central High School under the direction of Victor C. Dunder, football coach and instructor in Physical Education. Considerable interest was shown by the students and it will probably be necessary to organize two classes next year to take care of the large number who wish to join.

The boys met regularly in the gymnasium during activities period. About one-half of the period was used for instruction and demonstrations of the various casts such as, overhead, horizontal, steeple and roll casts, also in selection and care of equipment, tieing of leaders, various types of flies, dry and wet fly, game laws, etc. The last half of the period was devoted to actual casting during which the fundamentals of casting were stressed. Well known local experts were brought in to give lectures on some phase of angling.

Northern Minnesota and especially the territory near Duluth is noted for its wonderful trout streams. Conditions here make angling a very popular form of recreation. It is very essential that the Physical Educator take into consideration local conditions in the selection of activities. It is doubtful if a class in Fly Casting would be successful in sections of the country where no trout streams exist.

In physical education, we are extremely interested in the carry over values of various activities. The carry -over value of fly casting can hardly be exaggerated. Fishing in general is a clean, wholesome form of recreation indulged in by both old and young. Casting the artificial fly is an art. To interest boys of high school age in this art is to lay the foundation for a real hobby, one that can be indulged in througn the years. It is certainly worth while.—■ M. E. Alletzhauser, Supervisor of Physical Education, Duluth, Minn.

Classes in Child Training for Mothers.—One of the

principal tasks assumed by the social-democratic party, which has had charge of the administration of the city of Vienna for ten years, is the care of children and mothers. The results may be seen in the decline in infant mortality, and in the de-

Digitized by kjOOQLe
95

creased mortality from tuberculosis in all groups of the population. The administration has taken up now the creation of so-called muetterschulen, the purpose of which is to provide mothers with a regular course of instruction in methods of imparting to children the necessary health and vitality. Two such courses have been organized in the poorer quarters of the city. It is the intention to establish courses at the elementary schools to make this knowledge available to all women who desire it. The course will be in two parts. The medical portion, which will be under the direction of a woman physician, will comprise, in four double hours, the discussion of important medical questions: hygiene of mother and child, care of infants, care of children; the proper nutrition of the infant, children of preschool age, and of school children; nutritional disturbances; infectious diseases; protective inoculations, and the like. In the practical portion, which will comprise eight double hours and be under the direction of a woman public welfare expert, the following topics will be considered: domestic hygiene, care of the newborn, care of the healthy and of the sick child, the crying child, sleep, the mental life of the infant and the young child, training of the senses, the development of language, and the like. Lectures with lantern slides and practical demonstrations will supplement the instruction. The lectures will be followed by a general discussion in which all may participate.

If the number of persons attending justifies it, special instruction will be added in the making of hygienic under and outer garments for children, and the devising of simple toys and playthings. The women will be taught children’s songs and games, that they may teach them to their children.

For Sale:—The following copies of Mind and Body have been offered us for sale:

Vol. 12—1906 No. 144 Vol. 31—1924 No. 328 Vol. 33-1926-7 No. 348-356 Vol. 34—1927 No. 358

Address orders to Mind and Body New Ulm, Minnesota.

BOOK REVIEWS.

“Pyramids Illustrated” by Machery and Richards; published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1932; size 8 vo, 190 pages, 221 illustrations, bound in cloth; price $3.00.

This book cannot be praised too highly, not only for the wealth and comprehensiveness of the material which it contains, but for the clear manner in which all the material is presented. The 221 illustrations make it possible to understand each pyramid almost at a glance. The descriptions of the pyramids which accompany the illustrations and the directions

Digitized by kjOOQle
96

and explanations of actions are a valuable aid in the teaching process to the uninitiated.

The book contains pyramids for various sized groups of boys, girls, men, and women. A great many of the pyramids may be done without apparatus, while many others are done with the use of various types of equipment.

Tap Dance by Anne Schley Duggan. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co. N. Y., 1932. Cloth bound. Size 9” x 11”—110 pages. Price $2.00.

The first part contains series of fundamental tap steps adapted to various rhythms. The steps are well arranged, clearly described, and accompanied by appropriate musical scores.

Following the fundamental steps there are twelve complete tap dances, all clearly described, and accompanied by musical scores and appropriate illustrations.

This collection of steps and dances will be found very practical for junior and senior high school pupils.

FRED E. FOERTSCH.

“The Athlete In The Making” by J. F. Williams and E. W. Nixon. 258 pages with illustrations. Phila. and London. W. B. Saunders Co., 1932,. Cloth, $2.50 net.

The purpose of this book is “to offer aid to the millions of persons who are striving for greater familiarity with and proficiency in their favorite sports as well as to offer assistance to the thousands of others who are engaged as instructors in these activities, by presenting the scientific facts which are basic to the acquisition and appreciation of all such skills and proficiency”. It is not a book which describes detailed form or technic in athletics, but is more concerned with the underlying scientific principles involved.

Part one is comprised of eight chapters dealing with the fundamental nature and bases of coordination, speed, endurance, strength, intelligence, and spirit.

Part two discusses the scientific principles underlying training for skill, strength, speed, endurance, spirit, sportsmanship as well as general training rules, diet for athletes, and injuries in athletics.

Part three considers the application of the principles of athletic proficiency to such sports as American Football, Golf, Baseball, Track and Field events. Tennis, and Swimming.

The book is very interestingly written. It contains information which every adolescent athlete or “would be”athlete should have. Teachers and coaches of high school or college athletes might well have their pupils read and study this book not only for its valuable information but for its wholesome philosophy of athletics.

JOHN C. KIEFER.

Digitized by LiOOQle