

&V2a|

Vol. 2.	MARCH, 1895.	No. 13.
		

Editorial Committee : KARL KrOH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm. Stecher, Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 18S0 Papin 8t., St. Louis,Mo. Hans Baulin, managing EDITOR, Southern Illinois State Normal University, CARBONDALE, III.

Physical Training and its Place in the General Education of Man.

By HANS BALLIN, State Normal University, Carbondale, Ills.

(Concluded.)

WITH the Greeks the care and culture of the body has its vital incentive in their highly developed esthetic conception of the correlation of mind and body. No law of Solon or Lycurgus was needed to impress them with the necessity of training mind and body in perfect harmony. It was a religious law with them, sacred and unshaken through many centuries, uplifting them above all humanity around them and lowering them to the debased state of barbarism, when they no longer adhered to it.

Felix Oswald writes in his “Physical Education,” “A spirit of free inquiry is abroad ; we have found that the sun of nature will ripen more truth in a single year than the light of mysticism in a centur}\—With one strange exception. The science of health is still a barren tree. Our wealthy minds dwell in poorly tabernacles ; the right method of promoting man’s physical welfare seems to be one of the utterly lost arts.” Since this was written more than a decade has elapsed and we are not too sanguine when we state, that also in the science of health the sun of nature has begun to ripen mature fruit on this tree, once barren and ill cared for.

One deplorable appearance is still obvious. While present humanity must be awakened to a truth by the force of necessary evolution and development, the Grecians exercised the truth from a spontaneous impulse. We are traveling the rugged path of unconditional necessity.

Digitized by U-ooQle
• • • • •

• • •

• • •« • • •• * • ».

The .sqn.pf #scienc$# must cast its search light upon it and solve the rid* dies W	e^i&t^iiceC	Nature does not solve her riddles, she forces man

unmercifully to*do^ it-himself. And, we have at last entered upon the task, and the welfare of the human body and mind and their relationship to each other, is no longer treated with indifference. We nurture the optimistic view that from this enlightenment will ultimately arise the conscientious understanding of the duty which every child of man has of cultivating in himself that physical morality which will elevate the human race.

Man outlived the Grecian conception of a physical morality during the many centuries of supernaturalism. Led away from the laws of nature, disregarding the natural impulses and losing himself in mysticisms, he is compelled to find these laws by rational pondering. His intelligence must establish again the esthetic laws of the relationship as an individual in nature and his duties to humanity.

Truly, he will only succeed in this in studying himself. Modern science is busily engaged in this. Not one-sidedly does it approach the question ; but trying to reject traditional thought, science endeavors to establish esthetical laws from a purely human standpoint. Suspending its judgment until all the materials have been gathered, science ignores a morality which is not based on human affairs, but founded arbitrarily and iron-cast, excluding all evolving to a higher and nobler sphere.

The work accomplished in this direction is admirable. The attention paid to the care and welfare of man by society measures has never been so great as at the present. Modern civilization does not believe in praying for things it wishes to possess and to accomplish-, it finds the paths by actual doings and works. The blessings of this course are felt, notwithstanding the lamenting and haranguing of narrow human fossils whose endeavors at all times has been to hoist a curtain before the rising sun. Suffering humanity will gratefully acknowledge the labors of modest scientists, who have deprived epidemics and plagues of their most terrific scourge, have made the homes a more healthful and, consequently, a more happy abode. It will bless them for their unselfish effort to eliminate the dangers to life, and to promote man’s comfort, happiness and prosperity. Where they have not succeeded in all their endeavors, base ingratitude only can doubt their integrity, and willful impostors only can fling a threadbare, antediluvian banner bearing the inscription, “Moralit}' is endangered by this materialistic age.”

This materialistic age, however, has brought man back again to this green earth and has taught him the struggle of existence in a brotherly and altruistic spirit. Man is learning to consider morals independently from dogmatic creeds; that they are based on a sounder foundation than these can afford, namely, upon the natural necessities of man, not only on account of his mental weaknesses, but upon the natural necessities of man as social beings who mentally and physically cannot forego reciprocal assistance and help. In human nature itself, in the needs and requirements for common social life, is founded the principle of morals, and it will therefore always make itself known.

Thus, science strives to find the esthetical laws of human relationship in the common struggle for a bettering of human affairs. Success is

Digitized by Google
—3—

noticeable on every hand. Man is taught how to preserve his health by a public regime, the sick are better cared for, contagian has lost its virus, the unfortunates among us have their suffering lessened, the morally weak ones find a kinder treatment, the houses of correction are no longer places of mere punishment. No longer is esthetics narrowly limited. We make it the fundamental research of human concern. The harmonious esthetical correlation of all human activities of a unit individual or of society is at once the starting point for a sound moralty. This morality is not iron-cast, but changes in accordance with the necessaries of mankind and its evolutions to a higher plane of civilization.

We have educated a public conscience which is not deaf to human sufferings and struggles. It has had its elevating influence upon the individual* He begins to realize his place in society. He is not so hopeful and sanguine any more for another world since he is convinced that his duties may be performed and his happiness may be accomplished in this. He more fully appreciates his duties, not only to himself, but to society. And, in fact, that the realization of his and of society’s happiness is identical. Therefor we might expect a revival of the Grecian conception of the necessity of training the body. It will not be the emanation of spontaneous impulse, but it will be on more solid ground : it will be founded upon a clear understanding of man’s duties unto himself and others. The ennobling of his body will not be considered a mere selfish practice, as with the Romans the bath and the use of dumb-bells before their meals, to arouse a keener appetite. It will be looked upon from an esthetical viewing of all things in nature, and that man’s body is but an integral part of all-nature ; living in accord with it, it will thrive, disavowing its laws, the parts naturally subdue ultimately to the whole. No supernatural force aids in human affairs. What man desires to accomplish, is his lookout. The apprehension of this is fast gaining concrete meaning in the minds of many. We are fast removing from the time when flagellation and chastisement were thought moral. We are beginning to realize that we have a body and that its care is sacred, its neglect a sin.

One of the most urgent reasons, therefor, why physical training should be fostered in the common education of the child, is, because it so effectfully promotes the esthetic sentiment that the rational culture of the body is a duty, a moral. What has been done in the past to awaken this sentiment ? We are far from having aroused a general interest, and still our school training is justly charged with the one-sided culture of the mental activities, so that the mind may soar aloft, regardless of its partner, the body, which drags along on the rugged ground.

Physical training of the school lays the foundation of all esthetic culture. All instruction of the school is essentially a rousing of esthetics. This, and this only, is the conducive step for all morality. Physical training, not less than any other branch of school instruction, but more than has generally been admitted, is an excellent means to train the esthetic sentiment. If Herbert Spencer recognized in play the budding incentive for the esthetical, he has merely given expression to a truth which is borne out in manifold ways by a systematic culture of the activities of the bod}'.

>■

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Langethal, the life-long enthusiastic co-worker of Froebel, said, “If the school is the place to educate the mind, the will-power is primarily cultured in the gymnasium. The ready deed requires four essentials, the quick grasp of the moment, the correct contribution of strength, a clear circumspection and a calm equilibrium of life, i. e., the consistent perseverance to the end. And this is all accomplished and developed through the manifold exercises of gymnastics.” And is it less true and can it be gainsaid any more that the despondency of an ever so energetic mind is to be accounted for in its lack of moral force, because it dwells in a feeble and ailing structure ? Can we conceal the fact any more that all sins and vices are to be traced directly to the unbalanced energies of mind and body? Charles Henry Schaible in his masterly written “The Systematic Training of the Body” writes, “Our schools ought to counteract and extirpate one of the greatest evils of our times, viz., enervation, with its pernicious consequences. Enervation weakens will, courage, self-confidence. Under its influence the mind becomes the slave of the body. Strength and health, produced by exercise, on the contrary produce resolution, energy, courage, and firmness of character.”

We recognize the good qualities of a physical training in institutions of the state which do not train the growing child. Here we are confronted more conspiciously with the evil effects of a neglect of a systematic physical education. In the higher schools of learning, in the colleges and universities of our country we do not wish to neglect this culture. Ample opportunities are given to the young men and women to correct at this late period of their life the fallacies of childhood-education. In these schools physical training is an established and integral part of the curriculum. And, alas, even there, where the state takes care of the enfeebled in mind, in the houses of moral correction, the body building is resorted to for no lesser reason, than to restore a normal equilibrium of the moral forces of the unfortunate. The noble efforts of Dr. Hamilton

D.	Wey, Supervisor of Physical Training in the New York State Reformatory, Elmira, N. Y., will undoubtedly find the approval of every humane thinking man and will find, it is to be hoped, many followers in similar institutions for a like good purpose.

But, is it not a strange phenomenon, when we try to regain at a mature age what, if practiced at a right period of life, would need no adjustment ? Shall we be heedless to the warnings of the time, can we afford to be reluctant in introducing physical training into our common schools, and must we not heed such scripture on the walls of the houses of correction which deciphers most readably the “mene, tekel, upharsin !”

We quote from the Report on Education by E. Seguin, United States Commissioner on Education at the Vienna Universal Exhibition, a report most unique and remarkable ever written :

“There never was a people so master, and conscious altogether, of its own destinies, as the American people ; therefor, none who needed more to educate its own flesh, bones, and sinews to obey its own will, and to bear its synergies education by any other light ; that is the criterium.

“With it as a guide, we see what the American school must be. Beginning and ending in the folds of woman’s affection and tact, education

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-5—

takes the child from her lap to the kindergarten, thence to the physiological school. There, all to be trained in their senses, in order to treasure, without distortion, the cosmos in their microcosmos. There, again, all to be trained in the use of their hands, to create from the world of ideals, their concepts of what it is good for them to do as their part of the co-operative improvements of our society and planet. Thence to direct apprenticeship, or to special schools of art, of technology, etc.; thence to the wide world, in the climate and with the mate who suits them best, and promises children better than themselves.”

HE organs of the body, especially those which can be exercised at

will, show after prolonged labor a condition which is generally called fatigue. The symptoms of this condition are a decrease in efficiency and a temporary loss of functional activity of the respective organs. All symptoms of fatigue usually disappear after rest ; the less the exertion, and more especially the least prolonged the exertion has been, the more rapid the recreation and recovery of the former condition of capability. A muscle which has been exhausted by lifting a heavy load in a short time, may be ready for work again in a few minutes; a muscle, however, tired by prolonged labor, say, during a march of many hours, may need several days for recovery, to eliminate all signs of fatigue and to make it fit for renewed labor.

With some activities of our body certain particular circumstances are involved. They are essentially automatic, namely, the actions of the heart and lungs, but they are closely dependent upon voluntary activities. The activity of the heart is entirely removed from the influence of our will and only at times can we regulate breathing at will. The activity of both organs is caused by striated muscles which, contrary to all other striated muscles of the body, do not tire and never can find complete rest for recreation, in spite of prolonged and continued activity.

Notwithstanding, there is a condition of fatigue for both organs. The heart makes it known in irregularity and suspension of pulse beat, and the lungs by an exhaustion of breathing activity, breathlessness. Also the same law applies to the muscles of the heart and lungs, that an increase of their activity is conducive to their strengthening. From this follows the importance of exercising these organs also, though this exercising is not direct, but is only accomplished by movements which specially influence the activity of heart and lungs. The signs of fatigue, however, render the most reliable estimate for the particular effects of the different kinds of exercises. On this account the study of the fatigue phenomena for the understanding of the physiological effect of bodily exercises is of the utmost importance.

I.	Fatigue of muscles: local effect of muscle labor. Fatigue of the muscle results from any utmost effort of one or more muscles. This may result from making the greatest effort for a few moments, as in raising a heavy weight, i. e., a dumb-bell, or it may be accomplished in performing a small amount of labor for a long time, as, for instance, the hold-

FATIGUE BY MUSCLE LABOR.

Digitized by

Google
ing of the arm in a position sideways for a long time. But also interrupted labor, whereby the contraction and relaxation of the muscle alternate, may ultimately lead to fatigue, as the raising and lowering of a medium weight dumb-bell, or, hanging on the horizontal bar, the continued pulling up and lowering of the body.

The signs of real fatigue of the muscles are : The efficiency of the mucles decreases ; a greater effort of will power is needed to cause it to renewed work. In an initial easy exercise of duration the physiological process of exertion appears : redness of the face, perspiration, holding of breath, co-operation of other muscles of the’ skeleton, and lastly, the principally engaged muscles refuse to contract and the muscles begin to tremble. Finally, the greatest effort of will power is incapable of forcing the muscle to continue work—it becomes powerless. Certain more or less distinct sensations are noticeable. The muscle becomes heavy and in an increased degree painful beyond endurance. Has the exertion been very great, this painful sensation remains for some time, and is renewed 12 to 24 hours afterward, and finally decreases in one or several days. It is known to every gymnast as stiffness of the muscles.

After ceasing the exertion by rest, the recuperating is the quicker, the shorter the duration of the highest muscle effort has been. If the highest effort culminated in a momentary over-exertion, so as to destroy mechanically by tearing or contusing muscle substance, the pain may last for a longer period, making the muscle incapable for work for a long time. Otherwise the muscles after highest efforts again regain their normal working order after a very short rest.

By frequent and regular use and exertion the muscle not only increases in strength and efficiency, but also becomes accustomed to surmount this process of fatigue. Who practices in the gymnasium, rides horseback, rows, etc., several times a week, no more knows any stiffness of muscles ; but he, who takes up these exercises spasmodically and at long intervals, has it in all its acuteness.

There is a long list of exercises which, when practiced to the greatest capability of effort, produce fatigue of muscles with all its consequenses.

One may term these exercises of strength. In this class may be enumerated free-exercises, especially those of prolonged holding in certain positions, the lifting of dumb-bells or other heavy weights; further many exercises of heavy gymnastics which cause smaller muscle districts to do highest efforts and overtax these districts, as the bending and straightening of arms in hanging on apparatus, numerous exercises in the rest, having the arms straight, and principally the dip in the parallel bars. Consequently many apparently easy exercises belong to exercises of strength, and the most simple exercises of free gymnastics may be practiced, so as to exert some muscle-district to complete fatigue.

II.	Fatigue of the heart. From the foregoing may be seen that there are exercises which, though they may cause an over-exertion of single muscles or groups of muscles, do not effect other organs to any marked degree. There are other exercises, however, which do not exert the muscular tissue to fatigue, but agitate heart and lungs whose activities are so closely allied to those voluntary movements which we have now

in mind.
The characteristics of these exercises, and which they all have in common, are : 1st, they are composed of often repeated fundamental movements ; 2d, they involve a great portion of the entire muscular system ; 3d, the work, though it may represent a considerable amount of mechanical labor, is so distributed that no one separate muscle is called upon to do highest effort, and none is taxed to fatigue.

Commonly these kinds of movements serve for the locomotion of the body, and as their gymnastic importance is mainly vested in their rapidity by which the body is put into motion, or generally speaking, by which the fundamental movements follow each other ; they are termed •exercises of quickness.

We reckon to these : 1, exercises of locomotion without mechanical aids, on level ground: walking, running, hopping, dancing; under certain conditions jumping, especially skipping the rope; on an ascending plane : ascending mountains, or stairs, climbing ladders ; in water: swimming; 2, exercises of locomotion by the aid of mechanical appliances : rowing, especially rowing with gliding seat; skating. The physiological influence of exercises of quickness can also be obtained through any artificial mode of exercising which has the requisite as set forth in the definition above. Any repetition of movements, often and rhythmically following each other, involving large groups of muscles, without taxing single parts specially heavy, have the same effects as those natural movements of bodily locomotion. Such exercises will principally find a place in orthopedics. Apparatus which substitute the natural locomotive movements of the body, are made use of for this purpose, as Zander’s and Sargent’s machines, Gaertner’s Ergostat, rowing and mountain-climbing machines.

All these different exercises of quickness have a special and decided effect upon the heart and lungs which may result in a fatigue of these organs.

Considering in the first place the fatigue of the heart, it results from the violent enhancement of the activity of this organ as it often takes place with most phenomenal rapidity. The labor of the heart is so closely connected with the activity of assimilation that the smallest change in this is gauged most minutely and accurately by the activity of the heart. We cannot undertake the most simple bodily movement without changing the activity of the heart. Even the changing of our thoughts, as has been demonstrated by Mosso’s Plethvsmograph, shows an undulation of the labor of the heart. How much greater will these undulations be, if in the most rapid succession large muscle-groups are suddenly called into action, and thereby causing the most lively assimilation within such large muscle-tissues of our body ! And, indeed, these appearances are quite extraordinary ! After G. Kolb rises the pulse-beat of a runner who covers a distance of 650 feet in 27 seconds from a normal condition of 72 beats, as high as 180 to 225 beats in a minute. This enormous pulse-beat is otherwise only recorded in most dangerous fevers. Similarily increases this pulse-beat, to illustrate by a common occurrence of life, when we ascend rapidly stairs or an inclined plane. We experience a violent palpitation of the heart against the chest wall, followed by a sort of anguish in the vicinity of the heart which prompts us involuntarily to press our hand there ; the face often becomes pallid, and a sort of palsy com-

Digitized by Tooele
—8—

pels us to stop for a few moments. This momentary and quickly disappearing exhaustion tells us that the activity of the heart has reached the limit of its utmost laboring force. The real fatigue of the heart is marked by temporary irregularity of the pulse, after stopping the exercise of quickness which caused it, and when the body is resting, by the irregularity of the pulse. Slowly the rhythm is regained during the rest and all signs of exhaustion and fatigue again disappear. We will not enter upon the discussion of undulations of blood pressure and the differences of the pulse-curve, for these conditions need yet a good deal of investigation, especially regarding the differences which exist between trained and untrained persons.

It suffices to know that fatigue of the heart results the more quickly, the more rapidly the movements follow each other. We desire to point out a fact which experience, and we may say, instinct, teaches : that all exercises of quickness, practiced as exercises of highest effort must be graded in accordance to their duration, if we wish to prevent a premature fatigue of the heart. The most expert runner is not able to cover 1300 feet of ground by the same velocity in which he covers 650 feet of ground. He must moderate in this case the activity of the heart, if he wishes to continue, and the greater the distance the more he is forced to reduce his velocity.

Besides these appearances of heart fatigue which are but temporary and not harmful to a sound organ, we must consider another form of heart fatigue—the result of violent bodily exertions and hardships which are allied with certain unfavorable conditions, as insufficient nutrition, etc. This sort of heart fatigue may produce an enfeebled heart muscle, or may result fatally. Cases of this kind are deplorable and should not, and cannot occur in a rational physical training of the body. We may meet with them in professional sport.	(To	be	continued.)

AN AMATEUR ASSOCIATION.

A MOVEMENT is on foot in New England to cause all amateur associations of the schools, colleges and gymnastic and athletic organizations to form a closer association all over the country. We refrain from all suggestions or giving expressions to any opinion at this point, but desire to state right here that we heartily endorse any move which will tend to bring all lovers of physical training in closer contact in furthering the good cause. Simply in this, only good can be the result.

The committee having in charge the prospectus of a gymnastic association left the matter in the hands of Dr. Dudley A. Sargent of the Hemenway gymnasium, and the following from his pen comes, with the indorsement of the committee, as the reasons for amateur gymnasts forming an association. Dr. Sargent has kindly furnished us the article, giving his views on the matter, and we print it for our readers who undoubtedly will find many points of interest :

“Any one who can recall the fine gymnastic exhibitions given at many of the city and college gymnasiums some 20 years ago can but regret the lack of interest in this form of physical training. The causes which

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
—9—

have led to this decline in popular interest are many and various. Perhaps the most important is the superior attractiveness to the public of the exciting contests in rowing, running, sparring, baseball and football. Then, again, the great advance made in professional gymnastics during the past 20 years has made the performances of the amateurs seem tame in comparison.

Still another cause for the lack of interest in the old time heavy gymnastics on the rings, bars, ladders, etc., is the greater interest taken by many at the present day in the lighter forms of sports and exercises, purely for recreation or for developing purposes. In one sense this latest movement is in the right direction, and we should all rejoice that while the interest in heavy gymnastics has apparently declined, the numbers using the gymnasium throughout the country have increased a hundredfold.

The all absorbing interest of the past few years in antagonistic sports is not a healthy one, and is likely to be followed by a reaction. Amateur sparring and baseball have already suffered severely both from the invasion of the professional into the amateur ranks, and vice versa, and the superiority of the games and contests of the professionals when compared with the amateurs.

Football and rowing of the hardier sports alone remain free from the bane of professionalism, either from invasion or by comparison. Unless football is relieved of its savage fierceness by making the game more open, and preventing the possibility of so much personal contact, it will soon follow the fate of sparring, and die in the hands of its so-called friends.

But, though sports and games may change and vie with each other for popular favor, the spirit of emulation which is back of them all will never die. It is perfectly natural for growing youth to wish to measure their strength and skill by comparison with others, to struggle, to strive and to contend for the mastery, and for perfection. Heaven save the race when this spirit ceases to animate our young men. The spirit of emulation and the value of courage, strength and endurance in all phases of life are so well recognized that it seems absurd to some of us that our cities and colleges should rest content with simply exploiting these virtues in their selected or imported athletes.

What our community should pride itself in doing is not in making the strong stronger and the courageous more courageous, but in trying to develop these qualities in those who are weak physically and lacking in courage and self-reliance, in order that they may be able to meet the struggles of life, and maintain a footing in the world. This class is always greatly in the majority in every community, and it is the one that the present day athletics fail to reach.

There is a growing need for a system of competitive exercises that shall have for their primary object the improvement of those who engage in them, and not the gratification of the audience who witness them. In order that these exercises may reach the greatest number and accomplish the most good, they should be simple in their nature, and of such a variety as to bring out the all-round development of the individual.

Some of these exercises should be calculated to develop pluck, skill

Digitized by
—10—

and endurance, without encouraging personal contact, or resorting to personal violence. Then there should be certain class or mass exercises in order to encourage comradeship and secure the valuable training that comes from team work. The apparatus of the gymnasium naturally suggests itself as affording the best means for these contests.

The exercises on the rings, bars, ladders and ropes, the jumping and the tumbling, and the drills with the dumb-bells, wands and Indian clubs are numerous and varied enough to offer a fine selection for all-around development.

The competing team from every institution should finally be reduced to eight men,* and a room 25 feet square is large enough to contain all of the apparatus and floor space that would be needed in preparation for the contests. The numerous school, college and city gymnasiums could easily make up representative teams from their members. To be one of the chosen team to represent the school, college or club in several contests would be the incentive to keep hundreds down to good, faithful gymnasium work throughout the season.

Such a movement, however valuable to the community, or however desirable for the individual, will have to be carefully nursed and fostered. It is the object of the gymnasium association about to be formed here in Boston to foster and encourage the practice of gymnastics not only in the large school, college and city gymnasium, but also in the smaller schools and clubs, which have poorer resources and consequently greater difficulty in keeping their members interested.

Our plan would be to have the association appoint a committee to prescribe certain set exercises on four or more pieces of apparatus. These exercises could be given out in the early fall to the different clubs belonging to the association. During the winter contests could be arranged between teams of eight members from the various clubs where the exercises prescribed by the committee would be performed before competent judges, and each individual of the several teams would be ranked on the precision, grace, finish, etc., with which he did each of the exercises. The individual rank of each team in the several exercises would be summed up, and the team having the largest total number of points would win the contest.

Such an arrangement would not necessitate every team in the association contesting with every other, which would be impracticable in case there were a considerable number of teams, but each team would be required to give a public exhibition in connection with some other team, at which the judge or judges appointed by the association woud be present to give each individual and team its rank. At the close of the season all of the teams could be brought together in some large hall or on a large open field to contest for first place, or the four teams having the highest total number of points as a result of the competition in the winter could have a public contest to determine which was the best team in this vicinity.

* This had been the custom in the Turner Bund for more than thirty years until 1889. ^he team (Riegen) gymnastics was abolished at the Boston convention in 1886. While at the national festival of 1885 at Newark 400-500 gymnasts participated, the innovation of introducing class gymnastics (the Swiss method) called more than 1500 gymnasts to Cincinnati and, four years later, in 1893, more than 3000 gymnasts competed at the memorial tournament in Milwaukee.

Digitized by C.oogle
-11-

As the interest increases, the same sort of contest could be applied to New England and the other states, and once in four years it could be made a national contest, taking in a larger number of teams. This plan is something like the one adopted by the North American Turner Bund, and is only one of many possible schemes for making such an association a success.’’

All of the schools, colleges and gymnastic or athletic organizations in the vicinity of Boston interested in the formation of a gymnastic association were requested to send two delegates to a meeting to be held at the Boston athletic association Tuesday, March 12th, at 8 oclock p. M. The object of this meeting was to discuss plans of organization and appoint committees to work out the detailed arrangements. We shall keep our readers informed about progress of this movement.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School.

HORIZONTAL LADDERS.

Apparatus.—Four (or more) horizontal ladders—parallel . adjustable to needed heights. [The width of space between ladders needs not exceed 16—20 inches, permitting the use of the beams of the ladders for ‘stem-support’ exercises—as parallel bars.] Length ol ladders: 12—18 feet.

Class Formation.—Four files of 10—12 pupils each, in ‘flank order,’ at a distance from and facing the ends of the ladders. [Or, files in ‘front order’ around the ladders.—Sufficient space existing between the ladders—3 or 4 feet, or more— files may form in front order next (between) ladders.]

Marching Order.—Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus, and take position under the nearest end, (or ‘off-end,’ turning about to face the class,) upon the command ‘March!’ and return to rear (end) of files upon leaving same, passing left (right) flank of files—the next rank in order advancing. Files take a step or two forward to each succession.

I.

The following exercises can be executed by several ranks simultaneously. Commands: First four ranks, forward-march! Left abt.-face !

(Raise arms in pos. forward, on tip-toe—stand ! Lower arms in pos. backw. and deep knee-bending pos.—stand! To hang-support pos., arms ex tented—spring! Command: One, two, three! Execute arm movements with arms fully extended.

A. Exercises from ‘cross-stand’ position.*

Spring to ‘hang-support’ pos., arms extended, beams grasped outside— 1, 2, 3 ! (first time.) Down ! (Alight to deep knee-bending pos.) Up! Down ! Repeat several times, alighting on the same place each time —chests ‘active.’ Avoid body-swinging. [March !]

(Ranks form in proper order rear of class, next ranks advancing.)

Same, grasp rounds, over-grasp, (fingers over and thumbs under rounds.) Same, grasp rounds, ‘under-grasp,’ (hands reversed).

Same, grasp beams inside, ‘ulnar grasp.’

Same, grasp beam outside with left hand, round (over-grasp) with right hand.

Same, beam right hand, round left hand. Etc., etc.

[Any two (or more) grasps may be alternated.]

* Cross-stand, or hanging pos.: Breadth of pupil (horizontal axis—from shoulder to shoulder) and rounds parallel.

Side-stand, or hanging pos.: Breadth of pudil and beams parallel.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—12—

B. Exercises from the ‘side-stand’ position.

Spring to hang-sup. pos., arms extended, over-grasp on beams.

Same, under grasp.

Same, grasp rounds, (one round between rounds grasped) hands turned inward.

Same, grasp rounds, ulnar grasp, hands turned outward.

Same, grasp round with left hand, beam with right hand.

Same, grasp round with right hand, beam with left hand.

[Any two (or more) grasps may be alternated.]

Exercises may be repeated springing to hang-sup. pos. with arms bent : or bend

arms in position.

II.

(The following exercises may also be executed by several ranks simultaneously.)

Spring to hang-support pos., arms extended, beams grasped outside—1, 2, 3 ! Lift left and right hands alternately—begin ! 1, 2. Down !

Repeat ex. with hand-grasps, as under I.

Repeat ex., alternating different hand-grasps in the hanging pos., 1. and r. alternatel}'. [Ex.: Change from ontside to inside grasp (on beams) and back (1. and r. altern.)—begin ! 1—4. Or, change from beam-grasp to round-grasp etc.]

III.

Travel forward in hang-sup.pos., grasps as under I, A.

“ sideward left, grasps as under I, b.

“ backward, grasps as under I, a.

“ sideward right, grasps as under I, b.

Repeat ex. under III, arms bent.

Repeat ex. under II, lifting both hands simultaneously.

Repeat, alternating different grasps (lifting both hands simultaneously); a—arms extended ; b—arms bent.

Exercises to be executed in the ‘still-hanging position.’

Raise knees forward alternately; ditto legs (extended) alternately; raise knees and extend legs (1. and r.) alternately ; raise knees (both) simultaneously ; ditto legs ; raise knees and extend legs ; strideswing ‘forward-backward’; ditto sideward ; swing legs forward alternately, touching rounds ; same, both legs. Turn trunk 1. and r. alternately. Trunk-turning ex. in connection with leg ex.

Exercises can be executed in connection with grasp-changes on place, and with movements from place, forward, backward and sideward 1. and r.—‘traveling.’

Repeat positions under I,—cross and side-hanging pos.—swinging, (shortswinging,) forward and backward, sideward 1. and r.; a—arms extended ; b—arms bent.

Repeat ex. under II, swinging.

Repeat ex. under III, swinging.

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-13-

Repeat alternate simultaneous grasp-changes, swinging on place,—end of forward and backward swings.

Repeat alternate simultaneous grasp-changes, swinging from place, forward, backward, sideward.

Raise both legs forward and place feet on rounds ; travel headward, (with hands and feet,) stepping from round to round.

Same, in opposite direction.

Same, but hang knees over rounds ; travel headward, alternating knee-hang, (as stepping movement.)—Same, in opp. direction.

(Movements similar to walking or stepping up vertical ladder with alternating hand-grasps.)	________

Circling ; backward and forward—(horizontal axis).

Hang-sup. pos., arms extended:

Raise knees, height of chest—one ! Circle backw. (half-circle) to drop-hang-support pos.—two ! Extend legs upward (between rounds)— three ! Resume front hang-sup. pos.—4, 5, 6.

Raise knees—one ! Circle backward to hang-sup. pos. backward—two ! Stretch knees—three ! Down—four. (Alight to deep knee-bending pos., trunk erect, and resume fundamental pos.)

Circle backward to drop-hang pos. with legs extended ; bend hips (legs above rounds); secure foot-grasp under and around beams (outside); draw the body up between rounds to stride-standing pos. on the ladder. Resume hanging pos. same way.

Circle backw. to ‘front stem-sup. pos.’ on (above) ladder (body extended backw., hands and feet on beams of ladder); travel forward. Resume front hang-sup. pos. end of ladder.

Circle to stem-sup. pos.; change to s/c/e-stem-sup. pos., right side of ladder ; lower body (bend arms) to side-hang-sup. pos.; travel sidew. right to end of ladder, lifting both hands simultaneously.— Same, but lower body left side ; travel left.

(First ex. are executed centre of ladders; last three ex. from end to end of ladders.)

LETTERBOX.

—	Col. F. W. R, John W. C., Dr. L. G. Thank you very much.

—	N. P. “The objection on moral grounds I consider immoral and can only be raised by impure minds,” hits the nail on the head. Truly, it is so, and we often do not know, whether impure minds, or whether ignorant minds are our greatest foes. Probably both. Thank you for kind response.

—	Several. We are sorry that we cannot inform you. Although a member of the A. A. A. P. E., we have not received any announcement as to the date of the meeting.

A. P. L. The relation of Gymnastics to Delsarte? Perhaps this will do as an answer:

“Briefly this might be expressed as the same relation which exists between health and beauty. Beauty does not exist without health, neither can Delsarte exist without gymnastics, or rather the effect of proper gymnastics.

“Delsarte is only a mild ‘system’ of calisthenics, and I do not believe, if gymnastics, including calisthenics, were carried out properly there would be any need of another special system. Do you ?

“Further, I do not believe in ‘decomposing,’ and I base my belief on physical law. If all the muscles of our bodies were developed in proper proportion, we would be as graceful as gods and goddesses. To bring about this harmonious development, why do we need to ‘decompose’ any muscle or set of muscles ? It seems to me it would be more in accordance with the laws of physical growth if we exercised the weak muscles up to the proper standard, instead of atrophizing, wasting, ‘decomposing’—call it what you like of the stronger ones.

“A perfect clock is one in which there is a proper relation between the force and the resistance ; and such I believe is true of every machine. Now the body is a machine, and if its muscles are developed so that they will be the complements, coadjutors, or governors of each other, it will be a graceful and beautiful machine, and will be as nearly adequate for the expression of the soul as it is possible for body to express soul.”

Digitized by kjooole
—14—

MIND I AND i BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2s£ll’Kra.'uJcee,	aWlscozxslzx.

Subscription Price, *	*	$1.00	per	Year.

OS* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

“Of course there is no such thing as progression or arrangement of movement in ordinary play.” This is from an article in the “Posse Gymnasium Journal” on “Games and Gymnastics.” Of course not. Let the little ones of the Kindergarten play “hare and hound” hereafter. It will train the senses just as well, as Carl Betz’ new game of “bagette.” O sancta simplieitas!

It behoves us to clearly realize, as the broad facts which have most wide-reaching consequence in mental physiology and pathology, that all parts of the body, the highest and the lowest, have a sympathy with one another more intelligent than conscious intelligence can yet, or perhaps ever will, conceive; that there is not an organic motion, visible or invisible, sensible or insensible, ministrant to the noblest or most humble purposes, which does not work its appointed effects in the complex recesses of the mind, and that the mind, as the crowning achievement of organization, and the consumnation and outcome of all its energies, realy comprehends the bodily life.—Mawdesley, Body and Mind.

The North American Gymnastic Union will open a summer school for physical training in Milwaukee, Wis. It will be held in their elegant quarters of the Normal School of Gymnastics. The technical committee has been very fortunate in securing Mr. Carl Betz, the Supervisor of Physical Training of Kansas City, Mo., as the director of this summer course. Mr. Betz has had more experience than any other teacher in public school work and is, beyond any question, one of the most able expounders of the German system of physical training. Public school teachers and all interested and engaged in the work of gymnastics, should not fail to avail themselves of this opportunity. Mr. Wm. Stecher, Secretary of the Technical Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin Str., St. Louis, Mo., may be addressed for full information.

“From time to time in previous numbers of this magazine we have called attention to what seemed to us points that might be criticised in connection with the German System of Gymnastics. This has given the impression, particular our German friends, that we are antagonistic to the German Turners, and unappreciative of the excellent work they have done,” says Dr. Luther Gulick in “Physical Education.” It is true, we have noticed from time to time the most criminal ignorance, particularly with our Y.M.C. A. friends, what the German system of gymnastics is. German gymnastics comprises the work in the kindergarten, the public schools, the college, the society, and the whole nation, and for both sexes. Y. M. C. A. athletics deal with young men who happen to be members of the Y. M. C. A. society and chance to partake in

Digitized by U-ooQle
-15-

the gymnasium work. We never expected teachers in position to such Y. M. C. A. gymnasiums to bb able to understand the whole science of education, or the whole philosophy of German physical training. We do not claim that they have been unappreciative in the least. To the contrary, we notice with great satisfaction that some are good students of physical training. What we have found fault with, if such be the correct expression, is the tendency of some Y. M. C. A. teachers, to be both, students and criticisers of German gymnastics.

Japanese Athletics. Athletics hold an important part but subordinate position in the schools of Japan. Once a year there is a gathering of all the students in a district to engage in athletic contests. In those seen by Mr. Hearn, and described in “Glimpses of Unfamiliar Japan,” six thousand boys and girls from all the schools within a distance of twenty-five miles were entered to take part. A circular race track, roomy enough for an army, allowed four different kinds of games to be performed at the same time. There were races between the best runners of different schools, and races in which the runners were tied together in pairs, the left leg of one to the right leg of the other. Little girls—as pretty as butterflies, in their sky blue hakama and many-colored robes — contested in races in which each one had to pick up as she ran three balls of different colors out of a number scattered over the turf. The most wonderful spectacle was the dumb-bell exercises. Six thousand boys and girls, massed in ranks about five hundred deep ; six thousand pairs of arms rising and falling exactly together; six thousand pairs

of sandaled feet advancing or retreating together at the signal of the masters of gymnastics, directing all from the tops of little wooden towers ; six thousand voices chanting at once the “One, two, three,” at the dumb-bell drill: “Ichi, ni— san, shi—go, roku—shichi, hachi.” The games began at eight o’clock in the morning and ended at five in the evening. Then, at a signal, fully six thousand voices pealed out the national anthem, and concluded it with three cheers for the Emperor and Empress of Japan. The Japanese, instead of shouting when they cheer, chant with a long cry, “A-a-a-a-a-a! ” which sounds like the opening tones of a musical chorus.

No other writer of gymnastic literature in this country has met with so much public approval of his various books, as has Mr. Carl Betz. We can account for this popularity, for our Kansas City friend is an educator in the best and widest sense of the word. We at times differed in matters of technique, but in the essentials of pedagogy we have at all times agreed with Mr. Betz. His last two books, “Physical Exercises of the Play Ground” and “Gymnastic Tastics,” the latter being a thorough revised edition, are most creditable efforts to familiarize the unexperienced, as well, as the experienced teacher with a system of physical culture which may be adapted to our present school wants. We say purposely, our present school wants. We hope that Mr. Betz will soon be able to revise his “Free Gymnastics” in a like manner, as he has well succed-ed with his “Gymnastic Tactics.”* This latter book which has recently

* Price: 75 cents. Address: Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooole
been placed on the market in a new attire, elaborately enlarged and splendidly illustrated, will be welcomed by every physical culturist. We did not expect otherwise, but we notice with great satisfaction, that Mr. Betz’ endeavor has been to represent gymnastic tactics, not military tactics. The vast difference of the two is not comprehended by those who are not gymnastic teachers. The latter is practiced for a mere practical end, the former is practiced as much for the mental training as for the practical end. Tactic is most certainly not practiced for the development of muscles. He who sees in gymnastics a means to train the muscles to become larger in size, will not grant tactics a place in the curriculum. We neither place its practice foremost, nor subordinate, but as an integral part of the system of physical education which must receive its due share of consideration as to utility and worth. In this Mr. Betz has well succeeded. Being a fine musician, part seventh of the book contains march music and a few reigen songs which seem to us good selections. We would have been pleased to see the word ‘roundel’supersede the word ‘reigen’.

•Mr. M. V. O’Shea wrote for the “Atlantic Monthly” an article on “Physical Training in the Public Schools” which again verifies the adage that good will does not make a thing true. This article contains besides many good sayings such a host of absolute nonsense, misconstruction and false interpretation of the subject that one is not surprised when the conclusions arrived at are ridiculous and misleading. He writes, “the originator of the German system of Gymnastics was Jahn, followed by Gutsmuths and Spiess etc.” Jahn,

as is well known, expounded his views twenty years after Gutsmuths. The latter had published his famous work “Gymnastics for our Youth” in 1793. His conception of physical training is so widely divergent from that of Jahn that one somewhat familiar with the subject, could never have called him the follower of Jahn. Further “these gymnastics of Spiess and Jahn were especially fortunate that they had at the outset such warm advocates as Pesta-lozzi and Froebel, who used them in their famous schools at Yverdon and Burgdorf.” Now, the fact is, Pestalozzi had worked out his own system of free-exercises, being the founder of what we to-day call calisthenics ; furthermore he had been dead two decades when the work of Spiess became known to the world. “The little city of New Ulm, Minn.,” he writes, “an example of such a community (Turner-settlement), controlled entirely, in early times by these German radicals, who established a school for physical training, in which teachers could prepare themselves for work elsewhere.” This is proof of what Mr. O’Shea knows of the Turner organization. No school of that kind ever existed in New Ulm. Some New Ulm men have been trained in the Normal School of the Union, now located at Milwaukee, though for a time located at Indianapolis. He seems to confound a squad-leader (Vorturner) with a teacher of gymnastics.—After this follows a synopsis of German gymnastics, equally monstrous as his other statements, it lacks all knowledge on the subject. Marching and military movements are, for instance, classed as very important in German physical training. We are not surprised at this. It seems to be quite a common acception that, because Germany is the land

Digitized by
—17-

of soldiery par excellence, all Germans are lovers of military drills. Therefore, “but instead of the severe military positions and movements demanded by the German exercises accomplishing this (relief of mental strain), they are liable to aggravate this.” We humbly ask: Who are the teachers to-day, claiming at every opportune occasion the introduction of military drills? We think that no class of men have fought the idea of military tactics and the like more than the Germans. This Journal has had within the last year several articles opposed to it. In several cities of our Union, where Turners take an interest in school matters, and they do it from a love for our public school education, vehement protests have been filed against the introductions of military drills of any sort.—Then follows, what Mr. O’Shea calls psychology. It is intended for an argument, but it is rotten psychology. “Thrusting with closed hands, if not actually injurious to the physical frame of ordinary school children, have at least a harmful effect upon the mind in disturbing its most perfect poise.” Taking from thousands of exercises one, to demonstrate psychological objections against the German system, not recognizing the fact that exercises do not make up a theory or system of physical training, proves the folly of such a criticism. Mr. O’Shea admits himself that gymnastics as at present practiced in our schools is but a makeshift and that only a very small portion of the whole system could be introduced. Where has he seen then a school in which gymnastics embraces all the features of German physical training? Does he know anything of the charming movements of the roundel, in which

music, poetry and bodily movements are attuned to one rhythmical whole? If he does, and truly believes in the cause of body building, how can he champion the Delsartean humbug of bodily contortion and affectation, as expounded by some so-called physical culturists? The philosophy of Delsarte we have never doubted, though it has been interpetrated by all means more masterly by greater thinkers. Schiller’s esthetical writings surpass it in deepness of thought and poetical expression. But, aside from this, physical training has a wider scope than the mimicry school of some goody-goody people and has had more profound thinkers, pedagogues and psychologists as its advisers, than the tinkering of Mr. O’Shea. That Swedish gymnastics does not find his approval is no more just condemnation of the system, than of the German. How is this for psychology: “that instead of relieving the will effort required of the pupil during the intellectual work of the day, the movements, in many cases, make greater demand upon it.” Will effort, we suppose, we may infer from this, is handed to the pupils in little capsules during mental labor. The pupils have been overfed, and now Swedish and German Gymnastics administer doses of will effort as big as the eggs of ostriches. The following is from a standard book of modern Americanized Delsarte, which may do for a substitute of such radical medicines:	“He (the

boy) picks the flower with the hands on the side nearest, then rises and gives it with fitting expression to the teacher, who stands by.” Children taught in such pitiful manner how to “express fittingly” their inner soul, will be aping grace and nothing more; and, if no

Digitized by v^-ooQLe
-18-

moral force approaches them, will grow up to be dudes and dudines. Are these the children in our public schools of whom Longfellow sings:

“Ye are better than all the ballads That ever were sung or said,

For ye are living poems,

And all the rest are dead ?”

«*GAMES AND PLAYS.fi

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Fire Fairies.

The three sides of a fire-place are represented by a number of standing children. One little child, sitting in the fire-place between the andirons (represented by two little children) darts out her arms and hands to represent the flames. A number of children are chosen to represent the logs in the woods and are led to imitate their motionless conditions.

In the beginning the children were seated (formed) in a large circle. The fire-place was built in the centre of the circle. When the logs have been properly placed—the scene is transformed, the remaining children are turned into fire-fairies, running through the woods, darting out their little arms and hands in all directions. When the flames dart less and less, the fairies, one after the other, gather on the logs, where they

fraduafly sink lower and lower and nall}r die out.	(Kindergarten.)

Valentine Game.

The children are seated in a half-circle, facing the teacher who may represent the central or main post-office. A little child chooses two children, one a little taller than the other, to represent the lamp-post, and one a little smaller, to represent the mail-box. Both children are placed back to back on a corner of a street in front of the half-circle. Other children are similarly chosen and placed at intervals along the street. Eyes are closed. The smaller children hold their arms bent upward to receive the mail— valentines. Night is fast setting in and the lamp-lighter makes his ronnds to light the gas. He goes from post to post, clapping his hands to imitate the striking of matches. The child representing the lamp-post opens his eyes to

represent the light. Each little child who has a valentine now goes to the mail-boxes, either on foot or driving a

f)ony (another child). They all come a ong, long distance. When all have mailed their valentines, the mail-carrier or post-man with his mail-bag and whistle comes to collect the mail from the boxes, which he finally delivers at the main office. When the lamp-lighter has made his morning route and turned out the lights, all the children will have resumed their first places, which they leave to call for their mail when their names are announced.

(Kindergarten.)

Song.

On lamp-post so high At corners, I spy—

Boxes so strong and so queer, I think. At the top there are slits That a letter just fits—

A nd in we drop valentines, letters and bits Of notes that we send Of love to a friend,

And messages sweet, that tell our love. The postman comes ’round With his bag on his arm And carries them safely to those we love.

Centre Ball.

This game requires frequent practice'in order to obtain a full appreciation of its many interesting features. It can be played indoors as well as outdoors with any number of persons—from ten to fifty. Requisites are a sufficiently large and even surface, on which to form a circle, with room enough between players to move about freely (from two to six feet—as may become necessary, according to the number of players); also a short stick or wand, for each plaver, about three feet long, and a hand ball of leather, about 10 to 12 inches in diameter. Out-doors each player, less one, makes a hole two to four inches in diameter in front of the place he occupies in the circle and in which he places one end of his stick. In-doors a chalkring may be made in lieu of the hole. A large hole, or chalk-ring, sufficiently large enough to hold the large ball, must also be made in the centre of the circle. In beginning the game the leader requests all players to advance and place the ends of their stick into the centre hole under and around the ball. Upon counting ‘one, two, three,’ all simultaneously uplift the ball with their sticks —which must be carefully handled with

Digitized by ^ooQle
-19-

both hands—and then rush to secure a hole in which to place their sticks. When all holes are occupied one player will remain without a hole for his stick. It becomes such players duty to roll the ball from where it fell toward and into the centre hole by pushing it with the end of his stick, at the same time guarding it against the attacks of those, who in turn try to direct the ball from its course by counter pushes—the duty of all players being to prevent the ball from being rolled into the centre hole. Attacks on the ball are guarded against by planting the stick in front of the same in a way that the thrusts and swings in its direction may be warded off.

The play becomes interesting if played in a spirited manner, as for instance, when a few players (not more than two or three at one time) leave their places in a lively scramble to prevent the ball from rolling into the centre hole. For, as soon as the centre player sees a vacant place, he may abandon the ball and strive to occupy the same by planting his stick in the ‘pot,’—the players who had left their places, also scrambling for ‘pots/ holes, or rings. One of the players of course remains over as ‘ball-driver.’ He in turn must push and roll the ball toward the centre pocket.

If the ball drops into the centre pocket the game is at an end, or it can be begun again as above, all placing their sticks into the centre pocket.

During the game it is permissible,— either by preconcerted action, or, by adroitly taking or changing places,—to change positions, any pot or hole not occupied, or only partially occupied, serving to tempt the watchful player to quickly change his place. This latter play frequently results in a lively scramble for places, all players being intent on changing places as often as possible.

The players forming the circle are therefor not restricted to play with the ball only, but they may by various devices, feints, etc., induce a neighbor to uplift his stick in order to deprive him of his place. Occasionaly, if similar attempts are simultaneously made in different places, a general" stampede for places results.

Care must be exercised in the beginning, in order that the play may become well regulated.

The main point is to keep the ‘ pockets ’ filled.

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

COLLEGE ATHLETES MEET IN NEW YORK.

Representatives from Eighteen Institutions at the Meet.

New York, Feb. 23.—The annual meeting of the Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association was begun this afternoon by representatives from eighteen colleges. The Temporary Chairman was J! F. Watcherd of the New York University. The Treasurer’s report showed a balance of $1,200.

The following colleges were admitted into the association: Syracuse University, Dartmouth University, University of California, University of Iowa. Lafayette College was restored to its position in the association. Hobart College and the University of Vermont were expelled and the University of Michigan given until April 1st to pay arrears or stand expelled.

The report of the Executive committee recommended that the committee be empowered to act on college and intercollegiate records for 1894. The recommendation was adopted.

The most important recommendation was that an alliance be formed with the Amateur Athletic Union. This was also accepted, but later a committee of five was appointed to whom was referred the contemplated alliance. This committee will confer at an early date with a committee from the Amateur Athletic Union, consisting of W. B. Curtis, A. G. Mills, Julius Harder, and J. W. Curtis. The result of the conference will be reported to the meeting of the Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association, who will report to the athletic representatives of the different colleges. The colleges will then return a mail vote within three weeks.

A motion that a team composed of the winners and seconds of this year’s games be sent to England to compete with the crack of the colleges in that country was carried by a vote of 15 to 3. The nays were: Princeton, Yale, and Columbia. Harvard did not vote. It was decided to leave the matter with the executive committee for action. The election of officers for the coming year resulted as follows: President, S. M. Kendrick, University of Pennsylvania; Vice-President, F. L. Goddard, Trinity; Treasurer, H. J. Curtis, College C. N. Y.; Secretary, Russell Van Arsdale, Rutgers. Executive

Digitized by Tooele
-20-

committee—George Crompton, Harvard; G. R. Swain, Princeton; G. K. Irlv, Columbia; J. E. Weischeise, U. T. C. N. Y.

Northwestern University has adopted the rules suggested by the college presidents to govern athletics. The following rule concerning professionals will not go into effect until Sept. 1st:

“No person who has been employed in training a college team for intercollegiate contests shall be alllowed to participate in any intercollegiate contests as a member of any team which he has trained, and no professional athlete or person who has ever been a member of a professional team shall play at any intercollegiate contest.”

In addition to the rules the faculty has adopted the following resolution to govern athletic sports in the university:

“1. No student under the control of the faculty of the College of Liberal Arts shal play during term time on a team which is not under the supervision of the committee for the regulation of athletic sports, without written permission of the committee for the regulation of athletic sports.

“2. Ratification of the list of players on any athletic team and permission for any athletic team to leave town must be obtained from the committse for the regulation of athletic sports.

“3. No money shall be used and no debts contracted for althletic purposes by any student or manager without authority from the committee for the regulation of ataletic sports. And that committee shall at least once in each year cause to be published in the college paper an account of all money received and disbursed for athletic purposes.

“4. Teams representing this university shall not play more than four games of football or six games of baseball in any one season elswhere than upon the athletic field of this college.”

In addition to the above resolutions the committee offered the following suggestion, which was adopted by the faculty:

“We believe that a revision of the football rules, as called for by the conference of college presidents, is a necessity if this game is to continue as a college sport. This revision should be made before the beginning of the next football season. We suggest to the athletic association that a conference of football experts be called to meet for this purpose in Evenston on March 29th and 30th at

the same time that the educational conference is in session here.”

As to Griffiths, President Rogers says that he was not induced to attend the college for the sake of his ability as a football player. He is a regular student in the university and is known only as such.

Some Rules for the Gymnasium.

Envelope of Cook Co. Normal School.

Be prompt, regular and orderly.

Attend in gymnastic costume.

‘Align’ quickly, noiselessly. Observe the the proper attitude upon the call of “Attention!”

Do not leave your place without permission. No one is at liberty to change places from one division to another during apparatus work.

During apparatus work observe closely the order prescribed. Assist those eager to work.

The general plan governing all demands your attention to the work in hand (in your resp. division during apparatus work). This rule will not prevent your studying what is going on around you all the time.

Always take part in the exercises of the division to which you have been assigned. By no means attempt the execution of an exercise which you have not personally developed. (This rule applies in cases of irregular attendance, when it may become necessary to change pupils from one division to another.)

Teachers, or division leaders, will always see that all exercises follow in their natural order, beginning with the simple and gradually leading to the more difficult forms.

No one will attempt without assistance difficult exercises not thoroughly practiced and mastered. This rule is strictly to be observed before and after regular class work. Dangerous exercises are to be practiced only in the presence of an assistant. Each person is therefor bound to assist another when called upon.

Apparatus must not be misplaced or improperly used. Pupils will be responsible for damages to apparatus.

The singing at the close of the lesson will give you an opportunity to rest before you leave.

Ushers will see that spectators introduced are taken to their proper seats reserved for them.

Visitors are not allowed on the main floor. This rule also applies to class members, who are not at work.

Digitized by kjOOQle